Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13933-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
APRIL 21, 1995
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department 3
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of December 1994)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
USS l.DO= Rp2,193 00
Rp one million = USS456.00
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
Apri I - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AARD           -  Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
AEZ            -  Agro-Ecological Zone
AIAT           -  Assessment Institute for Agricutural Technology
ARMP           -  Agricultural Research Management Project
ARMP n         -  Agricultural Research Management U Project
BAPPEDA        -  Regional panning organization in provinces
BAPPENAS    -  National Economic Planning Agency
BPKP           -  Goverwnent Audit Agency
BPPT           -  Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology
BPTP           -  Batli Pengkajian Teknologi Pertanian (same as MAT)
CALREC         -  Center for Agricultural Library and Research Communication
CAMD           -  Center for Agricultural Machinery Development
CARP           -  Center for Agricultural Research Programming
CASER          -  Center for Agricultural Socio-Economic Research
CGLAR          -  Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research
CRlAS          -  Central Research Institute for Animal Science
CR3FI          -  Central Research Institute for Fisheries
CRIH           -  Central Research Institute for Horticulture
CSAR              Center for Soil and Agroclimate Research
DG             -  Director General
DINAS          -  Provincial and District Agricultural Support Services
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
GOI            -  Government of Indonesia
HRD            -  Humian Resource Development
IBRD           -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB            -  International Competitive Bidding
INTERNET    -  Internatiorna Information Network
IPARD          -  Indonesian Planters Association for Research and Devekopment
IPTEENET    -  Indonesian Consortium of government agencies nd universities for
information exchange
ISRI           -  Indonesian Sugar Research Institute
KADIN          -  Regional Chamber of Commerce
KANWIL         -  Provincal representative of the Ministry of Agriculture
LIPI           -  National Institute of Sciences
MIS            -  Mangement Information System
MOA            -  Munistry of Agriculture
MOF            -  Ministry of Finance
MORT           -  Ministry of Research and Technology
NARS           -  National Agricultural Research System
NCB            -  Nationial Competitive Bidding
NGAS           -  New Government Accounting System
O&M               Operations and Maintenance
PIMPRO         -  Project Leader (headquarters)
PIMBAGPRO   -  Leader of Subproject
PIP            -  Project Implementation Plan
PIU            -  Project Implementation Unit
PiP 11         -  Second Long-Term Development Plan
PMU            -  Project Management Unit
POM            -  Project Operational Manual
R&D            -  Research and Development
REPELITA       -  Rencana Pembangunatn Lima Tahun, Five-Year Development Plan
RIAD           -  Research Institute for Animal Diseases
RICF           -  Research Institute for Coastal Fisheries
RICP           -  Research Institute for Coconut and Palms
RIFF           -  Reearch Institute for Freshwater Fisheries
RILP           -  Research Institute for Livestock Production
RIMF           -  Research Institute for Marine Fisheries
RISMP          -  Research Institute for Spices and Medicinal Plants
RIV            -  Research Institute for Vegetables
RSI            -  World Bank Resident Mission in Indonesia
SEC            -  Secretariat
SOE               Statement of Expenditures
SPC4OFP        -  South Pacific Commission's Oceanic Fisheries Program
TA             -  Technical Asistance
TOR            -  Terns of Reference



- i -
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT II PROJECT
LoAN AND PROJECr SUmmARY
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Poverty:           Not applicable.
Loan Amount:       US$63.0 miflion equivalent
Terms:             20 years, including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Commitment Fee:  0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:  Not applicable. Central Government will make the fimds available
to the Agency of Agricultural Research and Development through
the normal govermnent budgetary process.
Financing Plan:    See para. 4.4 and Table 4.2.
Net Present Value: Not applicable
Map:               No. IBRD 26593R






REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
1.  INTRODUCTION  ..........................................................1
A. Country/Sector Background ..........................................................1
B.  Government Agriculture Sector Strategy .....................................................                    2
C.  Agricultural Research in Indonesia ..........................................................2
D. Policy Framework for Regional, Location-Specific Research and
Development ..........................................................4
2. BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED                                                             ..   6
A. Bank Involvement in Agricultural Research                                           .6
B.  Lessons Learned .......................................................                                         7
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement ....................................... .................                         8
3.  T IIE PROJECT ...........................................................9
A. Project Objectives and Components ...........................................................                    9
B.  Project Description ..........................................................    10
C.  Training ..........................................................                                            15
D. Technical Assistance ..........................................................                                 16
E.  Environmental Inpact ..........................................................                                16
F.  Social and Gender Issues ..........................................................                            17
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Indonesia in November-
December 1994. The mission was comprised of Dirk M. Leeuwrik (mission leader), Dely
P. Gapasin, Anthony N. Byrne, Wiranto Soehendro and Gabrielle J. Persley (part-time).
Sofia U. Bettencourt, Cornelis de Haan and Kheng Hoe Yeow also contributed to the
appraisal of the fisheries, livestock and horticulture research components, respectively.
Task Manager: Dirk M. Leeuwrik; Acting Division Chief: Jon Hitchings; Director:
Marianne Haug; Peer Reviewers: Edgardo Quisumbing and Gabrielle J. Persley.



-111-
4. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND
IMPLEMENTATION                                         ..........................................................    18
A.  Introduction ..........................................................                                                                18
B. Project Cost ...........................................................   18
C.  Project Financing  ..........................................................                                                          18
D.  Administration  of Project Funds ..........................................................                                            20
E. Project Management and Implementation ....................................................   20
F.   Project Procurement Arrangements ..........................................................                                           21
G. Disbursements ..........................................................                                                                24
H. Project Audit Reporting ..........................................................                                                      26
I.   Project Monitoring  and  Evaluation ..........................................................                                        26
J.  Status of Preparation ..........................................................                                                       27
S. BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                 .............................................  28
A. Benefits ..........................................................                                                                    28
B. Risks ..........................................................                                                                        28
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........................ 30
ANNEXES
Annex 1:  Project Implementation Plan ..........................................................                                                 33
Appendix  1:  Detailed  Cost Estimates .......................................                                       ...................          73
Appendix  2:  Detailed  Implementation  Schedule .....................................................                                            87
Annex 2: Guidelines for Implementing the University Research Grant ...................  99
Annex 3:  Summary of Education/Training by Project Components ....................... 101
Annex 4: Estimated Technical Assistance Requirements by Component ................ 102
Annex 5:  Selected Documents Available in Files ................................................... 106



1. INTRODUCTION
A. COUNTRY/SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.1   Agricultural development in Indonesia has been impressive during the past two
decades. Agricultural growth averaged about 3.8 percent annually, but fell to an annual rate
of about 2.9 percent over the past five years. Self-sufficiency was achieved in rice
production and there has been significant reduction in poverty, although many farmers
remain close to the poverty line. Agriculture contributes about 18 percent of the overall
gross domestic product (GDP), employs some 50 percent of the labor force, and accounts
for 26 percent of non-oil exports in foreign exchange earnings. Economic growth is
expected to generate a more diversified pattern of food demand, with consumption of
traditional staples declining and demand for income-elastic foods, such as meat and other
preferred foods, increasing.  Shifting world markets for export commodities add a
dimension of uncertainty to the direction of future agricultural growth.
1.2   The government's present five-year development plan (Repelita VI) envisages
3.4 percent per annum agricultural GDP growth, which represents an increase of
0.5 percent compared to the previous plan (Repelita V). It will not be easy to achieve this
target, since easily-attained gains in production, through expansion of irrigation and
introduction of fertilizer and high-yielding varieties, particularly in rice, have already been
made. To meet this challenge, a flexible and dynamic agricultural sector will be needed.
Repelita VI emphasizes subsectors other than rice, agro-industry and agro-business as a
means of achieving product diversification, strengthening linkages to the industrial sector,
increasing value added, and providing wider employment opportunities. This will need
continued strong investment in agriculture, coming primarily from increased involvement of
the private sector, with the Government of Indonesia (GOI) performing a policy and
regulatory role and providing public support services. In line with this, a decline is
envisaged in the share of agriculture in public development spending.
1.3   The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) will increasingly focus on fostering private
sector development and providing public services such as research, extension, and ural
infrastructure. This will require improving its institutional capacity to ensure that public-
service functions are client responsive and performed efficiently by the various public
agencies, including the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD). In
addition, GOI and AARD need to identify areas where the private sector can take on
increasing responsibilities for research and development (R&D).



B. GOVERNMENT AGRICULTURE SECTOR STRATEGY
1.4   With the start of Repelita VI and the Second Long Term Development Plan (PJP II)
in 1994, the Government's agricultural objectives have shifted from production targets to
increasing farmers' productivity, incomes, and welfare. As indicated in para. 1.2, the new
strategy focuses on the development of commercial farming, agribusiness, and agro-
industries in rural areas, with greater private sector involvement, as a means of increasing
farmers' incomes, rural employment opportunities, and augmenting value-added within the
region.
1.5   Along with the major goal of poverty reduction, increased emphasis will be
accorded to regional development, in particular to the development of the Eastern Islands.
This will be supported both through development expenditures carried out by the Central
Government and through transfers to regional governments to help finance development
programs for which the implementation responsibility rests with local governments.
Continued decentralization of development planning, finance, and implementation
arrangements will be an important policy thrust supporting regional development.
1.6   Consistent with the increasing role of private investment, Repelita VI projects a
continuing decline in the share of public investment allocated to directly productive
agricultural activities, leaving them increasingly to the private sector. However, despite the
projected decline in government development spending, well-focused public expenditure
remains important in agriculture, a sector that still provides livelihood to the majority of
Indonesians and will continue to play a key role in income generation and poverty
reduction. The focus of the Government's investment in agriculture sector will therefore,
continue to shift from direct involvement in production to provision of well-designed
support services, such as extension and research. R&D will emphasize support for regional
activities, especially in lesser developed parts of the country. Emphasis will be on efficient
use of resources, income generation, poverty alleviation, and diversification of production.
In research, as in other services, the efficiency of planned investment will be crucial to the
attainment of Repelita VI's development targets.
C. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH IN INDONESIu
1.7   Following independence, the thrust of agricultural research in Indonesia shifted from
export crops to food crops-primarily to the staple food crop, rice, to better meet the
nutritional needs of the population. GOI's first five-year development plan (Repelita L
1969-1974) emphasized rice production and mandated research responsibilities to the MOA
to be implemented in its Directorates-General of Food Crops, Estate Crops, Forestry,
Fisheries, Animal Husbandry, and other agencies. A comprehensive review conducted
during this period yielded the recommendation that a national agricultural research system
be established.  The Guidelines for State Policy (GBHN) of 1973 encouraged the
applcation of science and technology to the solution of national development constraints
and a Presidential Decree in 1974 authorized the establishment of research and development



- 3 -
agencies in the several departments and ministries of government. This decree created the
Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD).
1.8   To adapt to the changing demands of the Sector, AARD is now undergoing its
fourth major reorganization (1994 Ministerial Decree, see para. 1.15) since its establishment
in 1974. Prior to this, AARD went through three reorganizations (1979, 1983, and 1990).
The Presidential Decree of 1990 established a revised organizational structure consisting of
a Secretariat, two centers, two research centers, five research and development centers, and
special association with the Indonesian Planters Association for Research and Development
(IPARD) and the Indonesian Sugar Research Institute (ISRI). In accordance with Ministry
mandates, AARD centers continued to manage the activities of 16 research institutes
located throughout the country and to play a coordinating role with another 10 institutes
conducting research on estate crops under the auspices of the IPARD and ISRI.
1.9   A subsequent decree by the Minister of Agriculture in 1990 specified the details of
AARD's revised mandate and the broad terms for its implementation, whereby AARD was
designated to coordinate, manage, and conduct agricultural research and development in
accordance with the policies of the Ministry and national development programs. The
Ministerial Decree also established an additional center at AARD, the Center for
Agricultural Machinery Development. In carrying out its various tasks and functions,
AARD is supported by about 40 research establishments, 64 laboratories, 57 substations,
and 150 experimental ponds and farms, and has a staff of over 2,400 scientists, of which
more than 650 have MSc and 240 have PhD degrees.
1.10  Budgetary support for agricultural research in Indonesia fluctuated in the 1980s and
early 1990s. Although research spending has increased since 1989, agricultural research
expenditures, as percentage share of agricultural GDP, was 0.28 in 1992, as against 0.38
percent for South East Asia. Indonesia still lags behind other countries in agricultural R&D
expenditures (0.21 percent of AgGDP in 1990), such as Japan (with 2.67 percent), Republic
of Korea (0.93 percent), India (0.51 percent), Pakistan (0.49 percent), and China (0.41
percent). Total agricultural research funding increased from about US$50 million to about
US$66 million from FY1990 to FY1994 and is projected to be about US$82 million in
FY1995. The share of AARD's budget from external sources was 49 percent in 1992.
With further increases expected during Repelita VI, it is estimated that the Project will fund
annually approximately 20 percent of the total expenditures in agricultural research.
1.11  Indonesia's R&D has contributed significantly to the impressive performance of the
agricultural sector, the two outstanding benefits being the achievement of self-sufficiency in
rice and the development of a strong, competitive tree crop sector. It must now continue to
improve its capacity to address the changing needs and evolving national and sector
priorities. Particularly, with the limited budgetary resources available, the national R&D
system must be more efficient and cost-effective and should continue to be well focused on
the highest priority areas which show the greatest potential benefits to farmers and other
technology users. Future R&D will have to take into account many changes in the
agricultural sector during Repelita VI and beyond. These include: (a) decentralization of
governnent services and greater regionalization of R&D to focus on specific agroecological



zones (AEZs) and resource-based development, and the generation of location-specific
technologies; and (b) emphasis on market-oriented and demand-driven technologies to serve
changing needs of consumers for higher quality and diversified products.
D. POLICY FRAMEWORK FOR REGIONAL, LOCATION-SPECIFIC RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT
1.12 As Indonesia implements its second 25-year national development plan, AARD is
reorganizing and has established a number of broad objectives intended to lay the
groundwork for the new era of development. These include:
(a)   development of technology packages that are location-specific and
integrated with overall development aims;
(b)   development of specific agricultural commodities  based on  regional
comparative advantage;
(c)   increased diversification in the agricultural production system in relation to
agro-industrial development and consumer/market requirements;
(d)   increasing production efficiency in anticipation of the transition to an
agricultural system based on more capital investment and reduced labor
requirements;
(e)   encouraging the shift from subsistence to commercial agriculture to achieve
greater efficiency of scale;
(f)   promotion of more balanced development between regions;
(g)   preservation and protection of the nation's natural resources through the
development of sustainable agriculture.
1.13  Policies are guiding planners to base R&D priorities on a number of scientific,
social, and economic factors. Generally, research has been directed towards: commodities
that are economically and socially important; commodity development that will foster a
better economic and resource balance within Indonesia, especially in less developed regions;
and more basic research, such as biotechnology and new product development. Now, in
addition, AARD will play a significant role in the regionalization effort of the GOI and
MOA to attain sustainable diversification of the agricultural sector by enhancing its capacity
to manage regional R&D and generate location-specific technologies using a farmiing-
systems approach. This process is expected to increase agriculture's contribution to
regional economic development, income generation and poverty alleviation.
1.14  The program strategy will consist of five related activity areas which include:
(a) regional problem identification, i.e., the status of research-extension-farmer linkages;
(b) collaboration between research and extension in adapting and 'iepackaging"



technologies; (c) technical demonstrations which bring researchers, extension workers, and
farmers together; (d) conduct of farmer field days; and (e) more collaborative publishing of
'liser-friendly" materials and dissemination of information. The emphasis on regional
production in accordance with local resources and comparative advantage will involve
interaction with provincial governments in collaboration with the Ministries of Home
Affairs, and Public Works with the private sector to provide agricultural knowledge and
research support to appropriate regional activities. Development of human resources to
assist in meeting these responsibilities will involve interaction with the Ministry of
Education for linkages with universities in the regions for both research support and
training. Delivery of agricultural knowledge and technologies in the regions will be
facilitated by stronger intra-sector linkages with extension and other relevant offices in the
provinces.
1.15  Through a Ministerial Decree in December 1994, action has been taken to reorient
the mandates of 15 commodity research institutes as follows: (a) five in food crops
(biotechnology, rice, legumes and tuber crops, maize and cereals, and food crops in swampy
areas; and agriculture in swampy areas); (b) three in horticulture (ornamental plants,
vegetables, fruit); (c) three in industrial crops (spices and medicinal plants, tobacco and fiber
crops, coconut and palms; (d) two in livestock (livestock production and animal diseases);
and (e) three in fisheries (fresh water, marine, and coastal fisheries). Most of the former
substations of these commodity research institutes have been integrated into the Assessment
Institutes for Agricultural Technology (AIATs) (see para. 1.16).  The Center for
Agricultural Research Programming (CARP), supported by the ongoing ARM Project, and
the AARD Secretariat will continue to provide overall management coordination and
guidance.
1.16 At the regional level, 17 AIATs will be established under the Center for Agricultural
Socio-Economic Research (CASER). The AIATs will be staffed by existing personnel from
the former Agriculture Information Centers in the provinces, AARD researchers from
existing research stations and substations already deployed in the regions, and AARD staff
to be relocated to the regions from the national research institutes. Each AIAT will have a
Regional Advisory Committee with the head of BAPPEDA as first chair and the provincial
representative of MOA (KANWEL) as second chair, with members from various DINAS,
local universities, research institutes, farmer groups, and the private sector. The Regional
Advisory Committee will provide guidance to the AIAT on the R&D agenda, priorities, and
policies, and will be assisted by a Regional Technical Working Group, chaired by the AIAT
Director with representation from various regional agencies. Each AIAT will be headed by
a Director and will consist of three units: (a) Technical Services, (b) Administration, and
(c) a Group of researchers and technology transfer staff. Each AIAT will have a
headquarters and one or more installations in the particular province (support facilities).
AIATs will link with various groups in their specific regions including universities, DINAS,
planners and policymakers, the private sector, the extension service and the farmers'
groups. The Project is based on and will support this reorganization.



- 6 -
2. BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. BANK INVOLVEMENT IN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
2.1   The Bank has strongly supported agricultural R&D in Indonesia since 1975 through
three agricultural research projects. As a result, the Government has developed, with Bank
assistance, an impressive research infrastructure and human resource capacity under the
coordination of AARD. Bank support to AARD began in 1975 with the Agricultural
Research and Extension Project (Ln. 1179-IND) for US$21.5 million, including US$16.7
million for research. The project strengthened production-oriented research programs for
rice, secondary food crops, highland vegetables, and rubber through the provision of
buildings and equipment, training and technical assistance. The Project Completion Report
concluded that project objectives have been achieved and that overall, the project was
successful in supporting the new institutional system for research and extension. The main
benefits listed were: (a) improved capability and increased coverage of research staff
through training, which laid the foundation of a professionally competent staff,
(b) production of new improved varieties of crops; and (c) development and widespread
propagation of new techniques and packages of practices capable of realizing the full
potential of the new improved crop varieties.
2.2   Continuing support was provided to AARD through the National Agricultural
Research Project (Ln. 1840/Cr. 1014-IND), for US$65 million, which supported more
broad-based objectives of Repelita m by placing more emphasis on non-rice research, i.e.,
lowland vegetables, livestock, fisheries, forestry, industrial crops, and estate crops other
than rubber. The project continued provision for infrastructure, equipment, post-graduate
training, various types of other training, and long-term and short-term technical assistance.
Towards the end of this project it was realized that because of the strong emphasis on
developing facilities and training staff, insufficient attention had been given to management
and planning the research programs for which those staff and facilities were being provided.
The rapid build-up of infrastructure and staff was not well-synchronized to ensure their full
and efficient use. Budgetary provisions lagged behind the increasing requirements for
operation and maintenance of expanded facilities and equipment. The third operation, the
ongoing Agricultural Research Management (ARMP) Project (Ln. 303 1-IND) for US$35.3
million which was implemented in 1989 was therefore designed to address these issues and
to consolidate and strengthen research planning and management. ARMP addresses the
efficient use of research resources, mainly in research institutes at the national level with
mandates to carry out more academic, commodity-oriented research. The proposed project
would, on the other hand, institutionalize regional, farming-systems R&D in different agro-
ecological zones (AEZs) and the transfer and wider application of technology in a much
more applied approach. Preliminary data and evaluation indicate that ARNP has assisted



- 7 -
substantially in increasing the relevance and cost effectiveness of the national R&D system.
In addition, AARD has also received Bank support for specific research components
included in other projects, particularly in transmigration, swamp development, and upland
and area development.
B. LESSONS LEARNED
2.3    As economic and agricultural development proceed, demands on the agricultural
research system have become more exacting, and it will need to be more efficient, flexible
and responsive to sectoral demands.  At the national level, an effective research
infrastructure has been built up, more effective planning of relevant, focused research
programs has been achieved, and the efficient utilization and management of available
research resources is improving. This is evidenced by the much more systematic planning
and setting of research priorities, and the increased quality and efficiency of research and
accountability throughout the system. Provision of operational funds to sustain funding for
identified research priorities and maintenance of facilities and equipment has also improved,
and gaps in the availability of trained staff in specialized areas, e.g., virology, post-harvest
technology, biotechnology, marketing, and socio-econornics are being overcome. Location-
specific research has, however, not improved at the same pace as national level research.
2.4   Lessons learned from past operations indicate the need for a better balance between
c-ommodity-oriented research programs and regional research on location-specific farming
systems in different AEZs, as well as in the location and distribution of, especially, senior
research personnel. Efforts should be made to direct a substantially greater and growing
share of research resources toward the regions and certain AEZs, while maintaining
adequate support for national research. Effective research-extension-farmer linkages and
adequate communication with the users of research outputs (farmers, industry, and policy-
makers) also have to be improved to ensure wider and more immediate use of research
results.
2.5    A major lesson learned during the Bank's long association with research projects is
that it takes time to build research capacity and for institutional changes to evolve to
improve research efficiency and cost-effectiveness. The successful organization of research
for managing technological change depends on flexibility, good communications, small
interdisciplinary teams of researchers, rewards for excellence and accommodation of
failures, accountability, beneficiary participation, and step-wise innovations. In Indonesia,
the lessons show that (a) benefits from research yet to be conducted are uncertain and
difficult to quantify but overall the contribution of research to agricultural development has
been significant, particularly in rice and tree crops; (b) a decentralized R&D system, with
strong linkages to local government and other institutions through improved coordination
mechanisms, is needed to fully tap the benefits gained from national research achievements,
and to use available local knowledge; and (c) farming systems research, emphasizing
location-specific and on-farm activities, should be institutionalized in major agroecological
regions, with particular attention to socio-economic conditions in rural communities.



- 8 -
C. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
2.6   Rapid changes in the agricultural sector in Indonesia require significant changes in
and upgrading of the current R&D system. The Project would build on the capacity
established under previous Bank-assisted projects and introduce new approaches to ensure
greater relevance of research to local conditions. The Bank's long and close association
with agricultural research in Indonesia, as a major donor, places it in an excellent position to
provide further assistance and coordination of other donors' support for the introduction of
major organizational changes to make agricultural research more cost-effective, as foreseen
under this Project. The Project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
for Indonesia which was discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on March 21, 1995
and focuses, inter alia, on inter-regional equity and enhanced competitiveness, delivery of
higher quality public services, especially to the poor, greater decentralization of
responsibilities, and improved environmental management. The project would support
greater decentralization of responsibilities for agricultural research and technology transfer,
strengthen local institutions and human resources in order to effectively develop,
disseminate and apply location-specific technologies, thereby enhancing competitiveness,
provide improved public services to lower income rural communities, and improve
environmental management by developing and promoting sustainable agricultural practices.
2.7   The Bank supports the Government in the following key areas: (a) maintaining
growth with macroeconomic stability; (b) improving public sector management;
(c) enhancing private sector's role in development; (d) reducing poverty; and (e) improving
natural resource and environmental management. In agricultural research, the Bank's
strategy is to support the Government's efforts to (i) generate and transfer location-specific
technologies through regionalizing the R&D system; (ii) undertake participative planning
and priority setting involving farmers and other stakeholders; (iii) strengthen research-
extension linkages; and (iv) improve research management considering agroecological,
social, economic, cultural, and environmental concerns.   Further strengthening of
agricultural R&D and increasing its relevance to regional, resource-based development is
essential to underpin the Government's efforts in these key areas.



-9-
3. THE PROJECT
A. PRoJEcr OBJEcrrvEs AND COMPONENTS
3.1   The main objective of the Project would be to strengthen regional agricultural R&D,
based on local human and natural resources, by collaboratively developing and transferring
location-specific technology which is market-oriented and client-driven to support agro-
business and agro-industry development. This would be achieved through the establishment
of a network of regional AIATs, improvement of regional research management, expansion
of research in priority areas, and strengthened linkages to local, national, and international
institutions, thereby facilitating the delivery of research results to end-users. Specific
project outcomes for successfully meeting these objectives are included in the Project
I nplementation Plan (PIP) as indicated in Annex 1. The Project would consist of the
following four components the costs for which are shown in Annex 1, Table 4:
(a)   Regionalization of Agricultural R&D (estimated total cost US$53.8
million). This component will strengthen on-farm research using farming
systems methodology and facilitate technology transfer in eight
agroecological regions. The Project will support the establishment and
operation of eight priority AIATs in 12 provinces in a new regional network
of 17 AIATs being established by the MOA. The capability of staff in the
eight AIATs will be increased and their linkages will be strengthened by
enhancing collaboration and participation of local institutions, such as the
extension service, DINAS, farmer groups, policymakers, provincial
universities, the private sector, and community and locally-based
organizations in regional R&D activities. The eight AIATs will test and
assist in the dissemination of technologies needed in specific farming systems
in the selected AEZs.
(b)   Institutionalization  of R&D  Management at the Regional Level
(estimated total cost US$17.8 million). This component will introduce
administrative and management reforms developed under the ARM Project
at the regional level and improve AARD's capability to respond to changing
needs of consumers and farmers. It will support common administration and
management procedures in the 17 AIATs in the network, comprising the
eight AIATs under the Project and the remaining nine AIATs which will be
established by GOI with possible assistance of other donors. These new
procedures would ensure bottom-up planning by characterizing the AEZs,
and developing regional R&D master plans; improving priority setting and
resource allocation; strengthening of the regional information system; and
improving management capabilities of AIAT staff and staff of collaborating



- 10-
institutions. Special studies will be carried out on social, gender, and
cultural issues in collaboration with universities.
(c)   Support to Priority Commodity and Discipline-Oriented Research
(estimated total cost US$22.2 million). This component will help accelerate
the development of new technologies and improve the relevance of research
conducted by commodity research institutes by getting them to backstop the
needs of the AIATs. The Project will support research in high priority areas
by funding priority commodity and discipline-oriented research, particularly
on livestock, horticulture and plantation crops, fisheries, and selected
disciplines like biotechnology, agricultural engineering, agribusiness and
marketing, post-harvest and processing, and sociology/anthropology.
Research will be carried out by commodity research institutes in support to
the regional R&D program. The Project will also provide degree and non-
degree training for AARD staff and technical assistance on special disciplines
on the priority commodities.
(d)   Strengthening R&D Collaboration (estimated total cost US$8.0 million).
This component will improve Indonesia's access to internationally generated
technologies, tools and methodologies (i.e., farming systems, social and
gender analysis, strategic planning, monitoring and evaluation). It will
expand the horizon of its scientists by improving collaboration with Asia-
Pacific and international research centers, other Asia-Pacific national
research systems, and selected foreign universities. It will also strengthen
collaboration between the AARD Work Units and the extension service, the
Directorates General of the MOA, DINAS, policymakers, farmers' groups,
local governments, the private sector, local universities, and community and
locally-based organizations. A University Research Grant, and a Scientific
Exchange Program for researchers and managers will be established to
promote joint activities between AARD researchers and managers and staff
of their collaborating institutions.
B. PRoJEcr DEscRiprIoN
3.2   Regionalization of Agricultural R&D. AARD is a highly centralized research
system with strong commodity-orientation. Because of the variability of Indonesia's
agroecosystems, R&D has to be decentralized to generate, test, and integrate location-
specific technologies based on farmers' needs and circumstances. This project will provide
the basis for developing strong and effective regional agricultural R&D capacity by
supporting the establishment and operation of eight priority AIATs to conduct on-farm
verification and adaptive research and to facilitate transfer of best technologies to farmers
and other technology users. The Project will assist AARD in establishing and operating, in a
phased manner, the following eight priority regional assessment institutes covering 12
provinces: for Phase I (beginning Year 1) - (a) AIAT Ambon (Maluku), (b) AIAT Gedong
Johor (North Sumatra), (c) AIAT Kendari (South Sulawesi and Southeast Sulawesi),



- Il -
(d) AIAT Biromaru (Central Sulawesi and North Sulawesi), and for Phase II (beginning
Year 2) - (e) AIAT Banda Aceh (DI Aceh), (f) AIAT Padang Marpoyan (Riau and Jambi),
(g) AIAT Pontianak (West Kalimantan), and (h) AIAT Ungaran (Central Java and DI
Yogyakarta). Through the AIAT, AARD researchers and extension workers transferred to
AARD will be integrated under one structure. The AIAT staff will collaborate with other
regional and provincial agencies in planning and implementing a common regional R&D
program with active participation of university researchers, farmers' groups, extension
workers, DINAS, the private sector, and community and locally-based organizations. A
regional forum, to periodically consult with these stakeholders, will be established under the
Project.
3.3   The Project will upgrade existing facilities of the former Agricultural Information
Centers which were transferred to AARD as a result of the reorganization of the MOA, and
selected AARD substations and experimental farms, and construct new R&D support
facilities which will be required by the eight priority AIATs, in a phased arrangement.
Furniture, office and scientific equipment, vehicles, including boats, field implements, multi-
media production equipment, and books and journals will be provided to the AIAT to
implement the regional R&D program. Staff capability will be improved by relocating
specialized staff from other AARD Work Units, limited recruitment, intensive in-service
training of AIAT staff on selected topics, contracting research to local universities, and
providing consultants. To give incentives for researchers and managers to move to more
isolated AIATs to work on farm-level activities, the current incentive system will be
reviewed and innovative methods of rewarding excellence in R&D and management will be
introduced. Among others, AARD will consider gender equity in recruitment, promotion,
career advancement, staff training, and other personnel matters.
3.4   Using the strategic planning, programming, and priority setting procedures and tools
developed under the ARM Project, R&D master plans will be prepared, for the four priority
MIATs in Phase I during Year 1 and then the next four priority AIATs in Phase II during
Year 2 of the Project. These plans will be based on regional needs and developed using
participative and bottom-up planning methods. Refinement of the AEZ characteristics will
be carried out by the AMATs, through diagnostic surveys and analysis of existing
information. Social and cultural aspects, including gender-related data will be gathered to
provide benchmark about the role of women, youth, and distinct cultural groups whose
production is primarily subsistence-oriented, as bases for incorporating these special
concerns in project activities. Regional MIS databases will be developed, computerized, and
periodically updated to be utilized for planning, information sharing, and policy formulation.
Financial and administrative reforms will be introduced to improve the cost effectiveness of
research, the efficiency of project implementation, and ensure high quality of R&D
outputs/products.
3.5   In the past 20 years, AARD research institutes have developed technologies which
are ready for further adaptation to specific production systems. The technology showcase, a
menu of recommended technological advances ("gelar teknologi") developed under the
ARM Project will be continued and expanded to the eight priority regions. Under this
Project, the AIATs will identify available technologies and assess their fit to farmers' needs



- 12 -
in specific areas. As part of the regional R&D program, relevant component technologies
generated by the national research institutes will be tested on-station and verified on-farm to
suit conditions in local farming systems. Following the methodology developed under the
Research-Extension Linkage (REL) Program of the ARM Project, selected pilot activities
will be carried out to upscale and integrate the best technologies with the current farm
practices involving large number of farmers and extension workers. Linkages with local
universities, farmers' groups, policymakers, DINAS, the extension service, the private
sector, and community and locally-based oroganizations, will be strengthened to facilitate
dissemination of improved technologies and sharing of information. The Project will also
provide R&D support services, such as production of multi-media materials needed by
extension workers, farmers, and other development workers in the project areas.
3.6  Institutionalization of R&D Management at the Regional Level. In the past five
years, under the ARM Project, AARD has developed administrative and management
procedures, mechanisms, and tools and introduced management reforms at the national level
to improve the quality of research and relevance of research outputs to technology users.
Under this Project, these management and administrative reforms will be introduced to the
network of 17 AIATs at the regional level. The Project will support common activities to:
(a) develop a regional MIS network, (b) strengthen regional research planning and
management, including priority setting, monitoring, and evaluation; (c) improve regional
financial management and administrative procedures, such as accounting, auditing, and
technical audit; (d) improve research station management; and (e) review the current
incentive system and introduce innovations to improve it.
3.7   As the GOI, with possible assistance from other donors, will establish and operate
the remaining nine AIATs, the Project will assist the AARD to set up common
administrative and management procedures in 17 AIATs in the network, to ensure that
planning, priority setting, resource allocation, monitoring and evaluation, and financial
management procedures are standardized across regions. The remaining nine AIATs and
the provinces covered include: AIAT Karangploso (East Java and Bali), AIAT Koya Barat
(Irian Jaya), AIAT Lembang (West Java and DKI Jakarta), AIAT Natar (Lampung), AIAT
Naibonat (East Nusa Tenggara, West Nusa Tenggara, and East Timor), AMAT Palangkaraya
(Central Kalimantan and South Kalimantan), AIAT Puntikayu (South Sumatra), AMAT
Samarinda (East Kalimantan), and AIAT Sukarami (West Sumatra and Bengkulu). Under
the coordination of AARD Secretariat and the PMU, the AIATs will organize short-term
skill-building training seminars and provide technical assistance on specific management
topics and provide degree training for selected AIAT staff.  Specialized equipment,
furniture, vehicles, and consumables will be provided for these activities. The refinement of
the AEZ characteristics and development of R&D master plans will be completed in the
remaining nine AIATs in a phased manner, including preparation, mass production, and
distribution of multi-media materials to support technology transfer activities.
3.8   Using the peer review procedures and criteria introduced under the ARM Project,
regional R&D proposals will be evaluated and the outputs of the projects will be reviewed
annually in a regional venue. The members of the Regional Technical Working Groups and
other regional scientists and development workers will form panels of reviewers to assist the



- 13 -
AIAT in this activity. An annual planning and review mechanism will be established to
ensure consultation with stakeholders and active participation of farmers, extension
workers, policymakers, DINAS, the private sector, and community and locally-based
organizations in AIAT activities. To justify increased appropriations for agricultural R&D,
especially at the regional level, special studies will be undertaken with assistance from
consultants and university researchers, on impact of research, economic benefits of R&D
interventions, and effect of cultural and gender roles in the farming systems.
3.9   Through the ARM Project, CALREC has strengthened the national communication
network and scientific literature service, providing a communication service for scientists in
the national research system. This service will now have to be linked to the 17 AIATs in
the regional R&D network to improve commnunication between the commodity research
institutes and the ALATs and across regions. The linkage of CALREC and AIATs to other
national databases (i.e., through IPTEKNET) and to international databases (i.e., through
INTERNET) will be established under the Project. The MIS databases will be streamlined
to conform with AIAT information needs and the type of survey data gathered from the
AEZ characterization activities. Short-term training and technical assistance on information
technology fields, including the New Government Accounting System (NGAS), will be
provided to strengthen the capability of AIAT staff, which is currently very weak. Training
will emphasize capability building on management of integrated R&D programs and team
building, use of management tools and mechanisms, effectiveness of rural organizational
models, social and gender analysis methods, applied communications methods, and
strengthening research-extension-farmer linkages. In addition, the Project will support a
regional soil fertility and fertilizer use program to be implemented in three regional locations
in Medan (North Sumatra), Yogyakarta (D.I. Yogyakarta) and Maros (South Sulawesi)
which will provide soil and plant analysis services to provide farmers with location-specific
fertilizer recommendations in collaboration with existing agencies. CSAR will coordinate
the soils service laboratories network and provide training and support services to the
AITs.
3.10  The Project will also support the exchange of scientists and managers across regions
(among AIATs) and between AlATs and the commodity research institutes and centers. To
ensure an effective project implementation, support will be provided to CARP, AARD
Secretariat, and the PMU to coordinate overall project implementation and the activities
under Components 3 and 4 of the Project. Support will also be provided to CASER and the
eight PIUs to coordinate the activities of the AIATs at the regional level (Components 1
and 2). The Project will provide office equipment (computers, typewriters, calculators),
office furniture, vehicles, books and journals, technical assistance, and training.
3.11 Priority Commodity and Discipline-Oriented Research Programs. One of the
major components of the ARM Project is the support for research in commodity research
institutes, including a university grant scheme involving scientists outside AARD. This
Project will continue to support commodity research institutes in selected high priority
areas, including the University Research Grant, focusing on fisheries, livestock, horticulture
and tree crops, and selected disciplines, such as biotechnology, agricultural engineering,
agribusiness and marketing, postharvest and processing, and sociology and anthropology.



- 14 -
An important criterion in selecting research proposals is that the research will support the
regional R&D programs under the AIATs. The selected priority topics include: (a) animal
feeding and nutrition, (b) animal breeding emphasizing selection and preservation of
indigenous breeds; (c) control of major diseases of chickens, goats and cattle; (d) tuna stock
assessment and formulation of a management plan; (e) diversification of marine and fresh
water finfish aquaculture; (f) environmental management for aquaculture, including
management of diseases; (g) development of superior hybrids/clones of horticultural and
tree crops; (h) integrated management of diseases and pests and soil fertility management of
horticultural and tree crops; (i) development of post-harvest and processing management
systems for fruit, vegetables, and tree crops; (j) biotechnology research; (k) improvement of
appropriate tools and implements; (1) market studies; and (m) socio-cultural studies
including gender-related topics.
3.12 Research proposals from commodity research institutes will be evaluated by CARP
based on existing peer review methods and criteria developed under the ARM Project. The
national research program component should be flexible to consider other areas to be
identified during the preparation of the regional R&D master plans and spin-off projects
identified during project implementation. In selected commodity research institutes, some
existing specialized laboratories will be rehabilitated and scientific equipment will be
provided to make them operational. The Project will support very limited new construction,
such as the bio-containment facility for the Research Institute for Food Crops
Biotechnology in Bogor, which will serve relevant institutes in the agricultural
biotechnology network. The Project will also provide furniture, vehicles, consumables,
technical assistance, and training on selected scientific topics.
3.13 The National Human Resource Development (HRD) Program is a continuation of
the past efforts, funded through earlier Bank-supported research projects (National
Agricultural Research I, II, and ARM Project), which developed a strong national
agricultural research system for Indonesia. With the regionalization of R&D, new disciplines
covering both technical and management fields will have to be put in place. The emphasis of
degree and non-degree training under the National HRD Program are the fields included in
the priority commodity and discipline-oriented research programs described in para. 3.11.
Focus will be given to capability-building in areas which are still limited in AARD, such as
agricultural economics and marketing, sociology and anthropology, postharvest and
agroprocessing, applied communication, agricultural extension, and research management.
Short-term technical assistance will be provided based on specific needs of the research
programs to assist in the conduct of special studies where expertise is still limited. Long-
term consultants will mainly be involved in research management areas to assist in project
implementation.
3.14  Strengthening R&D  Collaboration.   Collaborative R&D  and management
activities will be strengthened at two levels: (a) at the national level among national agencies
and AARD research units especially with universities, the private sector, and community
and locally-based organizations; and (b) at the regional (Asia-Pacific) and international
levels between international agricultural research centers under the Consultative Group for
International Agricultural Research (CGIAR), selected Asia-Pacific national agricultural



- 15 -
research systems and foreign universities. Collaboration with external groups will be
demand-driven, considering priority needs of Indonesia in both technical and research
management fields. These collaborative activities will enhance Indonesia's access to new
scientific information, improved technologies, and standard research methodologies. The
Project will support (i) joint research, (ii) hands-on training, (iii) technical assistance;
(iv) scientists/managers exchange; and (v) information sharing. Joint proposals by AARD
Work Units and collaborating institutions will be prepared and evaluated by CARP and the
PMU using criteria and procedures to be established by AARD and concurred with by the
Bank.
3.15  The competitive research grant program for universities (the University Research
Grant), which was started in the ARM Project, will be continued, emphasizing the role of
local universities and twinning arrangements between a provincial university, a more
advanced university elsewhere, and AARD Work Units. The Project will also strengthen
R&D linkages with the extension service, policymakers, the Directorates General under the
MOA, DINAS, the private sector, community and locally-based organizations, and other
development projects, in the areas of comparative advantage in the region. Joint proposals
will be reviewed by a special AARD Research Grant Board using criteria and methods used
under the ARM Project, which will be modified, as needed (Annex 2). Agreements were
obtained at negotiations that the first five subprojects considered under the University
Research Grant will be provided to the Bank for review before final approval by the
Research Grant Board. Collaboration on research and training with international and
regional research centers, will be encouraged, emphasizing the contributions from other
national agricultural research systems in the Asia-Pacific region. The exposure of
Indonesian scientists and managers to international and regional fora will be enhanced by
providing them with the opportunity to spend time in collaborating research centers,
supporting a scientists/managers exchange program, and encouraging the publication of
AARD scientists in international journals in partnership with staff of collaborating
institutions abroad. The Project will also support the conduct or joint sponsorship of
international or regional conferences, seminars, and workshops to be held in Indonesia.
Particular attention will be given to ensuring the participation of scientists in AIAT
activities. Special studies will be conducted with universities on selected topics related to
environmental, social, cultural, and gender issues to monitor the impact of research outputs
on these special groups and to the environment.
C. TRAINING
3.16  Human resource development and training are an important part of the project
components described above. The new regional R&D approach will require considerable
reorientation and retraining of staff who, up to now, have been working mainly in
commodity-oriented component research. A training schedule has been proposed which
would enable about 25 percent of newly appointed AIAT staff, including scientists,
technical, and administrative support staff, to participate in appropriate overseas or local
degree and diploma training over the six-year project period. In addition, significant



- 16 -
funding has been provided for short-term, non-degree/diploma training, including overseas
but mainly local, to strengthen staff capability in specific skills required to effectively carry
out the regional R&D programs. About 80 percent of the total training funds will be
provided for training staff at regional level. The remaining 20 percent of total training funds
would be provided for training national level scientists and managers working in priority
research areas. The criteria for selecting trainees will include gender equity to give equal
opportunities for women to enhance their roles as scientists and managers in AIATs and in
commodity research institutes.
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
3.17 The technical assistance required to implement the four project components,
comprising both international and local consultants, will assist in strengthening the
capability of AIAT staff at the regional level in research management, technical, and
technology transfer fields (see Annex 4). Recognizing that AARD has well qualified and
experienced staff, the level of technical assistance required in the proposed project is less
than 10 percent of the total project cost. The Project will provide funds for a total of 60
staff-months of long-term intemational consultants for research management as well as 92
staff-months of short-term  intemational consultants.  About 22 staff-months of the
intemational short-term consultancies will be devoted to the refinement of the AEZs and
implementation and monitoring of the soil testing/soil fertility programs. The balance of 70
staff-months will be for 22 different specialists in various disciplines. In addition, the
Project will provide funds for 96 staff-months of long-term local consultants for a financial
specialist (60 staff-months) and civil works specialist (36 staff-months). About 183 staff-
months of short-term local consultants will be provided in various areas of research
management and project programs such as MIS, technology transfer, development
communication, technical disciplines, sociology/anthropology including gender and cultural
issues, and architectural/civil works supervision. All areas for which consultants are
required have been identified and details of the requirements by project component are
shown in Annex 4. Brief terms of reference (TORs) were prepared and submitted to the
Bank. AARD has prepared detailed terms of reference for the long-term consultants to be
hired during Year 1 of the project. Detailed TORs, including draft letters of invitation, and
a proposed short-list of consultants have been furnished to the Bank, as well as details of
both degree and non-degree training to be implemented during Year 1.
E. ENvIRONmENTAL IMPAcT
3.18  The Project is rated as Category C: "No appreciable environmental impact." The
completed project should have a positive effect on the environment by encouraging the
sustainable use of localized resource mixes and by facilitating the generation and wider
adoption of more sustainable and environment-friendly technology, including available
conservation farming techniques, in different agroecological regions.



- 17 -
F. SociAL AND GENDER ISSUES
3.19  In addition to the technical aspects of R&D, the Project will introduce steps to
address the social and cultural dimensions, where relevant, including gender-related issues,
and the use of tools (i.e., social and gender analysis of the farming systems, participatory
planning) in determining the research and technology transfer agenda and in implementing
project activities. This will ensure that women, youth, and distinct cultural groups whose
production is primarily subsistence-oriented will directly benefit from project interventions
because activities are based on their specific needs and role in the household and in the
agricultural production systems. Benchmark information on social and cultural aspects will
be gathered during diagnostic surveys as part of the AEZ characterization. This will be
used in regional R&D planning and in integrating specific social, cultural, and gender-
related concerns in project activities, especially in areas traditionally the prerogative of
women such as fruit and vegetable processing, fish handling and marketing, home gardens,
etc. Special gender and cultural studies will be carried out in collaboration with universities
to determine their specific needs and the effect of technological innovations on these special
groups. The active participation of women, youth, and distinct cultural groups will be
sought in relevant project activities and their representation in regional fora and project-
related committees. Issues of participation of women staff in training, recruitment of
women staff in the AIATs, equity in promotion of staff, and other gender-related
management issues will be incorporated in the research management component of this
Project. Social and gender issues will be included in the periodic monitoring of on-farm
utilization of improved technologies through special studies conducted with universities.



- 18 -
4. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND
IMPLEMENTATION
A. INTRODUCTION
4.1   This chapter gives a summary of the PIP which was prepared in conjunction with
the Borrower and reviewed and deemed satisfactory by the Bank. The PIP is presented as
Annex 1 and gives detailed information on project description, costs, financing,
management and implementation arrangements, disbursement, progress reporting, and
status of implementation.
B. PROJECT COST
4.2   Total cost of the ARM II Project is estimated at US$101.8 million, about Rp 223.3
billion equivalent, including contingencies, taxes, and duties. Total base cost is estimated at
US$86.7 million. Physical contingencies amount to about US$4.6 million and price
contingencies about US$10.5 million over the project implementation period.  Total
contingencies amount to 17 percent of base cost. The foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$23.9 million, including contingencies, or about 23 percent of project costs.
Taxes and duties are estimated at US$3.8 million equivalent.
4.3   Total base costs are divided between:  (a) Investment Costs (49 percent)
comprising Civil Works; Furniture, Equipment; Computers, Journals; Boats and Vehicles;
Training; Technical Assistance, Research Collaboration; University Research Grants; and
Scientists/Managers Exchange Program; and (b) Incremental Operating Costs (51 percent)
directly attributable to the Project, comprising Research Management Costs; Operating and
Maintenance Costs; Research Operations Costs; and Technology Transfer Costs. The level
of incremental operating costs is considered justified in view of the additional management,
research, and technology transfer activities at the AIATs required under the regionalization
program of AARD. Overall, about 70 percent of total base costs will be incurred at the
regional level mainly to support the eight priority AIATs (Components 1 and 2) and
30 percent of the costs will be incurred at the national level (Components 3 and 4). The
estimated cost distribution among project components is shown in Table 4.1 below. Further
summary cost tables are shown in Tables 2, 3 and 4 of Annex 1.
C. PROJECT FINANCING
4.4   The Bank will provide loan funds equivalent to US$63.0 million equivalent or
62 percent of total project costs, comprising 93 percent of foreign exchange cost



- 19 -
Table 4.1: TOTAL COST BY PROJECT COMPONENT
- Rupiah billion -    -  USS million -   % Foreign   % Total
Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total  Exchange  Base Cost
Regionalizaton of Agric. R&D     80.2  18.5    98.7  36.6   8.4    45.0      19        52
InstitutializationofR&DMgmt      25.2   8.6    33.8  11.5   3.9    15.4      25        18
Priority Commodity and Discipline-  29.7  12.5    42.2  13.5   5.7    19.2   30        22
Oriented Research Program
StrngtheningR&DCollaboration      7.4   8.1    15.5   3.4   3.7    7.1       52         8
Total BseIDne Cost              142.5  47.7   190.2  65.0  21.7    86.7      25       100
Physical Cotingencies             7.8   2.4    10.2   3.5   1.1    4.6       23         5
PriceCoatingencies               20.6   2.3    22.9   9.4   1.1    10.5      10        12
Total Project Costs             170.9  52.4   223.3  77.9  23.9   101.8      23       117
(USS22.3 million) and 55 percent of local costs, excluding taxes (US$40.7 million). GOI
will finance approximately US$38.8 million or 38 percent of project costs, including taxes
and duties (estimated at US$3.8 million). The financing of project costs would be divided
between IBRD and GOI as follows:
(a)    IBRD will finance 70 percent of Civil Works including some construction of
new buildings where necessary at the AIAT headquarters to accommodate
transferred staff but also for the rehabilitation and expansion of existing
buildings where appropriate; 80 percent of Furniture, Equipment, and
Journals (including computers); 100 percent of Overseas Training;
75 percent of Local Training; 80 percent of Foreign and Local Technical
Assistance; 80 percent of Research Collaboration; 75 percent of University
Research Grants; 80 percent of Scientists/Managers Exchange Program; and
50 percent of Incremental Operating Costs based on a three-stage reducing
scale of funding starting at 60 percent in Years 1 and 2, and declining to
50 percent in Years 3 and 4 and to 40 percent in Years 5 and 6. An
indicative forecast of the respective funding shares of incremental operating
costs is shown in Appendix 1 of Annex 1. GOI will maintain levels of
operational expenditures at or above those projected in this Staff Appraisal
Report as loan funds for this purpose are reduced. A schedule of the Loan
categories for disbursement is shown in Appendix 1 of Annex 1.
(b)    GOI will finance 30 percent of Civil Works; 20 percent of Furniture,
Equipment and Journals; 25 percent of Local Training; 20 percent of Foreign
and Local TA; 100 percent of Boats and Vehicles; 20 percent of Research
Collaboration; 25 percent of University Research Grants; 20 percent of
Scientists/Managers Exchange Program; and 50 percent of Incremental
Operating Costs and all taxes and duties based on the current 10 percent
value added tax on contracts for Civil Works, Furniture, Equipment and
other goods and materials.



- 20 -
The financing plan for the project is set out in Table 4.2 below:
Table 4.2: FINANCING PLAN BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY AND FINANCIER
(US$ Million)
GOI           IBRD           Total
Civil Works                            3.5            8.1           11.6
Equipment/Furniture/Books, etc..       2.7           10.7           13.4
Vehicles                               2.0            -             2.0
Overseas Training                      -              3.4           3.4
Local Training                         1.4            4.1            5.5
Technical Assistance                   1.0            3.8           4.8
Research Collaboration                 0.5            2.1            2.6
University Research Grants             0.5            1.7           2.2
Scientists/Managers Exch. Program      0.6            2.6           3.2
Incremental Operating Cost            26.6           26.5          53.1
Total Project Costs                                               i.O.U
% Share                               38%            62%           100%
/a Including taxes and duties equivalent to US$3.8 million.
D). ADMINISTRATION OF PROJECr FUNDS
4.5   The Bank Loan of US$63.0 million equivalent will be made to GOI, which would
make the funds available to AARD through the normal government budgetary process. As
approximately 70 percent of project costs will be incurred at the regional level, funding
from GOI will flow directly, through the provincial PIMBAGPRO, to the AIATs based on
budgets which will be agreed and approved by the respective Regional Advisory
Committees. Any funds provided by provincial governments to assist in the financing of
AIAT operations will be considered part of counterpart funds provided by GOI.
Incremental Operating Costs will be financed by IBRD on a reducing scale starting at
60 percent in Year 1 and reducing to 50 percent in Year 3 then to 40 percent in Year 5. To
ensure adequate funding for the new network of 17 AIATs as well as for the existing
national research network, assurances have been obtained that GOI will increase AARD's
R&D expenditures by a minimum of 3 percent per annum in real terms over the six-year
project period (FY1996-FY2001).
E. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
4.6   The project will be implemented over six years by AARD and its work units.
Component I would be implemented in two overlapping five-year phases, with each phase
covering four AIATs. At the regional level, the AIATs will be staffed by existing personnel
from the former Agricultural Information Centers (BIPs), AARD researchers already



- 21 -
deployed in the regions in existing research centers and substations, additional AARD staff
to be relocated to the AlATs from national research institutes, and extension workers who
will be reassigned to the AIATs. An overall plan for the development of the entire network
of 17 AIATs, including staffing, and detailed annual work programs for the four AIATs in
phase one and the priority R&D areas for the first project year have been furnished to the
Bank. Participatory research management mechanisms will be introduced to the regions to
ensure high quality and relevance of technology to local conditions and to strengthen the
linkages of the AIATs to farmers, local governments, universities, the private sector,
community and locally-based organizations, and other development projects. A Regional
Advisory Committee, supported by a Technical Working Group, will provide guidance to
the AIATs on the R&D agenda, technology dissemination, and training. Farmers and other
stakeholders will be well represented in these regional bodies. Assurances have been
obtained that annual work programs, approved by the Regional Advisory Committees and
processed in accordance with GOI procedures, will be submitted to the Bank by December
31 each year. Project management/implementing units at both national and regional levels
will utilize existing structures and procedures of the agencies in which they reside to carry
out project operations, including fund releases, accounting, and auditing. Emphasis will be
given to local participation to ensure commitments of local agencies and their active
participation in decision-making at that level. Back-stopped by AARD at the national level,
provincial governments would be expected to take increasing responsibility in managing
regional R&D, including its funding.
4.7   The organizational set-up of the Project is shown in Chart 3 (in Annex 1) of the PIP.
Implementation will be at two levels: (a) regional, through the AIATs under CASER, for
Components 1 and 2, and (b) national, through the AARD Headquarters (CARP and
AARD Secretariat) and various research centers/mstitutes (for Components 3 and 4). A
Project Management Unit (PMU) has been established in the AARD Headquarters to
coordinate overall project implementation, including the implementation of Components 3
and 4. A National Advisory Committee will provide guidance to the AARD Director
General on ARMP II matters. At the regional level, a small Project Implementing Unit
(PIU) has been established within each priority AIAT, to implement project activities.
Assurances have been obtained that Regional Advisory Committees and Regional Technical
Working Groups for the four AIATs in Phase II, as weli as all key AIAT staff will be
appointed by October 1, 1995.
4.8   The Project will require an average of about 17 staff-weeks per annum of Bank
supervision during the six-year implementation period. Project supervision will be linked to
the cluster supervisions to be undertaken by the Bank's Resident Mission in Indonesia. A
mid-term review of the Project's progress of implementation is planned during the third year
of the Project (para. 4.25).
F. PROJECT PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
4.9   The AARD Secretariat and the PMU will be responsible for the overall coordination
of procurement activities and the International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procurement processes.  The progress of procurement



- 22 -
activities will be monitored by the AARD Secretariat and the PMU, and periodic reports on
procurement progress, including variations in schedules and work plans will be reported to
the Bank on a regular basis.
4.10   The procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3 below:
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS /a
(US$ Million)
Non Bank
Category of Expenditure      ICB      NCB       Other /b    Financed       Total
Civil Works                            11.6                                 11.6
(8.1)                                (8.1)
Equip/Fum./Books, etc.       10.0       2.0       1.4                       13.4
(8.0)     (1.6)     (1.1)                     (10.7)
Vehicles                                                        2.0          2.0
Training                                          8.9                        8.9
(7.5)                     (7.5)
Technical Assistance                              4.8                        4.8
(3.8)                     (3.8)
Research Collaboration                            2.6                        2.6
(2.1)                     (2.1)
University Research Grants                        2.2                        2.2
(1.7)                     (1.7)
Scientists/Managers Exchange Program              3.2                        3.2
(2.6)                     (2.6)
Incremental Operating Costs                      53.1                       53.1
(26.5)                    (26.5)
Total Financing Requirement  10.0      13.6      76.2           2.0        101.8
(8.0)    (9.7)    (45.3)           (-)        (63.0)
/a Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank Loan.
/b Includes national shopping, direct contracting (books and journals purchased directly from
publishers) and, consultancy serviceslTA/training following the Bank guidelines for the use of
consultants, and incremental costs.
4.11 Civil Works (US$11.6 million). These are for about 18 small packages of civil
works scattered through 12 provinces in which international contractors will not be
interested, and therefore, would be procured in individual contracts valued at less than
US$1.5 million up to an aggregated amount of US$11.6 million using NCB procedures and
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. The civil works under the Project will
concentrate on renovating existing facilities for the AIATs, with some additional new
construction, where necessary, to accommodate the new mandate and additional staff to be
transferred to the AIAT headquarters and their support facilities. About 70 percent of the
civil works will be undertaken at AIAT headquarters and 30 percent for renovation or
construction of installations. Contracts in excess of USS750,000 in value will be subject to



- 23 -
the Bank's prior review and contracts at or below this level will be subject to SOE
disbursement procedures and post procurement review on a random check basis. A
summary of the packages and schedule for procurement of civil works is presented in
Annex 1, Table 5.
4.12 Goods (US$13.4 million). Equipment including computers and scientific equipment
(for AIATs, Livestock, Fisheries, Horticulture, Soils Laboratories, and Post Harvest
Equipment) will be procured through ICB procedures using the Bank's standard bidding
documents. Local manufacturers would be given a margin of preference of 15 percent CIF
price or actual import duties whichever is lower. Items including office furniture and
equipment (desks, cabinets, typewriters, etc.), farm and field equipment (tractors, tillers,
harrows, etc.) guest house furniture and equipment (chairs, beds, etc.) and scientific
consumables (test tubes, flasks, etc.), and small items of equipment up to US$500 packaged
in contracts valued at less than US$200,000 up to an aggregated amount of US$2.0 million
would be procured through NCB procedures acceptable to IBRD. Some items in packages
valued at less than US$25,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$0.7 million would be
procured through shopping procedures obtaining quotations from at least three suppliers.
Books and Journals would be procured directly from reputable publishers in packages
valued at less than US$10,000 up to an amount of US$750,000. GOI has indicated that
vehicles totaling US$2.0 million will be reserved for local manufacturers. Assurances have
been obtained that the budget is allocated for this procurement based on a schedule
acceptable to the Bank. All ICB contracts will be subject to prior review and those
contracts less than US$200,000 subject to NCB and National Shopping (NS) procedures
will be subject to SOE disbursement procedures and a post procurement review on a
random check basis. A summary of the packages and schedule for the procurement of
goods is presented in Annex 1, Table 6.
4.13  Training (US$8.9 million). Foreign and local training costs currently estimated at
about US$8.9 million will be procured by AARD in accordance with procedures established
during the ARM Project, namely on the basis of the relevance and quality of the programs
offered in accordance with GOI administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank. All
training would be subject to the Bank's SOE disbursement procedures.
4.14 Technical Assistance (US$4.8 million). Consultants services for implementation
and specialist technical assistance, management support and special studies totaling some
US$ 4.8 million will be awarded according to Bank Guidelines for the use of consultant
services. Detailed timetable, work program, and terms of reference of consultants will be
prepared by the PIUs concerned and submitted to the PMU for coordination purposes and
for submission to the Bank for prior review. Contracts for consultant services will be
entered into by the AIATs responsible for supervising the consultants' activities. TA
contracts for firms of US$100,000 or less and for individuals of US$50,000 or less will be
subject to SOE disbursement procedures.
4.15  Research  CoBaboration  (US$2.6  million).   Research  and  development
collaboration is the cost involved in establishing relationships and carrying out selected
R&D projects with national agencies, Asia-Pacific and international research organizations,



- 24 -
foreign universities, and the private sector, and community and locally-based organizations.
Collaborative research will be undertaken utilizing GOI procedures and criteria acceptable
to the Bank.
4.16 University Research Grants (US$2.2 million). Grants to Universities for research
will be undertaken on a competitive basis and be reviewed by an AARD Research Grant
Board in accordance with GOI procedures developed during the ARM Project which are
acceptable to the Bank.
4.17  Scientists/Managers Exchange Program  (US$3.2 million).  The exchange
program will be undertaken utilizing GOI procedures and criteria acceptable to the Bank.
4.18 Incremental Operating Costs (US$53.1 million). Incremental recurrent costs
consisting of Research Management, Operations and Maintenance, Research Operations
and Technology Transfer costs which include many small items of expenditure such as
office expenditure, travel, farmers field days, planning meetings, monitoring activities, hired
labor, etc. would be paid following GOI administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank
and the procedures developed under the ARM Project. Such expenditure would be subject
to the Bank's SOE disbursement procedures.
4.19  Procurement Review
Civil Works. Ten NCB contracts (out of 18) which equal or exceed USS750,000
in value, and aggregating USS10.4 million would be subject to prior review by the
Bank.
Goods. Fourteen ICB contracts which equal or exceed USS200,000 and aggregate
approximately US$10.0 million and the first six contracts other than ICB regardless
of their value would be subject to Bank's prior review.
Consultancy Services. Contracts for companies at or above US$100,000 and for
individuals at or above US$50,000 aggregating an estimated US$2.0 million would
be subject to prior review by the Bank
Collaborative Research, University Research Grants, Scientists/Managers Exchange
Program and Incremental Operating Costs would not be subject to prior review but
together with other items not subject to prior review would be subject to selective post
award review on a samnple basis during supervision missions by the Bank.
Prior review items will total some US$24.4 million or 24 percent of total project cost and
39 percent of the Bank's financed program.
G. DISBURSEMENTS
4.20 The Bank loan of US$63.0 million equivalent is expected to be disbursed over a six-
year period. This is considered consistent with the strong implementation capacity of



- 25 -
AARD as shown by the ARM Project experience and takes into account the complexity of
the Project in reaching out to the regions. A summary of estimated disbursements by year is
presented in Table 4.4 below.
Table 4.4: DISBURSEMENTS BY YEAR
FY                      Annual          Cumulative            Cumulative %
1995/96                   7.0               7.0                    11
1996/97                  14.0              21.0                    33
1997/98                  15.0              36.0                    57
1998/99                  14.0              50.0                    79
1999/00                   7.0              57.0                    90
2000/01                   6.0              63.0                   100
4.21 The Bank Loan will be disbursed as follows:
(a)   70 percent of expenditure on Civil Works;
(b)   100 percent of foreign expenditure on Equipment (including computers), and
Fnumiture, Books and Joumals; 100 percent of local expenditures (ex.
factory cost) for locally manufactured items; and 65 percent of other locally
procured items;
(c)   100 percent of expenditure on Overseas Training;
75 percent of expenditure on Local Training;
(d)   80 percent of expenditure on Foreign and Local Technical Assistance;
(e)   80 percent of expenditure on Research Collaboration;
(f)   75 percent of expenditure on University Research Grants;
(g)   80 percent of expenditure on Scientists/Managers Exchange Program;
(h)   Incremental Operating Costs (including Research Management, Operations
and Maintenance, Research Operations, and Technology Transfer costs) for
the life of the loan based on the following declining percentages: 60 percent
of expenditures incurred in FY1996 and FY1997; 50 percent of expenditures
incurred in FY1998 and FY1999; and 40 percent of expenditures incurred
thereafter.
4.22  For disbursement purposes, full documentation will be required for all contracts at
or exceeding the following amounts: (a) for civil works, US$750,000; (b) for goods
US$200,000; (c) for technical assistance contracts with firms US$100,000, and (d) for
contracts with individuals USS50,000. For all expenditure in those categories below the



- 26 -
limits specified and for expenditure on training, research collaboration, university research
grants, scientists/managers exchange program, and incremental operating costs,
disbursements will be made on the basis of certified Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).
This documentation will be available for the required audit and also to Bank supervision
missions, and will be retained by the PMU for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of
the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made.
4.23  In order to facilitate disbursements, the Government would establish a Special
Account in the amount of US$3.5 million in Bank Indonesia, or at a commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank. This account should be maintained by the Directorate General of
Budget, MOF. The Special Account would be used for all eligible foreign and local
expenditures under all categories. Replenishment to the Special Account will be made on a
monthly basis, or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been used on the basis of
replenishment requests with supporting documents satisfactory to the Bank.
H. PROJECT AUDIT REPORTING
4.24 Project Accounts, the Special Account, and SOEs will be audited in accordance
with the Bank's 'Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by
the World Bank" for East Asia and Pacific Region (July 1992). The PIP contains details of
project auditing, including technical audit.
L PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATioN
4.25  A monitoring and evaluation scheme will be established for periodically assessing
the progress of implementation of the proposed activities in terms of attainment of
objectives.   Agreed performance indicators for the four components and major
subcomponents are indicated in Section 5 of the PIP (Annex 1) and will be used as a basis
for project reporting. Systems for monitoring accounting and auditing will be implemented
by the PMU and all PIUs. The PMU will audit quality through spot checks on various
activities throughout the project period. Each will prepare a semi-annual progress report on
the project performance (physical and financial) using GOI internal accounting and
reporting systems and procedures, and submit these to the PMU. The PMU will compile
the AIAT reports and prepare a summary in English to be submitted to the Director General
of AARD who will arrange to send a copy to the Bank. A detailed schedule for project
review and reporting is given in the PIP (Annex 1). The performance indicators indicated in
the PIP will be reviewed during supervision missions conducted jointly by GOI and the
Bank. Assurances have been obtained that a joint mid-term evaluation would be undertaken
about three years after the start of project implementation or by about September 30, 1998,
to assess the progress of the Project. Assurances have also been obtained that arrangements
will be made for technical audit of project activities, on a sample basis in accordance with
agreed terms of reference, by the Inspectorate General of Agriculture with technical audit
reports submitted annually by July 3 1, to the Bank for review and comments.



- 27 -
J. STATUS OF PREPARATION
4.26  The Project was prepared entirely by AARD  itself in conjunction with
representatives of regional and provincial agencies using a participatory, bottom-up
approach, ensuring a high degree of project ownership at all levels. An AARD Project
Preparation Team, with a core group of full-time members was formed which visited all
project provinces to interact with regional and provincial authorities and staff and to collect
precise local data and establish a provincial regional R&D agenda based on local resources,
priorities, and constraints. Provincial preparation teams, consisting of core teams (three
members), were organized and were responsible for compiling and analyzing essential
information and data, together with representatives of the provincial agricultural services,
local government, AARD research institutes and substations, and universities. The tuna
research proposal was prepared with input from the South Pacific Commission's Oceanic
Fisheries Program  (SPC-OFP).  During preparation, the following documents were
prepared by AARD: (a) an Agricultural Research Policy Statement (1994-1999); (b) a
Strategic Plan for Agricultural Research and Development for the period 1995-2005; (c) an
Economic Impact Assessment of AARD's research programs in vegetables, estate crops,
fruit, livestock and fisheries; and (d) a Project Operational Manual including a project
implementation plan, a Soil Fertility and Fertilizer Use Study and Proposed Program, and a
number of working and background papers, as well as provincial profiles. These documents
are in the project file.
4.27 Implementation and coordination responsibilities within AARD and between AARD
and other agencies and regional authorities have been defined. The organizational structure
to be implemented under the project, requiring the reorganization of AARD to establish a
network of AIATs as proposed, has been approved by the Ministry of Administrative
Reform and a Ministerial Decree officially establishing the new organization has been issued
by the Minister of Agriculture in December 1994. For the four AIATs to be established in
Phase I, detailed design for the civil works to be constructed/rehabilitated in the first project
year, including soil testing laboratories, and detailed annual work programs for Year 1 have
been prepared and furnished to the Bank. For the additional four AIATs in Phase II,
detailed designs for the civil works will be prepared during Year 1 of the project and
completed by March 31, 1996. AARD is in the process of making arrangements for
suitable staffing of the AIATs, , using AARD staff already deployed in the regions, and has
been considering various incentive schemes to attract additional experienced staff to move
to regional locations. These include strengthened and priority budgetary support and
enhanced training opportunities. Other schemes under consideration include allowances and
increased opportunities for promotion through rotational (or zig zag) assignments between
AIATs and commodity research institutes and part-time teaching assignments at local
universities.



- 28 -
5. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFTs
5.1   The benefits of the Project would be wide-spread throughout the agriculture sector,
as reflected in more effective and efficient management and use of R&D resources,
especially at the regional and provincial levels. A focus on agribusiness and agro-industry
would broaden the beneficiaries of research outputs to include those involved in the
postharvest, processing, and marketing end of the agricultural production spectrum. With
the regional focus on R&D, there will be greater capacity to generate and test location-
specific technologies, package appropriate technologies, and transfer them to more farmers
and create diverse production systems. Stronger research-extension-farmer linkages will
ensure that technology is demand-driven and clients' needs and circumstances are the basis
for planning and design of R&D projects. Improved linkages to policy-makers would
facilitate faster and wider application of new technology and ensure that the R&D system
effectively supports national and sectoral objectives, through more responsive policies.
B. RisKs
5.2  In addition to the normal risks associated with any research undertaking, where
results can not be guaranteed, the main risks of the proposed project are associated with
unsatisfactory implementation of project actions in regionalizing the R&D system due to:
(a)possible resistance to policy and institutional changes and continued institutional
weakness in carrying out the required reforms at the lower levels; (b) scientists and
technical support staff may not agree to move to regions and provinces and less developed
areas, which was apparent in the implementation of the ongoing ARM Project;
(c) resistance by provincial agencies to provide their full support and participation to a
regional R&D system, especially where AARD capacity is low; and (d) continued
inadequate funding for O&M expenditures. The latter could become a major risk if funds
from domestic and other sources would not be available during the project period and
beyond to increase the current research funding level and would threaten the sustainability
of the R&D system.
5.3   The Project includes a number of actions to minimize the above risks. In the first
place, there is a strong focus on human resource development through the provision of
training and technical assistance to overcome present institutional weakness, particularly at
regional level, in implementing the required administrative and management reforms and
implement the new R&D programs. At the national level, GOI and MOA appear to be
strongly committed to institutional change and regionalization of applied research activities.
With the increasing regional institutional capability as a result of the Project, it can be



- 29 -
expected that policy and institutional changes will be phased in over a reasonable time
frame.
5.4    At the regional level also, the increased role of provincial and local authorities, as
well as farmers' groups and other stakeholders in planning and decision making in
determining the R&D programs will give them increasing ownership of the more locally
relevant R&D outputs. AARD has initiated a number of workshops and discussions at
provincial level to fully familiarize local authorities and institutions with details of the
intended regionalization of agricultural research and will continue this process as the
network of AIATs expands. Response at provincial and local level has been strong so far.
Some provinces are already providing funds for local research and others have pledged to
contribute when research is implemented in their area. Since the provinces have limited
revenue raising capacity, their contributions are and will remain small for some time to
come in relation to the national funds provided for this purpose. Sustainability of project
activities will, therefore, depend on continued strong national funding through AARD and
donor assistance. GOI has planned a significant increase in research funding during Repelita
VI. An assurance has been obtained under the Project that GOI will increase funding for
agricultural research by a minimum of 3 percent annually, in real terms, over the six-year
project period. The major incentives to attract staff to the regions will be the deflection of
considerably larger budgetary resources to the new regional R&D network and the
increased provision of training opportunities for regional staff. Other incentive schemes are
also under consideration as explained in para. 4.27.



- 30 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1   The following actions are required to assure the successful implementation of the
project and attainment of its major objectives.
6.2   During negotiations the following assurances were obtained from Government:
(a)   Key AIAT staff would be appointed by October 1, 1995 (para. 4.7);
(b)   Regional Advisory Comnmittees and Regional Technical Working Groups
for the four AIATs in Phase HI will be established by October 1, 1995
(para. 4.7);
(c)   Detailed designs, cost estimates, draft tender documents for the
construction/rehabilitation of buildings and procurement of equipment for
the four AIATs in Phase II would be prepared by March 31, 1996
(para. 4.27);
(d)   GOI would continue to increase AARD's total R&D allocation by a
minimum of 3 percent per anmum, in real terms, to ensure adequate funding
for the AIAT network as well as for the existing national research network
(para. 4.5);
(e)   GOI would maintain levels of total operational funding for all activities
financed under the project at or above those projected in this Staff
Appraisal Report by increasing GOI funding as Loan financing for
incremental operating costs are scaled back in accordance with the
schedule in para. 4.4;
(f)    Annual work programs and detailed budgets, approved by the Regional
Advisory Committees and processed in accordance with GOI procedures,
would be submitted to the Bank by December 31 each year (para. 4.6);
(g)   Arrangements would be made for technical audits of project activities, on a
sample basis, by the Inspectorate General of Agriculture. Each AIAT and
Components 3 and 4 would be covered at least twice during the project
period and the technical audit reports submitted annually by July 31, to the
Bank for review and comment (para. 4.25);
(h)   Monitoring and evaluation reports on physical and financial project
progress based on agreed performance indicators would be submitted to



- 31 -
the Bank semi-annually by the Project Management Unit to coincide, as
much as possible, with Bank supervision missions (para. 4.25);
(i)    The first five subprojects considered under the University Research Grant
will be provided to the Bank for review before final approval by the
Research Grant Board (para. 3.15);
(j)    The Borrower shall procure vehicles according to a schedule acceptable to
the Bank (para. 4.12);
(k)   A joint mid-term evaluation will be undertaken about September 30, 1998
to assess the progress of the Project (para. 4.25).
Recommendation
6.3   Subject to the above, the proposed project provides a suitable basis for a loan of
US$63.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia.






- 33-                                ANNEX 1
INDONESIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
INIRODUCrION
This Project Inplementation Plan (PIP) was prepared during pre-appraisal and agreed
with the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD), the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) and the Agency for National Development Planning (BAPPENAS). The PIP is based on
findings of the Bank's pre-appraisal and appraisal missions and consists of the five volume Project
Operational Manual (POM) which was prepared by AARD in accordance with terms of reference
provided by the Bank. The POM provides the detailed description of how the Project will be
implemented. A copy of the POM is available in the project files. This annex, therefore, provides
only a summary description of the project objectives, project components and subcomponents,
and implementation arrangements.
1. THE PROJECT
A. PRoJEcr OBJECrVEs
1.1   The overall aim of the ARM II Project is to strengthen regional agricultural research and
development (R&D), based on local human and natural resources, by colUaboratively developing
and transferring location-specific technology to support agaro-business and agro-industry
development which is market-oriented and client-driven. Specifically, the objectives of the
Project are:
(a)   to establish and operate eight priority regional Assessment Institutes of
Agricultural Technology (AIATs) covering 12 provinces, as AARD's regional
centers for firming systems research and technology transfer;
(b)   to introduce R&D management reforms at the regional level to ensure relevance of
R&D to the needs of farmers and other end-users and to improve its quality and
cost-effectiveness;



- 34-                               ANNEX 1
(c)   to support research in priority areas at the national level to support the regional
R&D programs;
(d)   to improve Indonesia's access to internationally generated technologies and expand
the horizon of its scientists by improving collaboration with national agencies and
Asia-Pacific and international research centers and other national agricultural
research systems.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.2   The ARM  II Project will provide civil works, vehicles including boats, scientific
equipment (including computer hardware and software), office equipment, furniture, fellowships,
study tours, training, technical assistance, and incremental operating costs for research, research
management, operations and maintenance, and technology transfer. The total cost of the Project
is US$101.8 million, of which US$63.0 million equivalent will be financed by the Bank. The
Project will be implemented over six years in two overlapping five-year phases by AARD and its
Work Units, in collaboration with regional and provincial agencies. The Project has four
components:
1 .    Regionalization of Agricultural R&D
2.   Institutionalization of R&D Management at the Regional Level
3.    Priority Commodity and Discipline-Oriented Research Programs
4.    Strengthening R&D Collaboration
2. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. ORGANIZATIONS RESPONSIBLE FOR TiE PROJECT
2.1   The Project will be implemented by AARD and its work units at two levels: (a) at the
regional level by a network of 17 AIATs and the Center for Agricultural Socio-Economic
Research (CASER), and (b) by the commodity research institutes and centers, the AARD
Secretariat, and the Center for Agricultural Research Programming (CARP). At the regional
level, implementation will be through the AIATs, the new AARD Work Units, in collaboration
with local universities, the Directorates General under the MOA, DINAS, planners and
policymakers, the extension service, farmers' groups, the private sector, and community and
locally-based organizations. To ensure broad participation in each region, a Regional Advisory
Committee, supported by a Regional Technical Working Group, will provide guidance to the
AIATs on the R&D agenda, technology and information dissemination, collaborative activities,
training, and technical assistance. Farmers and other stakeholders will be well represented in
these regional bodies. CASER will coordinate the regional activities of the 17 AIATs, including



-35-                               ANNEX1
Components 1 and 2. At the national level, commodity research institutes will backstop the
AIATs in generating appropriate technology components based on the specific requirements of
the local production systems. The AARD Secretariat and CARP will provide overall coordination
of project activities, including those of Components 3 and 4. A National Advisory Committee
will provide guidance to the AARD Director General on ARM II Project matters.
2.2   A national Project Management and regional Implementing Units will utilize existing
structures and procedures of the agencies which they reside to carry out project operations,
including fund releases, accounting, auditing, and technical audit. Two types of project units will
be established: (a) a national Project Management Unit (PMU), under the AARD Secretariat (for
financial aspects) and CARP (for management aspects), which will coordinate project-wide
activities including Components 3 and 4 activities, and (b) a small Project Implementing Unit
(PIU), which will be located in each of the eight priority AIATs, to coordinate implementation of
Components I and 2.
B. AGREEMENTS BETWEEN BORROWER AND IMPLEMENTATION AGENCIES
2.3   The Borrower is the Republic of Indonesia (GOI) represented by AARD, the national
agricultural R&D agency under MOA. AARD Work Units will implement the Project in
collaboration with relevant national, regional, and provincial agencies. Assurances have been
obtained from the MOA and AARD management to ensure adequate funding for the AIAT
network in addition to the existing national research network. GOI will continue to increase
R&D operational expenditures by a minimum of 3 percent per annum, in real terms (as in the
ARM Project). Funding will be based on the project financing plan and will be made available in a
timely manner. Necessary steps will be taken to expedite the procurement procedures related to
major civil works and equipment. R&D operational costs for the AIATs will be financed from the
Loan on a sliding scale; as the Loan contributions decrease, GOI would maintain levels of
operational expenditures at or above those projected in the Staff Appraisal Report.
C. RESPONSIBILrriIES OF IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
2.4   Agency for Agricultural Research and Development.  Overall responsibility for
coordination and implementation will rest with the AARD, with headquarters in Jakarta. The
AARD is headed by a Director General. As a result of the regionalization of the agricultural
research system (Chart 1), action has been taken to reorient the mandates of existing 16
commodity research institutes as follows: (a) five in Food Crops (Food Crops Biotechnology in
Bogor, Rice in Sukamandi, Legumes and Tuber Crops in Malang, Maize and Cereals in Maros,
Food Crops in Swampy Areas in Banjarbaru); (b) three in Horticulture (Ornamental Plants in
Jakarta, Vegetables in Lembang, Fruit Crops in Solok); (c) three for Industrial Crops (Spices and
Medicinal Plants in Bogor, Tobacco and Fiber Crops in Malang, Coconut and Palms in Manado);
(d) two in Livestock (Livestock Production in Ciawi, Animal Diseases in Bogor); and (e) three in
Fisheries (Fresh Water Fisheries in Sukamandi, Marine Fisheries in Jakarta, Coastal Fisheries in
Maros).



INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT 11 PROJECT
Chart 1: AARD Organizational Structure
Director General
AARD
SEC.              CARP             CARCCSAR                             CASER               CAMD                IPARD            M.B. Sugar
Estate Crops
CRIFC              CRIICz               CRIH              CRIAS              CRIFI                    Biotechnology         ISRI
Bogor            Pasuruan
Food Crops         Spices and   |                          Livestock           Fresh Water
- Biotechnology       Medicinal Plants     V egetables      j Protection   |         Fisheries                Oil Palm
Bogor             Bo or              Lembang              Ciawi              Sukamandi                  Medan
RLice          Tobacco and          Fruit CropsAnimal                         Marine                   Cofee and
-                ~~~~~Fiber Crops                        Diese                 ihensCocoa
Sukamandi            Malang              Solok               BgrJakarta                                    Jember
Legumes and           Coconut and        Ornamental                                Coastal   |
-   Tuber Crops           Palms               Plants                           -    Fisheries                  Rubber
|   Malang    |   |   Manado          Jakarta                                   Maros                    Medan
Swamp                                                                                                    Tea and
-  Food Crops                                                               I       AIATs                    Chinchona
Banjarbaru                                                                      (17)                     Gambung
*1 
Maize and 
- Cereals                                                                                                 Arbsns
Maros                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jakarta



- 37 -                             ANNEX 1
2.5  In addition to these technical units, there are two coordinating bodies at the AARD
Headquarters, the Secretariat which is in charge of finance, administration, organization and
procedures, and human resource development, and CARP, which coordinates technical aspects,
MIS, and R&D management program formnulating and research collaboration management. Other
centers include the Center for Agricultural Library and Research Communication (CALREC),
Center for Soil and Agroclimate Research (CSAR), Center for Agricultural Machinery
Development (CAMD), and the CASER which will coordinate the AIATs. Six research institutes
for Estate Crops under the Indonesian Planters Association for Research and Development
(IPARD) are also linked with the AARD research network. These institutes include Estate Crops
Biotechnology in Bogor, Oil Palm in Medan, Coffee and Cocoa in Jember, Rubber in Sungei
Putih, Tea and Chinchona in Gambung, and Agribusiness in Jakarta. In addition, there is a Sugar
Research Institute in Pasuruan.
2.6   At the regional level, the AIATs, new AARD Work Units, will be established to
implement the regional R&D program and to forge linkages with regional and provincial agencies
to ensure local participation in the planning and implementation of R&D activities. The AIAT
organizational structure is indicated in Chart 2. The AIAT will have three units: (a) a Section for
Technical Services, (b) a Sub-Division for Administration, and (c) Researchers and Other
Functional Groups.
2.7   From the operational point of view, the Project will be implemented by the relevant
AARD Work Units described in paras. 2.4, 2.5 and 2.6. Two project advisory bodies will provide
advise and policy guidance during project implementation: (a) a National Advisory Committee
will advise AARD's Director General, and (b) a Regional Advisory Committee, backstopped by a
Regional Technical Working Group, will advise the AIAT Director. For project management at
the national level, a PMU, headed by a Director (PIMPRO), will provide overall project
coordination. At the regional level, a PIU, headed by a Subproject Coordinator (PIBAGPRO),
will provide leadership in project implementation. Chart 3 shows the organizational arrangements
related to project implementation. The flow of decision making related to project planning and
approval of R&D Plan and Budget is shown in Chart 4.
2.8   Project Management Unit. The PMU will be headed by a full-time Director who will be
an AARD staff assigned to the Project. The Director will report to the CARP Director for
management and technical matters and to the AARD Secretary for financial and human resource
development matters. The PMU Director will be supported by technical staff assigned from
AARD Work Units. Limited technical assistance will be provided under the Project during
implementation, mainly in development of project M&E procedures, financial management,
including technical audit, procurement, and selected research management mechanisms and
procedures.
2.9   Project Implementing Unit. A small PIU, under a Subproject Coordinator, based in
each of the eight priority AIATs, will be in charge of project implementation at the regional level.
The PIU Coordinator will report to the AIAT Director. A few AIAT staff will be assigned full-
time to assist the PIU Coordinator.



INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT 11 PROJECT
Chart II: AIAT Organizational Structure
Head of
AIAT
l               l~~~~~_
Technical                                                     SubDivisionfor
Technical                                                     Administrationw
Services
Sub-Section                 Sub-Section                        Sub-Section (Urusan)       Sub-Section (Urusan)
Cooperation &                  Facilities                           Personnel &                Finance &
Informnation                                                       Household                  Workplan
K......                                                                       I O



Indonesia
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT 11 PROJECT
Chart Ill: Project Implementation Structure
ARMP-II                            National                      MRD
Committee                      DG
Components
3 + 4                                                        CARP/SEC                       Research
CASER           ----------                                 Centers/
PMU                       Institutes
Components
I 1 2
Regional Advisory                     A   _                                    Receiving
Committeeehn1   Institutions
Regional Technical                     PIU                                    Stakeholders
Working Group
Legend:                                                                                                                j
Administration                      Receiving Institutions: Implementors other than AARD work unit
Stakeholders: Farmers, extension workers, planners, policymakers
- - - - - - -Project Implementation                        DINAS, the private sector, community and locally
based organizations



Indonesia
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT 11 PROJECT
Chart IV: Project Planning & Approval of Research & Development Plan and Budget (RDPB)
National   |                  AARD                           MOA                         BAPPENAS
National Level               Committee                       DG                           MORT                             MOF
7: Final Review & Approve     8: Allocate & Release
6:. Revievt Agricultural   5: Endorse Agri Itural RDPB      Agricultural RDPB              Budget for Agricultural
RDPB=                             t                         ;                       RDPB
I    -~  CARP/SEC      J    Research    _
CA  tK                       CSERP/- - >    Centers/
PMU                         Institutes
3: Review  Consolidate        4: Review 8 Integrate
Regiona RDPB                  Regional'RDPB &            1b: Prepare Conrmodity RDPB
Commod7ty RDPB
Regional Level                                            with Agricultural RDPB
Regional Advisory                                                          Receiving
Committee                   _       A_t                                 Institutions
Regional Technical                   PIU-                       :I-- *j-- s IStitutiondes    4.
Working Group                                                            takeholders
Legend.-
Ic. Participate in Consultations            Admnitraio
2: Review & Approve            la: Prepare Regional RDPB                   Prepare joint R&D Proposals              Administraton
Regional RDPB
- - - - - Project Implementation



-41-                                ANNEX 1
2.10 Regional Advisory Committee and Regional Technical Working Group. These
bodies will provide policy guidance to the AIAT Director during project implementation. In the
case of two-province AIATs, there will be one comnittee and working group per province. The
Regional Advisory Committee will have the head of the provincial planning office (BAPPEDA) as
first chair and the provincial representative of MOA (KANWIL) as second chair. The mernbers
will include representatives from the various DINAS, provincial university, research institutes
located in the regions, farmers groups, and the private sector (through KADIN or Regional
Chamber of Commerce), and community and locally based organizations. The Regional Technical
Working Group will be chaired by the AMAT Director with representation from various regional
and provincial agencies. The responsibilities of the Regional Advisory Committee and the
Regional Technical Working Group are given in Part D.
2.11 A summary of the responsibilities of implementing agencies and the additional resource
requirements to undertake project-related activities and future investments of the GOI are given in
Chart 5.
D. FUNcTIONS OF IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
2.12 The functions of the implementing agencies and of officials involved in project
implementation are:
(a)   National Advisory Committee:
(i)   to assist AARD Director General to set the overall policies, strategies, and
targets in order to ensure the attainment of project objectives, and review
them as required;
(ii)   to provide advice to the AARD Director General on project-related
matters;
(iii)   to ensure coordination of national and regional/provincial agencies, both
from the public and private sectors, involved in project implementation;
(iv)   to set principles and procedures to be applied in coordinating with
international and Asian organizations.
(b)   Regional Advisory Committee:
(i)   to set the policies, strategies, and targets to ensure the attainment of
project objectives, and review them as required;
(ii)   to approve the detailed annual work plan and budget and endorse this to
the AIAT;
(iii)   to provide guidance and advice to the AIAT Director and the PIU
Coordinator on the timely implementation of project activities;



-42 -                                     ANNEX 1
Chart V. Implementation responsibilities and additional resource requirements.
Implementing            Add. Resource
Component                 Activity                   Agency                Requirement
Project           -Coordinate implementation of   AARD                   For PMU:
Management        project activities             - Secretariat           -1 FT PMU Director
-CARP                  -5 FT Technical Staff
- PMU                  -3 FT Admin. Assistants
-1 Finance Office
-1 FT Civil Works &
Prourement Specialist
Component 1:      -Rehabilitatc/construction    -8 Priority ALATs        For each of 8 PIUs:
Agricultural      facilities                    -CASER                   -1 FT PIU Coordinator
regionalization of   -Procure & install equipment    -CSAR               -3 FT Technical Staff
R&D               -Characterize AEZs in 8 regions  -CARP                 -2 FT Admin Assistants
-Prepare R&D master plans for   -Secretariat          -1 FT Civil Works &
8 priority regions           -PIUs                    Procurement Specialist
-Implement R&D programs      -PMU
-Coordinate training         -Universities
-Procure consultants         -Prov. Agric. Services
-Extension Service
-Private Sector
-Community and locally-
based organizations
Component 2:      -Introduce R&D management    -17 AIATs                 -PMU Staff
Institutionalization  mechanisms & tools        -CASER                   -PIU Staff
of R&D            -Characterize AEZs in add. 9  -CSAR
Management at    regions                        -CARP
Regional Level    -Prepare R&D master plans in   -Secretariat
additional 9 regions         -P1U
-Strengthen libraries &      -PMU
communication                -Universities
-Establish MIS & NGAS        -CALREC
-Procure equipment           -Research Centers
-Procure consultants
-Implement training
-Establish 3 pilot soils
laboratories
Component 3:      -Implement research projects in  -Relevant National    -PMJ Staff
Priority          fisheries, livestock, horticulture   Research Institutes/  -PIU Staff
Commodity and     & tree crops                  Centers
Discipline-       -Implement priority discipline-   -1PARD Research
Oriented Research   oriented research           Institutes
-implement national HRD       -CARP
program                       -PMU
-rehabilitate specialized labs  -Universities
-procure specialized equipment   -CASER
-procure consultants         -CSAR



-43 -                                  ANNEX 1
Component 4:    -implement University Grant    -National Research  -PMU Staff
Strengthening   Scheme                      Institutes            -PIU Staff
R&D              -implement joint activities with  -AIATs
Collaboration   non-AARD units              -CARP
-implement Scientists/Managers  -PMU
Exchange Program           -PIU
-Joint research with IARCs,    -Universities
NARs                       -Non-AARD units
-Participate in international &    -Private Sector
regional fora             -Community and locally-
-Scientific exchange       based organizations
-Asia-Pacific NARS
-International
-Regional centers
(iv)    to ensure coordination of public and private agencies, including regional
and provincial groups and farmers, involved in project implementation.
(c)   Regional Technical Working Group:
(i)   to provide technical guidance to the Regional Advisory Committee on
project-related matters;
(ii)   to provide guidance to the AIAT in regional R&D planning, priority
setting, resource allocation, monitoring, and evaluation;
(iii)   to review the detailed annual work plan and budget of each AIAT and
recommend action to the Regional Advisory Committee;
(iv)    to provide technical guidance to the AIAT during the implementation of
the regional R&D programs;
(v)    to form part of the panel of evaluators for peer review of proposals and
annual review of the achievements of the Project;
(vi)   to ensure coordination of the Regional R&D Program with the National
Research Programs during project implementation.
(d)   Project Management Unit Director (PIMPRO):
(i)   to provide overall coordination and monitoring of all project components
to ensure the successful and timely implementation of the Project;
(ii)   to ensure that financial resources required under the Project are made
available to the implementing agencies in a timely manner;



-44 -                               ANNEX 1
(iii)   to monitor project expenditures an costs (local and foreign), process loan
disbursement applications in collaboration with the Bank of Indonesia, and
track disbursements of the Bank Loan and Government funds;
(iv)   to consolidate information for reporting and supervision of all requests for
procurement of civil works, goods, and services, in accordance with World
Bank Guidelines;
(v)   to ensure timely preparation and submission to relevant government
institutions and the Bank of annual audit reports of project expenditures
and accounts;
(vi)   to ensure movement of official documents and contracts through the usual
approval processes and undertake measures to expedite their release;
(vii)   to  prepare  detailed  specifications and  coordinate preparation  of
procurement documents for national and regional civil works and for
goods; review bid packages, and evaluate offers received;
(viii)   to coordinate an annual review of achievements of the Project and ensure
preparation and distribution of consolidated periodic reports to relevant
government and other participating institutions, including the Bank,
reflecting: (a) status of implementation progress, problems encountered,
and corrective actions needed; and (b) current costs of each project
component and estimated costs of completion;
(ix)   to coordinate the preparation and ensure timely submission of annual work
plans and budget to relevant government institutions and the Bank;
(x)   to coordinate the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) within six months after the completion of the Project;
(xi)   to coordinate implementation of Components 3 and 4;
(xii)   to prepare LOI, detailed TOR, and hiring local and foreign consultants.
(e)   Project Implementation Unit Coordinator (PIMBAGPRO):
(i)   to undertake responsibility for the daily implementation of project activities
at the regional level;
(ii)   to monitor project expenditures an costs (local and foreign), process loan
disbursement applications in collaboration with the PMU, and track
disbursements of the Bank loan and Government funds;
(iii)   to prepare requests for procurement of regional civil works, goods, and
services, in accordance with World Bank Guidelines;



- 45 -                              ANNEX 1
(iv)   to prepare and submit to the PMU reports of project expenditures and
accounts;
(v)   to ensure movement of official documents and contracts through the usual
approval processes and undertake measures to expedite their release;
(vi)   to prepare detailed specifications and procurement documents for approved
regional civil works and equipment lists, review of bid packages, and
evaluation of offers received;
(vii)   to conduct an annual review of achievements of the Project and prepare
and distribute consolidated periodic reports to the relevant government and
other participating regional institutions, including the Bank, reflecting:
(a) status of implementation progress, problems encountered and corrective
actions needed; and (b) current costs of each project component and
estimated costs of completion;
(viii)   to prepare and submit to the PMU the annual work plan and budget for
Components 1 and 2;
(ix)   to assist the PMU Director in the preparation of the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) within six months after the completion of the
Project;
(f)   AARD Secretariat:
(i)   to provide guidance to various implementing units on the financial and
assets management aspects of project implementation, such as accounting
and auditing;
(ii)   to provide guidance on training, technical assistance, assets management,
MIS, administrative, and personnel matters.
(g)   Center for Agricultural Research Programming (CARP):
(i)   to provide guidance to implementing units on research management aspects
of project implementation, such as planning, programming, priority setting,
resource allocation, monitoring and evaluation, MIS, collaboration with
other institutions, and research-extension-farmer linkages;
(ii)   to coordinate submission and evaluation of R&D proposals and budget;
(iii)   to  coordinate  technical and  management inputs  during  project
implementation;
(iv)   to oversee daily activities of the PMU.



-46 -                                ANNEX 1
(h)   Center for Agricultural and Socio-Economic Research (CASER):
(i)   to coordinate and monitor project-related activities of the AIATs,
especially in the eight priority regions;
(ii)   to assign staff at the AIATs who will work with the PIU Coordinators, in
project implementation at the regional level.
(i)    Assessment Institute for Agricultural Technology (AIAT):
(i)   to provide headquarters for the PIU, including full-time staff and support
services for the daily implementation of the Project;
(ii)   to prepare detailed needs assessment, annual work plan and budget,
quarterly report of project status and accomplishments, and financial
reports;
(iii)   to monitor and report on detailed procedures, implementation schedules,
and programs, with modifications if needed;
(iv)   to review and revise implementation targets and financial resources needed
to support future actions;
(v)   to provide administrative support for the Regional Advisory Committee
and the Regional Technical Working Group.
(j)    Receiving Institutions (AARD Work Units, LIIPI institutes, universities,
regional and provincial institutions, the private sector, community and
locally-based organizations):
(i)   to prepare detailed needs assessment, annual work plan and budget, and
financial report of expenditures for each category of input that they will
receive through the Project;
(ii)   to monitor and report on detailed procedures, implementation schedules,
and program(s);
(iii)   to review and revise implementation targets and financial resources needed
to support future actions.
E. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
2.13   Since the components of the Project are closely linked to each other, some of the activities
under each component will be combined during implementation. Specifically, the scientific
equipment to be procured for the AIATs and the commodity research institutes and the equipment
(especially computers), will be combined into several packages of tender in order to shorten the



- 47 -                              ANNEX 1
tendering procedures and offer attractive packages for larger suppliers and ensure compatibility of
equipment across the network. Procedures and arrangements between AARD and Receiving
Institutions for the preparation, delivery, and monitoring of outputs by receiving institutions are
part of the overall R&D program.
2.14  The following procedures have been developed for each component of the Project:
(a)   contractual arrangements between the Borrower and the receiving institutions for
procurement of civil works and equipment;
(b)   tendering procedures for different categories of civil works and equipment;
(c)   procedures related to the organization, delivery, and monitoring of training
activities;
(d)   principles and procedures for hiring of long- and short-term consultants; and
(e)   procedures and protocols for coordination with other national agencies and Asia-
Pacific and international research centers.
2.15  The implementation arrangements for project components are:
(a)   Regionalization of Agricultural R&D:
(i)    The eight priority AIATs covering 12 provinces will be responsible for the
overall implementation of Component 1 and part of Component 2 of the
Project. Regional activities will be carried out under the coordination of
the PIU Coordinator in each AIAT. The Coordinator will receive guidance
from the AIAT Director, and support from technical and administrative
staff to be assigned full-time to the Project by AARD. The PIU will be
responsible for procurement of civil works, furniture, vehicles, and
equipment for the establishment and operation of the AIAT headquarters,
designated installations, and R&D support facilities in each region. Under
the coordination of the PIU Coordinator, the AIAT, with assistance from
staff in AARD Headquarters, will be responsible for the development of
technical specifications, in accordance with Bank guidelines, for the
procurement of civil works, furniture, vehicles, and equipment. The AIAT
and PIU will also be responsible for providing continuous support and
integration of input from the Receiving Institutions in the region in the
preparation of the annual work plan and budget, design and review of joint
projects, and their implementation.
(ii)    Under Component 1, a number of fellowships and study tours will be
provided for AIAT staff and staff of collaborating institutions. The criteria
and procedures for awarding fellowships will follow those which are being
used under the ARM  Project, with modifications, as needed.  The
candidates for these fellowships and study tours will be selected by the



-48 -                               ANNEX 1
Regional Advisory Committee upon the recommendation of the AIAT
Director and approved by AARD and the Bank.
(iii)   Provision of technical assistance will be through the PMU and AARD
Headquarters, following the procedures being used under the ARM
Project, considering standard Bank guidelines, and will be based on the
needs of specific AIAT or commodity research institute and the
requirements of the R&D program.
(b)   Institutionalization of R&D Management at the Regional Level:
(i)    Under Component 2, common administrative and management activities
will be implemented by the 17 AIATs in the network. Overall coordination
of these activities, including the MIS, and the communication network, will
be provided by CARP (for management matters) and by the AARD
Secretariat (for financial matters), in collaboration with CASER, the
AARD Work Unit which is administratively in charge of the AIATs.
(ii)   Provision of short-term technical assistance and training on management
and special technical fields will be coordinated by the PMU and AARD
Headquarters, and organized by the AIAT concerned, following
procedures being used under the ARM Project and considering standard
Bank guidelines.
(c)   Priority Commodity and Discipline-Oriented Research Programs:
(i)   The overall implementation responsibility for Component 3 will be the
relevant commodity research institutes responsible for the identified priority
commodities and selected disciplines. Researchers from these commodity
research institutes will prepare research proposals on the identified areas
required for backstopping the regional R&D program and initially screen
these proposals using the procedures utilized within the research institute
concerned. Evaluation of research proposals will follow the criteria,
guidelines, and procedure developed by AARD which is currently used for
proposals funded by the ARM Project, which will be modified, as needed.
(ii)    The PMU will be responsible for coordinating submission of required
documents for procurement of civil works, furniture, equipment, and
vehicles submitted by national research institutes concerned according to
established procedures and Bank guidelines.   Similarly, identified
requirements for human resource development and technical assistance will
be processed by the CARP and PMU on the basis of specifications
prepared by the commodity research institutes involved.



-49 -                               ANNEX 1
(d)   Strengthening R&D Collaboration:
(i)    Overall implementation responsibility for Component 4 will rest with
CARP and relevant commodity research institutes and AIATs. Under the
coordination of the CARP Director, with assistance from the PMU
Director, procedures and protocols for coordination with other national
agencies, Asia-Pacific, and international research institutions will be
developed, including identification of criteria and procedure for evaluating
joint proposals, which will have to be concurred by the Bank.
(ii)   Two workshops will be conducted: (a) the first workshop to identify the
priority areas for collaboration and potential collaborating institutions to
ensure that activities will be based on the needs of Indonesia, and (b) a
second workshop to consult with identified potential collaborators to
discuss identified priority areas, prepare joint proposals, decide on
responsibilities of each institution, and agree on a financing scheme.
Evaluation of joint proposals will be done by the National Advisory
Committee following approved guidelines and criteria.
(iii)   The Scientists/Managers Exchange Program will be coordinated through
CARP and the PMU on the basis of joint proposals from the commodity
research institutes, ALATs, and collaborating institutions, according to
criteria and guidelines acceptable to GOI and the Bank.
(iv)    The University Research Grant will be coordinated through CARP and the
PMU using the procedures used under the ARM Project, which will be
modified, as needed.   Guidelines for the implementation of new
collaborative mechanisms, such as twinning between universities and joint
projects between universities and the private sector and AARD Work
Units, will follow guidelines, criteria, and procedures agreed by the GOI
and the Bank (Annex 2).
(v)    Provision of short-term technical assistance and training on management
and special technical fields will be coordinated by AARD Headquarters and
the PMU, following procedures being used under the ARM Project,
considering standard Bank guidelines, which will be modified, as needed.
F. INTERAGENCY COORDINATION
2.16 The successful implementation of the Project will depend on good coordination among
several different agencies, at the national, regional, and provincial levels, located in the public and
private sectors. Implementation of the regional components (Components 1 and 2) will require
close collaboration with local universities, local government, the extension service, farmers'
groups, private sector institutions, and community and locally-based organizations, to ensure their
active participation in R&D planning and implementation, including dissemination of technology,



- 50 -                                  ANNEX 1
information, and research management tools and methods. At the national level, joint projects
will be implemented by AARD's commnodity research institutes and other national research
agencies [i.e., under the National Institute of Sciences (LIPI)] under Component 3, and with
international and Asia-Pacific research centers, including foreign universities, under Component 4.
G. ROLE OF THE BANK
2.17   The Project will, on average, require about 17 staff-weeks of Bank supervision per year
during implementation, as reflected in the proposed supervision plan below:
SUPERVISION PLAN
Timing         Staff Weeks                             Staffing
FY1996              18         Bank resources (18 weeks) of which:
- Task Manager                             6 weeks
- Financial/Management Specialist (part RSI)  4 weeks
- Soil Fertility Specialist                2 weeks
- Civil Works/Procurement Officer (RSI)    2 weeks
- Sociologist/Anthropologist (RSI)         2 weeks
- R&D Management/M&E Specialist            2 weeks
FY1997              16         Bank resources (16 weeks) of which:
- Task Manager                             6 weeks
- Financial/Management Specialist          4 weeks
- Information/MIS Specialist               2 weeks
- Agriculturist (Technical field) (part RSI)  2 weeks
- R&D Management Specialist                2 weeks
FY1998              24         Bank resources (24 weeks Midterm Evaluation) of which:
- Task Manager                              8 weeks
- Financial/Management Specialist (part RSI)  4 weeks
- Agriculturist (Technical field) (part RSI)  2 weeks
- Technology Transfer/Extension Specialist  2 weeks
- Organization and Management Specialist   2 weeks
- Applied Communications Specialist         2 weeks
- Sociologist/Anthropologist (RSI)         2 weeks
- Unspecified consultants (Biotechnology
Soil Fertility                          2 weeks
FY1999              16         Bank resources (16 weeks) of which:
- Task Manager                              6 weeks
- Financial/Management Specialist (part RSI)  4 weeks



-51-                                 ANNEX 1
- InfonnationlTechnology Transfer Specialist    2 weeks
- Agriculturist (Technical field) (part RSI)  2 weeks
- R&D Management Specialist              2 weeks
FY2000             14        Bank resources (14 weeks) of which:
- Task Manager                           6 weeks
- Financial/Management Specialist (part RSI)    4 weeks
- Agriculturist (Soil Fertility)         2 weeks
- R&D Management Specialist              2 weeks
FY2001             18        Bank resources (18 weeks)
- Task Manager                           8 weeks
- Financial Management/Specialist (part RSI)    4 weeks
- Economist                              2 weeks
- Sociologist/Anthropologist (RSI)       2 weeks
- R&D Management SpecialisttM&E Specialist   2 weeks
Note: Where possible, project supervision will be coordinated with cluster supervision plan of
The Resident Mission in Indonesia (RSI) which will make supervision more cost-effective.
H. ADMINISTRATivE ARRANGEMENTS
2.18 The Project will be implemented at two levels. At the national level, the PMU Director
will be responsible for carrying out all necessary administrative arrangement recommended by
relevant AARD Work Units and approved by the National Advisory Committee. At the regional
level the PIU Coordinator will carry out all activities recommended by the AIAT Director and
approved by the Regional Advisory Committee. Full-time attention of relevant senior officials
will be required in development and implementation of new administrative, financial, and
management systems.
3. PROJECT FINANCING AND COSTS
A. DETAILED FINANCING PLAN
3.1   The proposed Bank loan of US$63.0 million equivalent will finance 62 percent of the total
project costs, comprising 93 percent of foreign exchange cost (US$22.3 million), 55 percent of
local cost, excluding taxes (US$40.7 million). GOI will finance the balance of project costs
(about USS38.8 million), including duties and taxes which are estimated at US$3.8 million
equivalent. The Bank will finance 70 percent of Civil Works including some construction of new
buildings, where necessary at the AIAT headquarters to accommodate transferred staff but also
for the rehabilitation and expansion of existing buildings where appropriate; 80 percent of the



-52 -                                ANNEX 1
total value of Furniture and Equipment (including computers), Books and Journals (details in
para. D3.7); 100 percent of Overseas Training; 75 percent of Local Training; 80 percent of
Foreign and Local Technical Assistance; 80 percent of Research Collaboration; 75 percent of
University Research Grants; 80 percent of Scientists/Managers Exchange Programs; and 50
percent of Incremental Operating Costs (including Research Management, Operations and
Maintenance, Research Operations, and Technology Transfer Costs) based on a decreasing scale
of funding starting at 60 percent in Year 1 and falling to 40 percent in Year 5 for the remainder
of the project implementation period. GOI would finance 30 percent of Civil Works; 20 percent of
Furniture, Equipment, Books and Journals; 100 percent of Vehicles; 25 percent of Local Training;
20 percent of Foreign and Technical Assistance; 20 percent of Research Collaboration; 25 percent
of University Research Grants; 20 percent of Scientists/Managers Exchange Program; 50 percent
of Incremental Operating Costs based on an increasing level of funding over the project period,
and all Taxes and Duties based on the current 10 percent value added on contracts for Civil
Works, Furniture, Equipment and other goods and materials. All AARD's non-incremental costs
(including staff salaries) would be financed by GOI. GOI would continue to increase R&D
operational expenditures by a minimum of 3 percent per annum, in real terms, to ensure adequate
funding of the AIAT network in addition to the existing national research network.  As
approximately 70 percent of project costs will be incurred at the regional level, funding from GOI
will flow directly through the provincial PIMBAGPRO, to the AIATs based on budgets which
will be agreed and approved by the respective Regional Advisory Committees. Any funds
provided by provincial governments to assist in the financing of AIAT operations will be
considered part of the counterpart funds provided by GOI. The financing plan is shown in Table
1 below, and further details of GOI's and IBRD's annual share of the funding of incremental costs
over the project period are shown in Appendix 1 of Annex 1.
Table 1: FINANCING PLAN BY EXPENDrruRE CATEGORY AiD FINANCIER
(US$ Million)
GOI           IBRD           Total
Civil Works                              3.5            8.1           11.6
Equipment/Furniture/Books and Journals   2.7           10.7           13.4
Vehicles                                 2.0             -             2.0
Overseas Training                         -             3.4            3.4
Local Training                            1.4           4.1            5.5
Technical Assistance                      1.0           3.8            4.8
Research Collaboration                    0.5           2.1            2.6
University Research Grants               0.5             1.7           2.2
Scientists/Managers Exchange Program     0.6            2.6            3.2
Incremental Operating Costs              26.6          26.5           53.1
Total Project Costs auS
% Share                                 38%            62%           100%
-/a Including taxes and duties equivalent to US$3.8 million.



- 53 -                                       ANNEX 1
B. PROJECT COsTs
3.2    Total project costs amount to about US$101.8 million.  Total base costs amount to
US$86.7 million apportioned approximately between (a) Investment Costs (49 percent)
comprising Civil Works; Equipment, Fumiture, Computers, Books and Joumals; Vehicles and
Boats; Training; Technical Assistance, Research Collaboration; Scientists/Managers Exchange
Program, and a University Research Grant; and (b) Incremental Operating Costs (51 percent)
comprising Research Management Costs; Operating and Maintenance Costs; Research Operations
Costs; and Technology Transfer Costs. Overall, it is estimated that 70 percent of total base costs
will be incurred at the regional level mainly to support the eight priority AIATs and 30 percent of
the costs will be incurred at the national level. Project costs are planned to be incurred in two
phases, each of five years duration, covering a period of six years.
3.3    The estimated project cost by expenditure category is shown in Table 2 below. Project
costs by project subcomponent are shown in Table 3. Details of project costs by expenditure and
major components are shown in Table 4 and by subcomponents in Appendix 1 of Annex 1.
Detailed cost tables for all components and priority AIATs are available in the project file.
Table 2: TOTAL COST BY ExPENDlTURE CATEGORY
-    Rupiah billion -  -    USS million -       % Foreign    % Total
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Fornign   Total    Exchange   Base Cost
L Investment Costs
A  Civil Works                15.3    6.5    21.8   6.9   3.0         9.9      30           12
B. Eqpt/Furn/Books & Journals   10.1   16.5    26.6   4.6   7.5    12.1        62           14
C. Vehicles                    1.8    2.2       4.0   0.8   1.0       1.8      55            2
D. Technical Assistance:
1. Policy Development       0.4     -       0.4   0.2    -         0.2
2. CapacityBuilding         2.1    3.1       5.2   1.0   1.4       2.4
3. Project Management       1.5    2.2       3.7   0.7   1.0       1.7
Subtotal Technical Assistance  4.0    5.3       9.3   1.9   2.4       4.3      56            5
E. Training                   10.0    6.6    16.6   4.6   3.0         7.6      40            8
F. Research Collaboration      2.0    3.1       5.1   0.9   1.4       2.3       60           3
G. UniversityResearchGrants    1.7    2.6       4.3   0.8   1.2       2.0      60            2
H  Scientists/Managers         1.6    4.9       6.5   0.8   2.2       3.0       75           3
Exchange Program
Total Investment Cost            46.5   47.7    94.2  21.3  2L7         43.0       51          49
IL Recurmnt Costs
1. Research Management        20.6     -       20.6   9.4    -        9.4        -          11
2. Opcrations and Maintenance    10.2  -       10.2   4.6    -        4.6        -            5
3. Research Operations        44.8     -       44.8  20.4    -       20.4        -          24
4. Technology Transfer        20.4     -       20.4   9.3    -         9.3       -           11
Subtotal Recurrent Costs         96.0     -       96.0  43.7    -       43.7        -          51
Total Baseline Costs            142.5   47.7   190.2  65.0  2L7         86.7       25          100
Physical Contingencies            7.8    2.4    10.2   3.5   1.1         4.6       23            5
Price Contingencies              20.6    2.3    22.9   9.4   1.1    10.5           10           12
Total Project Costs             170.9   52.4   223.3  77.9  23.9   101.8           23          117



I
- 54 -                                                ANNEX I
Table 3: TOTAL COST BY PROJECT CoMPONENT AND SUBcoMPONENT
-    Rupish bilon -        -   USS million -         % Faeip       % TOWl
Loa    Foreign   Todtl   Local    Foreign    Total    Exchange    Bae Cost
A. Regionalzation of Agricultural R&D
Establizhment & Opctim of S ALATa          363      15.4      51.7    16.6      7.0      23.6        30           27
CbsrrtrizalionofAEZs atregla                2.4      1.3       3.7     1.1      0.6       1.7        35            2
Regional Research Program                  22.3      1.8      24.6    10.4      0.1      11.2         7           13
Regional Technology Transfer Propram       13.7      -        18.7    8.5       .         8.5                     10
Subtoal Regionalzion of Ag cuhursl R&D       3A2    13.5       5       36        3.4       450         19          52
B. Into             of R&D Manasee
Steghening Regional R&D Mnageent             6.0               6.0     2.7      -          2.7                      3
Strehening Nat Commuication and Sci.         3.2     2.9       6.1     1.5      1.3        2.3        47            3
Uiteratur
FstahlisbhnmeofNaL lvfSandNGASin he         4.1     2.2        6.3     1.9      1.0       2.9        35            3
region
Building Re R.L and Tech Transfer           1.6      1.2       2.8    0.7       0.6       1.3        44            1
Capability
Pilot Reg. Soil Fertility and Fetizer Us Pro&  4.0   1.0       5.0    1.1       0.4        2.2        19            3
Suppoft for ARM ll Projed lmplamdt           6.3     1.3       7.6     2.9      0.6        3.5        17            4
Subtoal Inituionlization of R&D Managemt      25.2     a6       33J    11.5       33        154         25           IS
C. Pririlty Commodity Rtsearch Prog.
SupportforPriority UvelockResrdh             5.1     1.3       6.4    2.3       0.6        2.9        20            3
Support for Priority Fisheries Rearch        6.4     1.4       7.3    2.9       0.6        3.5        18            4
Support for Priority Horti uiltre & Tree Crops  3.0  2.3      10.3     3.6      1.1        4.7        23            5
Research
Support for Priority Discipline-Oriented    7.5      1.3       9.3    3.4       0.3       4.2        19            S
Research
National Human Resource Development         0.8      3.5       4.3     0.4      1.6        2.0       31            2
Program
National Technical Asgistance and Special    1.9     2.2       4.1     0.9      1.0        1.9       54            2
Studies
Subtotal Priority Commodity Resarch Propam    29.7    12.5      42.2   13.5       57        19.2        30           22
D. SwegthenIng R&D Collabo
SuarngthingLnkage to Nationsi Agecig        2.1      1.2       3.3     1.0      0.5        1.5       35            2
StreheningLinkageato nter. &Regioml          5.3     6.9      12.2     2.4      3.2        5.6       57            6
Res. Org.
Subtotal Strengthening R&D Colaboralion        7.4       1      15.      3.4      3.7        7.1        52            a
Total Baseline Coats                         142.5    47.7     190.2    650      21.7       37          25          100
Physical Contingencies                       7.8     2.4      10.2    3.5       1.1        4.6       23             5
Price Contingencies                        20.6      2.3      22.9     9.4      1.1       10.5       10            12
Total Project Costa                          170.9    52.4     223.3    77.9    233        103         23          117



- 55 -                                    ANNEX 1
Table 4: TOTAL COST BY COMPONENT AND EXPENDTruRE
USS million
Priority
Regionalization  RegionaUzation  Commodity  Strengthening
of Agriculture   of R&D       Ruearch       R&D
R&D        Management    Program    Collaboration   Total
I. Investment Costs
Civil Works                            10.3           0.1           1.2           -        11.6
Equipment, Furniture, Books, Jrnls.     5.6           4.4           3.2          0.2       13.4
Vehicles                                0.9           0.7           0.4           -         2.0
Technical Assistance:
Policy Development                     -            0.2            -            -         0.2
Capacity Building                     0.7           0.9           0.9          0.2        2.7
Project Management                     -             -             1.9          -         1.9
Subtotal Technical Assistance             0.7           1.1           2.8          0.2       4.8
Training                                  4.9           1.8           2.2          -         8.9
Research Collaboration                    -             -             -            2.6       2.6
UniversityResearch Grants                 1.3           0.1           -            0.8       2.2
ScientistsfManagers Exchange Program      -             0.8           -            2.4       3.2
Total Investment Cost                    23.7           9.0           9.8          6.2      48.7
II. Recurrent Cost
Research Management                       4.5           6.8            -            -        11.3
Operations and Maintenance                4.3           0.5           0.8          0.1       5.7
Research Operations                      11.7           1.5          11.6           -       24.8
Technology Transfer                       9.6            -            -            1.7       11.3
Total Recurrent Cost                     30.1           8.8          12.4          1.8      53.1
Total Project Costs                      . 1l                                     LQ      I10i
3.4    Bases of Cost Estimates. Project Costs were estimated as follows:
(a)    Base Costs. Cost estimates were based on a review of actual costs updated to
April 1995 (date of negotiations) with adjustments for local and foreign inflation
over the project period in accordance with Bank guidelines. Additional cost
information was derived from: (a) GOI's updated standard cost guidelines for
construction and refurbishment of civil works; (b) recent quotations from suppliers
for equipment (including computers) furniture, boats and vehicles; (c) costs of
foreign and local training and consultant services currently charged by local,
European and North American consultants and training programs; (d) incremental
recurrent costs, all aspects of which were exhaustively reviewed by the pre-
appraisal and appraisal missions and have been arrived at using research operation
costs derived from AARD's guidelines for estimating research costs based on the
experience of the ARM Project. Estimates for other costs under the headings of
research management, operations and maintenance, and technology transfer are
also based on AARD's ARM Project experience and have been revised and



- 56 -                              ANNEX 1
modified where appropriate by the appraisal mission. As the cost of some
activities under the project (e.g., unit costs of laboratory equipment, workshops,
meetings with farmers) are comprised of numerous items of expenditure, it was
deemed appropriate to aggregate these costs into lump sums where necessary to
facilitate the processing of the detailed project cost tables. Where costs have been
aggregated, the composition of the lump sums shown in the cost tables may be
found in working papers entitled " Notes to COSTAB" in the project files. Project
costs have been converted into US dollars at the exchange rate of
Rp 2,193tUSS1.00.
(b)   Contingency Allowances. Project costs include a contingency for unforeseen
physical variations (US$4.6 million) equivalent to 10 percent of the base cost of
Civil Works and 5 percent for all other items, with the exception of
Scientists/Managers Exchange Program and Books and Journals. The following
rates were used to cover expected price escalation over the 6 year project period
from  1996-2001: local costs 5.0 percent; foreign costs 2.2 percent.  Price
contingencies amount to US$10.5 million over the project implementation period.
(c)   Foreign Exchange Component. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
about US$23.9 million including contingencies, or 23 percent of total project cost.
Calculations of the foreign exchange component were derived from an item by
item analysis resulting in the following: 30 percent for Civil Works; 60 percent for
Equipment; 55 percent for Vehicles; and 100 percent for Foreign Training and
Technical Assistance; 60 percent for Research Collaboration; 60 percent for
University Research Grants; 75 percent for Scientists/Managers Exchange
Program; and 100 percent for Books and Journals.
(d)   Customs Duties and Taxes. Taxes and duties, which will be financed by GOI,
are estimated at US$3.8 million based on the current 10 percent value added tax
on all contracts for Civil Works, Equipment, and other goods and materials.
3.5   Incremental Operating Costs.  Included in the project costs are about US$53.1 million
to cover incremental operating costs directly attributable to the project over the 6 year project
period.  These consist of Incremental Research Management Costs connected with the
decentralization of research management to the regions, Operations and Maintenance Costs for
newly constructed civil works and items of equipment acquired under the Project, Research
Operating Costs for research being undertaken in priority research areas, and Technology
Transfer Costs to disseminate research results to farmers. During the Project duration, AARD
will pay extra attention to monitoring the adequacy of recurrent finds for maintenance and
operation of facilities and newly instituted programs, and take necessary actions to rectify any
deficiencies. To monitor operating expenditure, AARD will collect and report, on a yearly basis,
all incremental and non-incremental operating expenditure incurred under specific cost headings
to assist in monitoring input and output indicators. (Appendix 1 in Annex I provides the format
for reporting).



- 57 -                                     ANNEX 1
Table 5: SUMMARY OF PACKAGES AND SCHEDULE FOR PROCUREMENT OF CIVIL WORKS
Estimated Procurement Project              Award   Contract
Component          No.  Location        Cost       Needed  Tendering Quotation Contract Completion
USS m
A- Reg. Agric. R&D 1. Palu/Sidondo       0.94       NCB    Jun 95    Aug 95   Nov 95  April 98
2. ManadolKalasey      0.85      NCB    Jun 95    Aug 96   Nov 95  April 98
3. Kendari/Wawotobi   1.11       NCB    Jun 95    Aug 95   Nov 95  April 97
4.UugPandang       )
4      o Ns/Goa )      0.90      NCB    Jun 95    Aug 95   Nov 95  April 97
Jeneponto  }
5. AmbonlMakariki    1.08        NCB    Jun 95    Aug 95   Nov 95  April 97
6. Gcdong Johor
Pasar Miring)
Bcrastag    }       1.04      NCB    Jun 95    Aug 95   Nov 95  April 97
Sei Pu tih
7. Aceh/Paya Gajah     0.90      NCB    Dec 95    Feb 96   May 96  April 99
8. Padang Marpoyan    1.27       NCB    Dec 95    Feb 96   May 96  April 99
9. Pontianak           0.76      NCB    Dec 95    Feb 96   May 96  April 98
10. Ungaran }
Fisheries
Semarng  )        1.50       NCB    Dec 95    Feb 96   May 96  April 98
Yogyakarta )
B. Region. R&D   11. Regional Soil Programo.09      NCB    Jun 95    Aug 95   Nov 95  April 96
Management          Bogor
C. Priority Res.   12. Livestock Ciawi   0.11       NCB    Dec 95    Fcb 96  May 96  April 98
Prog.             Fisheries Jakarta
13. Vessi Rehab.        0.21      NCB    Jun 95    Dec 95  April96  April 97
14. Ecobiology Lab.     0.04      NCB    Dec 95    Fcb 96   May 96  April 97
15. Fisheries Maros     0.09      NCB    Dec 95    Fcb 96   May 96  April 97
16. Horticulture } Jakarta
Tree Crops }       0.42       NCB    Jun 95    Aug 95   Nov 95  April 97
17. Biosafety Lab. Ciomas 0.22     NCB    Dec 95    Feb 96  May 96  April 98
18. Tools & Mach. Facil.
Serpong           0.06       NCB    Jun 95    Aug 95   Nov 95  April 97
Total Civil Works 1L59
Number of Contracts 18        (NCB for prior review: 10 contracts estimated value
USS 10.4 mullion)



- 58 -                                  ANNEX 1
Table 6: SUMMARY OF PACKAGES AND SCHEDULE FOR PROCUREMENT OF EQUIPMENT,
FuRNITuRE, BooKs AND JOURNALS
Est. Cost Procurement Prepare           Award   Contract
Component                     US$ mn   Method   Tendering Invitation Contract Completion
A.   Regionalization of Agric. R&D
1. Post Harvest Equipment       0.30      ICB       Jun 95   Aug 95   Jan 96    Sep 96
2. Farm/Field Equipment          0.87    NCB        Jul 95   Sep 95  Feb 96    Oct 96
3. Outboard Motors               0.08    NCB        Jul 95   Sep 95  Feb 96    Sep 96
4. Office Equipment & Fum.       0.25    NCB        Jul 95   Sep 95   Feb 96    Jun 98
5. Gen. Livestock Lab. Equip.    0.79     ICB       Jun 96   Aug 96   Jan 97    Jun 98
6. Gen. Crop Lab. Equip.         0.85     ICB       Jul 96   Sep 96  Feb 97      Jul 98
7. Gen. Fisheries Lab. Equip.    0.75     ICB      Aug 96    Oct 96  Mar 97    Aug 98
8. Mult. Media Prod. Equip.      0.81     ICB      May 96    Jul 96  Dec 96    Jun 98
9. Guest House Furn.             0.05    NCB       Apr 96    Jul 96  Dec 96    Jun 99
10. Soil Sample Prep. Lab.       0.07       NS      Apr 96       -       -        Jun 98
11. Soil Service Lab. Equip.     0.79      ICB      Aug 95    Oct 95  Mar 96   May 98
B.   Regionalization of R&D Mgmt.
& Strength. Links Nat. Agencies
12. Audiovisual/Comm. Equip.      1.29     ICB      May 95    Jul 95  Dec 95    Aug 97
13. Office Equip. & Fum.          0.48    NCB        Jul 95   Sep 95   Feb 96    Jun 97
14. Books and Journals            0.72      DC      May 96        -       -      Dec 99
15. Computer Equipment/Soft.      1.87     ICB       Jun 95   Aug 95   Jan 96    Sep 96
16. Soil Test and Fert. Equip.    0.27     ICB      Aug 95    Oct 95  Mar 96    Sep 96
463
C.   Priority Comm. Res. Prog.
17. Livestock                     0.65     ICB       Jul 95    Sep 95   Jan 96    Oct 96
18. Fisheries                     0.39     ICB      Nov 95   Dec 95   Jan 96    Aug 96
19. Horticulture Crops            0.58     ICB       Jul 95   Aug 95  Dec 95    Apr 96
20. Tree Crops                    0.40     ICB       Jul 95   Aug 95  Dec 95    Apr 96
21. Estate Crops                  0.14     NCB        Jul 95   Aug 95  Dec 95    Apr96
22. Bio Safety                    0.87     ICB       July 95   Sep 95   Jan 96    Sep 96
23. Equip/Ser. Pong.              0.13     NCB       Apr 96    Jun 96  Dec 96    Apr 97
326
Total                    lSS13.40
23 Contract Packages  (14 ICB and 6 NCB contracts subject to prior review
with estinated value USS10.0 million and USS2.0
million respectively.



-59-                                ANNEX 1
D. DISBURSEMENT AND FINANCING SCHEDULES
3.6   Disbursements. The Project is expected to be completed by October 1, 2001. The Bank
Loan of US$63.0 million equivalent will be disbursed over the six year project implementation
period, and is expected to be completed by April 30, 2001, the Loan Closing Date. This profile is
consistent with the strong implementation capacity of AARD as demonstrated during the
implementation of the ARM Project. This forecast takes into account the complexity of the
Project, the decentralization of the research management function to the regions, and the
capabilities of the accounting/finance function within AARD. Disbursements for FY1995/96 are
based on the initial deposit into the Special Account and replenishments. A summary of the
disbursement plan is shown in Table 7.
Table 7: DISBURSEMENTS BY YEAR
FY                      Annual          Cumulative            Cumulative %
1995/1996                 7.0               7.0                    11
1996/1997                14.0              21.0                    33
1997/1998                15.0              36.0                    57
1998/1999                14.0              50.0                    79
1999/2000                 7.0              57.0                    90
2000/2001                 6.0              63.0                   100
3.7   Disbursements from the Loan will be made as follows:
(a)   70 percent of expenditure on Civil Works;
(b)   100 percent of foreign expenditure on Equipment (including computers), and
Furniture, Books and Journals; 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
for locally manufactured items; and 65 percent of other locally procured items;
(c)   100 percent of expenditure on Overseas Training;
75 percent of expenditure on Local Training;
(d)   80 percent of expenditure on Consultants Services;
(e)   80 percent of expenditure on Research Collaboration;
(f)   75 percent of expenditure on University Research Grants;



l
-60 -                               ANNEX 1
(g)   80 percent of expenditure on Scientists/Managers Exchange Program;
(h)   Incremental Operating Costs (including Research Management, Operations and
Maintenance, Research Operations, and Technology Transfer costs) for the life of
the loan based on the following declining percentages: 60 percent of expenditures
incurred in FY1996 and FY1997; 50 percent of expenditures incurred in FY1998
and FYI 999; and 40 percent of expenditures incurred thereafter.
3.8   For disbursement purposes, full documentation will be required for all contracts at or
exceeding the following amounts: (a) for civil works, US$750,000; (b) for goods USS200,000;
(c) for technical assistance contracts with firms US$100,000, and (d) for contracts with
individuals US$50,000. For all expenditure in those categories below the limits specified and for
expenditure on training, research collaboration, university research grants, scientists/managers
exchange program, and incremental operating costs, disbursements will be made on the basis of
certified Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). This documentation will be available for the required
audit and also to Bank supervision missions, and will be retained by the PMU for at least one year
after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made.
3.9   Special Account. In order to facilitate disbursements, the Government will establish a
Special Account in the amount of US$3.5 million in Bank Indonesia, or at a commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank. This account should be maintained by the Directorate General of Budget,
MOF. The Special Account would be used for all eligible foreign and local expenditures under all
categories. Replenishment to the Special Account will be made on a monthly basis, or when
20 percent of the initial deposit has been used on the basis of replenishment requests with
supporting documents satisfactory to the Bank.
E. AccouNTs AND AuDrrs
3.10  Accounting and auditing arrangements under the Project will be similar to those
established under the ARM Project (Loan 3031-IND). To facilitate the audit of the project
accounts, AARD will collect and consolidate the account records of a8l project expenditure into a
single document in a format agreed with the Bank (Appendix 1). Assurances were obtained from
AARD during negotiations that: (a) all project accounts, including schedules of expenditure
claimed under SOE procedures and usage of the Special Account will be audited annually by the
Government Audit Agency (BPKP), or other suitably qualified auditors acceptable to the Bank;
and (b) audit reports of project accounts, SOE, and Special Account will be submitted to the
Bank within six months of each Government fiscal year.
3.11 Reporting and Annual Reviews. The PMU will prepare semi-annual descriptive and
financial reports on each project component, objective, and activity (beginning from the date of
Loan Effectiveness). Information on the regional components (Components 1 and 2) will be
provided by the PrU Coordinators through quarterly reports to be submitted to the AARD
Director General, with copies to the PMU Director, relevant AARD Work Units, and the Bank.
The reports will describe: (a) current status and achievements of the Project; (b) problems met



-61-                                ANNEX 1
and deviations, if any, from the implementation plan; and (c) the reasons for deviations and
corrective actions being taken. The progress reporting format and procedure followed in the
ARM Project will be used with modifications, as needed. Reporting and Bank supervision will
focus on in-depth reviews of the: (i) policy framework for sectoral improvements; (ii) the
consistency of activities for each component and subcomponent with agreements reached at
negotiations, (iii) performance of the implementing groups and institutions; (iv) assessment of
emerging needs for adjustments to project parameters; and (v) possible follow-up operations
which could be supported by the Bank. Bank supervision will be based on the semi-annual
progress reports and the annual evaluation of project activities by the AARD. This will be
supplemented by a review of project expenditures and availability of financial resources, in
addition to substantive discussions with technical assistance groups implementing and/or assisting
in the implementation of various activities, and discussions with responsible Government
authorities. The PIP will be the basis for supervision and reporting.
4. DETAILED IMPLEMENTATION ACTIVITIES
A. DETALED PROJECT ACrIVITIES
4.1   Detailed activities under each component and subcomponent are summarized in this
section. Detailed information is available in the Project Operational Manual prepared by an
AARD Project Preparation Team, under the guidance of the AARD Director General.
Implementation schedules for each component and subcomponent are given in Appendix 2 of the
PIP (Annex 1).
(a)   Regionalization of Agricultural R&D
(i)   Establishment and operation of eight priority AJATs. The eight priority
AIATs to be supported by the Project, including the provinces which they
will cover, are as follows: for Phase I (beginning Year 1) - (a) AIAT
Ambon (Maluku), (b) AIAT Gedong Johor (North Sumatra), (c) AIAT
Kendari (South Sulawesi and Southeast Sulawesi), (d) AIAT Biromaru
(Central Sulawesi and North Sulawesi), and for Phase II (beginning Year
2) - (e) AIAT Banda Aceh (DI Aceh), (f) AIAT Padang Marpoyan (Riau
and Jambi), (g) AIAT Pontianak (West Kalimantan), and (h) AIAT
Ungaran (Central Java and DI Yogyakarta). The other nine AIATs,
including AIAT Naibonat (West Nusa Tenggara, East Nusa Tenggara and
East Timor) under the Bank-supported proposed Nusa Tenggara Regional
Agricultural Development Project, will be supported by GOI with
assistance from other donors. The activities include the organization a
Regional Advisory Committee and a Regional Technical Working Group
for each AIAT. In cases of two- or three-province AIATs, there will be one
committee and working group in each province. AARD will assign a full
complement of staff in each AIAT, based on the needs of the regional R&D



- 62 -                               ANNEX 1
program, by reassignment, relocation, limited recruitment, and retraining of
staff.
The physical facilities of the former Agricultural Information Centers,
which were recently transferred to AARD, and AARD's substations and
experimental farms, will be upgraded for used by the AIATs. Existing
facilities will be rehabilitated and selected new facilities will be constructed,
based on the specific needs of each AIAT, as follows: (a) offices for
researchers, extension workers, and administrative staff, (b) facilities for
production of multi-media materials; (c) soil preparation facility; (d) seed
preparation and storage facility; (e) basic crops, fisheries and livestock
research laboratories; (f) additional staff housing; (g) postharvest and
processing facility; and (h) library. Furniture and equipment, including
computers, will be procured to make these facilities operational. In
addition, vehicles such as cars, boats, and motorcycles, will be procured
through the Project.
Using strategic planning and programming methods and tools developed
under the ARM Project, and with assistance from short-term consultants,
each AIAT will develop a regional R&D master plan, including R&D
priorities, resource requirements, staffing requirements, priority R&D
program and budget; and responsible agencies. A peer review process and
criteria for evaluation will be introduced for approving proposals and for
determining achievements and impact of project interventions. As new
AARD Work Units, the AMATs capability to carry out R&D and
management activities will have to be strengthened considerably.
Fellowships, short-term training on technical, social sciences, and
management topics, and short-term technical assistance will be provided to
assist the AIAT staff. To give incentives for researchers and managers to
move to more isolated AIATs to work on farm-level activities, the current
incentive system will be reviewed and AARD will introduce innovative
methods of rewarding excellence in R&D and management. AARD will
also consider gender equity in recruitment, promotion, career advancement,
priority for staff training, and other personnel matters.
(ii)    Characterization of AEZs as basis for planning in eight priority
regions. The various AEZs in Indonesia have been characterized for
different purposes, such as for provincial development planning. Under this
subcomponent, existing AEZ characteristics will be refined by gathering
additional data through diagnostic surveys, rapid rural appraisal, and
analyzing and interpreting information for R&D planning. In addition to
physical characteristics of the regions, information on the economic, social,
and cultural aspects, including the role of men, women, youth, and distinct
cultural groups whose production is primarily subsistence-oriented. Their
roles in households and in the agricultural production systems, which will
be used as basis for incorporating these agreed concems in project



- 63 -                               ANNEX 1
activities. Potential effect of research output, to the environment, will be
gathered. AEZ data bases will be developed to computerize, compile,
analyze, interpret, and maintain the regional databases to facilitate the
utilization of information by various user groups, such as local planners
and policymakers, researchers, extension workers, and other development
workers.
(iii)    Support for regional R&D program. The regional R&D program will
focus on the important constraints and technology needs of the major
production systems in the regions covered by AIATs. The AIAT staffs'
capability in farming systems methodology, data analysis and interpretation,
policy formulation, social analysis, gender analysis, and technology transfer
methodology, will be improved. Constraints and available technology will
be matched and tested in collaboration with farmers, DINAS, and
extension workers. Emphasis will be on testing and verification of
component technologies on farmers' fields, including focusing on the
specific needs of special groups like women, youth, and distinct cultural
groups whose production is primarily subsistence-oriented. The best
technologies will be integrated with current farming practices and tested
using farming systems approach. Technology menus will be developed for
further on-farm testing and upscaling. Special studies will be carried out,
with assistance from specialists (under TA) on topics such as role of men
and women in the household and in the farming systems, cultural issues,
assessment of extension impact, and analysis of farner adoption rates, in
collaboration with local universities (under the University Research Grant).
(iv)   Support for regional technology transfer program. This subcomponent
will promote the utilization of integrated technologies developed for use in
specific major fanning systems. The skills of farmers and extension workers
on the application of new technologies will be increased by organizing on-
farm demonstrations of best technologies and field days to provide
participatory evaluation and promote technology utilization. Upscaling and
piloting selected technologies will be carried out with the DINAS and
extension workers involving many more farmers to enhance farmers'
adoption. Social, cultural, and gender-related concerns will be integrated in
project activities, especially in areas traditionally the prerogative of women
such as fruit and vegetable processing, fish handling and marketing, home
gardens, etc. To facilitate technology transfer, farmer-oriented publications
and audio-visual support materials, will be produced for farm-level
information dissemination. Farmers will be exposed to new agricultural
development activities elsewhere through their participation in regional
fora, farmers' meetings, and farmer-to-farmer visits. Other well-targeted
publications will also be prepared for public awareness-building on research
outputs and impact. Based on feedback from farmers and other users, the
regional MIS databases will be updated periodically. Other stakeholders,
such as policymakers, community and locally-based organizations, and the



- 64 -                              ANNEX 1
private sector, and special groups such as women, youth, and distinct
cultural groups whose production is subsistence-oriented, will be
encouraged to participate in regional fora, workshops, and other
technology promotion activities.
(b)  Institutionalization of R&D Management
(i)   Strengthening R&D planning, priority setting, policy formulation,
MIS, monitoring and evaluation. As the GOIL with possible assistance
from other donors, will establish and operate the remaining nine AIATs in
the network, the Project will assist GOI by introducing administrative and
management reforms, developed under the ARM Project, to the regional
level. The remaining nine AIATs and relevant provinces include: AIAT
Karangploso (East Java and Bali), AIAT Koya Barat (Irian Jaya), AIAT
Lembang (West Java and DKI Jakarta), AIAT Natar (Lampung), AIAT
Naibonat (East Nusa Tenggara, West Nusa Tenggara and East Timor),
AIAT Palang Karaya (Central Kalimantan and South Kalimanatan), AIAT
Puntikayu (South Sumatra), AIAT Samarinda (East Kalimantan), and
AIAT Sukarami (West Sumatra and Bengkulu). Regional planning,
priority setting, policy formulation, monitoring and evaluation, including
impact assessment methodologies, social analysis, gender analysis, and use
of backstopping and feedback mechanisms, will be introduced to the 17
AIATs in the network. The skills of AMAT staff and the staff of
collaborating institutions will be improved by training on appropriate
management processes, procedures, and tools with assistance from
consultants. The Project will support expenditures for putting these
administrative and management procedures in the 17 AIATs in the
network.
Using initial experience in Phase I of the Project, the AEZs and regional
R&D master plans in the remaining nine regions not covered in Component
1 wil be completed. The annual review of R&D activities and regional
planning will be undertaken in all 17 AIATs each year. A peer review of
R&D proposals and of research outputs will be undertaken at regional
venues. To facilitate information dissemination and provide feedback to
researchers, a regional forum will be established as a regular means of
consulting relevant stakeholder, especially farmers, extension workers,
local entrepreneurs, the private sector, and community and locally-based
organizations.
(ii)    Strengthening  national communication  and  scientific literature
service. Under the leadership of CALREC, the national and regional
communication networks will be linked and the scientific literature service
at the regional level will be strengthened under the Project to improve
access to scientific information by AIAT staff. AARD Work Units will be
linked to IPTEKNET, an Indonesian consortium of government agencies



- 65 -                              ANNEX 1
and universities for information exchange. Books and journals on
appropriate topics will be provided the AIATs and the existing library
facilities will be rehabilitated to provide better service to farmers,
researchers, extension workers, local university students, and other
development workers. Through CALREC, the linkages between the AARD
commodity research institutes and regional assessment institutes will be
strengthened to facilitate access to national and international databases.
Computers will be procured to establish this electronic communication
network within AARD Work Units that would provide access to e-mail
and file transfer services, and worldwide linkages through ITERNET.
Short-term technical assistance and staff training will be provided on
information networking, computer technology, data analysis and
interpretation, and database development and management. Preparation,
mass production, and distribution of multi-media materials will be major
activities at the regional level to support technology transfer.
(iii)    Establishment of national MIS and new government accounting and
rinancial and administrative systems in the regions. Under the ARM
Project, a national MIS was developed for project, financial, and personnel
management. Under this subcomponent, the MIS databases will be
streamlined to conform with AIAT needs and requirements by both
managers and researchers at the regional level. To improve the capability to
analyze and utilize information for planning and managing R&D activities,
and policy formulation, the capability of AIAT staff will be improved by
sequenced and timely short-term and in-service training. Relevant AIAT
staff will also be trained on the New Government Accounting System
(NGAS), to be introduced to the AIATs during the project period. To
encourage AARD staff to move to the AIATs, especially those in more
remote locations, the current staff incentive system will be reviewed to
update the criteria for recruitment and promotion considering the new
mandates of the AIATs, different skill mixes required for implementing the
regional R&D activities, and the addition of extension workers in the AIAT
staff complement. Innovations will be introduced to reward excellence in
R&D and management. Among others, AARD will consider gender equity
in recruitment, promotion, career development, staff training, and other
personnel matters.
(iv)    Building regional research and technology transfer capability. As a
new AARD Work Unit, the capability of AMAT staff to manage integrated
R&D programs using multidisciplinary and participatory approaches,
including farming systems methodology, will be very limited. The capability
of staff will be strengthened by providing degree and non-degree training
and short-term technical assistance in scientific fields, in strengthening
research-extension-farmer linkages, including the use of new methods, such
as community participation approaches. To assure sharing of information
and experiences across regions, a national/regional and regional/regional



- 66 -                               ANNEX 1
scientists, managers, and extension workers exchange program will be
implemented to allow staff to move across organizations and provide them
with the necessary support and incentives.
(v)    Pilot regional soil fertility and fertilizer use program. The pilot soil
fertility and fertilizer use program will support the establishment of three
regional soil testing laboratories in Maros (South Sulawesi), Medan (North
Sumatra), and Yogyakarta (D.I. Yogyakarta) to serve the needs of farmers.
This facility will work with the soil sample collection and preparation
facilities at the AIATs under Component 1. Existing soil testing facilities at
the AARD research institutes in the three areas will be upgraded and
provided with special equipment to carry out analysis of a large number of
samples for routine soil analysis. In addition, the laboratory in Medan will
carry out plant tissue analysis. CSAR in Bogor will provide basic soils
analysis training, coordination of work in the AIATs and the regional soils
laboratories, and data storage. The Project will also provide travel and per
diem to CSAR staff to carry out coordination activities. In addition, short-
term technical assistance for the soil testing network and staff in-service-
skill building will be provided on soil and plant sampling and analysis,
technical data interpretation, and use of information. The Project will also
support fertilizer-crop response studies in both over-fertilized and under-
fertilized areas, including activities with universities under the University
Research Grant.
(vi)    Support for ARMP II Project Implementation. This subcomponent will
support the establishment and management of the national Project
Management Unit (PMU) and eight regional Project Implementing Units
(PIUs) which will be charged with daily operations of the Project. Office
facilities, furniture, equipment, and vehicles will be provided for the PMU
and PIU staff. AARD will assign full-time staff to support these units. The
Project will also provide support for the PMU to coordinate national level
activities (Component 3 and 4). In addition, support will be provided to
CARP, the AARD Secretariat, and CASER for overall coordination of
project activities.
(c)   Priority Commodity and Discipline-Oriented Research Program
(i)    Support for priority livestock research. Livestock research will focus on
increasing the productivity of the livestock subsector, especially in small
holder farming systems. Research will be implemented by the Research
Institute for Livestock Production (RELP) and the Research Institute for
Animal Diseases (RLAD), under the coordination of the Central Research
Institute for Animal Science (CRLAS). Research will focus on: (a) animal
feeding and nutrition emphasizing technologies for the Eastern Islands,
(b) animal breeding with emphasis on selection and preservation of
indigenous breeds, especially of goats, sheep, and chickens; and (c) animal



- 67 -                                 ANNEX 1
health with emphasis on a few major diseases in priority regions in
collaboration with the Livestock Services in the provinces. To support
these priority research projects, selected existing facilities, including barn
and animal houses, will be rehabilitated to upgrade them. The Project will
also provide scientific equipment, furniture, vehicles, and technical
assistance.
(ii)    Support for priority fisheries research. The Central Research Institute
for Fisheries (CRIF) and its three research institutes: (a) the Research
Institute for Marine Fisheries (REMF) in Jakarta; (b) the Research Institute
for Coastal Fisheries (RICF) in Maros, and (c) the Research Institute for
Freshwater Fisheries (R1FF) in Sukamandi, will carry out research and
contribute to the development of fisheries R&D capacity at the regional
assessment institutes. Research areas identified include: (i) tuna stock
assessment and formulation of a management plan; (ii) diversification of
marine and fresh water finfish aquaculture; (iii) environmental management
for intensive aquaculture especially to manage diseases; and (iv) post-
harvest technology for fish. Support will be provided to construct and
rehabilitate special laboratories, including rehabilitation and refurbishing of
a research vessel, to upgrade these laboratories. The Project will provide
scientific equipment, furniture, vehicles including boats, and technical
assistance. Joint activities with research units of the National Institute of
Sciences (LIPI) and the Agency for the Assessment and Application of
Technology (BPPT) will also be supported. The tuna stock assessment is
expected to be done through collaboration with the Philippines and a
specialized organization. This research study will include a lump sum
provision of funds for specialist support for training on methodology, data
gathering and analysis, monitoring of stocks, and formulation of a stock
management plan.
(iii)    Support for priority horticulture and tree crops research. This research
program  will diversify the selection of high value fruit, vegetable,
ornamental, fiber, medicinal, spices, oil-producing, and estate crops and
improve the quality and increase value added of products from these crops.
Research will be implemented by the following AARD research institutes:
(a) Central Research Institute for Horticulture (CRIH) for ornamental and
cut flowers; (b) Research Institute for Vegetables (RIV); (c) Research
Institute for Fruit Crops (RIFC); (d) Research Institute for Spices and
Medicinal Plants (RISMP); (e) Research Institute for Coconut and Palms
(RICP); and (f) the various estate crops research and development centers
under the Indonesian Planters Association for Research and Development
(IPARD). The research areas identified are: (i) development of superior
hybrids/clones suitable for specific areas, especially in Eastern Indonesia;
(ii) reduce crop losses from diseases, pests, and low soil fertility through
integrated pest management and soil fertility management; and
(iii) development of postharvest processing and management systems,



- 68 -                               ANNEX 1
including agroprocessing to enhance product value and minimize effects of
waste. Selected existing facilities will be rehabilitated to improve research
implementation in these areas.  The Project will provide scientific
equipment, furniture, vehicles, and technical assistance.
(iv)    Support for priority discipline-oriented research. Relevant conmmodity
research institutes will conduct projects on identified high priority
disciplines that cut across several commodities, such as: (a) biotechnology
(using plant, livestock, fish and microorganisms), including construction of
bio-containment facility for testing transgenic plants; (b) development of
postharvest handling and primary and secondary processing technologies;
(c) development, testing and adaptation of agricultural equipment, tools,
and implements, especially for processing and postharvest handling; (d)
marketing studies to including grading of raw materials, market
information, market intelligence, and market competition; (e) anthropology
and sociology studies about the farming systems and rural communities,
including local organizations, traditional community-based natural resource
management systems, and gender and cultural issues which affect
agricultural development; (f) agricultural policies and their impact; and
(g) improvement of the quality of planting materials. The Project will
provide scientific equipment, furniture, vehicles, and technical assistance.
(v)    National human resource development program. This subcomponent is
a continuation of a similar program implemented under the ARM Project to
further improve the capability of AARD on selected more basic and applied
disciplines. Degree and non-degree training will emphasize special fields in
livestock, fisheries, horticulture, and tree crops research. Some selected
disciplines include (a) plant, livestock, and fish breeding; (b) biotechnology
in plant, livestock, fish and microorganisms; (c) fisheries; (d) economics,
sociology, and anthropology; (e) soil mapping and soil classification;
(f) agroprocessing; (g) management information systems; and (h) research
and extension management. The selection of staff who will undergo
training will follow the guidelines and criteria used under the ARM Project,
with modifications, as needed, but with special consideration to equity
among men and women staff and among national and regional staff.
Support for attendance to conferences, seminars, and workshops on
scientific topics and methodologies, both local and foreign, will also be
provided.
(vi)    National technical assistance and special studies. Considerable local
expertise has been built in AARD Work Units on technical and
management fields under the ARM Project. Hence, this component will
augment expertise within the relevant commodity research institutes on key
topics and to assist in carrying out special studies. Emphasis will be given
to fields where local expertise in AARD is still weak or lacking. Most of
the technical assistance will be short-term based on needs of specific



- 69 -                               ANNEX 1
project implementing units. In addition to special technical disciplines,
areas in research management, sociology including cultural and gender
issues, development communication, extension education, and technology
transfer will also be included.
(d)   Strengthening R&D Collaboration
(i)    Strengthening linkages to national agencies. This subcomponent will
tap the research expertise in universities and other R&D institutes (i.e.,
under LIPI and BPPT) to backstop the needs of the AIATs in specific
regions. It will continue the competitive grant program started under the
ARM Project. Under the University Research Grant, universities and
AARD Work Units, will plan and implement joint projects on the high
priority areas identified in Components 1 and 3, but emphasizing topics of
regional importance. A twining arrangement will be tested whereby a
provincial university, a more developed university, and an AARD Work
Unit will plan, design, and implement joint projects. Support will be
provided by the Project to strengthen linkages with the private sector,
DINAS at the provincial and district levels, parastatals, community and
locally-based organizations, and other development projects, using
innovative ways of cost-sharing. A forum for regular consultation on R&D
priorities, information and technology sharing, and discussion of policy
issues with stakeholders, will be established.
(ii)    Strengthening linkages to international and Asia-Pacific research
organizations. This subcomponent will improve Indonesia's access to
relevant technologies generated by international research centers (i.e.,
centers under the CGIAR) and enhance the exposure of Indonesian
scientists to the international research community, other NARS in the
region, and Asia-Pacific research centers. Special attention will be given to
R&D activities which will support the ASEAN Growth Areas where
Indonesia is an active participant. Joint proposals will be prepared by
AARD Work Units in consultation with potential collaborating institutions
following the priorities established by the AIATs (Components 1 and 2)
and the commodity research institutes (Component 3) to ensure that
collaboration is demand-driven. Support for collaboration on the following
areas will be provided: (a) joint research, (b) hands-on training,
(c) technical assistance, (d) information sharing; (e) publication in
intemationally refereed joumals; (f) attendance to intemational and regional
scientific fora to participate and present papers; and (g) conduct or joint
sponsorship of intemational or regional fora (conferences, seminars, and
workshops) to be held in Indonesia. The Project will also support an
exchange program for scientists and managers of AARD Work Units and
staff of international agricultural research centers, selected foreign
universities, Asia-Pacific national agricultural research systems and
research centers.



- 70 -                              ANNEX 1
B. LMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
4.2   Appendix 2 of Annex 1 includes the detailed schedule of implementation by component,
subcomponent, and activity. The schedule takes into account the work to be carried out to
complete project preparation and reflects the detailed implementation activities. Based on the
quality of the work already completed, it is planned that some implementation activities will start
prior to the Project's Loan Effectiveness.
5. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. PROJECT INDICATORS
5.1   Input Indicators will track planned investments in terms of contracted technical
assistance (staff-months), enrollment and time (staff-months) in training programs, procurement
of civil works and goods, and research, management, and technology transfer activities. These
indicators will be presented in standard input tables for each component and major subcomponent
of the Project to be developed by AARD.
5.2   Output Indicators will track items such as the number and type of technology or
technology packages generated, tested, and verified by AIATs and farmers; rate of diffusion of
these technologies; improved research management procedures and tools introduced; R&D
priorities established and effect on allocation of R&D funds; number of training, workshop, field
days, and on-farm demonstrations held and persons who participated; the number and outcome of
R&D activities that have been completed by a given date during the project cycle; number and
type of facilities rehabilitated or constructed; and number and type of equipment, journals, and
books procured. These indicators will be tracked in standard output tables for each component
and major subcomponent of the Project to be developed by AARD.
5.3  In an effort to track Government expenditures in agricultural research, including those
from provincial sources, the Government has agreed that the AARD would collect and report, on
a yearly basis, agricultural research expenditures, using existing methods, to assist in monitoring
input and output indicators.
B. DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS
5.4   Tracking key monitoring indicators is necessary to measure the effect of the project inputs
on the attainment of the major development objectives of the Project. Given the essential role that
project monitoring and evaluation play in determining the benefits or negative impact of a given
intervention on development objectives, three sets of indicators will be used to monitor and
evaluate progress during project implementation: (a) outcome indicators, (b) input indicators, and
(c) output indicators. Details of the performance indicators by components, subcomponents, and



- 71-                                 ANNEX 1
evaluate progress during project implementation: (a) outcome indicators, (b) input indicators, and
(c) output indicators. Details of the performance indicators by components, subcomponents, and
activities are in the Notes on Performance Indicators in the Project Operational Manual in the
project files.
5.5    Outcome Indicators. These key performance indicators will track whether or not the
development objectives of the Project have been met. Two criteria were used to select the basic
outcome indicators: (a) that the indicator is known to be sensitive to the intervention introduced
under the Project; and (b) that the data will be available through periodic collection and analysis
of relevant information. It is difficult to measure the impact of an agricultural research project in
the short-term because of the long-term nature of R&D activities and that technology is only one
of the contributing factors to success in agricultural development. Hence, during negotiations, it
was agreed that the following performance measures of the initial impact of agricultural R&D
activities and management reforms will be used to determine the attainment of the development
objectives of the Project. Since most research activities (i.e., plant breeding) have long gestation
and the impact of research (i.e., adoption of a new variety by farmers) has equally long-term
effect, AARD will continue to track these indicators beyond the duration of the Project as one
aspect of overall monitoring of the impact of research on agricultural development. The following
is a list of the outcome indicators which will be tracked during Project implementation using
periodic survey sampling techniques. Baseline data were gathered for the 12 project provinces
(Provincial Profiles) and are included in the background project documents in project files. These
profiles will be refined during the AEZ characterization of the 17 regions and periodically updated
during project implementation.
(a)   Impact of R&D Outputs
(i)  Initial adoption level of recommended practices tested and disseminated by AIATs
and their collaborating institutions;
(ii)   Cost benefit of recommended technology packages disseminated to farmers by
AIATs;
(iii)   Rate of utilization by farmers, extension workers, and others of multimedia
materials produced and disseminated by AIATs;
(iv)   Rate of utilization of location-specific fertilizer recommendations by farmers;
(v)   Research outputs transferred from commodity research institutes to AIATs for
testing on farmer's fields;
(vi)   Research outputs from collaborative projects carried out by AARD Work Units
with Asia-Pacific and international agricultural research centers;
(vii)  Special activities, such as on-farm trials and demonstrations, focused on women,
youth groups, and distinct cultural groups, and their effects.



- 72 -                               ANNEX 1
(b)   Initial Impact of R&D Management Reforms
(i)  Changes in the annual fund allocation for R&D especially at the regional level from
AARD and regional sources (APBD TK1 and TK2);
(ii)  Rate of utilization by local government, farmers, extension workers, university
students of information and services from the MS databases, libraries and other
AIAT facilities;
(iii) Changes in the staffing patterns of the AIATs by level of training, gender, and
hands-on experience; and
(iv)   Outputs from joint projects with universities, the private sector, Asia-Pacific, and
international research centers and level of funds provided.
(c)   Long-Term Impact of Agricultural R&D
(i)  Improved fanning systems in terms of increased production, increased yield per
hectare, new crop varieties or animal breeds adopted by farmers, etc.;
(ii)  Rate of adoption of technology or technology packages by farmers, other users;
(iii)  Increased income of farmers and others;
(iv)  Improved R&D capacity at the regional/provincial levels in terms of human
resources, R&D facilities, etc.; and
(v)  Effect of technology on environment.
/



- 73 -ANNEX 
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 14
INDONESIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
ALLOCATION FOR FINANCING PURPOSES
(US$ million)
Year I Year2  Year 3  Year4  YearS  Year6   Total
LBRD %                     60%    60%      50%   50%    40%    40%          -
Amount                      3.4    5.9      5.2   5.5    4.5    2.0        26.5
GOI %                      40%    40%      50%   50%    60%    600/         -
Amount                      2.3    4.0      5.2   5.4    6.7    3.0        26.6
Total                                   Jf2  9  11Q



74                                     ANNEXI
Appendix 1
Page 2 of 14
INDONESIA
SECONDAGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ADMISRATION COSTS
(USS'OOO)
95/96    96/97   97/98   98/99   99/00   00/01   Tobtl
Component 1
8 Priority AIATs
Advisory Committees
Technical Woring Groups
Travel, Per Diem, Meting       AIAT Biromaru              12      12        12      1S      15        -      66
Expse cost                     AIATKendari                12      12        12      15      15        -      66
Expen  Cost                    AIAT Ambon                  5       5         5       5       5        -      25
Expnse Cost                    ALAT Gedong Johor           5       5         5       5       5        -      25
Expese Cost                    AAT Bonda Aceh              -       5         5       5       5        5      25
Exense Cost                    AIAT Padang Marpoyan        -      12        12      15      15       15      69
Expense Cost                   AAT Pontianak               -       S         S       5       5        5      25
Expnse Cost                    AIAT Ungaran                -      12        12      15      15       15      69
Subtotal                                               34      68        68      80      80       40     370
Component 2
Nat/Reg. Communication Coord. By CALREC                   43      46        48      50      53       55     295
MlSlNGAs Coordination by Secretariat                      29      31        32      34      35       37      198
Coordination Activities by CARPiScretarat                 98     103       108    114      119      125     667
Research Mgmt for PMU                                     98     103       108    114       119     125      667
Resa:ch Mgmt for 8 PlUs                                   98     206       216    227      239      125    1,111
Coordination Activities by CASER                          49      52        54      57      60       63      335
Subtotal                                              415     541       566    596      625      530    3,273
Component 3
Component 4
TOTAL                                                 449     609       634    676       705     570    3,643



-75-                          ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 3 of 14
INDONESIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJIECT
DRAFT SCHEDULE 1 OF LOAN AGREEMENT
DISBURSEMENTS
Amount
Category             USS million               Disbursement Rate
1. Civil Works                     7.3       70%
2. Equipment (except vehicles      9.7       100% of foreign expenditure;
Furniture, Books and                       100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost);
Joumals                                    and
65% of other locally procured items
3. Training
(a) Overseas                     3.0       100%
(b) Local                        3.7       75%
4. Consultants Services            3.4       80%
S. Research Collaboration          1.9       80%
6. Univ. Research Grant            1.5       75%
7. Scientists/Managers             2.4       80%
Exchange Program
8. Incremental Operating Cost     23.8       60% of expenditures incurred in FY1996 and
on a declining basis as                   FY1997; 50% of expenditures incurred in
follows:                                  Fyl998 and FY1999; and 40% of
expenditures incurred thereafter.
8. Unallocated                     6.3
Total                  USS63.0



-76-                                             ANNEX I
Appendix 1
Page 4 of 14
Indonesia
Agncultural Research Management Project II
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS ')
Totals Including Contingencies
9S196    96197    97198    98199    99/00    00/01      Total
I. Investrnent Costs
A. Civil Works                      2,581     7,071     1,826      117        -        -    11,595
B. Equipment/Fumiture               2,316    5,388     3,725     1,271        -        -    12,700
C. Books, Joumals & Publications        -      263       250      206         -        -       719
D. Vehicles                           233      627       848      343         -        -     2,051
E. Foreign HRD                        145      722     1,014      891       458     155      3,384
F. Local HRD                          562     1,100    1,362     1,152      875     456      5,506
G. Foreign Technical Assistance       615      807       609      333       271        -     2,635
H. Local Technical Assistance         534      920       244      305       113        -     2,116
I. R&D Collaboration                  494      509       525      542       559        -     2,630
J. Scientists/Managers Exchange Prog.  457     622       640      659       679      171      3,228
K University Research Grant           284      465       480      445       407     142      2,223
Total Investrent Costs                 8,220    18,495    11,522    6,265    3,361     923     48,786
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operation and Maintenance          310     1,041     1,165    1,223     1,284    672       5,695
B. Research Management Cost          1,528    2,150    2,238     2,005    2,054    1,353     11,328
C. Research Operating Cost          2,743     4,568    4,857     5,372    5,378    1,847    24,767
D. Technology Transfer Cost         1,140    2,098     2,203     2,313    2,428    1,095     11,276
Total Recurrent Costs                  5,721    9,857    10,462    10,913    11,145   4,968    53,065
Total PROJECT COSTS                   13,941    28,352    21,984    17,177    14,506    5,891    101,852



- 77-                                            ANNEX I
Appendix 1
Page S of 14
Indonesia
Agricultural Research Management Project II
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
95196    96197    97198    98199    99100    00101      Total
A. Regionalization of Agricultural R&D
Establishment and Operation of8AIATs               3,287    9,854    7,422      3,888    2,182    1,045    27,679
Characterization ofAEZs at 8 regions                 372      580       794      116       66       20      1,948
Regional Research Program                            974     1,758    2,269    3,003     3,693    2,107    13,804
Regional Technology Transfer Program                 904     1,922    2,018    2,119     2,225    1,182    10,369
Subtotal Regionalization of Agricultural R&D         5,537    14,113    12,503    9,126    8,166    4,355    53,801
B. Regionalization of R&D Management
Strengthening Regional R&D Management                638      964       609      396       412     203      3,221
Strengthening Nat. Communication and Sci. Literature  132    1,674      542      410       186     191      3,135
Establishment of Nat. MIS and NGAS in the region     143    2,219       217      355       188     201      3,324
Building Reg. Res. and Tech. Transfer Capability     102      285       310      260       240     233      1,431
Pilot Reg. Soil Fertility and Fertilizer Use Prog.   369      871       470      456       368      95      2,629
Support for ARM II Project Implementation            344     1,098    1,074      556       584     488      4,143
Subtotal Regionalization of R&D Management           1,727    7,112    3,221      2,434    1,978    1,412    17,884
C. Priority Comniodity Research Program
Support for Priority Livestock Research              290     1,199      855      554       508       5      3,411
Support for Priority Fisheries Research              748     1,285      961      858       229       6      4,087
Support for Priority Horticulture and Tree Crops Research  1,905    1,139  907   820       644      12      5,427
Support for Priority Discipline-Oriented Research  1,416     1,023      908      876       666      59      4,948
National Human Resource Development Program          178      522       602      560       295      42      2,198
National Technical Assistance and Special Studies    471      445       461      378       391       -      2,146
Subtotal Priority Conmnodity Research Program        5,009     5,613    4,693     4,046    2,733     124     22,218
D. Strengthening R&D Collaboration
Strengthening Linkages to National Agencies          489      296       308      305       317        -      1,715
Strengthening Linkages to Inter. 8 Regional Res. Org.  1,179  1,218    1,259    1,267    1,311        -     6,234
Subtotal Strengthening R&D Collaboration              1,668    1,515     1,568    1,572     1,628       -     7,950
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  13,941    28,352    21,984    17,177    14,506   5,891    101,852



- 78 -                                          ANNEX I
Appendix 1
Page 6 of 14
Indonesia
Agricultural Research Management Project II
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(USS '000)
Government of                                Local
IBRD           Indonesia            Total         For.    (Excl.  Duties &
Armount    %     Amount    %       Amount    %         Exch.   Taxes)   Taxes
I. Investrnent Costs
A. Civil Works                      8,116    70.0    3,478    30.0    11,595      11.4    3,380    7,172     1,044
B. Equipment/Fumiture              10.160    80.0    2,540    20.0    12,700    12.5    7,486       3,944    1,270
C. Books, Joumals & Publications     575    80.0       144    20.0        719      0.7      719        -         -
D. Vehicles                             -       -    2,051    100.0     2,051      2.0    1,101      745       205
E. Foreign HRD                      3,384   100.0        -        -     3,384      3.3    3,384         -        -
F. Local HRD                        4,130    75.0    1,377    25.0      5,506      5.4        -    4,956      551
G. Foreign Technical Assistance     2,108    80.0      527    20.0      2,635      2.6    2,635         -        -
H. Local Technical Assistance       1,693    80.0      423    20.0      2,116      2.1        -    1,905       212
I. R&D Collaboration                2,104    80.0      526    20.0      2,630      2.6    1,539      828       263
J. Scientists/Managers Exchange Prog.    2,582    80.0  646    20.0      3,228     3.2    2,372      856         -
K. University Research Grant        1,667    75.0      556    25.0      2,223      2.2    1,298      703       222
Total Investrnent Costs              36,519    74.9   12,267    25.1    48,786    47.9   23,913    21,108      3,766
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operation and Maintenance        2,787    48.9    2,908    51.1       5,695     5.6        -    5,695
B. Research Management Cost         5,691    50.2    5,637    49.8    11,328    11.1          -   11,328
C. Research Operating Cost         12,392    50.0   12,375    50.0    24,767    24.3          -   24,767
0 . Technology Transfer Cost        5,609    49.7    5,666    50.3    11,276    11.1          -   11,276
Total Recurrent Costs                26,479    49.9   26,586    50.1    53,065    52.1          -   53.065
Total Disbursemnent                   62,999    61.9   38,853    38.1   101,852   100.0   23,913    74.173      3,766



Indonesia
Agricultural Research Management Project II
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)
Reglonalization of R&D Management
Pilot Reg.
Regionalizatlon of Agricultural R&D                Strengthening                 Building      Soil
Regional                     Nat.      Establishment  Reg. Res.   Fertility
Establishment  Characterization  Regional Technology Strengthening Communication   of Nat. MIS   and Tech.    and
and Operation    of AEZs at 8    Research   Transfer   Regional R&D   and Scl.    and NGAS in   Transfer   Fertilizer
of I AIATs      regions       Program   Program    Management    Literature      the region    Capability   Use Prog.
I. Investment Costs
A. CMI Works                             10,337                -                                                               -                    92
B. Equiprnent/Fumlture                   4,762              859                     -             -          1,163         1,870          -        270
C. Books, Joumals & Publications             -                 -        -           -             -           719                    -                -
D. Vehicles                                828                 -        -           -             -             -              -
E. Foregn HRD                            1,626                                                                   -             -           -
F. Local HRD                             3,290                          -           -           277           483            392        292         332
G. Foreign Technical Assistance              -              159       127           -             -              -             -          -         200
H. Local Technical Assistance              308               72        57           -           467            71            285          -          70
1. R&D Collaboration                         -                 -        -           -             -              -             -           -          -
J. Scientsts/Managers Exchange Prog.         -                 -        -           -             -              -             -        806           -
K UnhwsltyResearch Grarit                    -                 -    1,288           -             -              -             -          -         160
Total Investment Costs                    21,151             1,090     1,472          -           745          2,436         2,546       1,098      1,123
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operation and Maintenance             4,308                 -        -           -                         124             88           -         23
B. Research MAnagement Cost              2,219              201     1,332        773          2,477           575            532        334         104
C. Research Operating Cost                   -              658    11,001           -             -              -           157           -      1,378
D. Technolgy Transfer Cost                   -                 -        -       9,596                    -              -            -        -      -
Total Recurrent Costs                      6,528              859    12,332      10,369         2,477           699            778        334       1,506
Total PROJECT COSTS                        27,679             1,948    13,804     10,369         3,221         3,135          3,324      1,431       2,629
Taxes                                    1,849               93       134           -            74           172            255         29         91
Foreign Exchange                         7,873              664       879           -             -          1,406         1,105        589        479
cQ
C,



Indonesia
Agricultural Research Management Project II
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)
Priority Conrnodity Research Program                               Strengthening R&D
Support for                                    National         Collaboration
Support   Support    Priority                           National   Technical                Strengthening
for       for     Horticufture      Support for       Human    Assistance  Strengthening   Linkages to
Support for    Priority    Priority    and Tree       Priority       Resource       and       Linkages to    Inter. &
ARM if Project  Livestock  Fisheries   Crops      Discipline-Oriented  Development  Special     National    Regional Res.
knplementation  Research  Research    Research         Research         Progran     Studies     Agencies         Org         Total
-       106       354           418                 288            -           -             -              -    11,595
410       648        392         1,117               1,005            -          -           204              -    12,700
-         .          .                                 -           -           -             -              -       719
755        63         84          171                  149            -          -              -             -      2,051
-         -          -            -                    -       1,758           -             -              -     3,384
-  -  -      -                    -         441           -             -              -     5,506
-       196       312           280                 132            -       1,131             -            98      2,635
-         -          -            -                    -           -        742             45              -     2,116
-         -         -             -                    -           -                         -          2,630     2,630
-         -          -            -                    -           -           -             -          2,422     3,228
-    -         -           -                           -           -           -           775              -     2,223
1,165     1,013      1,142        1,986                1,574       2,198       1,874         1,024          5,150    48,786
197       112        162          278                  306            -          -            96              -      5,695
2,781         -          -            -                    -           -           -             -              -    11,328
-     2,286      2,783        3,163                3,069           -        272              -              -    24,767
-         -          -            -                    -           -           -           595          1,085     11,276
2,978     2,398      2,946        3,441                3,375           -        272            691          1,085    53,065
4,143     3,411      4,087        5,427                4,948       2,198       2,146         1,715          6,234    101,852
117        81         79          166                  141          44          74           102            263      3,766
648       643        690         1,160                 893        1,758       1,131           575          3,420    23,913
P.,'
O    _-



-81-                              ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 9 of 14
INDONESIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ACCOUNTS
STATEMENT OF PROJECT RECEIPTS AND EXPENDrrURES
For the year       Cumulative
ended               to
Cost Items                                          April 30,-
Funds Received
Government of Indonesia
IBRD
Other (identify)
Total
Expenditure
Civil Works
Equipment/Furniture
Books and Joumals
Vehicles
Foreign Training
Local Training
Foreign Technical Assistance
Local Technical Assistance
R&D Collaboration
Scientists/Managers Exchange Program
University Research Grants
Research Management Cost
Operations and Maintenance
Research Operating Cost
Technology Transfer Cost
Total



ANNEX 1
- 82 -                           Appendix 1
Page 10 of 14
INDONESIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ACCOUNTS
STATEMENT OF COSTS BY PROJECT COMPONENT
For the year   Cumulative
ended          to
Component                                                    April 30,-
1.      Regionalization of Agric. R&D
Estab. And Op. Of 8 AIATs
Characterization of AEZs at 8 Regions
Regional Research Program
Regional Technology Transfer Program
Subtotal
2.      Regionalization of R&D Management
Strengthening Regional R&D Management
Strngthning Nat. Conimunic. & Sci. Lit.
Establishment of Nat. MIS & NGAS in Regions
Building Reg. Trans. & Tech. Trans. Cap.
Pilot Regional Soil Fert. & Fert. Use Prog.
Support for ARM II Project implement.
Subtotal
3.      Priority Commodity Research Program
Support for Priority Livestock Research
Support for Priority Fisheries Research
Support for Priority Horticulture Research
National Human Resource Dev. Prog.
National Tech. Assistance - Special Studies
Subtotal
4.      Strengthening R&D Collaboration
Strengtheing Linkages to National Agencies
Strengthening Linkages to Intemat.-Reg. Ags.
Subtotal
Total Costs



-83                             ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 11 of 14
INDONESIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MONITORING
COSr REPORTING FORMAT
1995/96   1996/97   1997/98   1998/99   1999/00   2000/01
1. Regionalization of Agric. R&D
Investment Costs
civil works
Equipment/Furitir
Vehicles
Foreign Training
Foreign TA
Local Training
Local TA
University Research Grant
Total Investment Cost
Operating Costs
Research Managerent
Operations & Maintenance
Research Op Costs
Tech. Transfer Costs
Total Operating Costs
Total



-84-                             ANNEXI
Appendix 1
Page 12 of 14
INDONESIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MONITORING
COST REPoRTING FORMAT (Continued)
Component/Cost Item                 199S/96   1996/97   1997/98   1998t99   1999/00   2000/01
Institutional6tion of R&D Mgnt.
Investment Costs
Civil Works
Equipment/Furitur
Books & Journals
Vehicles
Local Training
Foreign TA
Local TA
Scientss/Manager Exch. Prog.
University Ras. Grnt
Total Investment Cost
Operating Cost
Res=T& Maganent
Operations & Maintenance
Resarch Op. Costs
Total Operating Costs
Total



ANNEX 1
- 85 -                          Appendix 1
Page 13 of 14
INDONESIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MONITORING
COST REPORTNG FORMAT (Continued)
Component/Cost Item                 199S/96   1996/97   1997/98   1998/99   1999/00   2000/01
Priority Comm. Res. Program
Investment Cost
Civil Works
Equipment/Furnaur
Vehicles
Foreig Trnng
LoalI TMning
Foreign TA
Local TA
Total Investment Cost
Operating Cost
Operations & Mainenance
Reerch Op. Cost
Total Operating Costs
Total



ANNEX I
- 86 -                           Appendix 1
Page 14 of 14
INDONESIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MONITORING
COST REPORTING FORMAT (Continued)
Component/Cost Item                  1995196   1996/97   1997/98   1998/99   1999/00   2000/01
Strengthening R&D Coilab.
Investment Cost
Equipment/Funiture
Foreign TA
Local TA
R&D Collaboration
Scienfists/Managers Exch. Prog.
University Res. Grant
Total Investment Cost
Operating Cost
Operations & Maintenance
Tech. Transfer Costs
Total Operating Costs
Total



INDONESIA
Agricultural Research & Management Project 11
_                                                     ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1995      1996  1     '-197198   1999          2000          2001     _
ID   Task Name                                                        Q20Q30Q4JQ10Q23Q41023Q4 31J203l4010 l                      3l0401 0a2103040   02030401
I   Agricultural Research & Management Proejct II
2       Comp. I: Reglonalizatlon of Agricultural R&D
3            Sub-Comp l: Establishment & Operation of 9 Priority AlATs
4                1.1.1 Organization & Management of AIATs
6                    PhaseI
11                   Phase II                                                         _
1t               1.1.2 Development of the Regional R & D Master Plans
16                   PhaseI
28                   Phase II
33               1.1.3 Regional Human Resource Development Program
39                   Phase I
47                   Phase I
65               1.1.4 Consolidating/Upgrading R&D Support Facilities
56                   Phase I
62                   Phase II
Be               1.1.6 Provision of TAs for Special Studies
68                   Phase I
74                   Phase II
79           Sub-Conmp n: Characterlzation of AEZs for AIATs
so               1.2.1 Characterizing AEZs                                                                                                                              mr2
87               12.2 Compilng & Organizing AEZ Databases                                                                                                               o
94           Sub Comp IU: Regional R & D Program
Page 1



INDONESIA
Agricultural Research & Management Project II
1996         1996          1997       1998            1999         2000)         2001
ID   TasktName                                                        Q2l03 0401 Q2 030Q40Q2 0304Q102103IQ4101 Q20Q30Q4JQ1 Q20Q30Q40Q12Q0Q30Q4 Il
96               1.3.1 Enhance AIAT capability In farming system's R&D
99               1.3.2 Identification of Technology Needs of Farming
Systems
100                  Phase I                                                           -
107                  Phase II                                                                       -
114               1.3.3 On-Station & On-Farm Technologies Verification
115                  Phase I
141                  Phase II 
167               1.3.4 Developing Technology Menus for On-Farm Testing
169                  Phase I
193                   Phase II
216               1.3.6 Special Studies & University R&D Grants                                                                                                          oo
00
217                   Phase I
283                   Phase :I
359           Sub-Comp IV: Regional Technology Transfer Program
360               1.4.1 Building Extension Staff L Farmers' Skills &
Capabilities
3C1                   Phase I
378                   Phase II
39N               1.4.2 Participatory Evaluation of Technology
398                   Phase I
413                   Phase N                                                                                                                                               Z
430               1A.3 Producing Materials for Technology Ttansfer
431                   Phasel I
Page 2



INDONESIA
Agricultural Research & Management Project II
1995         1996          1997         199S          1999         2000          2001    1
ID   Task Name                                                        0Q203lQ41Q02IQ03lQ401Q02 IQ         4  QQ2030           2030410Q203Q40Q10203104lQ
446                   Phase II
468               1.4.4 Utilizing New Info, to Update Regional Databases
469                   PhaseI
495                   Phase ll
621               1.4.5 Prornote L Disseminate Technology
622                   Phase I
663                   Phase U
64        Comp II: Institutionalization of R L 0 mngl. at local level
o6o           Sub-Copm l: Strengthening regional R & 0 capabilities
6a6               2.1.1 Strengthening AIAT Staff & Collaborators'
Capabilities
00
637                   Year I                                                           -
911                   Yawrl
504                   Year 4                                                                                                -
137                   Year 6                                                                                                        ____________ew
400                   Year                                                                                                                                   m
603               2.1.2 Review & Conplete R&D4MPs for Remainig Regions
604                   Year 1
611                   Year2                                                                         -
617                   Year3
623                   Yewr4 
623                   Year 5                                                                                                                                              0 o 
634                   YearS
Page 3



INDONESIA
Agricultural Research & Management Project 11
1995         1996          1997    1    1993          1999         2000    1   2001    1
ID   Task Name                                                        02|03|04|01 0Q2 03 Q401 02 03 0401 Q2Q041                  I 03Q 4 010 3 04 01  02 03 0401Q
640               2.1.3 PrioritizIng R&D Proposals
641                   Year I                                                           -
645                   Year 2
so                    Year 3
613                   Year 4                                                                                                    -
*67                   Year 6
661                   Year I                                                                                                                               -
666               2.1.4 Peer Review of R&D Proposals
666                   Year 1
670                   Year 2                                                                     -
673                   Year3                                                                                    -
\0
676                   Year4 4
679                   Year 4-5                                                                                                           -
632                   YearS                                                                                                                        -
SIG                   Year 6                                                                                                                                     _
633               2.1.6 Regional R&D Impact Assessment                                         I            I
693           Sub-Com II: Strengthening cornwnunicatlon & scientific
literature service        ___ ______
694               2.2.1 Increasing Conwnunlcation Capabilities In AIATs
702               2.2.2 Strengthening Linkages Between Research &                _                           _                           _i
Assessrent Institutes
710               2.2.3 Increasing AIAT Staff Analytical Capability                                                                                                       rt3
711                   Year I                                                           -                                                                                   ojX
716                   Year2 2.'.
Page 4



INDONESIA
Agricultural Research & Management Project II
_                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1995    T| 199  |  97    1    1999    1999          2000     1    2001 i
ID   Task Name                                                            Q2|Q3|Qj|Q102|Q3|Q4|Q1|Q2|Q31Q4|Q102|Q3|Q4|Q1|
71S                    Year 3
723                    Year 4
727                    Year 6
731                    Year I
736           Sub-Comp III: Establisment of National MIS & NOAS
736                2.3.1 Streamline MIS to Conform to AIAT Needs
737                    Year 1                                                              -
741                    Year2
745                    Year 3
749                    Year 4                                                                                                            -
762                    Year                                                                                                                                  _
756                2.3.2 Increasing AIAT Staff Capabilities In MIS
756                    Year I                                                              -
7e1                    Year 2
7e6                    Year 3                                                                                          -
771                    Year 4
775                    Year6                                                                                                                        -
771                    Year I                                                                                                                                     -
7U4           Sub-Copm IV: Building Regional Research & Technology                                                                                                                  >
Transfer Capabiltv  _Q
735               2.4.1 Provide Needed Education, Training & TA                                                                                                                  X4
7S6                    Year I                                                                                                                                                    0
790                    Year 2                                                                                                                                                    I
Page 5



INDONESIA
Agricultural Research & Management Project II
1995         1996    1    i997    1    1998    |    1999             2000          2001
ID  Task Name                                                           0210304002030401 Q2 03 Q4 01020304010203040102030401020304 Q1
TN4                   Year 3                                                                                        _______
73$                   Year  I                                                                                                                _ _  __ _  _ _
302                   Year 6
3o06              2.4.2 Estabisahing Exchange Programs
307                   Year 1
811             ~~~~Year 2
3104                  Year 3
706                   Year 4
32n                   Year                                                                                                                        -
827                   YewrI
631           SubCopnm V: Pilot Sol Fertilty & Fertilizer Use Programs                           I
332               2.5.1 Constructing Central & Regional FacilitiesI
133                   Year 1
813                   Year 2                                                                        -
340                   Year 3                                                                                        -
343                   Y"r 4                                                                                                       -
462                    Year I                                                                                                                   -
649                   Year                                                                                                                                    -
362               2.5.2 Providing TA 8 Training In Soil SanmplIng & Analysis 
853                   Secure TA                                                                                                                                               wr'
134                   prepare referene  operation manuals                                                                                                                       
365                   Provide ln-servtc. training fir AlATlextenslon staff
Page 5



fNDONESIA
Agricultural Research & Management Project It
1995         1996          1997         1998          1999         2000          2001
ID   Task Name                                                        02|030Q41 Q0Q20Q30Q41 102103104  1| Q2 Q3|04 01|02 033|4 01|02|03|Q4 01|02|03|04 0
862               2.5.3 Support for Fertilizer-Crop Response Studies
863                   Year I                                                                 -
363                   Year 2
373                   Year 3
373                   Year 4                                                                                                          -
333                   Year 6
33U                   Year 6
393           Sub-Comp VI: Support for ARM II implementation
394               2.6.1 Establishing AARD AIAT Coordinating Units
396                   Year 1                                                     _
399                   Year 2
_____99_.                                                                                                                .                                               .
903                   Year 3
907               2.6.2 Coordinating Regional Activities
908                   Provide staff & facilities
913                   Administer BackstopingtFeedback Mechanism
920       Comp Ill: Priority Commodity Research Programs
921           Sub-Comp l: Support for Priority Livestock Research
922               3.1.1: Research on Animal Feeding & Nutrition
928              3.1.2 Research on Animal Breeding
932               3.1.3 R&D on Major Diseases in Priority Regions                _                                                                                        t;
936               3.1.4 Rehabilitation on Existing FacilitieslLaboratories
942           Sub-comp II: Support for Priority Fisheries Research                                                                                                      F-r
Page 7



INDONESIA
Agricultural Research & Management Project II
1995          1996         1997          1993          1999         2000    |    2001
ID   Task Name                                                   _     Q21030I4Q01 3I3Q21 4        230Q40Q.Q20Q30Q40QlQ2Q3040Q12034123041
943               3.2.1 Stock Assessment of Fin/Shellfish                                      i
943               3.2.2 Non-Destructive Technologies for Coral Reef Fishing
954               3.2.3 Domesticating Highly Exploited Species                                 I
959               3.2.4 Environ. Mngt of Brackish Water Culture
964               3.2.5 Rehabilitate Existing FacilitieslLaboratories              _                         I
970           Sub-Comp IlIl: Support for Priority Horticulture & Tree Crop
Research
971               3.3.1 Develop Superior Hybrids/Clones for Specific AEZs                      I
976               3.3.2 Reducing Crop Losses by IPM & Improved Soil Mngt
991               3.3.3 Developing Post Harvest Processing & Mngt Systems
996               3.3.4 Increasing Income & Reducing Seasonal
__Unernplh!yment         __           __        __.
991               3.3.5 Rehabilitate Existing Facilities/Laboratories                           i
997           Sub-comp fV: Support for priority discipline-oriented res.
993               3.4.1 Biotech Facilities /Equipment for R&D
999                   Year 1
1004                  Year 2
1009                  Year 3
1014                  Year 4
1019                  Year 6                                                                                                                    -
1024                  Year 6
1029              3.4.2 Develop Postharvest Handling & Secondary                                I                                                                             z
_____               Processing                                                     Eco t
1030                  Year I                                                                    .                                                                             X
1037                  Year2 2                                                                         m
Page 8



INDONESIA
Agricultural Research & Management Project II
1995           1996           1997           1998           1999           2000           2001
ID  Task Name                                                                 Q2Q304Ql Q203Q401Q2Q304|1 Q2Q304Q1 02030401 Q2Q401 QaBCQaQ
1043                     Year 3
1049                     Year 4m
1066                    Year                                                                                                                                 -
1061                     Year 6
1067                3.4.3 Develop, Test & Adapt Ag. Tools
1068                     Year 1
1076                     Year 2
1084                     Year 3 
.~~~
1092                     Year 4_
1100                     Year 6-
110t                     Year B                                                                                                                                              _x
1142                3.4.4 Marketing Studies
1117                     Year 1
1122                     Year 3
1127                     Year 4
1132                     Year 6
1137                     Year 6
1142                3.4.5 Cornrnunity Organizataon/Mngt Studies
1143              ~~~~Year I                                                                                                                                                           z0
1149                     Year 3                                                                                                                                                              rrz
1155             ~~~~Year 6                                                                                                                                                            o X
Page 9



INDONESIA
Agricultural Research & Management Project 11
1995    1    1996    1    1997           1998         1999          2000          2001
ID   Task Name                                                         Q20Q30Q40Q1 0Q2Q30Q41011020304Q  0234123Q4|Q1 IQ2134 10 341
1167              3.4.6 Improve Quality of Propagating Materials
1161                  Year I                                                      ___
1176                  Year 3                                                                                               i     -
1132                  Year 6
1169          Sub-Comp V: National Human Resource Development Program
1190              3.5.1 Education & Training In Special Fields
1194              3.6.2 Seminars on Methodologies
1198          Sub-Conp. VI: National Technical Assistance & Special Studies
1199              3.6.1 Provide Short-Term TA on Special Topics
1205              3.6.2 Support for Special Studies
1215      Comp IV: Strngthening Research & Developmnent Collaboration
1216          Sub-Conip 1: Strengthening Linkages to National Agencies
1217              4.1.1 Continue Competitve Research Grants to Universities                     I
1213                  Confirm oDntinuation of joint AARDIDGHI committee
1219                   Develop guidelines for cooperative work
1220                  Year I                                                               _
1223                  Year 2
1226                  Year 3                                                                                       m
1229                  Year4                                                                                                     -
1232                  Year 5                                                                                  .                                                             r'1
1236                  Year6                                                                                                                                _
0
1237              4.1.2 Strengthen R&D Linkage wlth the Private Sector                          I
..I'                                                     :                                 I
Page 10



APPENDIX 2
-97-                                Page 11 of 12
0
ci
C. a
0
0 C
CF   ~I 
0                   I 
0          -
C       I*                                                        I
o~
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
cd'
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                     Ub
c
a,                 is~~~~~~~~~~~~a
L U    Ia  *-                                                             -         ,i
.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I. V.C
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~49



INDONESIA
Agricultural Rcsearch & Management Project 11
1995          1996          1997         1991           1999         2000          2001       v
ID   Task Narne                                                         Q2JQ3JQ4 Q  0Q21Q31Q4 0Q21Q31Q4011 02031a4 01 0Q2 0304 01 020304 01 02030401
1315                   Year 2._                                                                               
oo
OQ d
00
I-
Page 12



- 99 -                       ANNEX2
INDONESIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
GUIDELINES FOR IMPLEMENTING THE UNIVERSrrY RESEARCH GRANT
1.    Agriculture faculties of the universities in Indonesia are an important research
resource to provide technology needs of specific regions. Shortages of funds and facilities
restrict university research efforts and university staff spend more time in teaching and less
in research. Many universities welcome the opportunity to develop collaborative research
projects and to integrate these into the University Research Program, and the larger
overall national research effort.
2.    A research grant scheme for universities and other institutions has already been
established by AARD through the ARM Project. These grants are currently managed and
operated under a set of guidelines and criteria indicated below. The scheme is flexible and
permits a rapid response to training arrangements and participation of local universities in
emerging research topics of high priority which will not be possible through normal
government procedures. Under this grant scheme, universities currently conduct some
collaborative research projects with researchers in AARD's commodity research institutes.
3.    Under the ARM II Project, this university grant scheme will be expanded and
focused on the farming system needs of specific regions. The current scheme will be
revised to reflect changes in grant duration, institution eligibility and overall management
and introduce the concept of twinning, linking weaker universities with stronger ones.
Other criteria will remain unchanged, e.g., collaborative research projects must address
national development goals, productivity oriented, capable of being completed within a set
time-frame, under the direction of competent staff; etc. The participating universities will
be encouraged to fully support the priorities established under the Regional Research and
Development Program under the AIATs and to enter into joint projects with AARD's
commodity research institutes, AIATs, and international research centers.
Institution Eligibility
4.    Funds under the Project would be provided to AARD in trust for the universities
and only university departments will be eligible to participate in the University Research
Grant.
Collaborative Research Time Frame and Grant Limits
5.    The present arrangements for university research contracts used under the ARM
Project will be followed with some modifications, if needed. The time-frame for



-100 -                       ANNEX2
collaborative research projects will be extended to three years with fund release,
subsequent to the first year, subject to the receipt of both financial and technical annual
reports. The existing tranche system will remain in force for payments within any one
year. The upper limit for financial support will be the equivalent of US$20,000 annually,
but this could be varied after joint consideration by AARD and the Bank and in the light of
experience.
Eligible Expenditures
6.    University Research Grant funds will be used for field plot equipment, laboratory
equipment, reagents, agricultural chemicals, seeds, field labor, travel and allowances, and
overhead costs according to existing Government rules and regulations. They will not
normally be used for agricultural machinery, civil works or vehicles. Since it is assumed
that the proposed collaborative research project will be part of the university staff
member's normal work program, research grant funds will not be available for the
payment of supplements to salaries or consultancy fees. Where post-graduate students are
employed to work on the subproject, as part of their study program, fellowships will be
paid under the grant scheme at the rate determined by AARD. Procurement will be
according to Bank guidelines.
7.    The Research Grant Board established under the ARM Project, which is chaired by
the Director of CARP with membership of universities and the private sector, will be
responsible for screening research proposals submitted by universities. The Board will
meet at three monthly intervals and will be responsible for determining priorities between
different commodities and research disciplines. The Board will provide overall supervision
and policy guidance, and will be responsible for final approval of research proposals and
the allocation of funds between competing project proposals. The technical content of the
proposals will be assessed by the existing Commodity Research Groups which will provide
the Board with recommendations to support or reject the research proposals. Routine
administration and secretariat services to the Board will be provided by the Project
Management Unit. The Project will finance the cost of administration of the grant scheme
up to a limit of 15 percent of the value of grants made.
8.    Research proposals will be prepared according to the existing AARD standard
formats and agreements which will be based on the existing standard contracts (or
assignment memorandum) used under the ARM Project. These guidelines will define the
work program, responsibility for the research, reports to be provided, schedule for
reporting, approved budget and schedule and condition for payment. The University
Research Grant will be established in a separate account and will be replenished at
intervals according to disbursements made and the anticipated demand. It is estimated
that an initial deposit of US$200,000 equivalent will be needed.
9.    It was agreed during negotiations that proposals for the first five collaborative
research projects considered under the University Research Grant will be provided to the
Bank for review before final approval by the Research Grant Board.



-101-                         ANNEX3
INDONESIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RSEARCH MANGAEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF EDUCATION/TRAINING (DEGREE) BY PROJECT COMPONENTS
Component I    Component II   Component m
Overseas Long-term
Ph.D./S3                            1                0                5
M.Sc./S2                          26                 0               14
Short-term                        38                0                65
Local Long-term
53                                 3                 1                5
S2                                92                19                2
S1                                34                 0                0
So                                84               115                0
Short-term by Discipline
AEZ characterization              24                 0                0
Agricultural Extension             10               10                0
Agricultural Machinery            30                 0               20
Agro-Economic                     10                 0                5
Biotechnology                       0                0               45
Development Communication           0               81                0
Fanming Systems                   40                 0                0
Fisheries/Fish Capture             10                0                0
Financial Management                0               81                0
Genetic Improvement                 0                0               20fb
MIS                                10               10                0
Plant Protection                   10                0                0
Postharvest/Processing             40                0               20
Project Management                 10               10                0
Research Management               I 10/a            81                0
Soil Fertility/Fertilizers          0               81                0
Sociology/Anthropology            20                 0                5
/f Including 37 language training in Component I.
/b Including 20 language training in Component m.



-102 -                                      ANNEX4
Page 1 of 4
INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT II PROJECT
ESTMATED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS BY COMPONE NT
Volumne
Cmpmet/                  Technical Asssance           Local (SM)    Overes (SM)                    Yee (SM)
- -ompom/Aciivlky                                         ST    LT       ST       LT        1      2       3      4       5      6
Composs"  1
1.1.2                  RAD MaslerPin  Spealist              10          -         -           6      4       .      .
1.1.2                   M&E Specialist                               -     .                  4      4
1.1.5                   Socio Eoonomic Specialit             a             -      -           4      4
Gaider hu eSpecialist                        -            -           4      4       .      .       -
Environ Sustainability Spec.        8        -     -                  4      4
1.2.1                   AEZ/Soil Speciulit                  10            10      -  (0)    6        4
(L)    6      4       .       .
1.334                   Tech Transfer Specal                8 t           8      -  (0)    0        2      2       2      2
(L)    0      2       2      ^       2
Total Component                    60       0    15       0          34    32       4       4      4
Compomebt n
2.1.1                   R&DMaderPlanSpeciali                 9       -      -      -           -     5       4
2.1.2                   M&E Specilist                        9       -      -      -           -     5       4       -      -
2.1.3                   SocioEconomic Specilst               9       -             -           -     5       4              -
2.1.4                   Gender b uesSpecialit                9       -      -      -           -     5       4
2.2.1                   Enviro. Sutainability Spec.          9       -      -      -           -     5       4       -      -
AEZ Specialixt                      9        -     -       -          -      5      4       -
Tech Trnsfer Specialist             9        -     -       -          -      -      3       3      3
2.2.3                   DatbAnalyst                          9                                       3       3      3
2.3.1                   MIS Speciulh                         9       -      -      -           -     3       3      3
MIS Specialist                      9                                        3      3       3
2.3.3                   Finance Specilst                     9          -          -           -     3       3      3
2.3.4                   Finance (database) Special          9       -                         -     3       3      3
2.5.1                   Soils Specalist                      9       -      -      -  (L)      -     3       3      3       -
-      -    12       -(0)        .     4       4       4
Total Component II                117       0    12                         5 52   49      25       3
Component mi
Support for priority
Livestock Reseach
3.1.1                   Aninml Baeding Specialist            -       -      2      -           -     2
3.1.2                   AnimlQuantitative Gaa                        -      2      -           -     2       -
3.1.3                   AninslMolecuIarGentist               -         -    2      -           -      -      2
3.1.4                   Scabies Specialist                                  3           .             3 
3.1.5                   Bacteriology Specialist               -      -      3            -           3        -
Support for priority
Fisheries Researh
3.2.1                   Bio          Fisheries Spec.          -      -      3      -           -      -      3
3.2.2                   REA Fis   Specialist                  -      -      2      -           -      2       -
3.2.3                   Field Fish Tagging Spec.             -       -      3                  -      3       -
3.2.4                   Stoc Asses_nent Spec.                 -      -      I                  -      I       -      -
3.2.5                   DataAndayst                           -      -      3      -           -      2      1
3.2.6                   Fish Breeding Spocilst                -      -      I      -           -      I       -      -
3.2.7                   Fish Diies Specialist                 -        -    4      -           -      2      1       1
3.2.8                   Mngement Plan Specialist              -        -    2                  -      2



-103 -                                      ANNEX4
Page 2 of 4
Volume
Co mponentl              Technical Assistance        Local (SM)    Overeas (SM)                  Year (SM)
SubcornponentVAcdvity                                     ST    LT       ST       LT       1      2      3       4      5       6
Support for pnorty
Horticuture Res.
3.3.1                  Molecular Biology Specialhst         -        -    4      -           -     2      2
3.3.2                  Seed Production Specialist           -      -      3      -           -     2      1           -          -
3.3.3                  Postharvest Tech- Specialist         -      -      3      -           -     3
Support for priority
Industnal Crops PRes.
3.3.3                  Prosing Technologist                 -        -    3                        -      3
3.3.2                  Plant Disea  Speaialist              -        -    4      -           -     2      2              -       -
Support for priority
Agric. Engin. Res
3.4.3                  Agricultural Enginering Spec.        -        -    4      -           -     2      2
3.4.3                  Agric. Machinery Industry Spec.      -        -    4      -           -     2      2
Support for priority
Magenernt Unit
3.6.1                  Financial Management Specialist      -     60              -         6    12      12      12     12      6
3.6.1                  Research Miagemit Spec.                     -      -     60          6    12      12      12     12      6
(Chief of Psty)
3.6.1                  Civil Works Specialist               -     36                        6    12      12       6
Tol Componentl11                    -     96    56       60        13    72      55      31     24     12
Component IV
4.1.2                  Agribusine Specialid                6                      -  (L)      -    2      2       -      -       -
4.23                   Report Writing Specialist                    -     6       - (0)       -    2      2       -
Total Component TV                  6      0      6       0           0    4       4      0      0       0
Crant Total                       133     96    92       60          52  160    112      64     31      12



INDONESIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT II PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SUMMARY
Start of Work /a    Completion of Work /a   Cost (S'000)          Persons/Month
List of TA            Impnlenunting            Cunrent              Cunrent               Current                Current   implementation
ContracVActivity           Agency      Original  Estimate  Original   Estimate    Original    Estimate    Original   Estimate    Prograss
A. Preparatlonwlmplementstlon
Support
Financial Management Spec.    AARD and       Nov '95             Oct '99                  397                    60
Reearch Management Spec.      concerned      Nov 95              Oct '99                  900                    60
Civil Woks Specialist         work units     Nov'95              Oct '99                  238                    36
Total Long-Term TA                                                                1,535                   156
B, Institution Capadty Building
RD Master Plan Specialist     AARD and       Nov '95             Oct'97                   126                    19
M&ESpecialist                 concerned      Apr'96              Jul'99                   113                    17
SocioEconomicSpecialist       worktunits     Nov'95              Aug'97                   113                    17
Gender lssues Specialist                     Nov'95              Aug'97                   113                    17
Environ.SustainabilitySpec.                  Nov'95              Jul'99                   113                    17
AEZ Specialist                               Apr '96             Aug '97                  276                    29
Technolog fransfer Specialist                Apr'96              Jul '99                  133                    25
Data Analyst                                 Apr'96              Jul '98                   60                     9
MIS Specialist                               Apr'96              Jul '98                   60                     9
MIS Specialist                               Apr'96              Jul '98                   60                     9
Financial (Acwoants) Spec.                   Apr '96             Jul '98                   60                     9
Finance (databese) Specialist                Apr'96              Jul '98                   60                     9
Soils Specialist                             Apr '96             Jul '98                  240                    21
Animal Breeding Specialist                   Apr'96              June '96                  30                     2
Animal Quantitative Genetist                 Apr '96             June '96                  30                     2
Animal MolecularGenetist                     Apr '97             June'97                   30                     2
Scabies Specialist                           Apr'96              June '96                  45                     3
Bacteriology Specialist                     Apr '96              June '96                  45                     3
Bioecononic Fisheries Spec.                  Apr'97              Jul '97                   45                     3
REA Fisherics Specialist                     Apr '96             Jun '96                   30                     2
Field Fish Tagging Specialist                Apr 96              Jul '96                   45                     3
StockAssessment Spec.                        Apr'96              May'96                    15                     I
Data Analyst                                 Jun '96             Jun '97                   45                     3
Fish Breding Specialist                      Apr '96             May '96                   15                     1



Start of Work La    Completion of Work IA   Cost (S'000)         Persons/Month
List of TA           Implaemting              Cunrat               Current               Cunt                  Cunent   Implementation
ContracActivity           ANMcy       Original  Estimate  Oriil   Eimte    Orin            Estimate    Original   Emte         P
3.lntItutIonal C.p.dty Building
(Cont'd)
Fish Dis   Specialist                       Apr '96             my 91                    60                     4
Manpment Plan Specialist                    Apr'96              Jun'96                    30                    2
Molecular Biology Specialist                Apr '96             Jim '97                  60                     4
Seed Prduton Specialit                      Apr '96             Ma '97                   45                     3
PotToTch  Specialist                        May'96              Aug'96                   45                     3
Po ng Technologlst                          Apr '97             Jul'97                   45                     3
Plant Disse Specialist                      Aug '96             Oct '97                  60                     4
Aricultual Engineering Spec.                Aug '96             Oct '97                   60                    4
Agpic. Maclinery Industy Spec.              Aug '96             Oct '97                  60                     4
Agricbusin  Specilist                       Jul '96             Sep '98                   40                    6
Technical Report Writing Spec.              Jul '96             Sep '98                   75                    6
Total Short-Term TA                                                              2,482                  275
C. Policy Advica/Studies &
Grand Total                                                                      4,017                  431                                         
& The periods indieted hre include intermittent inputs by dsht-term TA.
& Sam ofthe outmnts for wnttutioal Capacity Building will also puicipate in Special Studies.
I, :



I
-106 -                               ANNEX S
INDONESIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECI
SELECrED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN FILES
Background Reports
1.    Project Operational Manual (POM) Part I - Background Information About the Project
AARD, November 1994            Part II- Project Activity Plan
Part Im - Proposed Technical Assistance (plus
updated background statement on TA)
Part IV - Project Cost and Financing (COSTAB)
Part V - Proposed Civil Works and Equipment
Procurement
2.    Agricultural Research and Development Policy Statement. AARD, July 1994.
3.    Strategic Plan 1995 - 2005. AARD, November 1994.
4.    Agricultural Research Management Phase II - Initial Project Proposal Document. AARD,
March 1994.
5.    An Economic Impact Assessment of AARD's Research Program in Vegetables, Estate
Crops, Fruits, Livestock and Fisheries. RE. Evenson, Edi Abdurachman, Budi Hutabara.
AARD, Preliminary Draft, September 1994.
6.    An Economic Impact Assessment of Food Crops - Agricultural Research Program in
Indonesia. R.E. Evenson. AARD, August 1992.
7.    AARD in the 1990s and Beyond. Seminar Report, Volume I: A Summary. AARD,
September 1991.
8.    Five Years of Agricultural Research and Development in Indonesia: 1987-1991, The
Accomplishments and the Contributions. AARD, 1992.
9.    Soil Fertility and Fertilizer Use Study in Indonesia: Report and Proposed Program.
AARD, November 1994.
10.   Working Paper - Proposed Format for Provincial Agricultural Technology Transfer
Master Plan. 1994.



- 107 -                                ANNEX 5
11.   Working Paper - Konsolidasi Organisasi/Management Badan Penelitian dan
Pengembangan Pertanian (AARD). 1994.
12.   AARD's Human Resources Development Plan for Repelita VI. AARD Human Resources
Council. 1994.
13.   Provincial Profiles - Rencana Pengembangan BPTP, Central Java/Yogyakarta, Riau/Jambi,
Aceh, North Sumatra, Maluku, West Kalimantan, Central/North
Sulawesi, and South East Sulawesi.
14.   Working Papers for the (a) Fisheries Research Component, (b) the Livestock Research
Component, and (c) Horticulture and Tree Crops Research Component. AARD,
December 1994 (updated).
Staff Working Papers
1.    Cost Tables



I



IBRD 26593R1
@ xnnALA   tL-                                                                                                                j                         ,                ,                                                INDONESIA
',  ' >,  5,.                                                                PHILIPPINES             *'      AGRICULTURAL  RESEARCH  MANAGEMENT  11 PROJECT
]   ,                                                  ~~~~~~~~          ~       ~~BRUNEI;         
:" - "                                         tto                                                                                              n AIAT MALAYSIA                           \P%,! tf  -  R O V IN CES  CO V ERED   dV B  tA lA   SU PRRITED 9 Y   A R T lP    11
13                                            BRUNE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1\  ~~~~~~~                                            ~PO            IC SCOVERED   B,9AlAT,SPN     R F,
)~~~~~MLYI Goe}o                                                                                                                       1'                                                               OI:OTHER nONORS
Pv4ALAYSIA \                                                                                                                                                      j                      A      HEADIQUARTERS EOF 8 AlAls %UPPORTD BY AR.P I
/                                                                                                                               ,,*                          >   j  T^^ALAYSIA   )  n  /   ,  S  PROVINCE HEADOIIARTERS
1                                                                        MA .LASINGAPORE                                                                                                                 CAPI MonodTL /    NION CAEITAL
M-d.-                                            PROVINCE BO'IINDARIES
,j    .i,L#tXlm  on  '   '~</   ,   1  -. ,  v   ls    r         _  _    INTERNATIONAI BOUNDAP'F5
Y AIAT                                                                                                          ...9                    AALMAEBA'  
s  u  As A  r E R A,                                              A  L  I M             A4T
P. ~ ~     ~     hm    -       _-l                              A .,4                              0 /   1   5                *     
Pd-gO I I 
7  JAWA BARTAT                           Poi J        ,  R' ANGKA  N                 ?         Pblono                                 suLA\fP                    (                                 ' 
2  IAWABARAT                    7           e-6  /b\                                                                                                                -   25    1                                                                    I
I  D f YOGYAKARTA          lk,      .                                I)                                   .                                                                      URUI -l        I.
JAWAENTIMUR                TN,                                                  T                                120[  u2
JAWA D l TIMUA^         B ng21orX       8d.EUNG .                                            B       n2                                                                             AIATb-Ob                                                   JAYA                | P
8  SUMATERA SELATAN                          2/ 
I  tAU                                            mu                                                                                                                                                                     '_      _2| 
L I  SUMATERA I                                                                                                             UgRAndng                  I)\
17   MAITEA UTARAI_
12  DI'ATEA CH                                           '4r  JAKARTA
I   KALIIMANTAN IBARAT                                                                 'A JAk   Soono,o  A
I5  KALIMANTAN TENGMA                                                      w  A S                " nd,
I      M KALIMATAN SELATAN                                                 W   A         7
I'  KAJ,MAATAN IIMUR                                                         23
I   SULAWESI TENGAH B
I   SULAWEI UTAItA                                                        YIWoo(.
20  SULAWESI SELATAN                                                        )B2 2  /                                         SAIB,A   :, IR
21  SULAWESI TENG;GAA                                                                                                                              FL S Arl    ORES
22                                                              .'I      A I                                                   23                     2 
7 23  N  SAI ENG-MA BARAT                                                                                                          73         .            7     K-             I TM
24 NASA TENGGAIRA TIMUR                                                                                                          /     SMAR~og74C
7   MAALUrUA                                                                                                                                                                   27
26  IRIAN JAYA      n         . L O 4.., 4010"/ 0 .-O. I  And p 7   OM.   '000
TI' TMOR undUE IA, o... ,Q    TpA Y b U                          bG
0oo,.~~~~.,.ono.MAIm,oT~~~~~~~,o'0,,.o,  000*'A000*07 ~~~~~~~~~AUSTRPAI-JA
1 _L _I                                                                                                                                                                                     L .,                           Ll
ri                                                            r-i                                                            r' It












