Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3886 IND
                            Loan Agreement
            (Second Agricultural Research Management Project)
                               between
                        REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                 and
                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                           AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 16, 1995
                                                        Loan Number 3886 IND
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated  June 16, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
       WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
       WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
       Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
       (a)   The last sentence of  Section 3.02 is deleted.
       (b)   The second sentence of  Section 5.01 is modified to
Page  2
read:
             þExcept as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
             agree,  no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account
             of expenditures in the territories of any country
             which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
             produced in, or services supplied from, such
             territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
             to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
             if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
             Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United
             Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
             the Charter of the United Nations.þ
       (c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
       "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
             under which any further withdrawals under the
             Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions
             of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's
             Articles of Agreement."
       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
       (a)   "AARD" means the Borrower's Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development in the Borrower's Ministry of
Agriculture;
       (b)   "AARD Work Units" means the organizational units of
AARD, including  the AARD Secretariat, the management centers,
the research centers, the research institutes and the
Assessment Institutes;
       (c )   "Assessment Institutes" means the Assessment
Institutes for Agricultural Technology of AARD established by
the Ministry of Agriculture Decree No. 798/KPTS/OT.210/12/94,
dated December 1994;
       (d)   "DINAS" means the Borrowerþs provincial and district
agricultural support services;
       (e)   "FY" and "Fiscal Year" mean the Borrower's fiscal
year commencing April 1 and ending March 31;
       (f)   "Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower in part out of the proceeds of the Loan to a
Grantee for a Collaborative Research;
       (g)   "Grantee" means an individual, a group of
individuals, a university or a unit thereof, to whom or to
which the Borrower proposes to make or has made a Grant;
       (h)   "Priority Assessment Institutes" mean the following
eight Assessment Institutes for the specified provinces of the
Borrower: (i) Assessment Institute Ambon for Maluku, (ii)
Assessment Institute Gedong Johor for North Sumatra, (iii)
Assessment Institute Kendari for South Sulawesi and Southeast
Sulawesi, (iv) Assessment Institute Biromaru for Central
Sulawesi and North Sulawesi, (v) Assessment Institute Banda
Aceh for D. I. Aceh, (vi) Assessment Institute Padang Marpoyan
for Jambi and Riau, (vii) Assessment Institute Pontianak for
West Kalimantan, and (viii) Assessment Institute Ungaran for
Central Java and D. I. Yogyakarta;
       (i)   "Remaining Assessment Institutes" means the following
nine Assessment Institutes for the specified provinces of the
Borrower: (i) Assessment Institute Karangploso for East Java
and Bali, (ii) Assessment Institute Koya Barat for Irian Jaya,
Page  3
(iii) Assessment Institute Lembang for West Java and DKI
Jakarta, (iv) Assessment Institute Natar for Lampung, (v)
Assessment Institute Naibonat for East Nusa Tenggara, West Nusa
Tenggara, and East Timor, (vi) Assessment Institute
Palangkaraya for Central Kalimantan and South Kalimantan, (vii)
Assessment Institute Puntikayu for South Sumatra, (viii)
Assessment Institute Samarinda for East Kalimantan, and (ix)
Assessment Institute Sukarami for West Sumatra and Bengkulu;
       (j)   "Research Grants Board" means the AARD Research
Grants Board established to evaluate and approve proposed
Collaborative Research;
       (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
       (l)   "Collaborative Research" means a specific
agricultural research and development project to be carried out
by a Grantee under Parts A.3 (c), B.5 (c) and D.1 (a) of the
Project.
                             ARTICLE II
                              The Loan
       Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of sixty three million dollars
($63,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
       Section 2.02.  (a)  The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
       (b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in United States dollars a special deposit
account in Bank Indonesia or in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2002, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
       Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one  percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
       Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
       (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Page  4
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
       (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
             (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                    ending on the date immediately preceding each
                    date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                    Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                    in which this Agreement is signed.
             (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                    as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                    expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                    outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                    after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                    or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                    to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                    loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                    1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                    otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                    this Section.
            (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or
                    the second six months of a calendar year.
       (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                    "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
             principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
             outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
             Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
             determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
             one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
             dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
             the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
             principal amount outstanding during the preceding
             Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
             during such Interest Period."
                    "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
             each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
             the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
             respect of such Quarter."
                    "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
             commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
             1 in a calendar year."
       Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
       Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
       Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
through AARD with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural,
financial and research practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
       (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall increase its budgetary
Page  5
allocations for AARD by at least 3% per annum in real terms
over a period of six years starting in FY 1996/97, calculated
on the basis of its budgetary allocations for AARD for FY
1995/96.
       (c)    Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
       Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
       (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the
continuation of the activities initiated under the Project;
       (b)    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
       (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
       (b)   The Borrower shall:
             (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                    paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                    for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                    audited, in accordance with appropriate
                    auditing principles consistently applied, by
                    independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
             (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                    in any case not later than six months after
                    the end of each such year, the report of such
                    audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                    such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                    requested; and
             (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other
                    information concerning said records and
                    accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
                    shall from time to time reasonably request.
       (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                    accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
Page  6
                    records and accounts reflecting such
                    expenditures;
             (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                    has received the audit report for the fiscal
                    year in which the last withdrawal from the
                    Loan Account or payment out of the Special
                    Account was made, all records (contracts,
                    orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                    documents) evidencing such expenditures;
             (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to
                    examine such records; and
             (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                    included in the annual audit referred to in
                    paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                    report of such audit contains a separate
                    opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                    statements of expenditure submitted during
                    such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                    and internal controls involved in their
                    preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                    related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                                 Termination
       Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
       Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
       Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
       For the Borrower:
             Ministry of Finance
             c/o Directorate General of Budget
             Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
             P. O. Box 2458
             Jakarta 10710
             Indonesia
             Cable address:                        Telex:
                    FINMINISTRY                    45799 DJMLN-IA
                    Jakarta                        44319 DEPKEU-IA
       For the Bank:
             International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
             1818 H Street, NW
             Washington, DC 20433
             United States of America
             Cable address:                       Telex:
                    INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA)
                    Washington, DC                 82987 (FTCC)
Page  7
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                  197688 (TRT)
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                          REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                          By /s/  Arifin M. Siregar
                                                   Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                              RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                          By  /s/  Marianne Haug
                                             Acting  Regional Vice President
                                                      East Asia and Pacific
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.      The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated           % of
                              (Expressed in       Expenditures
                                 Dollar               to be
       Category                Equivalent)          Financed
(1)    Civil works                7,300,000         70%
(2)    Equipment (except          9,700,000         100% of foreign
       vehicles), furniture,                        expenditures,
       books and journals                           100% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 65%
                                                    of local
                                                    expenditures for
                                                    other items
                                                    procured locally
(3)    Training:
       (a) Local                  3,700,000         75%
       (b) Overseas                3,000,000        100%
(4)    Grants under               1,500,000         75%
       Parts A. 3 (c),
       B.5 (c) and D.1 (a)
       of the Project
(5)    Exchange programs          2,400,000         80%
       under Parts B.4 (b) and
       D.2 (a) of the Project
(6)    Research under             1,900,000         80%
       Part D.1 (b)
       of the Project
Page  8
(7)    Incremental
       operating costs:           23,800,000
       (a) incurred in
            FY 1995/96                              60%
            and FY 1996/97
       (b) incurred in
             FY 1997/98                             50%
             and FY 1998/99
       (c) incurred in
            FY 1999/2000                            40%
            and thereafter
(8)    Consultants'               3,400,000         80%
       services
(9)    Unallocated                6,300,000
       TOTAL                     63,000,000
2.      For the purposes of this Schedule:
       (a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower
for goods or services supplied from the territory of any
country other than that of the Borrower;
       (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower;
       (c)   the term "Exchange programs" means expenditures for
local and overseas travel,  per diem, allowances and materials
for AARD scientists and managers;
       (d)   the term "Research" means expenditures for local and
overseas travel, per diem, and materials for research
participants, and wages of required laborers; and
       (e)   the term "Incremental operating costs" means
expenditures for the AARD Work Units for: (i) research
management costs, including administration, per diem, travel
and honoraria; (ii) operation and maintenance costs of
equipment and facilities; (iii) research operating costs for
priority research, including materials, travel, per diem,
honoraria and wages for laborers; and (iv) technology transfer
costs, including travel, per diem, printing, costs of
workshops, farmer field days and farmer to farmer visits.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.     The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts valued at less than
$200,000 equivalent; (ii) works under contracts valued at less
than $750,000 equivalent; (iii) training, Grants, Exchange
programs, and Research; (iv) incremental operating costs; and
(v) contracts for the employment of consulting firms not
exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and contracts for the employment
of individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent,
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
       The objective of the Project is to strengthen the
Page  9
Borrowerþs regional agricultural research and development,
based on local human and natural resources, by developing and
transferring location-specific agricultural technology which is
market-oriented and user-driven to support agro-business and
agro-industry development.
       The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
PART A: Regionalization of Agricultural Research and
Development
1.     Establishment and operation of the eight Priority
Assessment Institutes as regional research and development
units with capacity to conduct verification and adaptive on-
farm research and facilitate transfer of best technologies to
farmers, including: (a) development of a regional research and
development master plan for each of the eight Assessment
Institutes; (b) upgrading of existing facilities and
construction of new facilities, including research and
development facilities, offices, laboratories, staff houses and
guest houses, based on the specific needs of each Assessment
Institute; (c) provision of furniture, equipment, vehicles,
books, journals and consumables; (d) provision of managerial,
administrative and scientific training and fellowships to staff
of Assessment Institutes and staff of institutions doing
collaborative research with Assessment Institutes; and (e)
provision of related consultantsþ services.
2.     Refinement of the characteristics of existing agro-
ecological zones in the regions covered by the Priority
Assessment Institutes for purposes of research, development
planning, and monitoring and evaluation, including: (a)
carrying out of diagnostic surveys and data analysis to support
the development of agricultural spatial zoning; (b) development
of  regional computerized agro-ecological zones data base
management information systems; (c) provision of equipment and
consumables; and (d) provision of related consultantsþ
services.
3.     Strengthening of the research and technology transfer
program in the regions covered by the Priority Assessment
Institutes in the area of technology needs of the major
production systems, including: (a) strengthening staff
capabilities in planning and implementing of research and
technology transfer activities through collaboration with local
universities, DINAS and other extension services, farmers,
community and locally based organizations, and the private
sector; (b) carrying out of on-farm research and technology
transfer activities, including farmersþ field schools, by AARD
staff; (c) provision of Grants to local universities for
carrying out agricultural research and development
Collaborative Research in collaboration with staff of
Assessment Institutes; and (d) provision of related
consultantsþ services.
4.     Promotion  of  the utilization of integrated technologies
by farmers, including: (a) carrying out of on-farm
demonstrations and field days; (b) preparation and
dissemination of extension and farmer-oriented publications and
multi-media materials; (c) piloting and upscaling of selected
technologies with extension workers and farmers; (d) carrying
out of  farmer-to-farmer visits; and (e) conducting special
programs for selected groups such as women, youth,  and
distinct cultural groups whose production is primarily
subsistence-oriented.
PART B: Institutionalization of Research and Development
        Management at the Regional Level
1.     Strengthening research and development planning, priority
Page  10
setting, monitoring and evaluation, administration and
financial management, at the Assessment Institutes, including:
(a) development of a regional research and development master
plan for each  of the regions covered by the Remaining
Assessment Institutes; (b) refinement of the characteristics of
existing agro-ecological zones in the regions covered by the
Remaining Assessment Institutes for purposes of research,
development planning, and monitoring and evaluation, including:
(i) carrying out of diagnostic surveys and data analysis to
support the development of agricultural spatial zoning; (ii)
development of regional computerized management information
systems; and (iii) provision of equipment and consumables; (c)
provision of training in research and development management
processes and tools for the staff of Assessment Institutes and
other staff working in collaboration with the staff of
Assessment Institutes on research and development activities;
and (d) provision of related consultantsþ services.
2.     Strengthening the national communication and scientific
literature service through: (a) strengthening of the
communication network between the national research institutes
and the Assessment Institutes to improve access to national and
international database; (b) rehabilitation of library
facilities at Assessment Institutes; (c) provision of
equipment, furniture, books and  journals; (d) provision of
communications related training to staff of Assessment
Institutes; and (e) provision of related consultantsþ services.
3.     Introduction of the Borrowerþs new accounting and
financial system in the Assessment Institutes, including: (a)
provision of related training to staff of Assessment
Institutes; (b) provision of equipment and consumables; and (c)
provision of related consultantsþ services.
4.     Strengthening regional research and technology transfer
capability at Assessment Institutes through: (a) provision of
degree and non-degree training to staff in scientific-related
fields and research management fields; and (b) establishment of
an exchange program for national and regional staff, including
scientists, managers, and extension workers.
5.     Establishment of a pilot regional soil fertility and
fertilizer use program through establishment of three regional
soil testing laboratories in Maros (South Sulawesi),  Medan
(North Sumatra) and Yogyakarta (D. I. Yogyakarta), including:
(a) upgrading of existing facilities and provision of related
equipment; (b) provision of soil analysis training,
coordination and data storage; (c) provision of Grants for the
carrying out of fertilizer-crop response studies; and (d)
provision of related consultantsþ services.
6.     Strengthening of the Project Management Unit in AARD, the
Project Implementation  Units in the Assessment Institutes, and
overall Project coordination by the Secretariat of  AARD, the
Center for Agricultural Research Programming in AARD,  and the
Center for Agricultural Socio-Economic Research in AARD through
provision of equipment, vehicles, furniture, and related
consultantsþ services.
PART C: Priority Commodity and Discipline-Oriented Research
        Programs
1.     Strengthening priority livestock research, including: (a)
rehabilitation and upgrading of selected laboratories,
including barns and other housing for animals; and (b)
provision of scientific equipment, furniture, vehicles, and
related consultantsþ services.
2.     Strengthening priority fisheries research, including: (a)
construction and rehabilitation of selected laboratories; (b)
rehabilitation of a research vessel; and (c) provision of
scientific equipment, furniture, vehicles, and related
Page  11
consultantsþ services.
3.     Strengthening priority horticulture and tree crop
research, including: (a) rehabilitation of selected
laboratories; and (b) provision of scientific equipment,
furniture, vehicles, and related  consultantsþ services.
4.     Strengthening of priority discipline-oriented research,
such as biotechnology research, including: (a) rehabilitation
of  facilities for tools and machinery research and
development; (b) construction of a bio-containment facility;
and (c) provision of scientific equipment, furniture, vehicles
and related consultantsþ services.
5.     Strengthening of the national human resource development
program for AARD through the provision of degree and non-degree
training for scientists and administrative and technical and
support staff in national research institutes.
6.     Carrying out of studies on relevant scientific and
research management topics by AARD staff and staff of
institutions collaborating with AARD Work Units.
PART D: Strengthening of Research and Development Collaboration
1.     Strengthening linkages of AARD Work Units, with national,
regional and provincial agencies, Directorates General of the
Ministry of Agriculture, DINAS, farmersþ groups, selected
groups such as women and young farmers, universities, the
private sector, and community and locally based organizations,
through: (a) the provision of Grants to universities for the
carrying out of Collaborative Research with research
institutes, research centers and Assessment Institutes; (b) the
carrying out of joint research and development and technology
transfer activities; and (c) the provision of scientific
equipment and related consultantsþ services.
2.     Strengthening linkages of AARD Work Units to
international, Asian and Pacific research organizations
through: (a) establishment of exchange programs for scientists
and managers of AARD Work Units and staff of international
agricultural research centers, selected foreign universities,
Asian and Pacific national research systems, and Asian and
Pacific agricultural research centers; (b) carrying out of
joint research with international, Asian and Pacific research
centers; (c) transfer of new technologies, methods, tools, and
multi-media materials to AARD Work Units from collaborating
institutions; (d) organization of regional and international
conferences and workshops in Indonesia  co-sponsored by AARD
and collaborating institutions; and (e) provision of related
consultantsþ services.
                                    * * *
       The Project is expected to be completed by October 31,
2001.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                            Amortization Schedule
                                              Payment of Principal
       Date Payment Due                      (expressed in dollars)*
February 1, 2001                                   1,210,000
August 1, 2001                                     1,255,000
February 1, 2002                                   1,300,000
August 1, 2002                                     1,345,000
February 1, 2003                                   1,395,000
August 1, 2003                                     1,440,000
Page  12
February 1, 2004                                   1,495,000
August 1, 2004                                     1,545,000
February 1, 2005                                   1,600,000
August 1, 2005                                     1,655,000
February 1, 2006                                   1,715,000
August 1, 2006                                     1,775,000
February 1, 2007                                   1,840,000
August 1, 2007                                     1,905,000
February 1, 2008                                   1,975,000
August 1, 2008                                     2,045,000
February 1, 2009                                   2,115,000
August 1, 2009                                     2,190,000
February 1, 2010                                   2,270,000
August 1, 2010                                     2,350,000
February 1, 2011                                   2,430,000
August 1, 2011                                     2,520,000
February 1, 2012                                   2,605,000
August 1, 2012                                     2,700,000
February 1, 2013                                   2,795,000
August 1, 2013                                     2,895,000
February 1, 2014                                   2,995,000
August 1, 2014                                     3,105,000
February 1, 2015                                   3,215,000
August 1, 2015                                     3,320,000
___________________________
*          The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                       Premiums on Prepayment
       Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
the premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of
the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for
the applicable time of prepayment below:
       Time of Prepayment                    Premium
                                      The interest rate
                                      (expressed as a
                                      percentage per annum)
                                      applicable to the Loan
                                      on the day of prepayment
                                      multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
       before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
       not more than six years
       before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
       not more than 11 years
       before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
       more than 16 years
       before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
       more than 18 years
       before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
       maturity
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                     Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  13
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: General
       Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the þGuidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Creditsþ published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1.      Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.     The following provisions shall apply to goods to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
       (a)   Grouping of Contracts
       To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more each.
       (b)   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
       The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.     National Competitive Bidding
       (a)   Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of
the Guidelines.
       (b)   Equipment and furniture estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $200,000 per contract, and $2,000,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.     National Shopping
       Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per
contract and $700,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.     Direct Contracting
       Books and journals estimated to cost less than $10,000
equivalent per contract and $750,000 equivalent or less in the
aggregate, may, with the Bankþs prior agreement, be procured in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the
Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.     Procurement Planning
       Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
Page  14
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.     Prior Reviews
      With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or more, and each contract for civil
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $750,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.     Post Review
       With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.     Consultantsþ services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions  of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be
used.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                           SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
1.     In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower
shall, not later than October 1, 1995, appoint competent staff
to each of the Assessment Institutes as follows: a director, a
section head, a sub-division head, four sub-section heads, at
least three extension specialists, a farming systems
specialist, a socio-economist, an agronomist, a livestock or
fishery scientist, a communication specialist, and
administrative staff in adequate numbers.
2.     In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower
shall, not later than October 1, 1995, establish, and
thereafter maintain, a regional advisory committee and a
regional technical working group at each of the following
Priority Assessment Institutes: Assessment Institute Banda
Aceh, Assessment Institute Padang Marpoyan, Assessment
Institute Pontianak, and Assessment Institute Ungaran,
including the following members:
Page  15
       (a)   Regional Advisory Committee: (i) the head of the
provincial planning office (BAPPEDA) as first chair and the
provincial representative of the Ministry of Agriculture
(KANWIL) as second chair; and (ii) representatives from DINAS,
local universities, research institutes, farmers groups, and
the private sector (through the regional Chambers of Commerce),
as members.
       (b)   Regional Technical Working Group: (i) the Director of
the Assessment Institute as chair; and (ii) representatives
from regional and provincial agencies, as members.
3.      In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank not later than December 31 in each year, commencing
December 31, 1995, and until completion of the Project, annual
work programs and related detailed budgets for Project
activities to be carried out in the following Fiscal Year.
4.     The Borrower shall provide the required vehicles for the
Project in accordance with a schedule agreed with the Bank.
5.     The Borrower shall:
       (a)   cause technical audits of Project implementation to
be carried out, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, by April 1
in each year during the implementation of the Project; and
       (b)   a copy of such audit to be furnish to the Bank, for
comments, by July 31 of each such year.
6.     The Borrower shall make Grants in accordance with the
procedures and on the conditions set forth or referred to in
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
7.     The Borrower shall:
       (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance
with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
       (b)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about July 31, 1998, a
report integrating the results of the monitoring  and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof during the period following such date;
and
       (c)   review with the Bank, by September 30, 1998, or such
later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the
Bankþs views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Procedures and Conditions for the University Research Grant
under Parts A. 3 (c), B. 5 (c) and D. 1 (a) of the Project
1.     Each Grant shall be made by the Borrower only:
       (a)   to a Grantee who or which shall have established, to
the satisfaction of the Borrower, acting through the Research
Grants Board of AARD, on the basis of criteria and procedures,
acceptable to the Bank, that said Grantee:
             (i) (A) in the case of an individual Grantee, has the
Page  16
qualifications and experience necessary for the efficient
carrying out of the Collaborative Research, and (B) in all
other cases, has the organization, management, staffing and
other resources required for the efficient carrying out of the
Collaborative Research; and
             (ii) has prepared an acceptable plan, including terms
of reference, for the carrying out of the Collaborative
Research; and
       (b)   for Collaborative Research which is determined by the
Borrower, acting through the Research Grants Board of AARD, on
the basis of guidelines established by AARD and acceptable to
the Bank: (i) to be technically feasible and cost-effective,
and (ii) to have been designed in accordance with AARDþs
established research priorities.
2.     Grants, as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain,
through a single written agreement with each of the Grantees,
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank, including the right, as applicable, to:
       (a)   require the Grantee to carry out the Collaborative
Research with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with sound agricultural, financial, and managerial standards
and to maintain adequate records, including a final report
detailing all activities, costs, and research funding;
       (b)   require that: (i) the goods and services required for
the Collaborative Research and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of  Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (ii) such services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Collaborative Research; and (iii) such goods shall be used
primarily in the carrying out of the Collaborative Research;
       (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, such goods and any
relevant records and documents;
       (d)   require that the Grantee shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers insurance to cover the hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of
goods required for the Collaborative Research and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Grantee to replace or repair such
goods;
       (e)   obtain all such information as the Borrower and the
Bank shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to
the benefits to be derived from the Collaborative Research; and
       (f)   suspend or terminate the right of the Grantee to the
use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Grantee to
perform its obligations under its agreement with the Borrower
providing for the Grant.
3.     Grants for the Collaborative Research listed below shall
be made by the Borrower only if the Bank shall have notified
the Borrower of the Bankþs approval of said Collaborative
Research:
       (a)   the first five Collaborative Research proposals
selected to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and
       (b)   any Collaborative Research proposal which does not
conform with the selection criteria agreed between the Borrower
and the Bank.
4.     When presenting a Collaborative Research proposal to the
Page  17
Bank for review, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a draft
grant agreement, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together
with a description of the Collaborative Research, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
                                 SCHEDULE 7
                               Special Account
 1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
       (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
       (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
       (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$7,000,000.
2.      Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.      After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
       (a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
       (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
                    for deposits into the Special Account at such
                    intervals as the Bank shall specify.
             (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                    the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                    documents and other evidence required pursuant
                    to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                    payment or payments in respect of which
                    replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
                    each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf
                    of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan
                    Account and deposit into the Special Account
                    such amount as the Borrower shall have
                    requested and as shall have been shown by said
                    documents and other evidence to have been paid
                    out of the Special Account for eligible
                    expenditures.
Page  18
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.      For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
       (a)    if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
       (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
       (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
       (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.      (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
       (b)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.
       (c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Page  19
Special Account.
       (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
