Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9533-ES
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
MAY 31, 1991
Country Department II
Human Resources Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offici'al duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Salvadoran Colon 1.00 - US$8.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Hectare (ha) = 10,000 m2
1 Metric Ton (mt) - 1,000 kg
1 Kilometer   1,000 m
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SCHOOL YEAR
February 1 - October 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ADS             - Salvadoran Demographic Association
ANDES           - National Teachers Union
CONARA          - National Committee for Natio:al Reconstruction
CGs             - Community Groups
DCM             - Directorate of Construction and Maintenance (MOE)
DIGEBA          - Department of Primary Education (MOE)
DNE             - National Directorates of Education (MOE)
GAES            - Advisory Group for Economic and Social Affairs (MIPLAN)
GDP             - Gross Domestic Product
GOES            - Government of El Salvador
GTZ             - German Agency for Technical Cooperation
ICB            - International Competitive Bidding
TSDEM          - Municipal Development Institute
ISSS           - Salvadoran Social Security Institute
LCB             - Local Competitive Bidding
LIB             - Limited International Bidding
MIS             - Management Information System
MOE             - Ministry of Education
MOF             - Ministry of Finance
MOH             - Ministry of Health
MIPLAN          - Ministry of Planning
MOP             - Memorandum of the President
NGOs            - Nongovernmental Organizations
ODEPOR          - Planning and Organization Office (MOE)
PAHO            - Panamerican Health Organization
PAIN            - Pre-primary Education and Early Stimulation Program for
Children aged 0-6 years old
PCU             - Project Coordinating Unit
PHC             - Primary Health Care
PLANALIBRE      - National Educational Books Plan (MOE)
PRODERE         - UN Program for Refugees
PVOs            - Private Voluntary Organizations
SABE            - Strengthening Achievements in Basic Education Project
SETEFE          - External Financing Technical Secretariat (MIPLAN)
SSIF            - Salvadoran Social Investment Fund
SOEs            - Statements c: Expenditure
UNDP            - United Nations Development Program
UNICEF          - United Nations Children's Fund
USAID           - United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EL sa.eV
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pane No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. iii
BASIC   DATA  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  *    .    .  .*     vi
DEFINITIONS    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .*.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .*     *  .  .  .   vii
I.   INTRODUCTION    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
II.  THE SOCIAL SECTOR   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
A.   Overview of Public Sector Services   . . . . . . . . . . .   2
Healthion   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .        . .2
Edu,cation   . ...................................       S
B.   Sector Specific Issues              .................    6
Health  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..............................6
Education   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  10
C.   Intersectoral Issues   . . .  . ......  .  . . . . . . . .  .   18
D.   Donor Activities   ....................    20
E.   Government Strategy for the Social Sector  . . . . . . . .  21
F.   Bank's Role and Sectoral Assistance Strategy   . . . . . . . 22
III.  THE  PROJECT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24
A.   Project Objectives and Components  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
B.   Project Description  . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .  25
Education   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 32
Social Sector Planning   .   .   .  .       . . . . . . v40
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission, which visited El
Salvador in February-March 1991. The mission was composed of Ana-Haria
Arriagada (mission leader), Carmen Hamann (senior project officer), Carlos
Trabucco (procurement adviser), Nancy Cooke (country officer), Anita Artaza
(operations assistant, consultant), Madalena Rodriguez (education specialist,
consultant), Thomas Bossert (health specialist, consultant), and Alberto
Zuniga (architect, consultant). Darren Dorkin provided editorial and
preparation assistance.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Paa. No.
IV.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT    . . . . 41
A.   Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Be  Procurement    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  44
C.  Disbursements    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 45
D.  Accounts and Audits  ............ ... ....  . 47
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  . ....................  47
A.   Implementation Arrangements .   * . . . . .  * * * v v a . v 47
B.  Planning, Reporting and Implementation Reviews   . . . .  . 49
C.  Project Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS  . . . . . .o.   . . . . . . . .  . . .o.  50
A.   Project Benefits   . . . . . . . . a . . . . . . . . . . .. 50
B.   Impact  on  Women    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . ..  .  .  .  . 50
C.  Project  Risks    .  .  . .  .   . .   . .  .  .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   . 51
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMLSDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
ANNEXES
1   - Social Sector Indicators
2    - Basic Health Care Model
3    - Trends in Public Spending in the Social Secto:
4   - Nutrition Indicators
5    - Donors Involvement in the Education and Health Sectors
6    - Projected GOES Expenditures on Health and Education, 1990-1994
7   - The Project Arsa
8    - Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
9    - Selection Criteria for Community Groups
10   - Project Costs
11   - Disbursements
12   - Implementation Schedule
13   - Annual Implementation Reviews
14   - Planned GOES Recurrent Expenditures on Basic Social Services and Share
of Non-Salary Recurrent Expenditures
15   - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
HAPS:     IBRD Nos. 22824; 22973



- iii -
EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           The Republic of El Salvador
Executina           Ministries of Education (MOE), Health (MOH), and
Aaenciess            Planning (MIPLAN)
Amount:              US$26.0 million
Torms:              Twenty years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Prolect Obiectives: The objectives of the proposed project would be to: (a)
improve the delivery of basic social services targeted to
some 80 of the most disadvantaged municipalities.
Selected priority areas are based on the severity of
malnutrition among children, according to the National
Nutrition Survey conducted by the Institute for Nutrition
for Central America and Panama (INCAP), and low supply of
health and education services; and (b) strengthen the
institutional capabilities of MIPLAN, MOH and MOE to
efficiently plan and manage the delivery of social
programs.
Proiect             The proposed project would finance two main components:
ComRonencs:         (a) basic services develoRment to improve the delivery of
basic social services to the project area through: (i) a
primary health care program consisting of family
planning, maternal and child health care, and health and
nutrition education, and safe motherhood referral program
to be executed by the MOH; and (ii) pre-primary and
primary school program including implementation of
community operated schools, provision of teaching
materials and textbooks, nutrition assistance, and staff
training, to be executed by the MOE and community groups;
and (b) institutional develoRment to: (i) strengthen MOH
management and technical capacity to plan and deliver
health services efficiently and improve cost-recovery
systems; (ii) increase MOE capacity in planning and
management of services delivery; and (iii) strengthen
MIPLAN capacity to develop a social sectors information
system, analyze social investment programs, and evaluate
their impact. MIPLAN would coordinate project
implementation, which is expected to last four years.



- i' -
Prolect Benefits:   The proposed project would have direct benefits on the
health status of about 300,000 pregnant and lactating
women, 400,000 infants and young children, and berefit
over 900,000 prt-prim- y a*td primary school-age children.
As such, the project would mitigate the social costs of
adjustment programs and help to implement them. At the
same time, the project would improve the efficiency of
resource use and the institutional capacity of the line
ministries, benefiting an additional 3.4 million people.
Risks:               Due to possible sporadic violence in El Salvador, it may
be difficult to fully realize project objectives in some
municipalities in the project area. To minimize this
risk, the Government and the Bank agreed that loan
proceeds would not be disbursed in -unicipalities which
would be inaccessible for purposes of project
implementation ard supervision according to the
assessment of the Bank until security concerns dissipate.
The other major risk is possible delays in project
implementation due to deficient management capacity. To
minimize this risk: (a) assurances were obtained that
project coordinating units staff would not be reassigned
to other functions during the life of the project, and
that any replacement would be satisf ztory to the Bank;
(b) special attention has been pa- to implementation
arrangements; procurement agents (UNICEF and UNDP) will
be hired for the project; (c) a p-ocurement seminar was
conducted to increase staff familiarity with Bank
procedures, and a project launch seminar covering all
implementation aspects would take place, before loan
effectiveness; and (d) adequate technical assistance and
training would be provided for project implementation.
Frequent and intensive supervision would be undertaken
during implementation. Another risk is associated with
the potential opposition of the teachers union to
services delivery by community groups. Even though this
risk is difficult to control, principals and teachers at
the local level are already participating in community
school programs, providing some confidence that this risk
can be minimized.



-v-
ESTIMATED COSTS I/
Pro lect Components                                  Local      Foreign      Total
-US$ million-------
A. Service Delivery                                    13.86        4.37    18.23
a.  Health                                        3.55         1.37     7.92
b.  Education                                    10.31         -.-      10.31
B. Institutional Strenftthening                        8.07         3.80    11.87
a.  Health                                        2.33         0.86     3.19
b.  Education                                     5.49         2.69     8.18
c.  Planning                                      0.25         0.25     0.50
Total Baseline Costs                                  21.93         8.17    30.10
Physical Contingencies                        0.76         0.38     1.14
Price Contingencies                           3.63         0.76     4.39
TOTAL PR^"vCT COSTS                                   26.32         9.31    35.63
Financing Plan                                       Local      Foreign      Total
S----     S$ million-------
GOES                                                7.23         -.-       7.23
IBRD                                               16.69         9.31    26.00
USAID                                               2.10         -.        2.10
UNICEF                                              0.30         -.-       0.30
TOTAL                                              26.32         9.31    35.63
Estimated Disbursements 2/                           Bank Fiscal Year
1992    1993    1994    1995   1996
----------US$ Million----------
Annual                                       3.8     5.5      7.1      6.5    3.1
Cumulative                                   3.8     9.3    16.4    22.9   26.0
Estimated Rate of Returnt              Not applicable
1/   The project cost excludes taxes and duties, because executing agencies
are tax exempt.
IL   Retroactive financing of US$2.6 million would be made for the eligible
expenditures incurred since March 6, 1991.



- vi -
EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA SHEET
EL SALVADOR            YRCA
A. General Country Data
GNP Per Capita (US$)                                          1040            1989
Area (Thousand Square Kilometers)                               21
Population Estimate (Millions)                                   5            1988
Urban Population (Z of Total)                                   44            1988
Population Projection (Millions)
Population for Year 2000                                      6            1988
Stationary Population                                        16            1988
B. Social Indicators
Crude Death rate (per 1,000)                                     8            1988
Annual Rate of Population Growth (Z)                             1.3       1980-88
Total Fertility Rate                                             4.8          1988
Life Expectancy at Birth (years)                                63            1988
Adult Illiteracy Rate (Z of persona 15 and over)                35            1989
C. Basic Health Data
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000)                               57            1988
Maternal Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)                  1.4          1987
Infants with Low Birth Weights (2)                              15         1982-88
Population with Access to Health Services (Z)                   56         1985-87
Population with Access to Safe Water (Z)                        52         1985-87
Married Women of Chi.ldbearing Age Using Contraception (2)    47              1986
Government Health Spending (Z of GDP)                            0.6          1989
Share of Health in Government Budget (Z)                         6.2          1989
D. Basic Education Data
Pre-primary Gross Enrollment Rate (age 4-6) (Z)                 14            1989
Primary Net Enrollment Rate (2)                                 70            1989
Lower Secondary Gross Enrollment Rate (Z)                       28.7          1989
Repetition Rate (primary) (Z)                                   19            1989
Dropout Rate (primary) (Z)                                      15.1          1989
Government Education Expenditures (Z GDP)                        1.6          1989
Share of Education in Central Government Budget (2)             16.7          1989
Sources:  World Development Report, 1990; The State of the World's Children,
1990; Population, Health, Nutrition and Education: Issues and
Opportunities, World Banks 19901 J. Jarquin and F. Rocuts,
Epidemiologia y Prevenci6n de la Muerte Materna Institucional en El
Salvador, 1989.



- vii -
DEFINITIONS
Health and Nutrition:
Child Death Rate:   The number of deaths among children one to four years of
age per 1,000 children ir that age group in a given year.
Contraceptive        The percentage of married women in reproductive ages who
Prevalence Rate:    are using a method of contraception.
Crude Birth Rate:   Number ot birthn per 1,000 population in a given year.
Crude Death Rate:   Number of deaths per 1,000 population in a given year.
Infant Mortality    The number of deaths of infants under one year of
Rate:                age in a givEn year per 1,000 live births in that year.
Low Birth Weight:   The percentage of babies born weighing less than 2,500
grams.
Malnutrition Rate:  (moderate and severe).  The percentage of children below
minus 2 standard deviations frem the median weight for
age of the reference population.
Maternal Mortality  The number of deaths to women who die due to pregnancy
Rate:                and childbearing complications in a given year usually
per 100,000 live births in that year.
Population Growth   Tne annual growth rate of the population calculated from
Rate:                mid-year.
Education:
Completion Rate:    The percentage of children entering the first grade of a
cycle (e.g., primary sohooling) who successfully complete
the entire cycle.
Dropout Rates        Proportion of children entering the first grade of a
cycle (e.g., primary schooling) who do not successfully
complete that level in due course.
Primary Gross        The number of children of all ages enrolled in primary
Enrollment Ratet    school as a percentage of the population 7 - 12 years
old.
Primary School Net  The number of children age 7 - 12 enrolled in primary
Enrollment Rate:    school as a percentage of the population 7 - 12 years
old.
Primary School       The number of repeaters in primary education as a
Repetition Rate:    percentage of total primary school enrollment in the same
year.
Students/Teacher    The total number of students enrolled in a school divided
Ratio:               by the total number of primary school teachers.



EL SALVA2O
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAPF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       Ten years of civil conflict have had heavy economic and social
costs for the country. An estimated 75,000 people have vied, 750,000 have
emigrated, and 500,000 are refugees within the country.  Between 1978 aDJ
1982, GDP fell by 22 percent. While the economic decline wais halted in 1983,
economic growth averaged only 1.7 percent a year between 1983 and 1989, the
same as the estimated net rate of population growth (natural rate of
population growth minus international migration).
1.2       Defense and interest spending have crowded out public social and
economic spending. In 1978-79 they took 13 percent of total expenditures, and
by 1986-87 they reached 41 percent.  Total public expenditures fell from about
33 percent of GDP in 1980-83 to 19 percent in 1988. This cutback in
expenditures was activated largely through a decline in public sector wages
and a reduction in public investment. Public sector investment, which
averaged 11 percent of GDP during the early 1980s, fell to an average of 4.4
percent during 1984-88. Total general government employment fell from 5.2
percent to 4.3 percent of the working age population.
1.3       Public sector real wage rates have fallen more than those in the
private sector. As the largest cuts were in the higher salary ranges, wage
differentials within the public sector have shrunk drastically. This
combination of wage differentials compression and falling real wages has
reduced the ability of the public sector to retain qualified personnel, posing
a major threat to efficiency improvements.
1.4       Over the same period the share of public spending on social sectors
fell from 40 percent to 24 percent, and real per-capita outlays on social
welfare fell by over 42 percent. Spending on education and health fell well
below that of countries of similar income levels (see Annex 1, Table 1).
Spending on health and education declined the most as percentages of GDP--from
about 3.9 percent on education and over 1.8 percent on health in 1980 to 1.8
percent in education and 0.9 percent on health in 1989 (see Annex 1, Table 2).
Since the reduction in public expenditures took place mostly in capital
expenditures, the share of public ape-ling devoted to recurrent expenditures
increased sharply, leaving practical' io resources for investment,
maintenance and operation of services ,see Annex 3, Figurea 5a and 5b).
Increased foreign aid, which represented over 40 percent and 20 percent of the
national budget in health and education, respectively, in 1989, and the
provision of services by NGOs and the private sector, have mitigated the
impact of falling public resources. However, these increases have not
completely offset the decrease in public spending.



-2-
1.5       Social indicators in El Salvador remain among the lowest in Latin
America (see Annex 1, Table 1).  Infant mortality rate is 57/1,000 llve births
(80 percent of infant mortality takes place in rural areas), 15 percent of
infants have low birth weight, maternal mortality is 1.4/1,000, child
malnutrition is 50 percent of children under five years of age, only about 10
percent of the population is covered by the health services of the social
security system and access to public health services is 56 percent, and use L
family planning services is 47 percent. In the education sector, the
illiteracy rate is over 35 percent, the primary school net enrollment rate is
70 percent at the national level, and the average e-hool attainment of those
who ever attended school is 4.5 years, whereas in rural areas it is 3.1 years.
1.6       In June 1989, the Government of El Salvador (GOES) embarked on a
far-reaching and radical economic reform program to put the economy on a path
of sustainable growth. This program aims to create a move liberalized,
private-sector led economy anr focus on reforms in the trade, fiscal,
monetary, financial and agricultural sectors, with special attention to
poverty alleviation and delivery of social services (see para. 2.43).
1.7       The proposed project, together with the recently approved SAL,
would support GOES economic reform and social sector strategy, emphasizing in
the short-term the improvement of the nutritional status of vulnerable groups,
particularly children, pregnant women and lactating mothers, and in the long-
term the provision of targeted primary health care, pre-primary and primary
education which directly benefit the poor. The project would also support the
institutional strengthening of the social ministries for an improved delivery
of services. Thts project is the first Bank operation to cover the health
sector in El Salvador and the fifth operation in the education sector, but
after 11 years of hiatus.
1.8       As part of its poverty alleviation program, the Government has
adopted a strategy to strengthen and improve the provision of social services
targeted towards the most vulnerable groups. Greater emphasis will be given
to primary health care, increasing cost-recovery, especially for curative
services, pre-primary and primary education, and increasing the role of the
private sector through community participation. The next chapter discusses
the institutional framework in each sector, identifies key sectoral
constraints and issues, describes donor sectoral activities, and Government's
and Bank's ,trategies for the social sector.
II. THE SOCIAL SECTOR
A. Overview of Public Sector Services
Health
2.1       Health care is mostly the responsibility of the Ministry of Health
(MOH), which handles a network of over 340 urban and rural facilities spread
throughout the country. The target group for the public health system
encompasses about 90 percent of the population; social security and private



-3-
health systems together serve tha remaining 10 percent of the population. The
NOd is one of the largest ministries and received 6.4 percent of the budget in
1988. The HOH's 17,000 employeed account for about 15 percent of all public
sector employees. Health policy stating lequate focus ard priorities is
defined in the GOES Health Plan (Plan Nacional de Salud), issued in 1991.
Underlying financial and managerial weaknesses (see paras. 2.17 and 2.18) have
undermined the MOH capacity to implement this policy. The provision of
services by the private sictor and NGCs has increased, particularly after the
1986 earthquake. These services are lrgely limited to outpatient curative
eare.
2.2       The MOH is organized in two, largely independent structuress
hospitals which are autonomous entities; and the rest of the services which
are managed by the MOH in two layers of management: central and regional
offices. Programming and administrative and financial management are mostly
concentrated in the central offices, even though recently some of them have
started to be decentralized to the regional level. Operations are pronently
divided into five nealth regions: Wer-rn, Central, San Salvador
Metropolitan, Para-central, and Eastern regions. Regional offices are charged
with administering and supervising the execuricn of health interventions in
the primary and secondary level facilities under their jurisdiction.
2.3       The MOH system provides services through 176 healtl-. posts, 109
health units, 28 rural nutrition centers, 15 health centers, 9 regional
hospitals and 6 specialty hospitals. These facilities are staffed by some
2,000 physicians- 200 dentists, 4,400 nurses and auxiliary nurses, and 579
health promoters in Aarge of primary health care (PHC) outreach activities.
There are also about 2,000 trained community birth attendants (parteras
emRiricas), who are not part of MOH staff.  The public heaith services by the
MOH are provided at three levels: primary, second.ry-, and tertiery. The
traditional focus has been the secondazy and tertiary levels, but in recent
years the government has placed increasingly more emphasis on the primary
level.
2.4       The foundation of the MOH primary health care system are the
community level health workers in charge of outreach activities. There are
two types of health workers at the community level: health promoters and
birth attendants. The health promoters are recruited from their communities
and t=ained in a three-month program to work in communities to promote PHC
activities (pre- and post-natal care, immunization, growth monitoring, health
and nutrition education, family planning (non-medical contraceptives), some
curative care, referral, and environmental sanitation). Promoters also train
community volunteers (facilitadores) to assist them in various activities.
The promoters have been trained and supported by USAID and are supervised by a
two-tier system of "special supervisors" (one for ten promoters) and regional
supervisors. The program is managed by the Community Health Department of the
MOH. The MOH has recently begun to absorb the promoters at a rate of 80 per
year into government contract positions. The experience of health promo-ers
has been positive and shown that they are an important preventive health care
provider in El Salvador. However, their insufficient numbers have limited the
full realization of their potential benefit. The proposed project would



increase the number of health promoters in the project area from 140 to 482
(see par&. 3.8).
2.5       The second type of health worker at the community level is the
trained birth attendant (Dartera). A major program of training was init,ated
in 1984 and continues with UNICEF support. About 2,000 birth attendants have
been trained in two-week training sessions and provided with monthly eupplies.
On average, each vartera attends 150 births per year. The birth attendants
are also integrated into the family planning program and provide mechanical
contraceptive methods. While training has been the focus of this program,
little systematic attention has been given to supervision of these health
workers performance. A second weakness has been the lack of clear referral
capabilities in the cases of emergency births and complications. No
communication network has been developed, nor have MOH facilities been
prepared to receive these emergency referrals. The proposed project would
increase the number of birth attendants in the project area from 332 to 607
(see para. 3.8).
2.6       At the community level there are also other institutions providing
family planning and primary care. With USAID support (US$25 million), the
Salvadoran Demographic Association (Asociaci6n DemogrAfica Salvadorefia, ADS)
is initiating a program to train volunteers particularly in rural areas to
provide family planning and other maternal and child care services. These
workers will be allowed to keep some revenues from the sale of subsidized
contraceptives. A large number of private voluntary organizations (PVOs) arp
also providing some primary care programs. In addition, USAID has recently
initiated a grant program (US$25 million) to assist these PVOs to provide
community level programs particularly in areas where no other services are
available.
2.7       The community level is supported by three levels of MOH health
facilities (see Annex 2). The first level includes health posts and units
without hospital beds, and nutrition centers. Health posts (176) serve
populations of less than 10,000 and are attended by a full time auxiliary
nurse and in some cases by a community board (gatronato) fee collector. The
auxil.ary nurse provides basic primary care services and in some cases
supervises the traditional birth attendants. The health posts also receive
visits (2 to 3 per week) from mobile teams which bring a medical doctor, a
graduate nurse, a sanitary inspector (1 or 2 visits a month) and a driver.
This team mainly provides curative medical consultations and maternal and
child care services to patients at the posts. Currently it provides little
supervision for the auxiliary nurse. Health units (109) serve populations of
more than 10,000 and less than 30,000. They are attended by several medical
doctors (residents and new graduates in social service), graduate nurses,
auxiliary uurses, sanitary inspectors and technical staff, with administrative
and janitorial support. They provide medical consultations, primary health
care services, emergency care and referral, odontological services, and
epidemiological surveillance. In 28 communities, rural nutrition centers (28)
have been established to attend to severely malnourished children and provide
nutrition education and development stimulation. These centers are attended
by five trained volunteers and supervised by health promoters, nearby health



-5-
facilities and regional supervisors. Because these centers do not appear to
contribute significantly to improve the nutritional status of their
beneficiaries on a permanent basis, the government does not intend to expand
them. At the present time, however, closing them down does not seem to be
acceptable to the communities they operate in.
2.8       The secondary level of care is provided by health centers and
regional hospitals. Health centers (15) attend populations of 10,000-30,000,
with 30-80 beds. Each center provid;.. some specialized medical services--
usually internal medicine, pediatrics, obstetrics, and surgery. These centers
receive referrals from all the lower levels. They are supervised by regional
and national supervisors, however, on an infrequent basis. The rektonal
hospitals (9) are mainly located in the major cities, with the largest number
(6) in San Salvador. These hospitals provide referral services for each
geographic region. The tertiary level includes large referral hospitals and
specialized institutions (6), such as cancer therapy, psychiatric care and
rehabilitation, treatment of heart diseases and others.
Education
2.9       The Ministry of Education (MOE) is responsible for administering
all levels of education except universities. The MOE is the largest ministry
and received 17 percent of the budget in 1988. The MOE's 34,000 employees
account for about 30 percent of all public sector employees. Education policy
establishing adequate priorities for the sector is defined in the GOES's
Education Development Plan (Plan de Desarrollo de Educaci6n), issued in 1990.
2.10      The formal education system comprises one year of pre-primary
school, nine years of basic education, three yearc; of secondary education, and
higher education with courses of two to six years. Basic education starts at
age seven and is organized in three cycles of three years each. The first two
cycles, comprising grades 1-6, are equivalent to primary education, while the
third cycle, grades 7-9, is equivalent to lower secondary level. Secondary
education, grades 10-12, is diversified and prepares for the Bachillerato
diploma in any of the following specia'lized courses: academic, business
administration, home economics, industrial, vocational arts, agriculture,
hotel catering and tourism, navigation and fishery, health, and teacher
training. Higher education is offered by a national university, a number of
private universities, and by various post-secondary institutions.
2.11      Out of over one million students to whom education services were
provided in 1989, about 80 percent were at the primary level. The main
provider of basic education is the MOE, which is charged with the
responsibility of providing services to about 85 percent of the school age
population. NGOs and the private sector together serve the remaining 15
percent. An important development that has taken place in the last decade has
been the increasing participation of communities and parents in the provision
of educational services, reflecting the value that parents place on their
children's education, and the potential for developing participative
approaches in education servicea delivery. MOE estimates indicate that there
exist about 1,000 such groups operating at the school level (see para. 2.32).



2.12      In 1989, the public primary school system comprised about 850,000
students, taught by about 19,170 teachers1/ In about 3,300 schools and 15,800
classes spread throughout the country. An important force in the sector are
the seven teachers assocls-ions that together form the Frente Maxisterial
Salvadorejio. Among the seven associations, the National Teachers Union
(ANDES) is the most powerf.   nd plays a major role in determining hiring
practices, teacher allocatl.  s. ari benefits.
2.13      The MOE is organ' id into seven general directorates at the central
levelt basic education, sac..ndary education, higher education, adult
education, education technolog7, adm'.nistration, and teachers' welfare
services.  Except for the Nation&. 'diversity, which receives resources
directly from the national budget. ci'dnistration is highly centralized with
programming and administrative an' fi4iancial management all concentrated in
the central office. In 1982, a major reorganization effort was undertaken to
improve the ministry's management and administration capacity. Three regional
offices (Western, Eastern and Central) and two sub-regions (Para-central
North, Para-central East) were created, with over 300 educational nuclei
(formed by 10 schools and an average of 40 teachers each). However this
effort did not succeed because: (a) the relationships between the central
level and the regions, sub-regions and nuclei were not clearly defined,
generating considerable duplication of functions and lack of coordination; (b)
no resources were made available for the operation of regions, sub-regions and
nuclei; and (c) nuclei did not fit local conditions.
B. Sector Specific Issues
Health
2.14      The health sector suffers from the lack of access to public or
private health services. This problem stems mainly from the public sector's
managerial and financial constraints.
2.15      Lack of access.  Largely as a result of low coverage of public
health services (56 percent of the population), death and morbidity remain
unduly high, especially in pregnancy and birth complications, gastroenteritis,
respiratory infections, and communicable and infectious diseases. About 60
percent of the deaths of children less than one year old are caused by
diarrhea, due to lack of sanitation and inadequate sanitary practices. Iron-
deficiency anemia--an indicator of maternal malnutrition--affects about 12
percent of pregnant women (or about 32,000 women). Vitamin A deficiency
affected about 36 percent of children under 5 years in 1988 (or about 313,000
children). Due to the fact that about 60 percent of deliveries are not
attended by trained personnel, births remain a major health risk for both
mother and infant. The maternal mortality rate of 1.4 per 1,000 live births
is one of the major causes of death among women of fertile age. A perinatal
1/   This number refers to MOE employees appointed in teaching positions,
which does not necessarily mean that they are in fact teaching.



- 7 -
mortality rate of 11.6 per 1,000 live births contributes significantly to the
high infant mortality rate. Only 29 percent of children under two years of
age and 32 percent of pregnant women actually receive some form of health
care. Coverage of vaccinations is better due to strong donor involvement (77
percent BCG (tuberculosis), 62 percent polio and DTP (diphtheria, tetanus and
pertussis). Use of family planning services is low, with a 47 percent average
and only 34 percent in rural areas, compared to 53 percent in Hexico and 70
percent in Costa Rica.
2.16      The main managerial and financial constraints that affect the
public health system and explain the lack of access to hea'lth services of the
Salvadoran population are discussed below.
2.17      Limited Manaaement Capacity.  The health system at present is
unable to effectively provide basic services to the population, particularly
in rural areas. About 35 percent of the existing HOH facilities are sub-
utilized, and over 40 percent of the health centers do not operate community
outreach programs in their catchment areas. The major shortcomings limiting
MOH effectiveness and efficiency include:
(a)  Inefficient Financial Management Systems.  The budgetary system is
archaic, and concentrated in the MOB central office (see para.
2.20). Hospitals receive a disproportionately large share of
sectoral resources (see Annex 3, Figure 1), but have experienced
faltering inpatient and outpatient productivity. The mean number
of physician-provided ambulatory consultations per hospital (66,640
annually from 1981-85), fell by 7 percent between 1986-89. Over
this period, MOH ambulatory care visits provided by the hospitals
fell by 15 percent. Whereas hospitals provided 40 percent of all
MOH physician-provided ambulatory visits from 1981 to 1985, they
accounted for only 34 percent in the 1986-89 era. The average
number of physician consultations per hospital dropped by 8 percent
in the same period. The occupancy rate of MOH hospitals has
fluctuated around the 65 percent level for more than 10 years,
substantially below the internationally recognized standard of 80
percent. Lack of evaluation of the MOH hospital costs impedes
ability to discern whether or not MOH financial constraints could
be eased by improving hospital operating efficiency. The proposed
project would suprort the implementation of a decentralized
budgetary system and an analysis of hospital efficiency (see para.
3.23).
(b)  Inadequate Skill Mix and Distribution of Human Resources.  At
present MOH staffing reflects a bias towards curative care and
imbalances in the health manpower structure, with a shortage of
middle and lower-level personnel. The ratio of physicians to
auxiliary personnel is only 2:1, as compared to 4:1 for countries
with epidemiological profiles similar to that of El Salvador.
Personnel is insufficient in terms of numbers and qualifications in
almost 50 percent of the health posts, and maternal consultations
are insufficient in almost 50 percent of the health centers and
regional hospitals. In the project area, the relationship between



- 8 -
demand for services and supply of porsonnel (measurod by number of
consultations) indicates variations in the use of human resources
of between 17 percent and 130 percent. These imbalances cannot be
corrected at the regional level since the regions do not control
staffing decisions. With support of PAHO and USAID, a major effort
is now underway to establish a computerized data bank that will
identify personnel by actual job description, skills experience and
training. The proposed project will support the development of
personnel policies that will allow a more rational use of personnel
in the project area in the short term, and the design of nationwide
personnel distribution criteria for the longer term (see paras.
3.21 and 3.22).
(c)  Inadequate Support Services. Because of the lack of MOH resources
in general, and of insufficient operating budgets at the regional
and local levels, inadequate attention has been given to services
such as building and equipment maintenance, and purchase of
materials and equipment. Equipment and materials are insufficient
in over 40 percent of the health facilities. Health facilities in
the project area require, on average, an investment of 40 percent
of their present value to be rehabilitated. These rehabilitation
needs will be mostly met under the recently created Salvadoran
Social Investment Fund (SSIF) with resources provided by the IDB
(see para. 2.40).  The proposed project would assist the MOH to
develop a maintenance system emphasizing community participation,
and use the results of a health facilities mappin3 exercise to
prepare a medium-term investment program (see para. 2.25 (c)).
(d)  Lack of SuDervision.  The supervisory system developed in the 19708
has largely been abandoned for lack of transportation, per diems,
and capacity to enforce norms. Adequate supervision only reaches
about 25 percent of the health units and health posts. At present,
the MOH lacks supervision guidelines and operational and training
materials. As a result, no regular feedback mechanism exists
between the central, regional and local levels, and no systematic
on-the-job evaluation and training of operative personnel takes
place. The proposed project would provide support for the
strengthening of a systematic and decentralized supervision system
(see para. 3.16).
(e) Inadeguate Referral System. Due to lack of effective links between
the various levels of the health system, referrals do not operate
properly. This is particularly serious with regard to high risk
pregnancies and is a major cause for the high rates of maternal and
perinatal mortality (see para. 2.15). The central weaknesses of
the current referral system for emergency births are the
insufficient availability of adequate and functioning equipment and
the lack of qualified personnel on a 24 hour basis in health
centers and regional hospitals. The proposed project would support
the development of a proper referral system from the community and
primary level to secondary level health facilities (see para.
3.12).



2.18      Financial Constraints.  As public sector resources have been
squeezed, health spending has declined from 1.5 percent of GDP in 1980, about
the average for Latin America, to only 0.9 percent in 1989.  MOH expenditures
have declined over 30 percent in real terms since 1979 (see Annex 3, Figures
5a and 5b). Reductions took place mostly in capital expenditures.
Consequently, the allocation pattern of recurrent MO  expenditures has changed
dramaticallyl the share of 4alaries increased from 75 percent in 1980 to 84
percent in 1984 in hospitals, and from 55 percent in 1977 to 94 percent in
1989 in the rest of the system (see Annex 3. Figures 2a and 2b). This
changing mix of MOH expenditures, coupled with a lower absolute funding level,
including for recurrent expenditures, has resulted in falling real salary
levels, falling supplies of drugs, materials and equipment, impeding the
delivery of minimum quality services as staff lack adequate working
environments and tools.
2.19      Foreign aid (which is not included in the national health budget),
the private sector and NGOs have all made increasing contributions to health
care in El Salvador, helping to mitigate the impact of falling public
resources.  Foreign aid has financed MOH hospital construction (particularly
for the restoration of earthquake-damaged hospital facilities), medical
supplies, equipment and repairs, as well as operating costs of programs
outside the budget. Its share of total sector spending increased from about
2.3 percent in 1983 to 8.1 percent in 1988, and reached 40 percent in 1989.
The major donors are USAID, which alone provided 20 percent of the total
national health budget; IDB and France each providing approximately 5 percent
of the health budget; and Germany with 2 percent. UNICEF and PAHO also
provide significant support and technical assistance.
2.20      Public health expenditures remain unduly concentrated on curative
care, considering the country's epidemiological profile (see para. 2.15).
Annex 3, Figure 1 shows the distribution of MOH recurrent expenditures by
level. The emphasis on curative medicine is entrenched because hospitals have
independent operating rules and budgets, and relate directly to the Health
Minister and the MOF. Budgeting and allocation of funds for the rest of the
health system reflect the inefficiencies of an anachronous budget system which
does not take into account programs, and its processes are characterized by a
high level of centralization in decision making. The MOH's approach to
planning and budgeting has been to follow historical budget-based resource
allocation. This approach largely results from: a budget syetem that does
not reflect sources and use of funds by program; the lack of freedom of the
ministry to redirect salary expenditures to other categories; and the lack of
integration of projects supported by donors into the MOH budget.  In fact, at
present donor financed projects are managed through a parallel budget
(presupuestO extraordinario). A new, integrated, financial budgeting system
identifying sources (national and foreign) and uses of funds by program and
facility has been developed with technical assistance from PAHO. The proposed
project will support the implementation and use of this system as a decision
making tool for the central and regional levels. A complementary initiative,
also supported by PAHO, is the development of a cost and productivity matrix
which is being implemented on a pilot basis in 14 hospitals and health centers
to improve management and efficiency at the facility level. The proposed



- 10 -
project would also support the implementation of this cost accounting system
to the rest of the facilities of the health system (see para. 3.19).
2.21      The government policy objectives include increased resources for
the health sector (see para. 2.46), directing additional spending towards
those services that benefit mostly the poor, and increasing cost-recovery,
especially for curative services. The highest income group, which represents
15 percent of the population, obtains 68 percent of its inpatient care in MOH
facilities. Indicating its commitment to reduce emphasis on curative
medicine, the present Government has started to implemeiit measures to contain
hospital costs and increase cost-recovery at this level. Fees for some
hospital services, such as hospitalizations, have been introduced or
increased. In 1989, fees for hospitalization in public hospitals were, on
average, about 10 percent of what they were in private hospitals. In
addition, the Government recently arranged for the transfer of one of the
specialty hospitals to the Instituto Salvadoreflo de Seauridad Social (ISSS).
Some local public health providers and their community boards (Datronatos)
have responded to this political and economic crisis situation by
institutionalizing a decentralized, revolving account, consisting of user fees
for medical care consultations, collected at the facilities. These funds have
been used to purchase additional personnel, materials, supplies, and--
especially in the last five years--more drugs. Between 1978 and 1985, the
level of expenditures of funds raised at the facilities of the first and
second levels has more than doubled, comprising about 7 percent of total MOH
expenditures; this indicates that even the poorest groups are willing to pay
for health care services. According to the results of a health care demand
study (1989), 72 percent of those in the lowest income group (monthly income
of less than US$72) seek care from private providers when illness occurs, due
to public perceptions of low quality medical care in the MOH facilities.
2.22      At present, lack of adequate information (e.g., lack of cost-
accounting systems at hospitals, lack of standardized criteria to determine
users' capacity to pay, and wide variability of practices at different
facilities) hamper government's ability to establish adequate cost-recovery
systems and promote privatization of health services. To support the
government's efforts, the proposed project would support studies on the
various factors conditioning the economic performance of hospitals and the
current cost-recovery practice and experience, and recommend measures for
improvement and options for privatization of services. It would also support
studies to assess the feasibility and extent tc which cost-recovery could be
increased at the different levels of the health system. The results of these
studies would be discussed by the government and the Bank, f..d policies and
quantitative goals to be attained during the life of the project would be
established jointly during the annual reviews (see para. 3.24).
Education
2.23      The education sector suffers from low enrollment and efficiency,
which not only stem from factors external to the public school system but also
from managerial and financial constraints.



- 11 -
2.24      Low Enrollment and Efficiene.  El Salvador's education indicators
are among the lowest in Latin America. With the exceptions of Haiti and
Guatemala, El Salvador's primary school enrollment rate is below that in all
other Latin American countries (see Annex 1, Table 1). Primary school
coverage declined from about 80 percent in 1979, to 61 percent in 1981,
recovering to 70 percent in 1988. Even though primary school is compulsory
for children between the ages of 7 and 12, currently about 265,000 children
lack access to primary education mostly in rural areas, where the enrollment
rate was estimated at about 60 percent in 1986.  The low internal efficiency
of the system is characterized by low completion and high repetition and
dropout rates.  Of the cohort entering school in 1979, only about 40 percent
completed primary education in urban areas.  The situation was worse in rural
areas where only 7 percent completed primary education. Due to slow flow of
students, it takes on average almost 11 years to produce a 6th grade
completer. Completion rates have worsened to 31 percent for the 1985-87
cohort. Dropout and repetition rates are high, especially in the first years
of schooling, particularly in rural areas. In first grade, the repetition
rate is over 50 percent, and the dropout rate is over 20 percent. Although no
reliable data on student achievement are available, partial evidence indicates
that learning levels are low. A 1983 study found that overall achievement
varied from 19.8 percent in science to 34.8 percent in reading (out of a
possible score of 100)v and that in all subjects urban students outperformed
their rural counterparts. As entrants to the labor force, their incomplete
basic education limits their ability to receive instruction required in
vocational skills or pursue further education to enhance their upward
mobility. In addition, insufficient accumulation of human capital poses
constraints for the economy's growth prospects in the longer term.
2.25      The main factors that generate low school enrollment in El Salvador
include:
(a)  Closing of Schools.  Due to the war, 877 out of 3,000 schools were
closed in 1982, and 575 remained closed in 1989 leaving over
100,000 children outside the public school system;
(b) Insufficient Financial Resources. As a result of falling sector
resources (see para. 2.29), between 1985 and 1989, the increase in
the number of places offered by the MOE (one percent per year) has
been lower than the growth of the school-age population (1.7
percent per year); and
(c) Inadequate Physical Facilities and Subutilization of Existina
Infrastructure. Particularly in Rural Areas. Partly because of
lack of MOE resources, and partly because of the lack of an
adequate system, inadequate attention has been given to building
and equipment maintenance and upgrading.  As a result, existing
classrooms are in poor physical condition and need to be repaired
or substituted.  At present, the MOE does not have an assessment of
the school network location, state of conservation, functional
capacity, potential demand, and maintenance needs. The last school
mapping exercise was conducted in 1971, and has not been updated
since. To ensure adequate decision making for infrastructure



- 12 -
investments and preparation of a medium-term investment program,
the Government has obtained grant financing from the Japanese
Government to undertake a complete school and health facilities
mapping exercise, which would be supported by the proposed project.
Urder Loan 2873-ES (Earthquake Reconstruction Project), the Bank is
supporting the rehabilitation and equipping of 2,000 primary school
classrooms located primarily in rural areas where there is need for
urgent rehabilitation. Specific surveys of schools in the project
area indicate that they require, on average, an investment of 30
percent of their present value to be rehabilitated. These
rehabilitation needs will be mostly met under the SSIF (see para.
2.42). In urban areas, the existing infrastructure is fully
utilized with schools in double and even triple shifts. In rural
areas, however, about 25 percent of the existing classrooms are
used only for one shift due to lack of incentives for teachers to
operate a second shift. The 1989 budget for school maintenance
included only US$71,000 for building materials, whereas full
utilization of the existing maintenance crews would require US$2
million a year in building materials.
2.26      To cope with this situation in the face of the existing resource
limitaticns (see para. 2.29), the Government explored the feasibility of
introducing multigrade teaching in rural areas. However, this option was
considered inappropriate by GOES at the present time because: (a) there is
already a high student/teacher ratio (62:1) in rural schools; (b) teachers
already have heterogeneous groups of students whose ages range between 7 and
14 ye.trs of age in the same grade; (c) rural teachers are the less experienced
teachers, because of the structure and regulations of the teachers' salary
scale (escalafon del docente) (see para. 2.28 (c)); and (d) there is a high
number of unemployed qualified teachers (about 6,000). Instead, the
Government has opted for a strategy of targeted expansion of coverage by
establishing a flexible mechanism to finance the delivery of these services by
the communities themselves on the basis of encouraging experiences in recent
years; this strategy does not reproduce the personnel problems existing in the
MOE (see para. 2.28 (c)). Depending on evaluation of the results of this
strategy, the Government plans to replicate this system on a larger scale, and
gradually shift school management to communities, parents, teachers and
municipalities. The proposed project would support this innovative strategy
(see para. 3.26).
2.27      High reRetition and high dropout rates are caused by external
factors such as poor health and nutrition, and migration due to the war, and
by factors which are internal to the school system. In El Salvador internal
factors include:
(a)  Inadeauate Provision of Pre-Primary Programs.  One of the main
causes of high failure rates in primary school is the lack of pre-
school training. Children, especially those from the poorer rural
families, have not been adequately developed and stimulated
physic&lly and mentally, and could not easily adapt to the crowded
primary school environment. Only 14 percent of El Salvador's
approximately 600,000 children between the ages of four and six,



- 13 -
are currently enrolled in pre-school, and almost 90 percent of
these children are from middle and upper class families. Since
1984, the MOE, with the support of UNICEF, has implemented a pre-
school and early stimulation program for rural children in extreme
poverty areas (Proarama de Atencifn Integral sl Nifio de 0 a 6 AMoe
con Participaci6n de la Comunidad. PAIN). In 1989, this program
served 13,500 children. Based on the results of this experience,
and on the outcomes obtained by other countries, particularly
Chile, the Government has decided to target the expansion of pre-
school services for poor children in rural areas to improve the
internal efficiency of the primary school system (see para. 2.46).
Building on the PAIN experience, the MOE is adjusting the program
to emphasize activities that increase children's readiness for
primary school, and hence enhance their success in primary school.
Development of this program would be supported by the proposed
project;
(b)  Overcrowdin2 in Rural Schools.  Student/teacher ratios show a
national average of 52 students per teacher, with averages of 46 in
urban areas and 62 in rural areas. This problem is more acute in
some departments which exhibit a student/teacher ratio of over 80
students per teacher in rural schools;
(c)  Lack of School Supervision.  Lack of supervision is one of the
critical factors responsible for the low efficiency and quality of
primary education in El Salvador in the last 10 years. The
supervision system collapsed in the early 1980s mainly due to
political turmoil and financial constraints (see para. 2.29). As a
result: (i) there is no control on teachers' attendance and
performance; (ii) teachers receive no feedback on their teaching
techniques and effectiveness; and (iii) there is no follow-up on
school improvement efforts and student achievements. As primary
school supervision is an essential tool in improving quality and
efficiency, particularly where teachers Pre inexperiencd. and are
isolated in rural areas, the MOE has assigned a high priority to
the restoration of its supervision capabilities, as a means to
improve school effectiveness. A system comprising supervision
services at all levels--central, regional, and local--would be
developed under the proposed project. The improved supervision
system would enable supervisors to visit schools and give technical
support to teachers, mainly in the rural areas. A team of over 100
supervisors has been organized and is currently going through
intensive training, with the aim of providing frequent supervision
to 3,000 primary schools starting in the 1991 school year;
(d)  Demotlvated Teachers.  Real teacher wages fell by over 50 percent
between 1978 and 1987. At the same time, there are perhaps more
than 6,000 unemployed teachers waiting for school vacancies. This
means that regardless of the losses in real wages, the current wage
rates could continue their downward trend without affecting the
supply of teachers. Yet, widespread moonlighting and low school



- 14 _
attendance among teachers suggest that low and declining real
teacher salaries have had negative impacts on teachers' motivation
and performance, and most probably resulted in a continuous
deterioration of the quality of education in the last decade. As a
result of low wages and lack of motivation and supervision, current
teacher attendance at school is estimated at only 2.7 days a week
instead of the mandatory 5 days. In addition, since there are no
feedback mechanisms in place for teachers to evaluate their
teaching deficiencies, and since no systematic in-service training
has been provided by the MOE since 1979 (uncer the Fourth Bank
Education Project, Loan 1738-ES), teachers have no incentives to
improve the efficiency of the school system. Salary increases
across the board are not a viable solution for the Government in
the context of its adjustment program. Increases for rural
teachers are not an option because of the teacher unions and the
lack of mechanisms to ensure that the increases effectively reach
rural teachers. The government strategy to remedy this problem
focuses on providing them with training, teaching materials and
technical support through the proposed project and the
Strengthening Ach3evement of Basic Education (SABE) project to be
financed by USAID (1991-1998). In 1991, with the support of USAID
and UNDP, the Government will carry out an analysis of public
sector employment and pay scales including teacher salaries, aimed
at providing options for longer term solution to this issue.
Progress on this issue would be included in the annual project
review meetings (see Annex 8);
(e)  Textbook D.ficiencies.  Learning is hampered by an undersupply of
textbooks and learning materials. Between 1979 and 1987, the main
source of textbooks was under the Fourth Bank Education Project.
Under this project, 4.5 million textbooks for the four subjects of
1-6 grades and teaching guides were produced and distributed to
schools throughout the country (PLANALIBRE Program). However, ni
further textbook writing, editing and replacement for worn-out
books have been made since. Distribution has also been poor (see
para. 2.28 (d)). In addition, b"^ause of lack of training,
teachers encounter difficulties in the efficient use of textbooks
in the classrooms to such an extent that they often lock away their
few available books. The MOE has estimated the need to reprint 3.5
million textbooks for grades 1-6 in the next four years, which it
expects to finance with support from USAID under the SABE project
(see para. 2.42) and the proposed project (see para. 3.36);
(f)  Inadequate Curriculum and Evaluation Systems.  The curriculum and
the promotion system also contribute to high failure rates in
primary school. The Salvadoran basic eAucation curriculum,
developed during the 1970s, attempted to expose children to a body
of information, which has no evaluation criteria, rather than gear
them toward learning basic skills. Teachers have no evaluation
guidelines because there are no comparisons of outcomes from
different schools. Grading is done subjectively by teachers,
contributing to unjustified increasas in repetition rates and to



- 15 -
the inefficient student flow through the system. The lack of
nationally administered tests prevents any possible objective
comparisons among different teaching methods and performance of
teachers and students.  This contributes to inadequate teaching
practices and low efficiency of the school system. In response to
these problems, the SABE project will improve the curriculum in
order to emphasize learning of basic skills and attitudes and
determine competency objectives for each grade level (pre-primary
through grade 6), and develop a national evaluation system; and
(g) Compounding the above-mentioned is8u9S are the managerial
constraints of tba MOE discussed below.
2.28      Insufficient Management Capacity.  The major managerial constraints
limiting MOE efficiency in the provision of basic education
services include:
(a)  Lack of Plannint and Programming Capacitv.  The MOE's planning unit
(Planning and Organization Office, ODEPOR) lost its role as the key
unit for the coordination of the implementing units in the Ministry
because it has not been able to develop any concrete plan in the
last 10 years. Yet the restoration of its capacity to provide
technical assistance to MOE programs, develop education plans and
budgets, and monitor the implementation of projects within the
overall sector priorities remain essential. Strengthening MOE
planning capacity would be supported by the proposed project (see
para. 3.42).  Important objectives for El Salvado9's education
system include improving coverage and quality, resource use
efficiency and resource availability. In practice, allocation
practices in the sector run counter to these objectives. Notable
constraints include an outdated budget system which does not take
programs into account, and an excessive concentration of decision
making at the central level.  As in health, donor financed projects
are managed through a parallel budget (DresuDuesto extraordinario).
These weaknesses are heightened by wanagement constraints,
particularly over the allocation of teachers (see para. 2.28 (c)).
Under the proposed project, a financial budgeting system, including
national and foreign resources and uses of funds by program, would
be developed;
(b) Lack of Statistics. The information base on which planning is
built is outdated and unreliable. The MOE does not have an
integrated management information system (MIS) able to provide
urgently needed data on students, teachers, budget, supplies and
materials, facilities or planning. At present, regional and sub-
regional offices operate without automated capabilities and receive
no real support from the information office at the central level.
The main causes of this situation are: (i) lack of a strategy and
objectives for the production of information in the MOE; (ii) past
investments in data collection were not carried out within an MIS
framework but on ad-hoc bases responding to specific needs; (iii)
lack of systematic use of the data gathered for management



- 16 -
purposes; and (iv) insufficient qualified personnel in charge of
the system. The proposed project would support the rationalization
of data gathering at all levels and the design and implementation
of a MIS that provides adequate information for decision making at
the different levels o': the ministry (see para. 3.43);
(c)  Inadequate Personnel Management.  All personnel decisions are made
in the MOE central office in San Salvador. Therefore, teachers
lose valuable teaching time in the capital city resolving personnel
matters such as leave and transfers. In addition, teacher salaries
are based on the escalafon del docente law published in 1971. This
laW classifies teachers in several levels depending on their
qualification to teach pre-primary, primary, lower secondary, and
upper secondary school. Teachers' salary grade levels are
automatically upgraded every five years. Climbing the salary
ladder requires teaching higher grades. As such, the salary
structure: (i) encourages teachers to transfer from schools in
rural areas (where most schools have only the lower grades) to
urban schools; (ii) does not provide teachers with incentives to
work in rural schools; and (iii) allocates new, less experienced
teachers to rural schools. To remedy this situation, the MOE has
started to implement measures to introduce control on personnel
management: new hiring has been frozen; vacancies created by
natural attrition are being transferred to non-salary items in pre-
primary and primary education; transfers from teaching to
administrative positions have been discontinued; and personnel
records are under examination in search of "ghost teachers".
However, the Government is aware that these measures will not be
sufficient to solvb the basic issue of personnel management faced
by the MOE. Civil service, teacher salary and union laws make it
difficult for the MOE to manage effectively the allocation of its
human resources to attain government goals emphasizing the
efficiency and quality of pre-primary and primary education in
rural areas. The community operated school system developed by the
gove-rment would contribute to alleviate these problems (see para.
2.26). Under this new system, the ministry will transfer resources
to community groups for the operation of priority programs targeted
to the neediest areas. The government plans not only to use
additional resources in this manner, but to convert the resources
made available by natural attrition (about 3 percent of teachers a
year) to this system so as to gradually delegate control over the
allocation of the teaching force to communities and promote their
participation in the process of education; and
(d)       Inadequate Sugnort Services.  Because of falling resources in the
sector, physical facilities and equipment have deteriorated
significantly (see para. 2.29). Most urgent rehabilitation needs
will bo addressed through the Bank Earthquake Reconstruction and
IDB Social T!vestment Fund Projects.  Preventive maintenance needs
for the basic education system have been estimuted at approximately
US$2 million a year.  Taking into account the financial constraints
faced by the HOE, the Government strategy is to develop the



- 17 -
maintenance system with community participation that has already
operated for a number of years. Under this system, the MOE
provides schools with construction materials and technical support,
and communities carry out the actual work. In order to facilitate
the community management of the system, the MOE plans to transfer
to the schools the responsibilities of purchasing the construction
materials. The development of the modified system, including a
pilot program to test it, would be part of the proposed project
(see para. 3.48). Lack of coordination among MOE units has led to
duplication of functions that are critical for the effectivenese
and efficicncy of services delivery. This is the case in the area
of teaching and learning materials. Textbook distribution has not
been organized efficientiy. At present, distribution of textbooks
and teaching materials is carried out by 5 different units in the
HOE, operating under separate budgets, with separate logistics and
distribution schedules. As a result, the few textbooks available
for distribution usually do not reach the schools in the beginning
of the school year. To remedy this situation, the MOE has decided
to establish a single textbook and materials distribution unit,
based ir the Directorate of Administration. As part of the
proposed project, the MOE has agreed with the Bank to set up the
unit by no later than December 31, 1991 (see para. 7.1 (1)).
2.29      Financial Constraints.  As public sector resources have been
squeezed, education spending has declined from 3.9 percent of GDP in 1980 to
1.8 percent in 1989. MOE expenditures have declined about 40 percent in real
terms during the 1980s, and still remain below the 1979 expenditure level (see
Annex 3, Flgure 5b). Concurrently, the allocation pattern of MOE resources
has changed significantly, leaving insignificant resources for investment and
non-salary operational inputs including the supply and replacement of
materials, facilities maintenance and school and teacher supervision. The
obare of salaries increased from 85 percent in 1973 to 96 percent in 1989 (see
AnLnex 3, Figures 3a and 3b). At present, the MOE spends less than US$1 per
student/year in textbooks, teaching materials and other essential operational
inputs, while the estlmated requirement is about US$6 (for the provision of
basic textbooks, teaching guides, chalk, maps, etc.).
2.30      Program composition of the MOE budget indicates a decrease in the
share of secondary and higher education, parallel to an increase in the share
of basic education (see Annex 3, Figure 4). However, in order to provide a
minimum quality of services to the existing school population, basic education
would require at least an additional 8 percent of the current budget.
2.31      As in the health sector, foreign aid, the private sector and NGOs
have made increasing contributions to the education sector in El Salvador, but
their volume has not been sufficient to offset the decline in public
financing. Foreign aid has financed the construction and reconstruction of
HOE facilities destroyed by the 1986 earthquake, as well as teaching supplies
and equipment. In 1989 its share of total spending was about 20 percent of
the education budget. The major donors are USAID and IDB. Other donors
(UNDP, UNICEF, UNESCO, OAS and bilateral agencies) provide significant support
and technical assistance.



- 18 -
2.32      The fiscal crisis of the 1980. and the ensuing deterioration of
public schools have motivated parents to mobilize community efforts in support
of the local schools. In 1987, local communities made voluntary contributions
of over US$2 million to the Department of Primary Education (DIGEBA) to cover
the costs of chalk, school supplies and even teacher salaries. In 1988, MOE
estimates indicated that this figure had increased to US$13 million, which
represented over 10 percent of the education budget. The Government
recognizes the potential of community participation, not only as a means to
ease public financial constraints, but also as a means to alleviate some of
its management constraints.
C. Intersectoral Issues
2.33      Increased Incidence and Severity of Poverty.  The war and the
worsening economic conditions increased the proportion of the population
living in poverty in El Salvador. In general, the poor have low levels of
education and suffer from poor health and nutrition deficiencies, bad housing
and sanitary conditions. They are spread throughout the country. Extreme
poverty, defined as the number of people without enough income to purchase a
basic food basket (yielding 2,200 calories per day), increased from 26 percent
in 1985 to 35 percent in 1988. the poorest of the poor are concentrated in
the rural areas. The rural/urban split of the population is approximately
half and half, but 74 percent of all persons in the lowest quintile of the
income distribution live in rural areas. There '.s an urgent need to prevent
any further worsening of the situation and impr-,r, the living conditions of
this large segment of the population.
2.34      High Prevalence of Malnutrition.  Kalauwrition affects about 50
percent of children age 0 to 5 years (436,000 ch.ldren).  Within this group,
malnutrition is highest in rural areas and among -iildren between 12 and 24
months old (see Annex 4, Table 1, the extent of m- -nutrition by population
group). Nutritional deficiencies are related not oiily to the level and
distribution of income, but are also largely attrib table to the inefficiency
and mistargeting of government policies.  Governmer- s successive nutrition
programs have failed to focus on the most needy and ti: deliver nutritional
supplementation effectively.
2.35      In 1980 El Salvador started to receive substantial amounts of food
assistance from abroad through imports (PL480, Title 1) and donations from the
World Food Program (WFP).  Assistance from these programs has helped the
Government meet requirements of domestic food consumption and balance of
payments needs. The Government has not properly used this support to address
the nutrition problems of vulnerable groups. Only two of the six major
programs implemented have been directed to mothers and children. Thus, only
37 percent of the food aid (a total of 92,353 metric tons) has been directed
to these groups. The largest portion of dire..t food assistance has been
devoted to food-for-work programs. These programs have had poor
implementation records due to the financial and logistical constraints in the
public sector institutions charged with their execution.



- 19 -
2.36      The ongoing Nutrition Education and Food SuDvlementation Proaram in
tne MOH, was begun in 1985 to: provide foLJ supplements to malnourished
populations; reduce the number of children with low birth weight through the
improvement of pregnant women's and lactating mothers' diets; and contribute
to improved nutrition practices through nutrition and sanitary education
activities in PHC services. The food is donated by the WFP, and MOH is
responsible for its transportation and storage as well as program
administration. The program has failed to reach a significant percentage of
the most needy groups. In 1990, the program covered only about 60,000
pregnant women and children, a minimal 4 percent of all pregnant women
(350,000) and 10 percent of malnourished children under 5 years of age
(436,000) in need of support (see Annex 4, Table 2).  This is because the MOH,
in charge of the logistics, lacks resources and capacity to operate it
properly, leading to irregular distribution, food loss, contamination, and
loss of time by health personnel. Finally, 80 percent of the health posts do
not have an adequate supply of scales for growth monitoring. Lack of regular
supervision leads to mistargeting, poor follow-up, and no standardization of
procedures for growth monitoring and nutrition surveillance.
2.37      The School Feeding Proaram in the MOE started in 1984, with the
purposes of increasing school enrollment, attendance, and learning, and
improving nutrition education for children in grades 1-6, also with food
donated by the WFP. In 1988, the program included about 1,000 schools, of
which about 900 were in rural areas, covering less than 17 percent of the
school population (see Annex 4, Table 2). The MOE, in charge of logistics,
lacks resources and capacity to operate it efficiently. At present, parent
groups finance and manage the trancportation of food, but they lack financial
and technical support to operate the program. The main deficiencies of this
program are poor planning and implementation, and lack of regular supervision.
The current program provides hot meals to children at lunch time, whereas
school feeding would be more effective if provided in the form of breakfasts
or early morning snacks, so that children could start the school day without
being hungry, thus increasing their learning capabilities.
2.38      The Government is aware of the deficiencies of the existing
nutrition programs, and has started to develop a strategy that addresses the
needs of the most vulnerable grcups. The Gavernment also hopes to phase out
ongoing food-for-work programs, which have proven inefficient, and to reorient
and devise new targeted nutrition programs. The proposed project would
support the Government in the implementation of the targetted nutrition
programs agreed upon under the SAL pilot weaning foods, school feeding and
food coupons (see paras. 3.11 and 3.38).
2.39      Lack of Social Sector Plannina.  In the past, MIPLAN did not play a
significant role in the social sectorst its actions were limited to keeping
financial control of specific projects through its Secretariat for External
Financing (SETEFE). The current Government has assigned a lUrger role for
MIPLAN to supervise, monitor and evaluate the implementation of the
Government's strategy and programs in the social sector ministries. To ensure
intersectoral coordination at the highest level, GOES has created a Social
Committee (comite social) chaired by the Minister of Planning. To fulfill its
role, NIPLAN established the Advisory Group for Economic and Social Affairs



- 20 -
(Grupo Asssor Economico-Social. GAES).  CAES, to&sther with the MOF, MOH and
MOE, is preparing a proposal to formulate sectoral budgets by major programs,
which would allow the Government to analyze and monitor effective allocation
of resources in the social ministries. This proposal would also include the
"extraordinary budget" (Dresupuesto extraordinario), or programs financed by
external resources. CAES is also responsible for the development of a social
information system, which would allow the Government to target resources and
evaluate the impact of specific programs in the social sectors. GAES is
staffed with high-quality and highly motivated professionals, but its
institutional capacity needs to be strengthened, especially its capacity to
analyze projects and to recommend policies and strategies. The propoaed
project vould support the work programs of MIPLAN and GAES and strengthen
their institutional capacity (see para. 3.49).
D. Donor Activities
2.40      Health Sector.  Donors support the sector at a national level in
several areas. Child and maternal survival, child development and nutrition,
breast feeding, outreach programs, family planning, provision of water and
sewerage for health posts and units are being supported by UNICEF. Building
and equipment maintenance work shops are being supported by GTZ. IDB is
providing support for the expansion of water and sanitation services in rural
areas and will provide resources for the rehabilitation of health posts and
units in the project area under the SSIF. In addition, PAHO coordinates
technical assistance programs on a yearly basis (see Annex 5, Table 1,
anticipated donors financial participation in the sector).
2.41      While the programs supported by donors are appropriate, they are
insufficient given the immense needs of the sector and the limited resources
of the GOES. There is insufficient support to expand coverage and delivery of
primary level services in extreme poverty areas. There are major needs to
rehabilitate and maintain the health infrastructure and equipment. Limited
external support is provided currently in key areas such as improvement of
supervision and referral systems, financial MIS, and cost recovery and
hospital cost containment options. The Bank has collaborated closely with
USAID, PAHO, UNDP and UNICEF in the preparation of the proposed project.
Under parallel financing arrangements, USAID and UNICEF would finance and
execute several sub-components of the proposed project (see para. 3.8).
2.42      Education Sector.  Currently, the major support for the sector
comes from IDB and USAID. IDB is implementing a US$14 million secondary
technical vocational project and is preparing another project for the
secondary agricultural school. USAID is starting the eight year SABE project
(US$53 million) to enhance the quality of basic education. Its major
components are curriculum development, production and distribution of
textbooks and teaching materials, development of national standardized
assessment instruments and norms, and teacher training (pre-service and in-
service). In 1991, the SABE project would improve the curriculum for the
first grades; design, produce, and distribute new textbooks, and train
teachers for that curriculum, starting in 1993, with grades 1-3.  This projact
was designed in close coordination with the Bank and would complement the



- 21 -
efforts under the proposed project. During project preparation, the MOE,
jointly with USAID and the Bank, have also agreed that the proposed project
would fill the textbooks gap between now and 1993. UNICEF is providing
financial support to the MOE to test the programs designed to expand coverage
of pre-primary and primary schooling through community operated schools that
would be supported by the proposed Bank project (see Annex 5, Table 2, donor
projects in the sector). As in health, programs supported by donors are, in
general, appropriate, but there is need for additional support to expand pre-
primary and Frimary school services, maintenance of primary schools,
improvement of MOE capacity for planning, MIS, supervision and textbooks
distribution. As mentioned earlier in para. 2.25 (c), the SSIF will support
the sector's infrastructure rehabilitations needs in the project areas with IDB
financing.
E. Government Strategv for the Social Sector
2.43      The GOES's social sector strategy is expressed in the Socioeconomic
Development Plan 1990-94 prepared by MIPLAN in 1989. It aims for the social
sectors to reverse past poverty trends through: strengthening the supply of
social services (health, nutrition, education, and housing); improving the
targeting of actions towards the most vulnerable groups and areas; and
increasing the role of the private sector through community participation.
MIPLAN has the leading role in coordinating, developing, and monitoring these
efforts. The plan focuses on:
(a) implementation of compensatory programs, such as rural public works
projects, Social Investment Fund, and targeted nutrition programs
for the most vulnerable groups of society, as an essential element
of the structural adjustment program;
(b) improvement in the delivery of basic social services, mainly health
and education, to increase the human capital of the poor; and
(c) institutional improvements in the overly centralized MOH and MOE to
gradually decentralize management responsibilities to the regional
and local levels.
2.44      To reduce the incidence of absolute poverty, the Government has
designed compensatory Programs as part of its structural adjustment program,
with the aim of providing a safety net for the most vulnerable group of
society in the short term and of improving their human capital in the long
term. To provide minimum incomes to the chronic poor and those adversely
affected by the economic reforms, the Government has introduced several rural
public works projects in the departments of Oriente and Chalatenango and
initiated locally managed construction projects in 239 rural and urban
municipalities (out of a total of 262 municipalities), both as part of a short
term Social Emergency Program. The Government, with IDB assistance, is also
implementing a three-year Social Investment Fund, as a more flexible mechanism
for channeling donor funds toward needy groups.



- 22 -
2.45      To improve the nutritional status of the most vulnerable groups,
particularly children, pregnant women and lactating mothers, the Government
has identified the target population groups to receive assistance, and is
preparing the expansion of a fortified cookie program for pre-primary and the
first three grades of primary school children. The Government has also
initiated preparation work on pilot programs for the provision of weaning food
and for distribution of targeted food coupons. Implementation of these
nutrition projects will be closely monitored as part of the SAL conditionality
and supported by the proposed project (see par&. 2.38).
2.46      To improve the delivery of basic social services, the Government's
medium-term strategy involves an increase in the total level of social
spending and restructuring of expenditures within the health and education
sectors. Greater emphasis will be given to pre-primary and primary education
and primary health care. The specific target set for the health sector is to
increase its resources as percentage of GDP from 0.9 percent in 1989 to 1.9
percent in 1994. For the education sector, the target is to increase its
share in the GDP from 1.8 percent in 1989 to 2.7 percent in 1994. Annex 6,
Table I shows GOES past and projected allocations for both sectors between
1987 and 1994. Through a newly established system for monitoring public
investment, the Government is committed to shifting the structure of public
investment and raising the share of social programs and projects from 20
percent to 50 percent by 1994. Because of budget restrictions, the GOES also
intends to search for and implement policies that would generate greater
revenues, such as user charges, improved efficiency in service delivery, and
the mobilization of community resources in support of health and education
services.
2.47      The Government is aware that a mere reorientation of resources
toward the social sectors will have limited benefits if it is not accompanied
by institutional improvements and intra-sectoral real''ocation of resources in
favor of primary health and education services in the line ministries that
administer these resources. New initiatives are being designed in both the
health and education sectors to improve management practices and improve
implementation capacity and increase efficiency of service delivery. These
initiatives are being designed in close cooperation with the Bank under the
proposed project.
P. Bank's Role and Sectoral Assistance Strateiv
2.48      Between 1949 and 1979, El Salvador received 19 Bank loans and 4 IDA
credits totaling US$235.6 million equivalent net of cancellations. Bank group
lending initially focused on infrastructure development to support productive
activities, with smaller amounts devoted subsequently to the social sectors.
Of total disbursements, education projects accounted for 18 percent. An
Earthquake Reconstruction Loan (US$65 million) was approved in September 1987,
complemented by a Japanese Grant Facility of V1.5 billion. In July 1990, the
Earthquake Reconstruction Project was modified to include financing for the
rehabilitation of about 2,000 primary school classrooms especially in rural
areas.



- 23 -
2.49      Lessons Learned from Previous Proiects Implementation Ex,eriencoe
Between 1969 and 1979, El Salvador received four loans for basic, secondary
education and training. These loans experienced significant implementation
delays arising from: (a) insufficient support from higher-level authorities
of the MOE; (b) weak project management unit and frequent changes of staff;
(c) political interference and burdensome procedures for the approval of
contracts and bidding documents; (d) shortage of available counterpart
financing; (e) internal state of unrest leading to Bank suspension of loan
disbursements and an amendment to scale down construction in areas of armed
conflict; and (f) the 1986 earthquake, which destroyed or severely damaged
hundreds of schools in metropolitan San Salvador, leading the Bank to revise
project design and switching priority from construction of rural schools to
reconstruction of urban schools.
2.50      Project Completion Reports (PCRs), prepared for the three previous
education projects, draw the following lessons, which have been identified as
relevant to the proposed project: (a) active Bank involvement, especially
during initial project implementation phase, for a more efficient utilization
of loan resources; (b) ensure adequate provision of recurrent expenditures;
and (c) establish clear objectives with room for change built in and monitored
carefully during implementation.
2.51      The design of the proposed project has adequately taken into
account the past implementation experiences and lessons: the project is a
central part of the Government's social sector development plans and enjoys
the full support of HIPLAN, MOH and MOE; the project would be implemented, not
by special implementation units, but by the existing organizational units, as
properly strengthened under the project; Government's specific assurances have
been obtained at negotiations regarding the provision of annual counterpart
funds including incremental recurrent expenditures generated by the project
(see para. 7.1 (o)), and would be confirmed through annual work plans and
implementation review meetings; international agents would be hired as
procurement agents to promote efficient procurement and training of local
staff (see para. 4.9); provisions would be made to accommodate possible
changes in the project areas due to a state of possible internal strife (see
para. 3.4); specific arrangements have been made to ensure close and active
Bank involvement during project implementation (see para. 5.8).
2.52      Bank Assistance Strategy.  In 1991, Bank lending to El Salvador was
resumed, after 11 years of inactivity in education except for the Earthquake
Reconstruction loan in 1987 (Loan 2873-ES). The Bank's country assistance
strategy for El Salvador focuses on medium-term structural adjustment, and
investment requirements but recognizes the need to assist the Government in
overcoming important short-term constraints. The program, which has been
coordinated with the IMF and the IDB, concentrates on: (i) macroeconomic
adjustment; (ii) financial sector reform; (iii) implementation of a
comprehensive social sector program to improve social services delivery and to
reduce extreme poverty; (iv) prudent management of the environment and
agricultural sector reform; (v) infrastructure rehabilitation; (vi) improved
public administration, on both the spending and revenue side; and (vii)
assisting the government to mobilize additional resources on more concessional
terms.



- 24 -
2.53      The Bank's strategy in the social sectors is oriented towards
assisting the government to mitigate the social costs of adjustment and to
increase the volume and efficiency of investments, particularly in those
services reaching the poorer population, thus increasing El Salvador's long-
term economic viability. The strategy rests on targeted expansion of the
level of spending in the social sectors within a viable fiscal and
macroeconomic framework. By focusing on basic health, nutrition and education
in disadvantaged areas, the Bank would help the Government address the needs
of the poor and thus contribute to a more equitable distribution of basic
social services. Increased investments in the social sector would be preceded
by rehabilitating the institutional and management capacity of the sectors, so
that increased long-term social sector investments can be carried out
efficiently and well-targeted. As chairman of the Consultative Group for El
Salvador, the Bank will promote effective coordination of donor assistance and
encourage financing for the social s-,ctors as an integral part of the overall
country assistance strategy.
2.54      The Bank's sector analysis (El Salvador. Ponulation. Health.
Nutrition and Education: Issues and Oportunities, Report No. 8715-ES, May
1990) identified key areas in which the Bank could support the Government
through technical and financia.l assistance. These areas include: (i)
targeted interventions in pre-primary and strengthening primary education,
particularly in rural areas; (ii) improvement of primary health care; (iii)
targeted nutrition interventions; and (iv) institutional reforms, i.e.,
decentralization of services delivery, increased cost-recovery, and efficiency
improvements. Proposed future sector work includes a study addressing
population and labor market issues. The Bank lending program envisages a
follow-up operation to the proposed project supporting increased investments
in education and health. The proposed project would begin to address the
poverty and sector-specific issues identified by prior sector work. It would
also support and follow-up the strategies and programs set out in a SAL (US$75
million equivalent) approved in February 1991, aiming at institutional and
policy reforms in the financial, fiscal, trade and agricultural sectors, the
reorientation of public resources towards key social sectors, and especially
targeted nutrition programs to mitigate the short-term impact of the
adjustment measures of the poor. The proposed project has been designed to
assist the GOES, in the medium-term, in improving social sectors' management,
efficiency of health and education expenditures, and better targeting of basic
social services to the poor. In addition, it would provide financial and
technical assistance to the GOES in implementing nutrition programs agreed to
under the SAL.
111. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives and Components
3.1       The objectives of the proposed project are to rehabilitate the
public sector's capacity to efficiently manage and deliver health and
education services in El Salvador. It would support the Government's strategy
in the social sectors to improve basic social services for the poor and



- 25 -
increase the flow of funds to the social sectors while supporting
institutional reforms.
3.2       The project consists of two major components:  basic services
development and institutional development.
(a)  The Basic Services Development component (61 percent of total cost)
would improve the coverage and delivery of basic social services in
some 80 of the poorest municipalities through: (i) a primary
health care program consisting of family planning, maternal and
child health care, health and nutrition education, and a safe
motherhood referral program, to be executed by the MOH; and (ii) a
pre-primary and primary school program including implementation of
community operated schools, provision of teaching materials and
textbooks, nutrition assistance, and staff training, to be executed
by the MOE and community groups.
(b)  The Institutional Development component (39 percent of total cost)
would: (i) strengthen MOH management, supervision and technical
capacity to plan and deliver services, improve cost-recovery
systems and increase hospital efficiency; (ii) increase MOE
capacity in planning and management; and (iii) strengthen MIPLAN
capacity to develop a social sectors information system, analyze
social investment programs, and evaluate their impact.
3.3       Basic services development interventions in primary health care,
pre-primary and primary education would be targeted to some 80 of the poorest
municipalities selected on the basis of greatest severity of malnutrition
among children, according to the National Nutrition Survey conducted by the
Institute for Nutrition for Central America and Panama (INCAP), and
sufficiency in the supply of primary health and education services. Current
populatior in the project area is approximately 1.1 million. Annex 7 lists
the municitalities included in the project area and data sources used to
select them.
3.4       During project implementation, some municipalities may suffer from
civil strife and may not be accessible for project implementation. Loan
proceeds would not be disbursed in municipalities which would be inaccessible
for purposes of project implementation and supervision according to Bank
assessment. The Bank's decision will be made after consultation with the
Government and taking into account criteria agreed with the Government (see.
para. 7.3 (a)).
B. Proiect Description
3.5       The proposed project would improve the coverage, delivery and
management capacities of the three ministries responsible for the social
sectors in El Salvador: MOH, MOE and MIPLAN. Thus, the two project
components (basic services development and institutional development) are
described under the headings of: the health sector, the education sector, and
overall social sector planning. The intention of such an organization is to



- 26 -
demonstrate the manner in which the project vill actually be implemented, and
how it will affect the functioning of the social sectors.
Health
3.6       The proposed project would support the Government ins
(i) improving and strengthening the delivery of basic health services to the
poor; (ii) reducing high levels of infant and maternal mortality and
morbidity; and (iii) improving efficiency in the use of sectoral resources.
The project would help the Government attain these objectives through two
components: (a) Basic Services Development in some 80 selected
municipalities; and (b) Institutional Development. Training would be provided
under each of these components. The MOH has submitted a detailed training
program for the first year of project implementation. Annual training plans
would be reviewed and approved by the Government and the Bank during the
annual implementation reviews (see para. 5.8 and Annex 13).
1.   Basic Services Development Component (US$9.30 million).
3.7       Basic Services Development is mainly designed to increase coverage
and delivery of adequate primary health care and referral for high risk
pregnancies and emergency births in some 80 targeted municipalities.
(a) Health Promoters and Birth Attendants.
3.8       The project would support the expansion of outreach activities by
health promoters and trained traditional birth attendants by attaining the
ratios of one promoter per 1,500 inhabitants, and one trained birth attendant
per community (canton) in the target municipalities. There are, at present,
140 health promoters and 332 birth attendants working in the area (see paras.
2.4 and 2.5). In parallel cofinancing by USAID, the project would provide for
training of 342 additional health promoters to be placed in the project area
over a 4 year period at a rate of about 86 per year, at an estimated total
cost of US$2.1 million. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
Government would hire, under regular positions, 100 health promoters by no
later than April 30, 1993; 100 more health promoters, by no later than Arril
30, 1994; 100 more health promoters, by no later than April 30, 1995; and the
remainLng addltional health promoters, by no later than April 30, 1996; and
that about 86 of the referred health promoters will be assigned to the project
area every year (see para. 7.1 (a)). The fulfillment of the annual targets
would be assessed during the annual reviews (see para. 5.8 and Annex 13). In
addition, using parallel cofinancing by UNICEF, the project would provide for
training of up to 275 additional birth attendants in those communities that
still have untrained midwives, at an estimated total cost of US$0.3 million.
These birth attendants would be incorporated into the activities of the safe
motherhood program (see para. 3.12). To ensure that the trained promoters are
posted in the poorest municipalities, the project would finance, on a
declining basis, the salaries of these promoters. As a condition for loan
effectiveness, the Government would submit to the Legislative Assembly: (a) a
proposed bill of Law, satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of: (i)
introducing the health promoter category as a regular and permanent position
at the MOB; and (ii) providing for at least 579 of such positions; and (b) a



- 27 -
pvoposed budget law for fiscal year 1992, satisfactory to the bank, providing
for the nesseary funds to cover the payment of the services of at least 579
health promoters (see par&. 7.2 (a)). As a condition for disbursement in
respect of the health promoter. and primary health care sub-component., no
withdrawals shall be made wnles. the Bank has received satisfactory evidence
that: (M) the Legislative Assembly has approved the laws referred to above;
and (ii) the MOH has duly employed the respective 579 health promoters as
regular and permanent staff (see par.. 7.3 (b)).
(b) Primary Health Care Services.
3.9       As a result of expanded outreach activities, the use of primary
level facilities would increase. The proposed project would strengthen the
capabilities in health posts and units to respond to anticipated additional
demand,21 by increasing the number of health specialists working in these
facilities by about 100 and by providing additional medicines and supplies.
To determine additional resources needed to respond to the increased demand
for services expected to be generated by the new promoters, an analysis of
current use of existing capacity was carried out in the project area by the
MOH. This analysis determined that 16 medical doctors, 22 social service
doctors, 25 graduate nurses and 39 auxiliary nurses would be necessary. The
project would finance incremental salaries for up to 9 doctors, 15 graduate
nurses and 20 auxiliary nurses. The remaining staff needs would be filled by
reallocation of existing MOH staff. In addition, seven new mobile teams would
visit health posts experiencing increased demand at least twice per week. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the MOR would employ incremental
staff for the positions described above in health units and posts in the
project area, only to the extent that it is unable to reassign or transfer
existing personnel from hospitals or administrative posts (see para. 7.1 (b)).
Also in response to the anticipated increased demand for services at the
health units and posts, additional supplies and essential medicines would be
provided by the project (on average, US$2.3 per consultation). Furthermore,
as part of the effort to improve the productivity of health services, the
project would also support preventive maintenance for primary health
infrastructure and equipment. A maintenance and training program would be
developed for the community boards (patronatos) at each primary level facility
in the targeted municipalities to promote preventive maintenance with
community participation, and encourage each patronato to develop its own
system of providing and funding preventive maintenance. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the MOH would present this maintenance and
training program, satisfactory to the Bank, no later than December 31, 1991,
and progress would be assessed during the annual reviews (see par&. 7.1 (c)
and Annex 13).
(c) Nutrition Activities.
3.10      The project would integrate strengthened nutrition activities into
the improved primary health care program. Under this program, about 1,800
2/ Prior experience shows that each promoter generates two additional medical
consultations per day.



- 28 -
promoters and village volunteers (facilitadores) would conduct outreach
activities for the purpose of delivering nutrition education messages and
training to the communities. The training of promoters in nutrition
activities would be integrated into the staff training program, adding four
days to the 60 day training schedule. In order to conduct the nutrition
activities, one nutritionist in each of the 18 supervision teams would be
required; this would necessitate the hiring of 14 additional nutritionists
(see para. 3.18). The project would support the incremental cost of these
staff.  At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government would
hire the 14 additional nutritionists at a rate of five per year beginning in
the first year of project implementation for purposes of supervisory
activities in all health units and posts (see para. 7.1 (d)). Progress to
this end would be reviewed during the annual review meetings (see Annex 13).
3,11      The project would provide scales for growth monitoring and supplies
of micro nutrients (iron sulfate and folic acid, iodine, vitamin A, and
multiple vitamins) to be delivered to pregnant and lactating women and
children, with nutritional deficiencies, through health units and posts.
Nutrition education activities would be supported by the project through the
provision of education materials and equipment, and training programs. The
project would also provide technical assistance for the designing of a pilot
weaning food program to distribute weaning food through health facilities to
about 1,000 children in the high risk municipalities. This pilot program
would be implemented by September 1991 to fulfill a second tranche release
condition of the SAL (see para. 2.45). The pilot program would, with the
technical support of INCAP, evaluate different types of weaning foods
(produced commercially, and at the community and household level, using local
raw materials). Food acceptability and nutritional value would also be
tested. After evaluation of the pilot program, the weaning food would be
distributed to one third of the primary health care facilities in the high-
risk municipalities by December 1992 (see Annex 13). The project would also
provide technical assistance to prepare and evaluate a pilot food coupon
program to distribute food coupons in the project municipalities. This pilot
program would be implemented by the third tranche of the SAL. The technical
assistance would also help the Government: (i) prepare the project profile,
distribution logistics, costa and coverage; and (ii) define administrative
arrangements, select areas for the implementation of the pilot program and
design monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. A work program for a pilot food
coupon program, including cost estimates and a proposed financing plan, all
satisfactory to the Bank, would be submitted to the Bank by August 31, 1992.
(d) SuDport to Safe Motherhood Initiatives.
3.12      The project would support the reduction of currently high levels of
perinatal and maternal mortality by strengthening the referral system from the
primary level to secondary health facilities where 24 hour a day birth
emergency services would be available, and upgrade first-aid service at
primary facilities by financing incremental staff, equipment and training (see
para. 2.17 (e)).
3.13      To implement the emergency births and first-aid services, 3
doctors, 46 nurses, 50 auxiliary nurses, 25 technicians (anesthesiologists)



- 29 -
and 26 blood bank technicians would be necessary. To fill the identified
personnel requirements, the MOH would, to the extent possible, transfer
existing staff by the end of the first year of project implementation. The
project would provide resources for hiring new staff only when there is a
demonstrated lack of staff available for transfer within the  OH as follows:
23 graduate nurses, 25 auxiliary nurses, 25 technicians (anesthesiologiste)
and 10 blood bank technicians.
3.14      In addition, the project would support the provision of training
programs in emergency births (35 nurses and 145 auxiliaries in health posts
and units in the 78 municipalities), in the referral/counter-referral system
and communications throughout the country (112 doctors, 112 nurses and 388
auxiliaries). Trained auxiliary nurses would, in turn, train the birth
attendants in the communities under their jurisdictions. Technical assistance
would be provided by the project to develop and monitor this program.
Equipment for both first and second levels of health facilities (about US$0.9
million) would also be provided. Annual work plans would be reviewed by the
Government and the Bank during the annual reviews (see para. 5.8 and Annex
13).
2. Institutional Development Component (US$2.81 million).
3.15      The institutional development component is designed to improve
HOH's management and capacity to deliver services, particularly in the areas
of supervision, financial and personnel management, and design of health
financing policies.
(a) Strenathenina the MOH SuRervision System.
3.16      Supervision at present is irregular and reaches only about 25% of
primary health care facilities; this is a result of a lack of trained
personnel, guidelines and resources (see para. 2.17 (d)). The project would
assist the MOH to develop a supervision system with improved norms, manuals
and training, and with resources to visit health facilities on a r--2.ar
basis. The proposed system involves the establishment of three national
supervisory teams, 18 regional teams with five regional supervisors to
coordinate supervision work in each region, and 74 supervisors to provide
technical support to promoters. Funds would be provided to auxiliary nurses
for the supervision of traditional birth attendants. The national teams would
make at least one supervisory visit to regions each week. The regional teams
would supervise health units on a monthly basis, and health posts on a bi-
monthly basis. Promoter supervisors would receive one supervisory visit from
the regional supervisor every two weeks to receive on-the-job training and
technical support. Each promoter would receive monthly supervisory sessions
and on-the-job training from the health post or unit auxiliary nurse.
3.17      The supervision system was designed and reviewed by the Bank during
project preparation and would be 'aunched in a series of national workshops
with the participation of national, regional and local level officials prior
to December 1991. Training and conttnuing education programs for supervisory
staff at all levels would be provided annually by the project.



- 30 -
3.18      Except for a need for 14 nutritionists (see para. 3.10), there is
sufficient supervisory personnel in the MOH. However, implementation of the
system would require 21 vehicles for the exclusive use by supervision teame.
The MOH would assign 16 existing vehicles for supervision activities, and the
project would finance the remaining five vehicles. In addition, it would
provide for preparation and production of manuals, office equipment antl
supplies, training, and operating costs on a declining basis. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that draft supervision manuals would be
submitted by the MOH to the Bank for review no later than April 30, 1992 (see
para. 7.1 (e) and Annex 13).
(b) ImDrovement of Financial and Personnel Management.
3.19      In the area of financial management this sub-component would help
to improve programming and management capacity to use budgetary resources more
efficiently by identifying sources and use of funds by program (see para.
2.20), and by supporting the preparation of a medium-term investment program
based on the results of the health and education facilities mapping study to
be conducted in 1992 (see para. 3.44). More efficient use of budgetary
resources would be achieved through the development of a decentralized
financial information system based on operational budgets and implemented at
the national, regional and local levels (hospitals, centers and units). A
Health Management Information System (HMIS) has been already implemented in 14
health centers and hospitals. The proposed project would support the
expansion and implementation of the HMIS in the remaining facilities. This
system would provide matrices for comparing health inputs (financing,
personnel) to outputs (specific services) by program activity, hence
establishing a cost-accounting system. At negotiations, the government and
the Bank agreed on the implementation targets and schedules (see Annex 8).
Progress on the implementation of the operational budgets and HMIS would be
reviewed during the annual implementatio.n reviews (see Annex 13).
3.20      The project would provide training programs for decision-makers at
the national, regional and local levels, as well as for incremental staff (4
computer specialists); computers would also be provided. Health staff would
be trained annually in the use of the HMIS and in the application of
operational budget data for improving efficiency in management of health
resources.
3.21      In the area of Rersonnel management, the project would assist the
MOH to establish the basis for improved efficiency in personnel policies. As
a first step it would assist the MOH in the redeployment of personnel to
correct existing staffing imbalances (see para. 2.17 (b)) and provide at least
part of the additional staff required by the primary health care and safe
motherhood programs supported by the project. As a second step, it would
assist the MON in the development of criteria for staff reduction,
reassignment and recruitment, to achieve a better skills mix and a more
efficient use of staff.
3.22      At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the V40H, assisted by
consultants, would carry out a study, no later than May 31, 1992, under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, on personnel efficiency at hospitals,



- 31 -
health centers and administrative offices at the national and regional lcvels,
and no later than July 31, 1992, submit to the Bank for review an action plan
and timetable for implementation, and thereafter implement such action plan
(see para. 7.1 (f)). Thie study would use data from the "reclassification
exercise" (Nivelacl6n de Salarios) and the personnel location studies. This
analysis would form the basis for reassigning staff to primary health care
services and safe motherhood programs. Reassignments would be made according
to established norms of "consultas" per staff. Specific reassignment
decisions would be made by the regional offices. The implementation of the
improved programs (primary health care and safe motherhood) supported by the
project would require the hiring of an estimated 126 additional specialists
with skills that are in short supply in the MOH. A plan of absorption would
be agreed upon during the second annual review (see Annex 13). At that time,
the MOH and the Bank would review the upgraded personnel information system
(already underway with support from USAID and PAHO) in comparison with the
proposed absorption plan. Progress on t!te implementation of the action plan
would be included in project implementation reviews for subsequent years.
(c) Develogment of Health Financing Policy.
3.23      The proposed project would finance operational stud'as to be
carried out by consultants or research institutions. Research would be aimed
at increasing revenues, improving efficiency ir the delivery of services, and
optimizing use of health facilities (see para. 2.22). The following subjects
have been jointly selected by the MOH and the Bank for the project: (a)
feasibility of cost-recovery systems; (b) hospital costs and efficiency; and
(c) two studies on provision of health care services by the private sector.
Detailed terms of reference for these studies have already been prepared (see
Project File). At negotiations, assurances were obtained that: that MOH
study subjects (a) and (b), would be completed and submitted to the Bank no
later than April 30, 1993 for review; that studies under (c) would be
completed no later than April 30, 1994; and that, no later than 6 months after
the completion of each study, the Government would submit an action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, including a timetable for implementati*n (see para.
7.1 (g)).
3.24      The MON Planning Office would coordinate the implementation of the
studies in collaboration with MIPLAN. The project coordinating unit would be
responsible for submitting to the Bank, no later than two months after
effectiveness, the proposed research groups or individual consultants for the
first year studies. Discussion between the Government and the Bank on the
findings and recommendations of the first year studies would be included in
the second annual project review. The agreed upon policies and action plan
would be implemented starting six months later. The procedure for reviewing
the btudies conducted for subsequent years would be the sa.Me as that defined
for the first year stttdies. The proposed project would finance study costs
and seminars for the dissemination of results.



- 32 -
Education
3.25      The project would help the government rehabilitate MOE's
managerial, technical and logistic services throuph two components:  (a) Basic
Services Devalonmmat In ahntat Rln *oalpe-tad mun4e4I4t4s  ^an
(b) Institutional Development. Training would be provided under each of these
components. The MOE has submitted a detailed training program for the first
year of project implementation. Annual training plans would be reviewed and
approved by the Government and the Bank during the annual implementation
reviews (see para. 5.8 and Annex 13).
1.   Basic Services Development Component (US$12.66 million).
3.26      Basic Services Development is mainly designed to increase coverage
and efficient provision of quality pre-primary and primary education. The
increased coverage would be attained primarily through the participation of
community groups in the implementation of a new delivery system (see para.
2.26). The project would expand the provision of pre-primary and primary
education services to about 70,000 students (25,000 students for pre-primary
and 45,000 for primary education) under a new system based on community
operated schools. The services would be delivered by community groups (CGs)
that would be formed by teachers and parents or NGOs selected by the MOE under
established criteria (see Annex 9). Resources would be transferred by the MOE
to the CGs to cover teacher salaries and program administration costs. The
CGG would be responsible for: (i) hiring and paying teachers; and (ii)
providing and furnishing physical facilities; and (iii) administering the
classes. The MOE would be responsible for: (i) selection of eligible CGs;
(ii) training of teachers and CGs; (iii) provision of educational materials
and supplementary food; (iv) supervision and technical support to both
teachers and CWs; (v) transfer of financial resources to the CGs on a monthly
basis; and (vi) annual review of CG expenditures on the basis of supervision
reports.   As a condition for disbursement, loan proceeds would not be
disbursed for any project activity carried out by a community group unless
such commualty group has signed a (convenio) with the HOE (see para. 7.3 (c)).
As a condition for loan effectiveness, the President and the Ministry of
Education would approve norms and procedures ("reflamento") to regulate
implementation of community operated schools including eligibility criteria
for CGo, satisfactory to the Bank, and would furnish to the Bank evidence of
contracts (Ronvenios) with 27 community groups, which represent about 10
percent of the selected communities for the first year of project
implementation (see para. 7.2 (b)).
3.27      The administration of this component would be located within the
National Directorates of Education (DNE) in the MOE, and would select CGs and
provide the resources on a monthly basis, according to supervisors'
assessments and reports on the program's operation. The MOE local level
supervjjors would be responsible for monitoring CG compliance with program
guidelines and would report findings to the Program Administration Unit.
Should community groups fail to comply with the program guidelines, they would
be ineligible for further funding under the program.



- 33 -
(a) Community ODerated Pre-grimary Education.
3.28      The program would focus mainly on those departments with the
highest first grade repetition rates (i.e., Sonsonate, Chalatenango, La Paz,
Cabafhas. MorazAn and La Uni6n) and higher nutritional deficiencies (Cabaftas,
Ahuachapan and Morazhn), within the project area (see para. 2.27 (a)). The
pre-primary education services would be provided to the extent possible in
communities that have a primary school nearby in order to help ensure
continuity of children's attendance to primary school. The CGs would have to
provide and furnish the learning spaces where classes would be held. Each
class would hold at least 28 students. About 25,000 students would be reached
by the project. Through this program it is expected that enrollments at the
pre-primary level would increase from 14 percent in 1989 to 18 percent in 1994
and that the participation of disadvantaged children would increase from 10
percent in 1989 to about 35 percent in 1994. The unit operating cost of the
program has been estimated at about US$120 a year, which includes US$20 in
food supplementation, and is about 24 percent above current unit cost
estimates, because of provision of training, instructional materials and food
supplementation. Teachers would be offered US$160 per month to teach the pre-
primary class (the average salary of a pre-primary teacher), which is deemed
appropriate to attract pre-school teachers to the program. Those teachers who
attain higher student/teacher ratios would receive up to a 10 percent increase
in their salaries.
3.29      In order to ensure adequate pedagogical quality and proper child
preparation for schooling, the project would finance, in coordination with the
SABE project, critical educational materials for pre-primary classes on a
national basis (2 workbooks per student plus guidelines for teachers). In
1991, pre-primary students would be using experimental, revised low-cost
materials developed for PAIN (see para. 2.27 (a)) and additional learning
materials already in storage. These materials would be revised based on
experience during 1991. In 1992, the project would finance the revised pre-
primary educational materials. The SABE project would take over the financing
of such materials in subsequent project years. The proposed project would
finance production and distribution of about 4,600 teachers guides and 156,000
children's workbooks.
3.30      The project would provide in-service training for about 2,500 pre-
primary teachers, concentrating on theory and practice of early childhood
development. The program would emphasize modern pedagogical theory and
practice by using small group interaction, strengthening proUlem-solving
skills and developing children's readiness for reading, writing and numeracy.
Although the project would give priority to the training of teachers in rural
areas of about 80 selected municipalities, all pre-primary teaching personnel
would eventually participate in the training program. School supervisors from
MOE would also receive training on child development, organization and
motivation of community groups to actively participate in the program. In
addition, the project would finance: (i) training for about 3,000 community
group members; (ii) travel and allowances for participants, trainers and
supervisors; (iii) equipment, preparation and printing of training materials;
and (iv) guidelines for the operation of CGs.



- 34 -
3.31      The Division of F-e-Primary Education at the MOE would coordinate
the training program through the regional offices and teacher training centers
using pre-primary teacher-trainers. Training materials and programs for the
first year of project implementation have been reviewed at appraisal and found
adenuatA. Annusil tr*in4.n  nlane wO!l be reveved and approved by the Bank
and the Government during the annual reviews.
(b) Community Operated Primary Education.
3.32      The proposed project would assist the Government to expand
coverage, decrease repetition and dropout, and improve the quality of early
grades of primary education by: (i) implementing a double shift policy in
existing schools with sub-utilized classrooms; (ii) opening new classes in
communities that lack school services; (iii) providing learning materials and
food; and (iv) training teachers (see para. 2.27 (d)). It is estimated that
through this program, about 45,000 more children would enroll in school,
increasing enrollment in rural areas from 61 percent in 1989 to 66 percent in
1994.
3.33      The program would focus on the departments with the highest
repetition and dropout rates in the first years of primary school (Cabanas,
Morazan, La Uni6n, Cuscatlan and Ahuachapan). Implementation of double
shifts, in schools with sub-utilized classrooms, would contribute to teacher
retention and would help limit teacher absenteeism. Teachers would be offered
US$160 per month to teach one class with at least 28 children per class.
Those teachers who attain a higher student/teacher ratio would receive a
salary incentive. This amount has been determined on the basis of the
Ministry's experience in schools that receive community support (see para.
2.32) and represents the average salary of a rural primary school teacher.
3.34      Under the proposed project, new classes would also be opened in
communities that lack school services (mostly as a result of the war) provided
that: (i) there is demand to have at least 28 children per class currently
not enrolled in school; (ii) there already exist some facilities that can be
used for this purpose, such as closed school buildings, churches, community
spaces, or private homes; and (iii) the CG provides evidence that a qualified
candidate willing to teach under CG contract has been identified. This
modality would operate under the same procedures as the double shift, except
that CGs would have to show evidence that they have an appropriate space to
hold classes. Through this scheme, primary schooling would reach communities
where MOE teachers have not been willing to work in the past, as well as newly
established population settlements. To inform communities about this program,
social marketing activities would be supported by the project. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government would present to
the Bank for review an action plan for purposes of promoting and disseminating
--formation about the community operated school program and timetable for
implementation by December 31, 1991, and Implement such action plan (see para.
7.1 (h)).
3.35      The unit cost of the program has been estimated at about US$120 per
year, per child, which includes US$20 in food supplementation. Even though



- 35 -
reliable data on current primary school unit costs are not available, rough
estimates indicate that the unit corts of the proposed program would be about
20 percent above current unit costs, because of provision of training,
teaching materials, and food supplementation.
3.36      The proposed project would improve quality ce  primary education by
providing adequate teaching and learning materials and encouraging their
effective use by the 1993 school year, when provision of teaching and learning
materials would start to be financed by the SABE Project. The provision of
teaching and learning materials by the proposed project is part of an eight
year curriculum development strategy, financed by the SABE project, that will
assist the MOE in improving the curriculum for primary education, including
the preparation, printing, and distribution of textbooks for the improved
curriculum. To fulfill short-term needs for textbooks arising from lack of
stocks and projected increased enrollment, the proposed project would finance
the interim production and distribution of 850,000 textbooks and 8,000
teaching guides for grades 1-6. These would be low cost reprints (about
US$1.50 per book) of those produced by PLANALIBRE under the Bank's Fourth
Education Project, and would last for at least two years. The books provided
by the project would be loaned to each child, who would keep them for the
whole school year according to proper supervision guidelines, and could return
them at the end of the school year for reuse in the next year. It is expected
that the provision of textbooks under the proposed project, together with
those to be provided by USAID, would ensure that by 1995 all primary school
students would have adequate access to learning materials produced in
accordance with the new curriculum based on the country's conditions and the
children's needs.
3.37      The proposed project would finance trainina of teachers and
community groups: (i) one week of in-service training for 150 teacher-
trainers (30 in each region and sub-region) to serve as trainers in upgrading
the skills of first grade teachers in reading/writing and math teaching
methods and in the use of educational materials; (ii) two week in-service
teacher training for about 7,200 first grade teachers to upgrade their
teaching skills, followed up by 2 day training every quarter; and (iii) one
week training for about 5,200 CG members in program administration and
accounting procedures. In addition, the proposed project would finance travel
and allowances for participants and trainers, equipment, training materials,
and guidelines for the operation of CGs. The training programs for teachers
and CG. would be carried out through regional workshops by the MOE's regional
training units.  The MOE's Training Directorate would be responsible for the
overall coordination of the program.  Workshops would be followed up by
technical support provided by the supervisory body of the Ministry.  The
implementation of the courses would precede distribution of teaching and
learning materials. Training programs for the first year of project
implementation were reviewed at appraisal. Annual training plans would be
reviewed and approved by the Bank and the Government during the annual
reviews.



_ 36 -
(c) School Nutrition Proaram.
3.38      The Government has been increasingly involved in providing targeted
nutritional supplementation through the school system. The MOE currently
implements a school lunch program with food donated by the WFP (see para.
2.37). To complement this effort, the Government is preparing to undertake a
complementary school nutrition program, sponsored under the SAL (see para.
2.38), to provide nutritionally fortified cookies to pre-primary and primary
school students who do not have access to other nutritional supplementation.
This initiative would be implemented by the MOE. A pilot program designed to
test the acceptability of the cookie among school children was conducted in
January/February 1991 with the cooperation of INCAP. The distribution of the
cookies is expected to commence in July 1991 and should reach pre-primary and
primary school children in 26 of the high risk municipalities by the fourth
quarter of 1991. Coverage of all project municipalities is expected to be met
by tne fourth quarter of 1992. Currently the cookie is made from a mixture of
soy, flour meal and corn. However, some of the ingredients are not indigenous
to, or readily available in, El Salvador. INCAP staff are studying the most
appropriate composition for local production and distribution, and it is
expected that the content of the cookie and distribution arrangements would
evolve over the course of the program. The Project would provide financing
for technical assistance and for the distribution of the cookies/raw materials
to the communities.
(d) Formative Evalustion.
3.39      The proposed project would include financing for annual formative
evaluations of the pre-primary and primary programs which would seek to
determine their impact on child development and cost-effectiveness. Lessons
would be drawn from its implementation with a view to modifying the program
and adapting the system to other poverty areas of El Salvador. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the MOE would: (i) submit terms
of reference for the formative evaluations of the programs, satisfactory to
the Bank, no later than six months after project effectiveness; (li) submit,
no later than March 31 of each year during project implementation, the results
of the respective formative evaluations; and (iii) prepare action plans, no
later than Aprll 30 of each year, beginning in 1992, including a timetable for
implementation, and Implement such action plans (see para. 7.1 (i)).
Recommendations arising from MOE's supervision and from the external
evaluation would provide key information to the MOE during project
implementation regarding the need for adjustments to the programs' design.
The evaluations would be carried out by consultants, satisfactory to the Bank,
and the results discussed and action plans agreed upon during the annual
reviews of the project by the Government and the Bank (see para. 5.8 and Annex
13).
2.   Institutional Development Component (US$8.54 million).
3.40      The institutional development component of the proposed project
aims to improve educational policy planning, priority logistic systems and
management capabilities of the MOE at the central, regional and local levels
to ensure quicker and more effective responses to children's learning needs



- 37 -
through: (a) establishing planning and management information systems
including a school mapping exercise; (b) designing and implementing a
supervision system; (c) establishing a textbook and teaching materials
distribution system; and (d) developing a school maintenance system.
(a) Planning and Manaaement Information Systems.
3.41      The proposed project would finance:  technical assistance; computer
hardware and software, and related materials and supplies; training for about
130 planning and MIS staff; personnel cost of 14 additional staff (computer
analysts and statisticians) at central, regional and sub-regional levels; and
travel allowances and per diems on a declining basis.
3.42      The Government and the Bank have agreed at appraisal on the
following action plan: (i) upgrading basic education statistics and
developing demand indicators critical to educational planning; (ii) defining
basic management information needed to monitor budgets, expenditures and
personnel; (iii) updating the existing information on location of school
facilities, status of building, furniture, equipment and maintenance needs,
and preparation of a medium-term investment program; (iv) designing and
implementing the MIS system; (v) developing and applying simple educational
planning models such as unit cost analysis and simple simulation models to
determine the implications of alternative interventions on the recurrent
budget; and (vi) carrying out an evaluation of MOE's current administrative
organization, personnel management system, and effective deployment of
personnel and developing recommendations to improve its capacity to respond to
school needs, and design and implementation of personnel policies. The
implementation program for the first year of project implementation has been
prepared (see Annex 8). Annual work plans would be reviewed and approved by
the Bank during the annual reviews (see para. 5.8 and Annex 13). At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government would: (i) no
later than April 30, 1993, complete the evaluation of MOE's personnel
management system; (ii) promptly thereafter exchange views with the Bank on
the results of the evaluation; and (iii) no later than April 30, 1994, prepare
and submit to the Bank an action plan and timetable for implementation, and
implement such action plan (see para. 7.1 (j)).
3.43      As part of the Education Development Plan, the MOE is committed to
a progressive transfer of administrative functions to the three regional and
two sub-regional offices. To that effect, the overall guiding principle in
the design of the management information system is the distribution of
information generating, data processing and data Analysis capabilities to
these offices. The proposed information system would operate in a
decentralized way at the regional and sub-regional level and would provide the
central level office with both the consolidation and analytic capabilities
necessary to support management and planning functions. The Information Unit
in the central office would oversee system design and implementation, and
would support the regional and sub-regional offices. The central unit would
also be responsible for data consolidation, historical data maintenance at the
file level, and producing national indicators and analysis. The MIS would
provide decision-makers with information on personnel and budget management;
location of school facilities, status of buildings, furniture, equipment and



- 38 -
educational materialsl and student enrollment and promotion. Implementation
of the HIS would occur in three phases: (i) design phase, during which the
basic design of the system would be finalized, data generators and users
determined, and levels of data aggregation and storage for each level of the
system specified (first year of project implementation); (ii) detailed system
design development and testing (second and third year of project
Implementation); and (iii) system implementation support and maintenance at
all levels. Progress would be reviewed during the annual reviews (see Annex
13).
3.44      To provide complete information on the education network and the
demand for education services (see para. 2.25 (c)), the proposed project would
use the results of a school maRning study and inventory of health facilities
that will be carried out under S,ant financing by the Government of Japan and
completed no later than December 31, 1992 that includes: (i) updating the
information on location of facilities, status of buildings, furniture and
equipment; (ii) locating the potential demand for additional classroom places;
and (iii) defining maintenance needs in existing schools to prepare a medium
term investment program which would be reviewed by the Government and the Bank
during the second annual review (see Annex 13).   At negotiations, assurances
were obtained that the Government would: Mi) complete the health facilities
and school mapping study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
no later than December 31, 1992; and (ii) based on the results of the exercise
referred to above, prepare and submit to the Bank, no later than April 30,
1993, an Investment plan, satisfactory to the Bank; and no later than April
30, 1994, a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the updating of the data
collected under (i), and implement the plan for updating data in a
satisfactory manner (see para. 7.1 (k)). The project would also provide
technical assistance to design procedures for the systematic update of the
school mapping data and its integration into the MOE planning process and MIS,
and to train staff to ensure its adequate use.
(b)  Design and Implementation of a Supervision System
3.45      Currently, there is no school supervision system in place (see
para. 2.27 (c)). The proposed project would support: (i) the design and
implementation of a unified supervision system comprising supervision services
at the central, regional and sub-regional levels; (ii) the design and
production of supervision guidelines and manuals; (iii) the development of a
supervision reporting system and integration into the HIS; (iv) training
courses and training materials for about 150 central, regional and sub-
regional level supervisors in the use of the supervision guidelines and
manuals; (v) procurement of 19 four-wheel vehicles and 30 motorcycles,
including operating costs; (vi) incremental costs of travel and travel
allowances for supervision; (vii) technical assistance; and (viii) cerational
studies to evaluate the impact of supervisicn on performance of teachers,
principals and students.
3.46      The system would comprise supervision of technical, pedagogical and
administrative functions. Its first priority application would be the
supervision of the pre-primary and primary education programs supported under
the proposed project. The MOE has sufficient personnel to implement the



- 39 -
system. The MOE would submit to the Bank, no later than July 31, 1991, the
revised proposal for the supervision system including: functions and
responsibilities of the different supervisory levels; estimates of the number
of supervisors necessary by type of service and school location; corresponding
training programs; and the system's implementation schedule. The terms of
reference for the supervision system and guidelines have already been prepared
and agreed on with the Bank. As a condition for loan effectiveness, the
Government would complete, satisfactory to the Bank, the final design of the
MOE supervision system and its schedule of implementatlon, including the
training program for supervisory personnel, and a proposal for the development
of supervision manuals (see para. 7.2 (c)). Final versions of the manuals
would be reviewed by the Bank and the Government during the first annual
review. Annual work plans for subsequent years would be reviewed by the
Government and the Bank during the annual reviews (see Anmax 13).
(c) Textbooks and Materials Distribution System.
3.47      Currently, there are several distribution units within the MOE (see
para. 2.28 (d)). The proposed project would support the integration of these
units into one office, which would distribute textbooks, teaching and learning
materials and other school supplies. The system would be based on the
experience of PLANALIBRE (see para. 2.27 (e)). A central Distribution Unit
would be responsible for overall coordination, supervision, and distribution
from San Salvador to the regions. The regional divisions (one unit in each of
the three regional offices), would be responsible for the distribution of all
textbooks, teaching materials and supplies to schools under their
jurisdiction. The central level Distribution Unit would work in close
coordination with the National Directorates of Education (DNE) and
Administration and would establish distribution schedules to the regions. The
distribution system would use private transportation, which is reliable and
cost-effective. Performance of the system and proposed work plans for the
following fiscal year would be reviewed and approved annually by the Bank
during the annual reviews. The project would finance: (i) technical
assistance for the development of the system's monitoring plan; (ii) 4
vehicles; and (iii) central and regional office equipment and furniture. In
addition, it would finance private transportation of materials, and per diems
for MOE's monitoring of distribution activities on a declining basis. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that a central textbooks and materials
distribution unit would be established by no later than December 31, 1991 (see
para. 7.1 (1)).
(d) School Maintenance System.
3.48      The proposed project would support the implementation of an
improved school and furniture maintenance system with community participation.
The system's design is based on MOE's experiences of community participation
in these activities (see para. 2.28 (d)). Under the improved system, the MOE
would be responsible for assessing school rehabilitation and maintenance
needs, agreeing with school principals and communities on work schedules,
transferring necessary resources to communities, and providing technical
support and supervision through its Directorate of School Construction and



- 40 -
Maintenance (Direccin de Construcciones v Mantenimiento, DCM) regional unite.
School principals and communities would acquire materials and carry out the
work schedules. The system would be tested on a pilot basis in 45 schools in
the municipalities in the project area during the first year of project
implementation. After a successful evaluation of the pilot program by the MOE
and a positive review by the Bank, the system would be expanded to the
additional 389 schools in the project area. The DCM in the MOE would be
responsible for the overall implementation of the system and the supervision
of its implementation through the MOE's regional offices. Three regional
workshops would be used by DCM to train and assist the communities in school
maintenance (electrical, plumbing and roofing work). At negotiations,
assurances wore obtained that: (i) no later than December 31, 1991, the DCM
would present a finalized proposal of the implementation plan, satisfactory to
the Bank, for the pilot maintenance program; (li) Implement the pilot and its
evaluation by no later than April 30, 1992; and (iII) based on its results,
and at the Bank's request, prepare and furnish to the Bank, no later than July
31, 1992, a plan for the expansion of the referred pilot program including a
timetable for implementation (see para. 7.1 (a)). The project would finance:
(i) the pilot program; (ii) revision and printing of maintenance manuals for
schools and communities; (iii) 4 vehicles; (iv) equipment for 3 regional
workshops for the DCM; and (v) incremental costs of the expanded maintenance
program for monitoring of the school maintenance system on a declining basis.
Performance of the system and proposed work plans for the subsequent years
would be reviewed and approved annually by the Bank during annual reviews (see
Annex 13).
Social Sector Planning (US$0.56 million).
3.49      The proposed project would strengthen MIPLAN capacity for strategic
planning, and monitoring of social sector policies and programs by supporting
the development of a social sector information system strengthening statistics
and data gathering processes at the local level. The project would review
existing mechanisms for data collection and data gathering processes in the
central offices of the social sector ministries to detect administrative
bottlenecks, equipment and training deficiencies and prepare recommendations
to improve the system. To strengthen data gathering procedures at the local
level, the project would support an evaluation of the data gathering carried
out by social ministries and specific social programs (CONARA, ISDEM, PRODERE,
WFP and the SSIF) at the local level. These exercises would facilitate the
consolidation of the efforts of the different institutions, the unifying of
data gathering criteria and the coordination of interventions.
3.50      In addition, the proposed project would support specific studies to
help the Government evaluate targeting and impact of compensatory programs and
develop methods to monitor social sector budgets by program. The following
topics have been jointly selected by MIPLAN and the Bank for the project: (i)
targeting and impact evaluation of specific poverty alleviation programs; and
(ii) review of health and education sector resource allocation and
reorganization of the existing budget system consolidating ordinary and
extraordinary budgets. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that, no
later than two months after project effectiveness, MIPLAN would submit to the



- 41 -
Bank the ft"l proposals for these studias, which would be carried out no
later than April 30, 1993, and prepare actLon plane no  ater than July 31,
1993 including timing for implementation (see para. 7.1 (n)). Discussions
between the Government and the Bank on the findings and recommendations of
these studies would be included in the annual reviews, and actions to be taken
by the Government during the project execution period would be agreed upon
(see Antex 13).
IV. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Prolect Costs and Financing
4.1       Proiect Costs.  The total project cost is estimated at about
US$35.6 million, including contingencies, of which about US$9.3 million would
be foreign exchange. There are no identifiable taxes since all items
specifically procured for the project would be exempt from custom duties and
taxes. Table 4.1 below summarizes the estimated costs by project component
(see Annex 10 for details).
4.2       Base Costs and Contingencies.  Base costs are expressed in March
1991 prices. Equipment and pharmaceutical costs were based on costs priced
for similar imported or locally available items. Furniture costs were based
on lists of standard locally available items. Instructional materials and
textbooks were based on current production and distribution costs. Training
and costs of foreign and local consultants were based on current standards.
Costs of incremental staff and operating costs were based on current
estimates. Total contingencies of US$5.5 million represent 18 percent of base
costs. Physical contingencies (US$1.13 million) represent 4 percent of base
costs. Price contingencies (US$4.39 million), about 14 percent of base costs,
assume: (i) a projected exchange rate of the Salvadoran colon for the end of
each calendar year of 8.5 for 1991, 9.22 for 1992, 9.4 for 1993 and
therreafter; (ii) a projected local inflation rate of 12 percent for 1991, 11
percent for 1992, 10 percent for 1993, and 9 percent thereafter; and (iii) a
projected price increase for foreign costs estimated in US dollars at 3.4
percent per annum for 1991-1995.
4.3       Prolect Financing.  The proposed loan of US$26 million would
finance 73 percent of the project cost, which represents 100 percent of
foreign exchange expenditures and 64 percent of local expenditures. The
remaining US$9.3 million would be financed as follows: US$2.1 million by
USAID under a parallel financing arrangement for the training of health
promoters; US$0.3 million by UNICEF also under a parallel financing
arrangement for the training of birth attendants; and US$7.2 million by the
Salvadoran Government. Retroactive financing of up to 10 percent of the loan
would cover eligible expenditures made after March 6, 1991, the completion of
appraisal. The Government has already allocated 24 million colones (about
US$3 million) in the 1991 budget to start project implementation activities in
April 1991. Table 4.2 shows the proposed project financing plan.



- 42 -
title 4.it SUMHARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY C0MPONENT-
l         I          FOREIGN    TOTAL BASE:
LOCALI FOREIGN   TOTAL    EXCHAI'GE       COST -
(US$ Million)                -        X.
Basic Services
Development
Health            3.55      4.37    7.92      55.0          26
Education        10.31      0.00   10.31       0.0          34
Sub-Total        13.86      4.37   18.23      23.9          61
Institutional
StrenatheninR
Health            2.33      0.86    3.19      26.9          11-
Education         5.49      2.69    8.18      32.9          27
Planning          0.25      0.25    0.50      50.0           2
Sub-Total         8.07      3.80   11.87      32.0          39.
TOTAL BASE COSTS   21.93      8.17   30.10      27.0         100
Phys'ical
Contingencies    0.76      0.38    1.14      33.6           4
Price
Contingencies    3.63      0.76    4.39      17.3          14
TOTAL PROJECT      26.32      9.31   35.63      26.3         118
COSTS
Table 4.2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
LOCAL         FOREIGN           TOTAL
GOVERNMENT               7.2              -.-             7.2
IBRD                    16.7              9.3            26.0
USAID                    2.1              -.              2.1
UNICEF                   0.3              _._             0.3
TOTAL                   26.3              9.3            35.6



- 43 -
4.4       Incremental Recurrent Costa.  Incremental recurrent costs account
for 59 percent of the total costs. By 1994, at full operation, the project
would add an average of about US$6.8 million per year to the recurrent
expenditures of the MOH and MOE, representing an increase of 3 percent and 6
percent in current MOH and MOE recurrent expenditure budgets, respectively.
Recurrent expenditures would consist mainly of esalaries (52 percent of total
incremental recurrent costs), procurement of instructional materials and
incremental recurrent expenditures such as essential drugs, contraceptives,
micronutrients, educational and medical supplies, operation and maintenance of
vehicles, and travel subsistence costs for supervision and community level
activities.
4.5             Incremental recurrent costs under the project are estimated as
follows:
Calendar Year
1991        1992         1993         1994
-----in US$ Million------------
MOH     1.0          1.6          1.7         1.9
MOE     1.8          2.9         4.5          4.9
TOTAL   2.8          4.5         6.2          6.8
Incremental operating costs would be financed by the Bank at decreasing rates
and the difference would be absorbed at a gradually increasing rate by the
Government. Recurrent costs to be financed by the proposed loan funds would
be 64 percent of total incremental recurrent costs to be generated by the
project. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government would
provide annual counterpart funds as required under the project including
incremental recurrent expenditures generated by the project. In addition,
assurances were obtained that the Government, in respect of its health and
education sectors, would increase: (a) the total aggregate amount of ordinary
budgetary resources for recurrent expenditures for primary health care, and
pre-primary and primary education; and (b) the share of such budgetary
resources for non-salary recurrent expenditures in relation to the total
amount of recurrent expenditures for primary health and pre-primary and
primary education, according to the levels and periods agreed at negotiations
by the Government and the Bank (see para. 7.1 (o) and Annex 14). The
Socioeconomic Development Plan 1990-94 expresses the Government commitment to
increase the overall allocation for the health and education sectors from 2.7
percent of the GDP in 1989 to 4.6 percent in 1994 (see para. 2.46) which would
more than suffice to cover estimated increases of investment and recurrent
expenditures generated by the project. The feasibility of increasing
resources for the health and education sectors appears ensured, since the main
fiscal adjustment would be made on the revenue side through increased tax
collection. The Government has already started to make a serious effort: tax
revenues increased from 7.6 percent of GDP in 1989 to 8.3 percent in 1990.
The Government has committed with the Bank (under the SAL) and the IMF to
undertake further improvement in tax collections from all sources and has
devised a program through which tax revenues would reach 11 percent by 1994.



- 44 -
4.6       The budget restructuring efforts in both ministries, including
implementation of action plans on personael policies would be closely
monitored by the Bank. After the first year of project implementation, the
availability of budgetary funds for recurrent costs for the following fiscal
year would be examined during the annual review (see para. 5.8). Furthermore,
the rationalization of cost-recovery mechanisms, and increased community
participation contemplated under the project should generate additional funds.
B. Procurement
4.7       The pro4ect would include procurement of vehicles, biomedical
equipment, computer equipment, medical and educational supplies (instructional
materials, drugs, contraceptives and micronutrients) and furniture, as well as
studies and consultancy services. Equipment and furniture lists and supplies
lists for procurement in the first year of project implementation were
reviewed during appraisal.
4.8       Vehicles, educational and medical equipment, office equipment,
materials and supplies would be grouped to the extent possible in large
packages (US$100,000 equivalent or more) to permit bulk procurement and to
benefit from economies of scale. Of these goods, contracts for computerp,
vehicles, textbooks and other equipment to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more,
would be awarded through ICB procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Specialized items (e.g., biomedical equipment, generic drugs, contraceptives
and micronutrients), valued at above US$25,000 equivalent, and up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to US$4.4 million would, for reasons of economy,
efficiency and strict quality requirements ba procured through Limited
International Bidding (LIB) procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Any other goods, such as furniture, other instructional materials, health
post/unit equipment and office supplies, valued at more than US$25,000
equivalent but less than US$100,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to US$1.5 million, would be procured through competitive bidding
procedures advertised locally and satiefactory to the Bank. Miscellaneous
small items, to cost less than US$25,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to US$0.85 million, would be procured following local/international
shopping procedures, through price quotations obtained from at least three
eligible suppliers, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank. Direct contracting
for goods related to school maintenance and school supplies by community
groups would be permitted up to an aggregate amount of US$350,000 during the
life of the project, subject to the following: (i) a ceiling would be
included in the contract (convenio) that each community group would subscribe
with the MOE; and (ii) the convenio would include provisions requiring that
community groups obtain at least two price quotations whenever feasible. In
the evaluation of bids obtained under ICB a margin of preference, in
accordance with Bank guidelines, may be granted to bids offering goods
manufactured to a substantial extent in any country, including El Salvador,
which is a party to the Central American Market Treaty.
4.9       The Government has requested UNICEF-El Salvador and UNDP-El
Salvador, respectively, to act as procurement agents for all goods and
services to be financed under the project. Both agencies entertain a long



- 45 -
relationship with Government agencies and are well suited to implement the
procurement actions envisaged for the project. Also, both agencies have
specifically agreed to adhere to the procurement arrangements specified in the
Loan Agreement, to Bank guidelines for the procurement of goods and for the
use of consultants and to the use of standard bidding documents, which are
currently under preparation. As a condition for loan effectiveness, the
Goverment would have entored into service agreements, satisfactory to the
Bank, with UNICEF-El Salvador and UNDP-El Salvador (seA para. 7.2 (d)).
4.10      Review Requirements.  Prior review by the Bank would be required
for contracts awarded through ICB and LIB and the first two contracts awarded
through LCB and shopping, respectively. This would amount to about 25 percent
of the total project costs. Other contracts would be subject to ex-post
review by the Bank, and all procurement documentation would be kept by the
project PCU at MIPLAN and procurement agents for periodic Bank staff
supervision. Table 4.3 summarizes procurement arrangements by category. In
addition, the Bank would review terms of reference, letter of invitation and
proposal evaluation for all consultant assignments valued at above US$20,000.
C. Disbursements
4.11      The proceeds of the loan w'Juld be disbursed during a four-year
period as follows: (a) equipment, furniture and vehicles, 100 percent; (b)
studies, technical assistance and training, 100 percent (excluding training
financed by USAID and UNICEF); (c) Project Coordination Units and operating
costs, 100 percent; and (d) textbooks, 100 percent of total cost; (e)
instructional materials, drugs and micronutrients office supplies, incremental
salaries and other local operational costs, at a rate of 100 percent until an
aggregate amount of US$2.8 million equivalent has been reached; thereafter,
disbursements for this category would be made at a rate of 80 percent until
the aggregate amount of US$6.4 million equivalent has been reached;
thereafter, disbursements for this category would be made at a rate of 75
percent until the aggregate amount of US$11.1 million equivalent ha. "en
reached; the remaining funds would be disbursed at a rate of 30 percent of
expenditures until the aggregate amount of US$13.1 million has been reached.
Annex 11 presents the allocation of loan proceeds and estimated schedule of
disbursements.
4.12      The Bank, in consultation with the Government, may suspend
disbursements for any component that is not performing satisfactory according
to annual work plans and targets. At negotiations, assurances to this end
were obtained (see para. 7.1 (p)).
4.13       Withdrawal applications for goods and services with a contract
value of US$100,000 or more would be supported by full documentation.
Contracts for goods and services below US$100,000 would be made on the basis
of StatemenLs of Expenditure (SOEs), for which supporting documents would be
maintained by the project PCU at MIPLAN and by the procurement agents, and
would be made available for Bank staff review. Because of the large volume of
disbursement expected to be claimed under SOEs, special efforts would be made
by Bank supervision missions to selectively review SOE documentation. A



- 46 -
Table 4.3:  PROCUREMENT METHOD BY CATEGORY
(US$ million)
CATEGORY                 ICB   LIB   LCB  OTHER  N.AI TOTAL
Computers and Vehicles           2.0                              2.0
(2.0)                            (2.0)
Biomedical Equipment             0.7   0.6                         1.3
(0.7) (0.6)                     (1.3)
' Futniture,'Health Post/
Unit Equipment and Office
Equipment                       0.2         0.4   0.1            0.7
(0.2)       (0.4) (0.1)          (0.7)
_:Textbooks, Instructional
.Materials and Office
''Su p'lies         '           1.1          1.1   1.1           3.3
(1.1)       (0.7) (0.7)          (2.5)'
DrugG and Micronutriente               3.8
(2.7)                      (2.7)
Technical Assistance,-
Studies and Training                               9.5            9.5 :
-ncremental Salaries                '              (.      .9 1)(79.
,                                        ' 4 ~~~~~~~~~~~69)   (6 A)
Other Operating Coste                                     4.0     4.0'
(2.8)   (24)
TOTAL                     4.0   4.4   1.5  10.7  14.9 - 5.6
(4.0) '(3.3) (1.1) (7.9) (9.7)  (26.0)
' Note" Figures i-n parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the
Bank.
' _L"'' ,USAID and UNICEP will finance the remaining US$2.4 million'
.  under paall eI cofinanc ng.
Special Account in US dollars would be opened at the Central Reserve Bank of
El Salvador, with an initial deposit of US$2 million equivalent, corresponding
to about 4 months of project expenditures. The PCU would use the special
account to implement procurement agents contracts and services. At
negotiations, assurancos were obtained that a Speclal Account would b- opened
in the Contral Reserve Bank (see par&. 7.1 (q)).



- 47 -
D. Accounts and Audits
4.14      MOH, MOE and MIPLAN would keep separate accounts for project
expenditures in accordance with internationally accepted accounting
procedures. The Government agreements with the procurement agents (UNICEF and
UNDP) would include provisions for the establishment and maintenance of
separate accounts for project expenditures, and for compliance with the Bank's
auditing guidelines. All project accounts, the Special Account and all
disbursements against SOEs would be audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank in accordance with the Bank's auditing guidelines. The
Government would submit to the Bank the audit reports of expenditures within
six months of the closure of each fiscal year. The audit reports would
certify that funds were used for the purposes for which they were provided.
At negotiations, these auditing arrangements were agreed upon (see para. 7.1
(r)).
4.15      In addition to MOE auditing (see para. 3.26) the auditing of
community operated schools would combine financial review with physical
inspecvion of the programs in the field (concurrent auditing) on a biannual
basis. For the first year of project implementation the auditors would
examine all CGs, review the individual contracts, ascertain whether the terms
of these contracts are complied with, inspect the operation of the programs,
and reconcile the operation of the program with the financial expenses
incurred. Thereafter, the auditors would examine a sample of CGs,
satisfactory to the Bank. The auditors would prepare biannual reports for the
MOE and the Bank (to be submitted no later than two months after each
semester). At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the project
minLstries, the procurement agents and the Central Reserve Bank would: (a)
maintain and audit annually the project accounts and the Special Account; and
(b) forward copies of audit reports, including a separate opinion on the
adequacy of SOEs, to the Bank within six months after the end of each calendar
year (see para. 7.1 (r)). As a condition for loan effectiveness, the
Government would prepare, satisfactory to the Bank, terms of reference to be
used by the auditors for the auditing of community operated schools (see pare.
7.2 (e)).
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Arrangements
5.1       The project was prepared by the MOH, MOE and MIPLAN, with technical
assistance from the Bank, UNDP, USAID, UNICEF, and with financial assistance
from the Japanese Government Grant Facility. GAES, at the Ministry of
Planning, provided overall coordination to the MOH and MOE preparation teams,
which were placed under the respective Vice-Minister Offices. The preparation
teams: (i) defined the project scope and objectives in accordance with the
overall strategy for the social sectors defined in the Government's
"Socioeconomic Development Plan"; (ii) coordinated the work performed by the
directorates and units involved in the project; and (iii) served as liaison
between the central and regional levels for the gathering of relevant data and



- 48 -
discussion of issues. This organizational setup would serve as the basis for
implementation arrangements. Each of the three ministries has appointed the
key members of the preparation teams in the respective Project Coordination
Units. The Government has given full support to the project. Overall
staffing and training programs have been prepared; MOH and MOE detailed
training programs for the first year of project implementation were submitted
to the Bank prior to negotiations. Draft procurement documents are being
prepared. Lists for equipment, furniture and materials have been prepared and
were also reviewed at negotiations.
5.2       GAES, at the Ministry of Planning, would be responsible for overall
coordination and monitoring of project implementation. The project PCU would
be staffed with a full time coordinator, and two assistants, all with
qualifications, experience, functions and terms of employment acceptable to
the Bank. The project PCU would be complemented with two additional branches,
one in the MOH and one in the MOE. The project PCU would report directly to
the Director of CAES and would: (a) provide overall coordination of project
activities; (b) provide support to MOH and MOE in the preparation of annual
work plans, and consolidate these work plans; (c) monitor project
implementation and expenditures in the MOH and MOE and arrange for audits of
project accounts; (d) prepare annual progress reports on the status of project
implementation, including quantitative analysis of annual targets; and (e)
organize annual project implementation and work plan reviews.
5.3       Project implementation in the MOH and MOE would utilize existing
administrative structures in the ministries at the central and regional
levels, except for general coordination of project implementation. In the
MOH, the Branch PCU staffed by a project coordinator and 2 technical
specialists with functions, qualifications and terms of employment
satisfactory to the Bank, and would be assigned to the Office of the Vice
Minister. In the MOE, the Branch PCU staffed by a project coordinator, and 2
technical specialists also with functions, qualifications and terms of
employment satisfactory to the Bank, would also be assigned to the Office of
the Vice Minister. Each ministry has the capacity to implement the project,
and their ability to do so would be further strengthened by the Institutional
Development component of the proposed project. The project would also
strengthen the implementation capacity at the local levels to enable them to
fully implement project components.
5.4       MIPLAN, MOE, and MOH have already established the PCUs.  At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that PCU staff, with qualifications,
experience, functions, and terms of employment satisfactory to the Bank, would
be maintained (see para. 7.1 (s)).
5.5       The proposed project would be implemented over a period of
approximately four years and is expected to be completed by September 30,
1995. The closing date would be March 31, 1996. The cost estimates prepared
for the various components (see Annex 10) and implementation schedule (see
Annex 12) would serve as a basis for project implementation planning and would
be updated annually by the MOH, MOE and MIPLAN in preparation for the annual
implementation and work plan reviews (see para. 5.8). During the annual
reviews with the Government, the Bank would give particular attention to the



- 49 -
effectiveness and efficiency of implementation of project eomponents, acid
changes would be agreed as needed (see para. 5.8).
5.6       A project launch seminar would be conducted prior to loan
effectiveness to increase the familiarity of PCU staff at MOH, MOE and GAES
with Bank procedures.
B. Planning. ReRortinx and Imnlementation Reviews
5.7       Each Branch PCU would, by March 30 of each year, beginning in 1992,
deliver to the project PCU a draft annual work plan. This draft plan wou].d
provide detailed information regarding previous year implementation,
comparison with targets established in the annual work plans (includiulg
reports on pilot programs and evaluations), proposed next year implemisntu&tion,
targets, and budgeting of each of the project components. The projecl: P(:U
would review and consolidate each ministry's work plan and prepare prmgrens
reports on project implementation, targets and budgets for the follow:ln; year,
which would be submitted to the Bank no later than April 30 of each yoia7c,
beginning in 1992. As a condition for disbursement, loan proceeds wotlLd not
be disbursed for activities not included in an approved annual work plan (see
para. 7.3 (d)).
5.8       The project and Branch PCUs, the MOF and procurement agents 'would
conduct, jointly with the Bank, annual reviews of implementation of project
components by no later than May 31 of each year, beginning in 1992. The
reviews would inter alia: (a) analyze the previous year's performancei for
each of the project components (see para. 5.7); (b) analyze budget allocation
and effectiveness and efficiency of implementation arrangements (see paras.
4.6, 5.2, 5.3 and 5.5); (c) analyze the proposed work plan and budget. for each
of the project components for the following year (see para. 5.5); (d)l discuss
adjustments to be made in the project implementation schedule (see piara. 5.5);
(e) analyze the results and recommendations of the studies, evaluations and
pilot programs carried out the previous year and agree on measures to be
implemented and the schedule of implementation (see para. 5.7); and (f) agree
on the planned research and training activities for the following yaiar, all of
which would need to be approved by the Bank in order to proceed (se4s para.
5.7). For a detailed list of the items to be included in the agendia of the
annual reviews see Annex 13. The proposed work plan and budget for the
following year would have to be previously defined at the central and regional
levels and contain a detailed description of targets and planned activities.
At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government would.: (i)
submit, no later than April 30 of each year, an annual work plan; snd (ii)
conduct, jointly with the Bank, no later than May 31 of each year, these
annual reviews on overall project implementation according to the EftgTeed upon
agenda; and (Iii) agree on follow-up actions, and on measures to ba taken if
satisfactory progress is not achieved (see para. 7.1 (t!).



- 50 -
C. Proiect Monitoring and Evaluation
5..9       The annual project implementation reviews would constitute the key
monitorirvg tool for the proposed project. At negotiatlons, the Government and
th%% Bank agreed on the main monitoring and evaluation indicators and target.
of project implementation in HIPLAN, HOH and HOE (see para. 7.1 (t)) presented
in Annex 8. These indicators would be based on comparisons with the first
year work plans prepared by the Branch PCUs. These comparisons would focus on
changes iia indicators on activity and performance. By strengthening the HOR
and IYIOE KES systems, and developing a social information system, the
insti.tutio)nal development component would support the production of timely and
accurate Information in each ministry, and promote the identification and
correo:tion. of problems. Feedback to the regional level in the MOH, and the
regior.al and sub-regional levels in the MOE, would be provided regarding their
performance in delivering services and achieving targets.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Proiect Benefits
6.1        The proposed project would have direct benefits on the health
status o.f pregnant and lactating women, infants and children, and would
provide aLmproved pre-primary and primary education services in disadvantaged
areas whihch represent about 30 percent of the country's population. The
provision of basic health and education services to about 1.1 million poor
would: (is) reduce the prevalence of gastrointestinal, infectious and
communicalble diseases, complications of pregnancy, and malnutrition, all of
which are associated with high rates of infant, child and maternal mortality;
(b) increase the enrollment of pre-school age children, from 14 percent in
1989 to 22 percent in 1994, to lay the basis for their success in primary
school; andl (c) increase primary school enrollment in rural areas, from 61
percent in 1989 to 69 percent in 1994, and decrease repetition and dropout
rates among primary school age children. Institutional development would
contribute to improved planning, personnel and financial management; increased
service delivery capacity; and higher productivity in the health and education
sectors. C(ommunity participation in the project would help to delegate
delivery of services to the local level, contribute to the easing of the
Government'us financial constraints, and increase the demand for these
services.  Mthe project would provide a model for other poverty areas of El
Salvador, amid lay the basis for an effective decentralization of social
services delivery with active participation of the community.
B. Impact on Women
6._2       Th.s project would have a strong positive impact on women. Over 70
pet-cent of ttle population benefiting from the improved primary health care
ser\wices and safe motherhood program would be women and children under the age
of f ive. The services would aim to improve heal_zh status and curb maternal,
infaiit and child malnutrition, morbidity and mortality. Women would also



- 51 -
participate actively in nutrition education activities. In addition, the
project would provide training and supplies for midwives and health promoters.
Most health care providers at the primary level--auxiliary nurses, nurses,
nutritionists and supervisors--are women who would receive training to enhance
their performance and provide opportunities for career advancement. Enhanced
availability of pre-primary and primary education services would support
women's participation in the community operated schools by releasing some of
their time from child care activities, and would contribute to their
children's development. In addition, the project would provide training for
teachers, most of whom are women.
C. Proiect Riske
6.3       Due to possible sporadic violence in El Salvador, it may be
difficult to realize project objectives fully in some municipalities in the
project area. To minimize this risk, the Government and the Bank agreed at
negotiations that loan proceeds would not be disbuFed in municipalities that
are inaccessible for purposes of project implementation and supervision
according to the assessment of the Bank until security concerns dissipate.
The other major risk is the potential for delays in project implementation due
to deficient management capacity. To minimize this risk: (a) assurances were
obtained at negotiations th;t the project PCUs staff would not be reassigned
to other functions during the life of the project (see para. 5.4); (c)
procurement agents would be in charge of procurement of all goods and services
for the project (UNICEF and UNDP, respectively); (d) a procurement seminar was
conducted to increase staff familiarity with Bank procedures, and a project
launch seminar covering all aspects of implementation would take place before
loan effectiveness; and (e) adequate technical assistance and training would
be provided for project implementation. Frequent and intense supervision
would be undertaken during implementation. Another risk is associated with
the potential opposition of the teachers' union to services delivery by
community groups. Even though this risk is difficult to control, principals
and teachers at the local level have already participated in community school
programs, providing some confidence that this risk can be minimized.



- 52 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1       At negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
A. Health Sector
(a) the Government would hire, under regular positions, 100 health promoters
per year starting in 1993 through 1996, and that about 86 of the
referred health promoters will be assigned to the project area every
year (see para. 3.8)
(b) the MOH would employ incremental staff for health units and posts in the
project area, only to the extent that it is unable to reassign or
transfer existing personnel from hospitals or administrative posts
(see par. 3.9);
lc) the MOH would present the maintenance and training program, satisfactory
to the Bank, no later than December 31, 1991 (see para. 3.9);
(d) the Government would hire additional nutritionists beginning in the
first year of project implementation for purposes of supervisory
activities in all health units and posts (see para 3.10);
(e) draft supervision manuals would be submitted by the MOH to the Bank for
review no later than April 30, 1992 (see para. 3.18);
(f) the NOH would carry out a study, no later than May 31, 1992, on
personnel efficiency at hospitals, health centers and administrative
offices, and no later than July 31, 1992, submit to the Bank for review
an action plan and timetable for implementation, and thereafter
implement such action plan (see para. 3.22);
(g) NOR studies on cost-recovery and hospital costs and efficiency would be
completed and submitted to the Bank no later than April 30, 1993 for
review; that studies on the provision of healtL services by the private
sector would be completed no later than April 30, 1994; and that, no
later than 6 months after the completion of each atudy, the Government
would submit an action plan, satisfactory to the ltank, including a
timetable for implementation (see para. 3.23);
B. Education Sector
(h) the Government would present to the Bank for review an action plan for
purposes of promoting and disseminating information about the community
operated school program and timetable for implementation by December 31,
1991, and implement such action plan (see para. 3.34);
(i) the MOE wouldt (i) submit terms of reference for the formative
eval4ations of the community operated school programs, no later than six
months after project effectiveness; (ii) submit, no later than March 31
of each year during project implementation, the results of the



- 53 -
respective formative evaluations; and (iii) prepare action plans
including a timetable for implementation, and implement such action
plane (see para. 3.39);
(j) the Government would, no later than April 30, 1993, complete the
evaluation of HOE's personnel management system, and no later than April
30, 1994, prepare and submit to the Bank an action plan and timetable
for implementation, and implement such action plan (see para. 3.42);
(k) the Government would: (i) complete the health facilities and school
mapping study by December 31, 1992; (ii) prepare and submit to the Bank,
no later than April 30, 1993, an investment plan; and no later than
April 30, 1994, a plan for updating the data collected under (i) above;
and (iii) implement the plan for updating data in a satisfactory manner
(see para. 3.44);
(1) a central textbooks and materials distribution unit would be established
in the MOE by no later than December 31, 1991 (see para. 3.47);
(m)  no later than December 31, 1991, the DCM would present a final proposal
for the pilot maintenance program; implement the pilot and its
evaluation by no later than April 30, 1992; and based on its results,
and at the Bank's request, prepare and furnish to the Bank, no later
than July 31, 1992, a plan for the expansion of the referred pilot
program including a timetable for implementation (see para. 3.48);
C. Social Sector Planning
(n) no later than two months after project effectiveness, MIPLAN would
submit to the Bank the final proposals for the studies, which would be
carried out no later than April 30, 1993, and prepare action plans no
later than July 31, 1993 including timing for implementation (see para.
3.50);
D. Administration
(o) the Government would provide annual counterpart funds as required under
the project including incremental recurrent expenditures generated by
the project, and increase total recurrent expenditures for primary
health care, and pre-primary and primary education; and the share of
such budgetary resources for non-salary recurrent expenditures as agreed
at negotiations (see para. 4.5);
(p) the Bank may suspend disbursements for any component that is not
performing satisfactory according to annual work plans and targets (see
para. 4.12);
(q) a Special Account would be opened in the Central Reserve Bank (see para.
4.13);



- 54 -
(r) the project ministries, the procurement agents and the Central Reserve
Bank would audit annually the project accounts and the Special Account
following satisfactory auditing arrangements (see paras. 4.14 and 4.15);
(a) PCU staff with qualifications, experience, functions, and terms of
employment satisfactory to the Bank would be maintained (see para. 5.4);
and
(t) the Government would: (i) submit, no later than April 30 of each year,
an annual work plan; (ii) conduct, jointly with the Bank, no later than
May 31 of each year, annual reviews on overall project implementation
according to the agreed upon agenda; and (iii) agree on follow-up
actions, and on measures to be taken if satisfactory progress is not
achieved; all in accordance with monitoring and evaluation indicators
and targets as agreed at negotiations (see para. 5.8).
7.2       The following would be special conditions for loan effectiveness:
(a) the Government would submit to the Legislative Assembly: (a) a proposed
bill of Law, satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of: (i) introducing
the health promoter category as a regular and permanent position at the
MOH; and (ii) providing for at least 579 of such referred positions; and
(b) a proposed budget law fur fiscal year 1992, satisfactory to the
Bank, providing for the necessary funds to cover the payment of the
services of at least 579 health promoters (see para. 3.8);
(b) the President and the Ministry of Education would approve norms and
procedures ("realamento") to regulate implementation of community
operated schools including eligibility criteria for CCG, satisfactory to
the Bank, and would furnish to the Bank evidence of contracts
(convenios) with 27 community groups (see para. 3.26);
(c)  the Government would complete, satisfactory to the Bank, the final
design of the MOE supervision system and its schedule of implementation,
including the training program for supervisory personnel, and a proposal
for the development of supervision manuals (see para. 3.46);
(d) the Government would have entered into service agreements, satisfactory
to the Bank, with UNICEF-El Salvador and UNDP-El Salvador (see para.
4.9); and
(a) the Government would prepare, satisfactory to the Bank, terms of
reference to be used by the auditors for the auditing of community
operated schools (see para. 4.15).
7.3 The following would be conditions for disbursements:
(a)  loan proceeds would not be disbursed in municipalities which would be
inaccessible for purposes of project implementation and supervision
according to Bank assessment (see para. 3.4);



- 55 -
(b) no withdravalo shall be made in respect of the health promoters and
primary health care sub-components, unless the Bank has received
satisfactory evidence that: (i) the Legislative Assembly has approv4od
the laws regarding primary health services personnell and (ii) the MC)H
has duly employed the respective 579 health promoters as regular and
permanent staff (see para. 3.8);
(c) loan proceeds would not be disbursed for any project activity carried
out by a community group unless such community group ha. signed a
contract (convenio) with the MOE (see para. 3.26); and
(d) loan proceeds would not be disbursed for activities not included in an
approved annual work plan (see para. 5.7);
Recommendation
7.4       Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed
project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$26 million for
El Salvador, repayable in 20 years including 5 years of grace, at the Bank'Js
standard variable interest rate.



- 56 -
ANNEXES
1    - Social Sector Indicators
2    - Basic Health Care Model
3    - Trends in Public Spending in the Social Sector, 1979-1990
4    - Nutrition Indicators
5    - Donors Involvement in the Education and Health Sectors
6    - Past and Projected Government Expenditures on Health and Education,
1987-1994
7    - The Project Area
8    - Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
9    - Selection Criteria for Community Groups
10' - Project Costs
11. - Disbursements
12   - Project Implementation Schedule
13   - Annual Implementation Reviews
14   - Planned GOES Recurrent Expenditures on Basic Social Services and Share
of Non-Salary Recurrent Expenditures
15   - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 1:    SELECTED COUNTRIES SOCIAL INDICATORS
GNP   % GNP  % GNP         Primary School      % Grade I   % Population   % Population   ifnt  Malnourished Babies  Maternal
Per   Hoalth   Edu-       Enrollment Ratio    Enrollment Below Absolute With Access Mortality   Children    With   Motality
COUNTRY  Capita  (1986)  cation   (1987)   (1986-88)   Completing  Poverty Level   To Health  Rate (Per (Underweight)  LOw           Rate
Dollars         (1980   Goss          Net        Prinmay      (1977-87)     Services     1,000    (1980-88)   Birth (Per 100,0
(1988)                            Male Female   School    Urban  Rural  (1985-87)    Live           (%)      Weight    Live
(1985-87)                               Births               (1985)   Birtfs)
I             . I           , (1988)                 (      (1980.7
Guatemala       900      0.7     1.8      77   N.A.  N.A.           36       66     74          34        57           0.5    16         110
Haiti           380     0.9      1.2      95      45     42         15      70      80          70       116           0.3    17         230
Costa Rica    1,690     5.4      4.7      98      85     85         81    N.A.  N.A.            80        18           00       9         26
Honduras        860     2.6      5.0     106   N.A.  N.A.           43       14     35          73        68           0.2    20          82
Dom. Rep.       720      1.4     1.6     133      80     78         35      45      43          80        63           0.1     16         74
Jamaica       1,070      2.8     5.6      105   N.A.  N.A.        N.A.   N.A.       80          90        11           0.0      8        100
Ecuador       1,120      1.1     3.6     Vt   N.A.  N.A.            50      40      65          62        62          0.3    10          190
Colombia      1,180     0.8      2.8     114      72     74         57      32      70          60        39          0.5      15        110
Notes:    N.A. = Not available.
a/ 1989 figures.
bt 1987 figure: J. Jarquin and F. Rocuts, Epidemiologia y Prevencion de la Muerte Materna Institucional en El Salvador, 1989.
Sources:  WDR 1990; UNDP, Human Development Report, 1990; State of The World's Children, 1990.
0
O!



EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECr
Table 2:    EXPENDITURES ON HEALTH AND EDUCATION
Percentage of GDP and Central Govermnent Expenditures
('000 Current Colones and %)
(1979-1990)
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
.\~ . .~O'   S,9~t  S46   S~90  Io~:;i~~7   4~$~  19,63 *~****M'sW***'****:
:X:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
% of GDP
Education           3.28   3.90   3.94   3.79   3.16   3.35   2.90   2.52   2.24   1.97   1.81   1.85
Health              1.45   1.79   1.75   1.58   1.80   1.53   1.17   1.07   0.90   0.74   0.95   0.98
Health & Education  4.73   5.70   5.69   5.38   4.96   4.87   4.06   3.59   3.13   2.71   2.76   2.83
% of Government Expenditures
Education           20.64  23.09   19.33   19.51   18.20  14.60  17.97  13.84   16.40  16.96  15.01  16.63
Health              9.15   10.62   8.56   8.15  10.37   6.66   7.23   5.86   6.57   6.38   7.90   8.86
Source: Ministry of Finance, 1991.
o



EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
MATRIX OF BASIC HEALTH CARE MODEL, LEVELS, FUNCTIONS,
AND STAFFING AND SUPERVISION PATTERNS
TYPE OF HEALTH              FUNCTIONS                    BASIC STAFFING PATTERN      RESPONSIBLE FOR              FREQUENCY OF SUPERVISION
FACILITYIPOPULATION         (Activities)                                             SUPERVISION
FIRST LEVEL
Rural Nutrition Centers     - Food Assistance            5 Volunteer Comunity        Realth Promoter              2 or 3 time per week
(Centros Rurales de         - Child Development          Health Workers              Physician and Nurse from   once per month
utricion)                      Stimulation                                             Closest Health Center
Pop: 1000-3000              - Primary Health Care:                                   Regional Level
first aid, vitmin                                       (Nutritionist and         every two months
supplementation,                                        Educator)
deworming
- Growth Monitoring
- Health and Nutrition
Education
- Referral to Higher
Level
- Promotion of
Fruit/Vegetable
Cultivation
Health Post (Puesto de      - Medical Consultations    I Auxiliary Nurse             U.W.R. Technical Team        2 or 3 tlmes per veek
Salud)                         (2 or 3 tlmes per         0-4 Health Promoters        Regional Level               every 2 or 3 months
Pop:  <10,000                  week)                     U.M.R. Team: 1l               Supervisors
- Emergencies               -1 Medical Student in
- Patient Referrals           Social Service
- Maternal and Child        -1 Nurse
Care:                     -1 Driver
*  Pre/Post-natal        -1 Sanitary Inspector
care
* Family Planning
* Food
Supplementation
* Oral Rehydration
Therapy
lI The U.M.R. Team visits the Post 2 or 3 times per week, 8 hrslday; Sanitary Inspector visits t or 2 times per month.
o 



EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
TYPE OF HEALTH               FUNCTIONS                    BASIC STAFPIKw PATTERN        RESPONSIBLE FOR              FREQUENCY OF SUPERVISION
FACILITY/POPULATION          (Activities)                                               SUPERVISION
. Vaccinations
- Sanitary Education
- Basic Sanitation
- Epidemiological
Surveillance
- Training/Supervision
of:
* Traditional Birth
Attendants
e Commuaity Outreach
Workers
Health Units (Unidad de      - Medical Consultations    Director                       Regional Level                every 2 months (approx.)
Salud)                       - Emergencies                 1-13 Physicians
Pop:  >1O,#.JO               - Patient Referrals          1-7 Nurses
- Dental Care                1-6 Auxiliary Nurses         Central Level                1 or 2 times per year
- Maternal and Child         1-3 Health Inspectors                                                                     0
Care:                     0-4 Health Promoters
v  Pre/Post-natal         0-2 Dentists
care                  1-5 Admin. Personnel
*  Family Planning        1-10 Support Personnel
*  Food                  0-4 Lab Technicians
Supplementation
* Oral Rehydration
Therapy
* Vaccinations
- Housecalls
- Sanitary Education
- Basic Sanitation
- Epidemiological
Surveillance
- Training/Supervision
of:
Traditional Birth
Attendants
* Comcunity Outreach
Workers
00



EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
TYPE OF HEALTH              FUNCTIONS                    BASIC STAFFING PATTERN      RESPONSIBLE FOR             FREQUENCY OF SUPERVISION
FACILITYIPOPULATION         (Activities)                                             SUPERVISION
SECOND LEVEL 2
Health Center (Centro de   - Medical Consultations    Director                       Regional Level              every 2 months (approx.)
Salud)                      - Specialized                5-40 Physicians
Pop:  10,000-30,000            Consultations (some       1-2 Dentists
clinics only)             6-28 Nurses                 Central Level               every 4-5 months
- Emergencies               10-30 Aul. Nurses                                        (approx.)
- Referrals to Higher       1-3 Inspectors
Levels                    1-2 X-Ray Technicians
- HospitalizatMon:          3-7 Lab Technicians
*  General Medicine      1-5 Anesthetists
*  Surgery               1-2 Nutritionists
*  Obstetrics            3-7 Eealth Promoters
*  Pediatrics            1-2 Social Workers
- Dental Care               5-15 Admin. Personnel                                                                   a
- Maternal and Child        15-45 Support Personnel
Care:
*  Pre/Post-natal
care
* Family Planning
* Food
Supplementation
* Oral Rehydration
Therapy
* Vaccinations
- Sanitary :'ducation
- Enviromen:al
Sanitation
- Epidemiological
Surveillance
- Training/Supervision
of:
* Traditional Birth
Attendants
* Community Outreach
Workers
00
2 Those services constitute the first level of health ore for the comnnities in which they are located.                                         "
:1s



EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION ROJECT
TYP8 OF BZALTi              FUNCTIONS                    BASIC STAFFIFG PATTERN       RESPONSIBLE FOR              FREQUENCY OF SUPERVISION
FACILITYIPOPULATION          (Activities)                                             SUPERVISION
Hospital 12                  - Medical Consultations    I Director                    Regional Level               every 2 months (approx.)
Pop: >30,000                      General               5-40 Physicians
Specialized           1-2 Dentists
- Emergencies               6-28 Nurses                  Central Level                every 4-5 months
- Referrals to Third         10-30 Aux. Nurses                                        (approx.)
Level                     1-3 Inspectors
- Hospitalization:           1-2 X-Ray Technicians
General Mediclne      3-7 Lab Technicians
Surgery               1-5 Anesthetists
Obstetrics            1-2 Nutritionists
Pediatrics            3-7 Promoters
Some Specialized      1-2 Social Workers
Clinics               5-15 Admn. Personnel
- Dental Care                15-45 Support Personnel
- Maternal and Child
Care:
Pre/Post-natal                                                                                                 at
care
Family Planning 
*Food
Supplementation
Oral Rehydration
Therapy
Vaccinations                                                                        d
- Sanitary Education
- Znviromnental
Sanitation
- EpidemLological
Surveillance
- Trainig/Supervision
of:
S Traditional Birth
Attendants
* Community Outreach
Workers
12 These services constitute the first level of health care for the coummnities In which they are located.
0*



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5
EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Figure  1:  DISTRIBUTION OF MOH RECURRENT EXPENDITURES
By Level By Percentage
(1978-1988)
50                                                      46.3
45 -4.
So ......     ......                           . ..- ... ...........    .....
40 
40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .    ............... .....   . ......... . .
35 -  31.5.___ ...6__2_  _
Administration   PrImary/S.cond. Carc    Hospitals       Other. ServIc. s
|_1976           1930           1984      _19883 
SoLe-c! bVF.. 1991.



- 64 -
AXNE 3
Page 2 of 5
EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Flgu2to l:  Oi TRIOUTION OF IMH FIERcFIENr EXPENDOITUR5
HCSPITALS
C 1990-1994)
100  1   m.,.t   ,  , M _ __
90~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~0
801 -l
40
22.7
201
o                         2.72. .7                        2.      7
Pwsonnl             "quIpuent, wto-els         Other
btrce: Fiedldr -E1 kIvad Is MON, 19t3S111 A Flw@loitl
lorfarna*  _,m*"  I_mlth Pollcy. tO. ISM `177-20.
FIgur8 2b   OlSTRIBwrl0N OF MN ECURRENT EXPENDITU2ES
NON-HOSPITALS
(1977-4989)
100                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~92.1  m.
40
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~._._.._         ................  .......... _........
20-
1.4      1.7        ~~~6.543    
1977            1980            1984             1989
Plrbonnl      MEquipmet. Miter ase           Ot.he
~r: Fl tl_, 1966.



- 65 -
AE  3
Page 3 of 5
EL SALVADOR
SOCTAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Flgwse 3&: DISTRIBUTION OF WOE EXPENDITURES
C1973-19S9)
eaX 
sog
40
20
1973        1187         19o8         1989
I-  capita I   -  AcArr.oi
ad_CDI IaF jUI
i.: iC@ldM temoftu to UaI_ imtitStitlm (t. -
swo~ry l n IIty mS mlvwmlty).
Figure 3b: OISTRIBUTION OF MOE RECURRENT EXPENDITURES
By Type
C1973-1989)
CS)
4973
1987 at
sass   _l                                          a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.2
\                 75 7                \   20.375.
0    10   20   30   40   50   60   70   90   9C   100
I      _s_s- sbluf.   lAd8in. bu_rt_    COOths   |
Note* eL   t, . t* *toutt*ois .littlns s        Includes mlntwrao, mppll.
8/ N .A. by at*Wory Or ep.wIar.r.             aId taechlfg iitWrials.



- 66 
Page 4 of 5
EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
.'Tgure 4:  DISTRIBUTION OF MOE EXPENDITURES
By Level By Percentage
C 1973-1989)
1973 *                              -9  1989
X  l  l |_Rasc 1/       Bss IC     .  <:
^ E| || 1 1_6 .5           70.4  & ,           -
3.7
Special                         ePrlimary                            Culw > ture 5.8 
5.0                   ~~~~~2.5
Secondary           --    Literacy                                      Ltrc
Ed'n      Higher 2   Adult Ed'n            Special       Hi her 2/    2.8
5.9          Ed'n         2.3                1.5   j       Ed n
19.8                             Secondary   11.2
Ed 'n
SoLrce:  Ibid.                                         4.5
1/ All nine years Cl-B primary, 7-9 lower secondrry).
2, Post-Secondary university and non-universlty.
* There iC no culture eKp.nditure figure for 1973; In the
late 1980a th Ministry of Culture and Communicatlons nerged
with the MOE.



- 67 -
PASe O   of 5
MLALVDR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Figure Sa:  DISTRIBUTION OF PU1ILIC EXPENDITURE ON HEALTH
C 1979-1988)
(UlIIIIo   of 1979 Color..)
250 l
..... .t ....    ... 2tt:- -------- .................... ... .................. . ... ._,_ .........
225,
200 '                                  7.j
175,
150
'25
3a
1979  19O6  1981  1992  1993  1984  198   196  1987  198
I-ra.rr.  It           ap5Pe 1
Ba.e MD.494
Figs_r   b!  DISTRIBr TION OCf PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION
(1979-1988)
CMIIlilon  of 1978 Colones)
450 
400                354.7
30          312.09
150
0
17   1980  1981  1982  '1g3   984  1985  198   97  19W8
inR.currnt    cill C tol I
Uo4r4u  iP  lul.



- 68 -
Page 1 of 2
EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 1: MALNUTRITION INDICATORS BY POPULATION GROUP
(1990)
TYPE OF        |         GROUP         | INCIDENCE     TARGET
NUTRITIONAL DEFICIENCY|                       |              YOPULATION
Weight/Age              Children < 5 years         50.1         436,519
Height/Age              Children < 5 years         30.0         261,388
Height/Age              School-Age children        30.0         462,308
Vitamin A Deficiency    Children < 5 years         36.0         313,666
Iron Deficiency         Children < 5 years         23.0         200,398
Pregnant women             12.3         32,300
Lactating mothers          14.0         36,700
Iodine Deficiency       Total population           48.0       2,520,960
Source:  MIPLAN (GAES), La Avuda Alimentaria en El Salvador's Elementos
Para una Estrategia, October 1990.



- 69 -
AEX 4
Page 2 of 2
EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 2: COVERAGE OF MOH AND MOE NUTRITION PROGRAMS
NO. OF PEOPLE I/   TARGET   |COVERAGE
l                     |    ~~~~~~~~COVERED      POPUIATION  L    
A. MOH BENEFICIARIES
Pregnant women                        5,9313   262t584 bl    2.3
Lactating mothers                      9,309    93,133 c/    10.0
Subtotal                            15.240   355.717        4.3
Ch'ldren < 2 years old                32,012
- Low malnutrition                  23,131
- Moderate and severe malnutrition   8,881
Children 2-4 years old                11,961
- Low malnutrition                   8,231
- Moderate and severe malnutrition   3,730
Subtotal                            43.973   435A648 d/    10.1
TOTAL BENEFICIARIES                 59.213   791.365        7.5
NO. OF CHILDREN     SCHOOL    COVERAGE
COVERED       POPULATION      2
B. MOE BENEFICIARIES
Children in grades 1-6           173,225        1,066,696    16.2
Schools                            1,037            3,300    31.4
Sources: MOH, Nutrition Department; MOE, ODEPOR, Memoria, 1989-1990.
Notes:    a/  January-March 1990.
k/ Five percent of total population.
c/  Fifty percent of children less than 1 year old.
d/ Fifty percent of children less than 5 years old.



- 70 -
Page 1 of 2
EL SALVADOR
S0CIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 1: DONOR INVOLVEMENT IN THE HEALTH SECTOR
(1991-1995)
(US$ Million)
DONOR                         1991      1992     1993     1994      1995
USAID                        35.74    31.47    31.91    22.70       3.20
PAHO                          4.48     3.09      3.09     1.02      1.02
WFP                           4.15      4.15     4.15     -.-       -.-
UNDP (FNUAP)                  0.60     0.60      -.-      -.-       -.-
GTZ                           1.20      -e-      --       -.-       -  
UNICEF                        5.88      -.-      -.-      -.-       -.-
IDB                           -.-     10.0      10.0      -.-       -.-
TOTAL                    52.05    49.31    39.15    23.72      4.22
Source: MOH, 1991.



- 71 -
ANNEX S
Page 2 of 2
EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 2: DONOR INVOLVEMENT IN THE EDUCATION SECTOR
(1990-1998)
DONOR                                US$ MILLION L/           PERIOD
USAID  2/                                    27.0          (1991-1998)
Government of Spain                         0.01              (1991)
Government of France                        0.05         (1990-1991)
OAS                                         0.22         (1990-1991)
UNICEF                                      0.01              (1991)
UNDP - UNESCO                               0.501        (1990-1991)
WFP                                         4.5          (1990-1992)
FNUAP                                       0.06              (1991)
TOTAL                                    32.351
Sources MOE, International Assistance Office (OPCI), February 1991.
1L Committed funds.
at Additional US$26 million will be financed through the Government
Extraordinary budget (loca1 currency funds).



- 72 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of I
EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table l: GOES PAST AND PROJECTED EXPENDITURES
By Sector
(1987-1994)
(Millions of January 1991 Colones)
CLASSIFICATION                  1987    1988    19891   19901    1991|    19921    19931    199]
Education                       544.8   534.6   585.5   707.9    816.6   1024.5   1418.7   1906.1
Health                          252.7   289.5   308.4   377.0    436.5    647.0    925.3   1341.3
TOTAL GENERAL                3472.9  3552.9  3896.6  4255.6   4984.9   6030.8   7184.6   8640.7
BUDGET I/
1/J~   National budget (1992-1994) assumes an increase in tax collections from 82 in 1991 to II%
in 1994.



-73-
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
SELECTED MUNICIPALITIES
MUNICIPAL LEVEL MALNUTRITION RATES AMONG SCHOOL-AGE CHILDREN 1/
(1988)
STUNTING       POPULATION
DEPARTMENJT            MUNICIPALITY         |                   ESTIMATE
MORAZAN
Sensembra                           75.00              2,833
Villa El Rosario                    59.30              2,830
Perquin                             51.80              2,343
Corinto                             51.00             11,721
San Simon                           50.00              5,057
Gualococti                          48.60              2,620
Delicias de Concepcion              39.10              3,855
Jocoro                              38.50              9,638
San Fidncisco Gotera                28.50              9,561
CUSCATLAN
Candelaria                          60.00              8,238
El Carmen                           50.00              7,686
Monte San Juan                      46.40              7,892
San Jose Guayabal                   42.90             12,157
San Ramon                           40.10              4,526
CHALATENANGO
La Eaguna                           58.60              2,940
San Francisco Morazan               50.00              3,719
El Carrizal                         45.40              2,143
San Fernando                        42.80              1,584
San Antonio de la Cruz              40.70              2,742
Comilapa                            40.40              3,016
Concepcion Quezaltepeque            38.60              4,518
La Palma                            38.30              6,429
San Ignacio                         28.30              4,421
La Reina                            27.60              6,577
(continued)



-74-
ANNEX 7
Papg 2 of 3
(continued)
STUNTING       POPULATION
DEPARTMENT            MUNICIPALITY              (X)          ESTIMATE
CABANAS
Villa Dolores                      56.70             7,062
Villa Victoria                     45.60            15,151
Guacotecti                         37.10             3,301
LA UNION
Lislique                           54.40            12,631
San Jose                           45.40             4,419
El Carmen                         48.S0            16,848
USULUTAN
San Dionisio                       53.80             4,169
San Agustin                        49.50            22,646
Alegria                            39.20            12,382
Estanzuelas                        39.20            12,172
Berlin                             37.90            31,775
Santa Eleua                        37.80            29,333
Puerto El Triunfo                  31.40             5,901
Usulutan                           22.50            62,242
AHUACHAPAN
San Pedro Puxtla                   51.40             7,843
Apancwa                            47.60            11,187
Tacuba                             46.60            27,702
Ataco                              45.20            15,428
(Guaymango                         42.50            17,844
SAN SALVADOR
Santiag3 Texacuangos               50.40            17,274
Panchimalco                        44.30            38,113
Santo Tomas                        43.80            19,888
Ayutuxtepoque                      38.40            15,977
Ilopango                           27.80            45,324
LA PAZ
Paraiso de Osorio                  49.50             2,464
San Juan Tepezontes                46.80             4,371
Santa Maria Ostuma                 45.00             7,963
(continued)



-75-
Page 3 of 3
(continued)
STUNTING       POPULATION
DEPARTMENT            MUNICIPALITY              (X)          ESTIMATE
Nueva Guadalupe                    37.30             7,077
SAN VINCENTE
Santo Domingo                      46.90             4,505
San Cayetano Istepeque             42.00             3,629
Apastepeque                        39.60            16,963
San Lorenzo                        38.20             5,484
Tepetitan                          34.70             2,807
LA LBERTAD
Isyaque                            46.70            13,640
Sacacoyo                           46.40             8,408
Huizucar                           43.40            14,590
Tepecoyo                           43.40            16,614
Chiltiupan                         41.40            13,908
Tamaniqua                          38.10            12,197
San Pablo Tacachico                37.60            24,702
Comasagua                          37.30            17,679
Santa Tecla                        33.50             5,298
SANTA ANA
Masahuat                           43.40             4,201
SONSO04ATE
Nahuizalco                         41.00            42,133
Juayua                             39.70            28,764
San Antonio del Monte              39.60            10,324
Salcoatitan                        39.10             4,803
Santo Domingo de Guzman            38.80             7,351
Santa Catarina Masahuat            37.80             9,130
Cuisnahuat                         37.10            11,128
Sonsonyte                          25.70            82,948
SAN MIGUEL
Lolotique                          38.70            16,193
El Transito                        37.60            20,209
Moncagua                           28.50            18,144
Source: First National Nutrition Census, INCAP, MOH, MOE, 1989.
1/: Basd on stuning indicator - below -2 standard deviations from median height for age of
reference population from median height for age of reference population (1st grade children).



- 76 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 8
EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION
Table 1: MONITORING AND EVALUATION INDICATORS AND IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM
Component            Indicators             Year 1            Year 2            Year 3           Year 4
A. Health Services
Development                                                                                                   I
A. 1 Health          Incremental           86 additional    86 additional       86 additional   86 additional
Promoters       staff                 promoters in      promoters in      promoters in    promoters in
and birth                             project area      project area      project area    project area
attendants
About 75 birth   According to             id         Between 200
attendants       annual plan AL                      and 275
Training                                                                   birth atten-
dants in
project area
Absorption by
MOB of health                579            About 100         About 100        About 100
promoters under
regular positions
A.2 Primary health  Incremental staff        3 doctors        6 doctors                 20       auxiliary
care services    for health posts        10 purses        15 nurses                          nurses
and units c/            12 auxiliary
_________________ _  __________ __nurses
Redeployment of                          7 doctors                20        auxilary
staff for  posts                        22 social                           nurses
and units SL                             se*vice
____ ___ ____ ___ __    _ __ _ __ _ __  _doctors
Z of  PBC                               According to
facilities with              10!        annual plan a/           id               id
maintenance
programs 4d 
2 of incremental
vebicles in                  802               80S               80S              802
operating
conditions 4L
S utilization of        No more than
personnel existing      9OS                    id                id               id
capacity in P8C
facilities in
accordance to NOR
standards 4L                           I                 I                I
*/     Annual targets to be defined for the subsequent years would be presented during the first annual review.
kL      Incremental health promoters starting Year 2.
L     Number of health posts and units to be approved during the annual review meetings, taking into
consideration results of the personnel efficiency study.
AL     This indicator is included in a side letter to the Loan Agreement.



- 77 -
ANNEX-8
Page 2 of 8
Component            Indicators            Year I           Year 2            Year 3          Year 4
A.3 Nutrition        Incremental          14 additional
Activities      staff                 nutritionists                      _
Absorption of 14
Incremental                                   5                 5                4
nutritionists by
. O   ._                    _ _ _ ___                                     . _ _ _ _ _ _ _
2 of P8C facilities
vith nutrition              602               70S              q02              902
equipment and
supplies d4                                                         _
Number of nutrition   About 100        According to
education courses     promoters and    plan */                 id               id
snd number of         400 volunteers
trained promoters     trained
and volunteers
2 of facilities
with nutrition              302               50S              752              id
surveillance system
In place In
m __________________    catcbment  area  d4                    .          .       ..           _ _
A.4  Safe          2 of health centers   According to
Motherhood   oad hospitals vith    annual plan a            id               id              802
24 hours *esrgency
birth services
Base year 1991
2 of PRC workers      About 50         According to
trained in ldenti-    doctors. 50      annual plan A/          Id              802
f7ing high risk       nurses sad 100
pregnancies ad        auxiliary
emergency bi-ths      nurses trained
Base year 1991 t/ _-
2 of municipalities    According to
with emergency         anual plan             id                Id              802
communication          a/
*S7tem
Base Lear 1992
IncrementAl staff     10 nurses        13 nurses                 15        anesthe-
In centes and         10 ausiliary      5 blood                            tists
hospitals b/             nurses           bank                   15        auxill!y
10 anestha-         tech.                           nursea
tists
5 blood bank
technicians   __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
ML Ibid, previous pages.
bJ Arn.ul targets to be based on findings of the persocnel efficLency study.
4 Ibid. previous page.



- 78 -
ANEX 0
Page 3 of 8
Component            Indicators             Year I            Year 2            Year 3           Year 4
Redeployment of WI                      3 doctors               25           auxll ary
staff to safe                           23 narses                            nurses
motherhood                                                      16           blood
.ctivities bL                                                                back
tech.
B. lstitutional
Strengthening
5.1 Supervision
System                                                         ,                          .
gEalth C-pVnent   2 of supervisors
which received               50S               802              100S             1001
supervision manuals
No. of regional
supervision teams            10                18                18               18
_. __________ ..functioning    _    _ _____                                                      _  _ __     I
Total No. of
promoter                     so                58                66               74
supervisors working
___ _.             _                                      _
No. of regional
supervision tems.            10                18                18               18
swith full tine
vehicles and
gasoline -. 
K of Incremental             90S               90S              90S               90S
vehicles and
motorcycles In
operating
conditions d/
No. of supervisors    About 50          According to
receiving trainitg    regional and      annual plan AL           Id               id
d/                     100 local
level.
supervisore
tr :la d
K health units with
monthly supervision          20S               50S               75K             100S
Bace year 1991 U 
K health posta with
bimonthly                    20S               S0K               75K             1OOK
supervision
I Base year 1991 AL/ I
L Ibid. previous pages.
kL Annual targets to be based on findings of the personnel efficiency study.
AL Ibid. previous page.



- 79 -
ANNX 8
Page 4 of 8
Component            Indicators             Year 1            Year 2            Year 3           Year 4
No. of promoters
which recelve                186               272               358              444
monthly supervisory
visit t4
3.2 Financial and    Development and         Softvare         BMIS & 03 In       HMIS & OB ir    M11S & OB in
Personnel        implmentation of        development      place in 502 of   place in 75Z    place in all
Management       operational budgets    completed         hospitals and      of hospitals    hospitals and
(0) system and                         health centers    and health        Fealth
8HIS (coat                                                 centers          centers
accounting) system
4L
Personel                                Personal           Progress on
reassignment                            efficiency         agreed upon            id
study                                   study and          action plan
progress on       targets
action plan to
redeploy staff
Kid-term investment                      Investment pro-   Proposal for    Progress on
program                                 posal using        updating data   data updating
health facili-
ties and school
mapping study
B.3 FInancial        Study on cost-         Completed.        Progress on
Pollcy           recovery system        action plans      implementation           id               Id
and t4mIng for   of measures
implementa-
tion
Study on hospital     Completed,        Progress on
costs and             action plan       Implementation           id               id
efficiency            and timing for   of measures
lmpiementation
Studies on                                                 Completed        Progress on
provision of health                                        action plan      Implementa-
services by the                                            and timing       tion of
private sector                                             for implemen-   measures
tation
C. Education
Services
Development
C.1 Pra-prlmary      No. of coamnity        About 90 In       According to
Co"rqty          schools AL             operation         annvul plan a/           Id           About 780
Schools
go. of children In    About 2.700       According to
program AL             ch4ldren         annual plan gL           id          About 25.000
enrolled
go. of teachers       About 90          According to
traned AL              teachers         anual plan AL            Id          About 3,500
traltad
L  lbid, previou  pages.
gL Ibid. previ_OU pages.



- 80 -
AKNNEX 8
Page 5 of 8
Component            Indicators             Year 1            Year 2            Year 3           Year 4
No. of CC members      About 250        According to
trained dL             members          annual plan aL           id           About 3.000
trained
No. of teaching        85S  of                                              About 4.600
materials produced    children and              id               id         teacher
and diatributed AL    teachers with                                         guides
materials in                                         156,000 work
the program                                          books
C.2 Primary          No. of coun anity      About 150 in      According to
Community        schools d/             operation         annual plan a/           Id          About 1.400
Schools
No. of children in    About 5.000       According to
program AL             children          annual plan aL          id          About 45,000
enrolled
No. of teachers        About 150        According to
trained AL             teachers         annual plan aL           Id           About 7,200
trained
No. of CO members      About 450        According to
trained d/             members          annual plan a/           id           About 5,200
___ ___ ___ ___ ___   __ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ trained   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
No. of textbooks       852 of                                               About 8,000
and teaching           children and            id                id         teacher
materials produced    teachars with                                         guides
and distributed AL    materials in                                          850,000 text
ti rhe  program  _______________books
C.3 Nutrition        Complementary          Operation in      Evaluation of      Expansion to    Evaluation of
Program          feeding program AL    26 municlpall-   Yr 1 and            all 78 munic-   Yr 3
ties             expansion plans   ipalities
C.4 Fozmatlve         Impact evaluations   Result. Yr I       Results Yr 2      Results Yr 3    Results Yr 4
Evaluations                             pre-primary              Id                Id              id
and primary
D. Education
Institutional
Development
D.1 Planning
Development of         Design           Initiate           Full imple-      Full
critical education    completed for    Implementation    mentatlon at    implementa-
indicators to          students,        at national        national         tion at all
educational            teachers,        level              level, and       levels
planning  c the        facilities and                      initiation of
national, regional,   budgets *t                           implementa-
department and         each level                          tion at
local levele AL                                            regional,
departmenc
_ ad local
iL Ibid. previous pages.
AL Ibid, previous pages.



- 81 -
ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 8
Component             Indicatora             Year I            Year 2            Year 3            Year 4
Simulation model SU   Design of          Complete one       Complete one
models ons (i)   study of            study
uait cost         applying (1)       applying (ii)
analysis; and
(ii) implica-                       Agreement on
tions on                             TOR study for
recurrent                            Yr 4
budget of
alternative
interventions
Management of          Evaluation of    Design of new       Progress on
technical and          current           system and         action plan             id
administrative         practices         action plan
personael
Teachers management   Initiate           Completed          Presentation    Progress on
system                 evaluation of    evaluation and    of action          action plan
current system   proposal for        plan
discussion with
MIPLAN and NOF
Mid-term Investment   Assessment of    Investment           Proposal for    Progress on
program                conditions of    proposal            updating          school
facilities and   prepared using    school             mapping
equipment         school mappin    mapping           updating
D. 2 Management      HIS In operation        System fully      Initiate system   502 system in   System in
Information                              designed          operation          operation        full
System                                                                                         operation
Equipment in place                       Completion of      Equipment in
d/                                       equipment          operation               id
purchase
No. of personm.el      According to                                          All MIS
trained d/             annual plan aL           id                id         personnel
trained
D.3 Supervision      System development    Completion of    National system                        System in
System                                   manuals and       in operation             Id         full opera-
train8Ig                                              tion at pre-
programs                                              primary and
primary
_levels
No. of supervisors    All                According to                        All pre-
trained                supervisors       Implementation           id         primary and
for C.l and       schedule                            primary
C. 2                                                  school super-
All super-                          visors
visors for C.1
and C.2
aL Ibld, previous pages.
dL Ibid, previous pages.



- 82 -
NNea 8
Page 7 of 8
Component            Indicatois             Year 1            Year 2            Year 3           Year 4
Ho. of schools         All C.1 and      According to                        All pre-
receiving regular      C.2 clases       implementation           id         primary and
supervision                             schedule                            primary
schools
All super-
visors for .C.1
and C.2
X of incremental
vehicles and                 901               901               90X              902
motorcycles in
operation t_
D.4 Textbooks and
Materials
Distribution
System
No. of textbooks       About 850.000
printed and
distributed
D.5 School           System in operation   Pilot in 45        Extension                          434 schools
Maintenance                             schools in        according to             id        in the system
System                                  project area      pilot results
Maintenance manuals    Revision         Printing of        Manuals
manuals and       distributed             Id
distribution      according to
extension
plaus
Equipment of           3 workshops      3 workshops in
workshops              equipp d         operation                id               id
S of incremental
vehicles in                  90S               902               90S              90X
operation
E. Social Sectors   Social sectors          Completed         id for specific   Unifization      Partial
Planning          Information system    evaluation of    social programs   of data            implemen-
data gathering   and action plan   gathering         tation of
in social                           criteria and    system
ministries and                      proposed
action plan                         output
Reorganization of      Analysis and     Revised            Results of       Budgets
Health and             proposal for     proposal en-       testing.         elaborated
Education budgets      Yr 2 budgst      dorsed by BOY.    final design    according to
(ordinary sd          organization    MWE, MOE and         for new          new budget
xtraordinary) by       in H0H and MOE   MIPLAN Includ-    budget            organization
program                in               Lng a testing      organization,
coordination     program and Its   and schedule
vith MHO         schedul of         for expansion
implemntation    for Yr 4
d/ ________________ Ibld._______________    _______________    for  Yl  3        __
4Libid. previous pages.



- 83 -
mEZ 8
Pass 8 of 8
Component            indicators            Year 1            Year 2           Year 3           Year 4
Targeting and         Selection of      Reasults and      bol-up on
mpact evaluation      progri and        recuwn-            upleenta-             Id
of a specific         TORs              dations           tion of
poverty alleviation                                       recomnda-
________________  program__                                                 tions
Progress on           Progre..
resources             rviewv                   id               Id               id
allocation to
health and
Status of tacher       ReveviI
salary ecales                                 id                Ad               id



- 84 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
CRITERIA FOR ELEGIBILITY OF COMMUNITY GROUPS
1.   To be elegible for participation under the project, Community Groups
(CGs) will be evaluated by the MOE under the following criteria:
(a) the communities to be beneffited under the project are in the
municipalities in the project area. First priority will be given
to requests from CGs in rural communities. Second priority will be
given to CGs in marginal urban neighborhoods.
(b) each CGs will present the MOE the appropriate document certifying
that they have legal personality and therefore capacity to receive
funds from the MOE.
(c) each CG will present the MOE a one year implementation program
which musts
Mi)       be consistent with MOE pedagogical guidelines for pre-
primary and the corresponding grade of primary school;
(ii)      include intensive use of instructional materials
appropriate for the age of the children it will serve, in
addition to the workbooks, textbooks, and books that the
MOE will provide, such as didactic games and toys. Each
CG application will provide a list of the materials that
it will furnish and their quantity;
(MOi)     have a student teacher ratio of at least 28:1.  Each CG
will furnish the MOE with the list of children expected
to participate in tho program including age, address, and
name of his/her tutor. Each tutor must provide the
number of his/her identity card;
($v)      includes at least 2 teacher-parent workshops per year to
address children's health, nutrition and education needs.
(d) each CG will have identified a qualified teacher willing to work in
the program. The CG will provide the MOE with the CV of the
prospective teacher, and a letter in which he/she expresses
agreement to work under CG contract in the programs
(e) the CGo shall formally agree with the MOE to:



- 85 -
ANIEX 9
Page 2 of 2
(i)       commit 3 members and the teacher to participate in the
pre-service and in-serJice training courses designed for
the program;
(ii)      contribute with resources equivalent to 10 percent of the
costs of the program in the form of money, kind or labor;
(iii)     keep daily record of teacher and students' attendance;
(iv)      upkeep the learning space and secure proper care of
teaching materials, books and other learring item.;
(v)       keep organized accounts of receipts and expenditures for
the program, and accept external auditing of such
accounts;
(vi)      provide all documentation (attendance records, accounts)
to MOE supervisors, follow their recommendations and
accept external evaluations of the program.
(f) CGs that would operate in out-of-school premises (pre-primary end
primary school classes in communities that lack a school) will
identify and appropriately furnish the learning space.



EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 1: TOTAL PROJECT COST ESTIMATES BY COMPONENT BY YEAR (USS MILLION)
1991             1992              1993              1994            TOTAL
LOCAL FOREIGN LOCAL FOREIGN  LOCAL FOREIGN LOCAL FOREIGN  LOCAL FOREIGN
A.-Basic Services
1. Educaton
Pre-priay Education                0.48     0.00     0.82    0.00      1.34    0.00     1.50     0.00     4.14     0.00
Primary Education                  0.62     0.00     1.86     0.00    2.35     0.00     2.61     0.00     7.44     0.00
Textbooks                          1.08     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     1.08     0.00
Subtotal Education                   2.18     0.00    2.68     0.00     3.69     0.00     4.11     0.00    12.66    0.00
2. Health
Health Promoters & Birth Attendants  0.80   0.00     0.52    0.00     0.56     0.00     0.61     0.C0     2.49     0.00
Primary Health Care Facilities     0.08     0.14     0.20    0.49     0.19     0.60     0.26     0.71     0.73     1.94
Nutrition Activities               0.31     0.83     0.23     0.55    0.18     0.34     0.18     0.35     0.90     2.07
Safe Motherbood Initiatives        0.02     0.50     0.01     0.40    0.01     0.11     0.00     0.11     0.04     1.12
Subtotal Health                      1.21     1.47    0.96     1.44     0.94     1.05     1.05     1.17     4.16    5.13
Total Services Develwment            3.39     1.47    3.64      1.44    4.63     1.05     5.16     1.17    16.82     5.13
B. Inslitdional &trengtheninn
1. Education
Planning                           0.35     0.08     0.42    0.07     0.26     0.04     0.24     0.01     1.27     0.20
MIS                                0.06     0.87     0.32    0.28     0.33     0.17     0.36     0.17     1.07     1.49
Supervision System                 0.28     0.66     0.24     0.08    0.28     0.08     0.30     0.06     1.10     0.88
Distribution                       0.24     0.08     0.21    0.00     0.31     0.02     0.40     0.00     1.16    0.10
Maintenane                         0.17     0.12     0.28    0.07     0.26     0.04     0.29     0.04     1.00     0.27
Subtotal Education                   1.10     1.81     1.47    0.50     1.44     0.35     1.59     0.28     5.60    2.94
2. Health
Supervision System                 0.05     0.24     0.07    0.09     0.06     0.09     0.06     0.09     0.24     0.51
Financial & Personnel Management   0.35     0.14     0.38    0.00     0.36     0.00     0.39     0.00     1.48     0.14
Financial Policies                 0.13     0.08     0.13    0.09     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.26     0.17
Subtotal Health                     0.53      0.46    0.58     0.18     0.42     0.09     0.45     0.09     1.98    0.82
3. MIPLAN                            0.08     0.08    0.06     0.07     0.08     0.07     0.06     0.06    0.28     0.28
Total Institutional Streunhenine     1.71     2.35    2.11     0.75     1.94     0.51     2.10     0.43     7.86    4.04
C. Projet Management                                                                                                           o x
Education                          0.21     0.02     0.22    0.00     0.24     0.00     0.26     0.00     0.93     0.02       o
Health                             0.15     0.04     0.17    0.03     0.17    0.01      0.22     0.04     0.71     0.12
Total Proiect Maemte                 0.36     0.06    0.39     0.03     0.41     0.01     0.48     0.04     1.64    0.14



EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 2: TOTAL PROJECT COST ESTIMATES BY COMPONENT BY YEAR (MILLIONS OF COLONES), March 1991
g                            1991             1992              1993             1994            TOTAL
LOCAL FOREIGN LOCAL FOREIGN LOCAL FOREIGN LOCAL FOREIGN LOCAL FOREIGN
A. Basic Services Development
1. Education
Pro-primary Education             4.08     0.00     7.56     0.00    12.57    0.00    14.05     0.00    38.26    0.00
Primary Education                 5.26     0.00    17.12     0.00    22.12    0.00    24.65     0.00    69.15    0.00
Textbooks                         9.15     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     9.15    0.00
Subtotal Education                 _P.49     0.00    24.68     0.00    34.69    0.00    38.70     0.00   116.56    0.00
2. Health
Health Promoters & Birth Attendants  6.76  0.00     4.77     0.00     5.27    0.00     5.77     0.00    22.57    Q IM
Primary Health Care Facilities    0.66     1.17     1.82     4.52     1.74    5.65     2.55     6.67     6.77    18.01
Nutrition Activities              2.74     7.04     2.10     5.04     1.69    3.21     1.73     3.29     8.26    18.58
Safe Motherhood Initiatives       0.17     4.29     0.09     3.68     0.09    1.05     0.02     1.02     0.37    10.04
Subtotal Health                    10.33    12.50     8.78    13.24    8.79     9.91    10.07    10.98    37.97    46.63
Total Services Development         28.82    12.50    33.46    13.24    43.48    9.91    48.77    10.98   154.53    46.63
Ii. Institutional Streonenin
1. Education
Planning                          2.94     0.68     3.86     0.64    2.40     0.42     2.27     0.11    11.47    1.85
MIS                               0.54     7.37     2.93     2.59    3.10     1.56     3.40     1.58    9.97    A3.10
Supervision System                2.40     5.58     2.21     0.76    2.61     0.79     2.85     0.61    10.07    7.74
Distribution                      2.06     0.71     1.90     0.02    2.94     0.02     3.72     0.02    10.62    0.77
Maintenance                       1.44     1.04     2.69     0.60    2.48     0.39     2.72     0.40    9.33     2.43
Subtotal Education                  9.38    15.38    13.59    4.61    13.53     3.18    14.96    2.72    51.46    25.89
2. Health
Supervision System                0.43     2.08     0.69     0.79    0.55     0.81     0.60     0.82    2.27     4.50
Financial & Personnel Management  2.94      i.21    3.47     0.00    3.37     0.00     3.69     0.00    13.47    1.21
Financial Policies                1.08     0.71     1.21     0.81    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    2.29     1.52
Subtotal Health                     4.45     4.00     5.37     1.60    3.92     0.81    4.29     0.82    i3.03     7.23
3. MIPLAN                           0.68     0.67     0.60    0.61     0.72     0.68     0.61    0.54     2.61     2.50
Total Inslitutional Strenatheninn  14.51    20.05    19.56    6.82    18.17     4.67    19.86    4.08    72.10    35.62
C. Project Management                                                                                                        o >4
Eaucation                         1.77     0.14     2.02     0.01    2.23     0.01     2.44    0.01     8.46     0.17
Health                            1.30     0.30     1.57     0.28     1.58    0.14     2.04     0.42    6.49     1.14
Total Proiect Management            3.07     0.44     3.59    0.29     3.81     0.15     4.48    0.43    14.95     1.31



- 88 -
AMNEX 1I
Page 1 of 1
FL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 1: ESITMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
QUARTER          DISBURSEMENT           CUMULATIVE         CUMULATIVE
ENDING           PER SEMESTER          DISBURSEMENT        PERCENTAGE
FY92
December             2.0 a/                2.0                  8
June                 1.8                   3.8                 15
FY93
December             2.6                   6.4                 35
June                 2.9                   9.3                 36
FY94
December             3.4                  12.7                 49
June                 3.7                  16.':                63
FY95
December             3.6                  20.0                 77
June                 2.9                  22.9                 88
FY96
December             2.2                  25.1                 97
March                0.9                  26.0                100
a/ Includes retroactive financing of US$1.5 million.



- 89 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of I
EL SALVADOR
A SOCIAL SECTOR RENABILITATION PRLOJECT
Table It PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
As a Percentage of Cumulative Progress
PROJECT                         91/92      92193     93/94      94/95
COMPONENT
EDUCATION SERVICES DEVELOPMENT
Pre-Primary                         15        35         70       100
Primary                             15        35         70       100
Textbooks Printing                 100
Planning System                     30        50        80        100
MIS (SIGYE)                         36        60         80       100
Supervision System                  40        60         80       100
Materials Distribution              30        50         71       100
Maintenance System                  25        53         80       100
Project Management                  25        50         75       100
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT
Primary Health Care                 25        50         75       100
USAID Promoters Training            25        50         75       100
UNICEF Birth Attendants
Training                        100
Safe Motherhood Program             40        70         90       100
HEALTH INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING
Supervision System                 35         65        85        100
Financial & Personnel
Management Improvement            32        55         80       100
Financial Policies                  30        60         90       100
Project Management                  25        50         75       100
MIPLAN STRENGTHENING
Socal Information System            25        50         75       100
Studies                             25        55         90       100



- 9o -
A&VNX 13
Page 1 of 4
!3L SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annual Implementation Reviews
1.   The annual project implementation reviews would constitute the key
monitoring tool to measure progress in project implementation. The review
would include (i) detailed analysis of previous year's performance, attainment
of targets, utilization of budgetary allocations and functioning of
i,Alementation arrangements and main implementation issues and proposals to
overcome them; (ii) review and approval of annual work plan, targets, and
budget for the following year; and (iii) adjustments to project implementation
schedule. Emphasis would be placed on the following elements:
Health
(a) Basic Services Develovment
(a.1)     Health promoters and birth attendants.  Number of trained
promoters and birth attendants, deployment of staff,
absorption of existing and incremental health promoters into
MOH regular positions, and supervision of birth attendants.
(a.2)     Primary health care services.  Hiring of proposed incremental
staff, reassignment of proposed existing staif, procurement of
equipment and supplies of essential drugs and contraceptives,
conduction of training, increase in the use of PHC services,
particularly maternal and child care, and implementation of
maintenance and training program for community boards
(patronatos).
(a.3)     Nutrition activities.  Hiring nutritionists and absorption of
nutritionists by the MOH, training, procurement of equipment
and supplies of micronutrients, growth monitoring scales
distributed to promoters and PHC facilities, implementation of
improved supervision and nutrition surveillance activities.
Evaluation of weaning food pilot program a..d expansion.
Implementation of pilot food coupon program.
(a.4)     Safe motherhood initiatives.  Hiring of proposed incremental
staff and absorption of these staff by the MOH, progress on
reassignment of proposed existing staff, functioning of
emergency birth services 24 hours a day in health centers and
hospitals, procurement of equipment, functioning of referral
and counter-referral system, and conduction of training.



- 91 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 4
(b) Institutional Development
(b.1)     Supervision System.  Preparation of norms and manuals (first
year review), functioning of national, regional and health
promoter supervision systems, conduction of training,
procurement of equipment, operat4.on of vehicles and
motorcycles, supplies and availability of per diems for field
visits (every year).
(b.2)     Financial and personnel management.  Software development and
equipment (first year review), training, implementation of
operational budgets (OB) and HMIS in MOH facilities including
their application. Review of personnel efficiency study and
action plan for reassignment of personnel to (a.2) and (a.4)
(second year review). Progress on implementation on the
action plans (third year review and thereafter). The second
year review will also examine the result of the health
facilities inventory and a proposal for a medium term
investment program for infrastructure and equipment. Proposal
for updating inventory (third year review) and progress
thereafter. Development of criteria for staff recruitment
(third year review).
(b.3)     Health financing Rolicv.  Review of recommendations of studies
and proposed action plan and timing for implementation.
Review of TOR and proposed timetable for implementation of
studies to be conducted during the following year. Review of
progress on agreed upon action plans.
Education
(a) Basic Services Development
(a.1)     Pre-primarv education.  Number of community schools and
children enrolled, review of annual res '.ts of formative
evaluations and proposals for program aajustment,
implementation of training programs for teachers and community
groups, review of teaching materials and PAIN materials (first
year review), supervision reports, and review of progress on
adequacy of teacher salaries.
(a.2)     Primary education.  Number of community schools and children
enrolled, review of annual results of formative evaluations
and proposals for program adjustments, implementation of
training programs for teachers and community groups,
production and distribution of textbooks and teaching
materials, supervision reports, and review of progress made on
adequacy of teacher salaries.



- 92 -
ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 4
(a.3)     School nutrition program.  Expansion of dietribution of
nutritionally fortified cookies. Operation of the program in
terms ot distribution logistics, and organization of the
community.
(b) Institutional Developmqent
(b.1)     Planning.  Development of basic education statistics,
implementation of management information for budget,
expenditures and personnel, application of educational
planning models, analysis of MOE administrative organization
and recommendations for personnel management policies and
systems, assessment of conditions of facilities and equipment,
implementation of training and results of specific studies.
The second year review will examine the results of the school
mapping exercise, and a proposal for a medium-term investment
program for school rehabilitation, upgrading, and preventive
maintenance. Proposal for updating school mapping (third year
review) and progress thereafter. Review of the status of
teacher salary scales.
(b.2)     Management information system.  Progress on the phased
implementation of the system including detailed system design
development and testing (first year review), and system
implementation, support and maintenance (thereafter), and
conduction of training.
(b.3)     Supervision system.  Final versions of the supervision
manuals, implementation schedule and proposed training
programs (first year review), functioning of the supervision
system at the national, regional, sub-regional and school
level according to implementation schedules and planned
frequency of supervision, conduction of training, procurement
of equipment and supplies, operation of vehicles and
motorcycles, and review adequacy of per diems for field visits
thereafter.
(b.4)     Textbooks and materials distribution system.  Timely operation
of system and distribution schedules at the national and
regional levels, review of cost effectiveness of private
transportation, review of funding requirements and
availability of resources.
(b.5)     School maintenance system.  Revision of manuals, review of
evaluation of pilot program (first year review) and expansion
to additional schools in the project area (thereafter),
printing and distribution of manuals, and review of system
monitoring.



- 93 -
ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 4
Social Sector Planning
(a.1)     Social Sector Planning.  Development of the so,ial sector
information system and study fitndings, recommendations and
action plans including timing tor implementation.
2.   The annual review would also include:
(a) provision of counterpart funds for the following year of project
implementation in the Government budget proposal to be submitted to
the Legislative Assembly;
(b) review of Government overall budget proposal to be submitted to the
Assembly for the health and education sectors for the following
year; and on targets for non-salary recurrent expenditures for
primary health care and pre-primary and primary education;
(c) review of functioning of procurement arrangement with UNICEF and
UNDP (procurement agents for goods and services, respectively); and
(d) review of effectiveness and efficiency of implqmentation
arrangements and funztioning of project and Branch-PCUs.
3.   The project PCU would be responsible for analyzing annual performance
and work plans prepared by each Branch-PCU, consolidating MOH, MOE, and MIPLAN
performance and work plans and preparing an annual progress report on project
implementation and budgets for the following year, and for submitting it to
the Bank no later than April 30 of each year, beginning in 1992.



ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 1
EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Planned GOES Recurrent Expenditures on Basic Social Services
and Share of Non-Salary Recurrent Expenditureas
FY               FY                FY                  FY
1992             1993              1994                1995
Recurrent
expenditures for
Primary Health Care
in US$ million                 41.4              43.4              45.6               47.9
Share of non-salary
recurrent                      14% of total    162 of total        187 of total       20I of total
expenditures for                recurrent        recurrent         recurrent          recurrent
Primary HealtF Care            expenditures    expenditures        expenditures       expenditures
Recurrent
expenditures for
Primary and Pre-
Primary Education in
US$ million                    84.8              89.0              93.5               98.1
Share of non-salary
recurrent
expenditures for               5.7% of total   7.62 of total   8.9% of total           102 of total
Pre-Primary and                recurrent         recurrent         recurrent          recurrent
Primary Education              expenditures    expenditurec        expenditures       expenditures



_ 95 -
M'L 15
Page 1 of 2
EL SALVADOR
A SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT PILE
Section A: Regorto on the Social Sectors
A-1       World Bank, El Salvador.  Population, Health, Nutrition and
Education: Issues and Opportunities (Report 8715-ES), May 22,
1990.
A-2       MIPLAN, FNUAP, CELADE, El Salvador.  Estimaciones y Proyeaciones de
Poblaci6n, 1950-2025, November 1985.
A-3       Centro de Investigaciones Tecnol6gicas y Cientificas (CENITEC), Las
Dimensiones de la Pobreza Extrema en El Salvador, February 1989.
A-4       GOES, Plan de Desarrollo Econ6mico y Social, 1989-1994, 1990.
A-5       Marques, J., Towards a Strategy to Address the Basic Needs of the
Poor in El Salvador, 1990.
Section B: Renorts and Studies Related to the Pr-' "ct
B-1       World Bank, El Salvador:  Country Economic iJemorandum (Report 7818-
ES), August 1989.
B-2       World Bank, Structural Adjustment Loan (Report P-5447-ES), January
1991.
B-3       FUSADES, Diagn6stico de la Administraci6n de los Recursos del
Ministerio de Educaci6n de El Salvador, June 1990.
B-4       Sanguinetty, J., The Economics of Basic Education in El Salvador,
USAID-El Salvador, October 1989.
B-5       Newman, B., Informe Mision, Consultoria en Sistemas de Informaci6n
Gerencial, January 1991.
B-6       Ministry of Education, Normas de Disefno para la Construcci4n y
Equipamiento de Centros Educativos, December 1989.
B-7       Fiedler, J., El Salvador's Miristry of Health, 1975-1986:  A
Provisional Performance, June 1988.
B-8       Terms of Reference for Health Sector Studies Under the Social
Sectors Rehabilitation Project, February 1991.



- 96 -
Page 2 of 2
B-9       Bartlett, A., Boy, E., Improvement of Reforral and Management of
High-Risk Pregnancies and Emergency Births, ru Salvador, February
1991.
B-10      Martinez, M. L., Anflisis Institucional de los Recursos
Presupuestarios y Financieros Recibidos por el Ministerio de Salud
Ptblica y Asistencia Social durante el Periodo 1987-1990, November
1990.
B-11      Martinez, M. L., Presupuestarios y Financieros Recibidos por el
Ministerio de Educaci6n durante el Periodo 1987-1990, March 1991.
B-12      MIPLAN, Informe La Ayuda Alimentaria en El Salvador:  Elementos
para una Estrategia, October 1990.
B-13      MOE-MOH-INCAP, Primer Censo Nacional de Talla en Escolares de
Primer Grado de Educaci6n Basica de El Salvador, October 1989.
B-14      GOES, Documentos Presentados por el Gobierno de El Salvador al
Banco Mundial, May 21, 1991.



;~oo                                                 cc Tod,.    r. 
rvoooO ?Q' 10  cok7d C f                        C'
y-  .r% ,,30.0                r? 5(c OSO'
sF              NOpg-            >      >aXL O    '                                                EL SALVADOR
PROJECT MUNICPALITIES.
G~~~~~~~+ U   _  o4*/ 1A  T E M          A L  ,                          A  .  .7 W, 2. :xvv*   
S~~~~~~~~. C, 1L6<              ,' r C." ".1
_   /   >                    I~ ~~~~~N.                 Ax          _\iA ..F   -                           >            
*.,.KPf-n G . [, Sooro .1;~ / }alotenon4 '  -                                                                                                                            Z  H  O  N  D  U  R  a
VOA   AT             A                                       .'5  L'A   --
A   ~~~~      '~~~~  A             A/
$oE AA_C r,%*/, 'Ar4C.ud odst,                                                                                        w-t *,-, W }= k lt:                                                   -      - 0
d,~~~~~~I-
A'.uocboooo.c t                                  N         7\vj.At' To .s Crocbco  ,                                 -P.   ,rz ,, '  
A \ H   U  .; A vl. C   C 2i FA " Po ,  *  =                  v t.                                                              vol  C o o A_C
~~~S A   L                          (A      A       S                                                                  i-
iAl-co S'                                              5t SoONAo                                                               Soo,r _CnE AA. 500 L'
sANro DO."_ ,1v.c:.n,,&  st                T    ooob      o     Si -    >        *J AlS '_ '                                                                       '* ,F_.  .  ..-\                                 .
             S'CEZC, CThI -f  , OI't~/j?LA'  PAZ                           i        t-    ' "  (A-' '    '                  ;'-  - 
P  ~    ~          ,~~'-VQ           SA.tco           j~~CI  SANit!I R
1~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~~L -ltuNr        tod0~                                                                                                                        So ,,- .o TAUT  ORo    ;CX    CA1LA,  I S  So .oFo,vr x -. oog  eo            v4+'
S0      PAVED ROACtS                    IJ',O Cth                                            .    (-  
I> ~     ~       TH  R   A NR   A  t -E Nl -  -'  />-                                                                                  i     <     ;       '      ,E Z e.                       
RAILROADSI                                                  , 
PROJECT MUNICIPATUN IES                                                                               5
-    PAVED ROADS                                                     H-d              I-o              N, 
OTHER MAIN ROADS                                                          E  /                                                                                    -
RAILROADS                                                                     / 
MAIN PORTS                                                                                              -ELcoc
RIVERS
----DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                         vc
- - -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
2      NATIONAL CAPITAL
rio                              0        10       20      30       40      5  SKILOMETERS                                             V
8               t                                                    30' tr0,                                                                                          sr t0Br 00 ot                                                            cfc1
L                                                                                                  wo i                                                 I Ir I            



-         / r1,                                                                 d3-3C                                                             JAMAtCA
- '' ^r: 0 50e           i           (                                                                                   GDUA!EPMA .-
G U A r EM1% ALX A                                                                                                                                                                        ' ..(ARC, .
P- -   ANtAMA
COSTA       -
lZEI C."t wAAACA
A-we                                                                                   O _ T > > -g      /              Ho1oso   (8 H O N D U R A S ,   .,- 8
i) ~ - ~ coCh-                               CC! i del Gwovc tA > / Per4> n 1 14' vO
y   As sC   AL    _  tS i aS   0  >S    X                                                                                                                   y  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -dd "'.
EL~~~~~~~                ~~~~~ SALADO  DORr,   Xb.-o                                                                                     S- For .oc-xo /
|  _   >AlL=Or2s                                     ,  /                              BPorodo    e  w  b  >       \    s    _        |Gto obo  '  ~' 
'-I
OVA ~~~~~~~~~~~A. 8Otd.OABAS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    RWd.L
- - -  t 8mERAIV8d4. WURItd*J8                                                                                                                              ARO'OCIO
O      10    20       30     40      50
EL SALVADOR                                L. . C_ .  .                                                     N                                  
KILOMETERS                                                                ;a  Zh  e'emt OS the Bat baa rMeC Oe..e,S4Tt MtsX flt a.aCa WaST
O10               20           30                 P,'te                                       .att.tt Ca th  Gatte  ne   xt. vat se   it' It' t.aSt,s7
_ MAIL"-                                                                                                           t                      EI5 OX r^ UP -aa   ue...t,. CRpe   '  v, u t  e   f n a N
<   CCS0;             S9  3:                                     89*00                                      -304                                       7SS00                          1X~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C l
"m POM ~~~~~~~~~ILSi1    h mvp01 teWl                                                                                   a tdUOr.eaettt,  ddtheu.ttome          N
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERS~~~~a'4bSaSaa d'O  l,eAade4daed..ea.t  .aa                                                                 N



