Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16774
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3348-ES)
June 19, 1997
Central America Department
Human and Social Capital Development Group
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit -= Salvadoran Colon
US$1.00 = 8.7 Salvadoran Colones
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SCHOOL YEAR
February 1 - October 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACEs         Community School Associations (Asociaciones Comunalespara la
Educaci6n)
EDUCO        Education program for rural areas
HMIS         Health Management Information System
LASHD        Latin American Social and Human Development
LADCN        Latin American Department for Central America Country Operations
MIPLAN       Ministry of Planning
MIS          Management Information System
MINED        Ministry of Education
MSPAS        Ministry of Health - Ministerio de Salud Pzublicay Asistencia Social
NGOs         Non-Governmental Organizations
PCU          Project Coordinating Unit
SAL          Structural Adjustment Loan
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
Managers and Staff Responsible
Vice President         Mr. Shahid Javed Burki
Director       :       Ms. Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Acting Sector Leader:  Ms. Ana-Maria Arriagada
Task Manager    :      Ms. Madalena dos Santos



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3348-ES)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ...........................................................ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY .                             ..........................................................         iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ................                                    ..................     1
Project Background ..........................................................                                         1
Project Objectives and Description ..........................1................................ 
Part A: MSPAS ..........................................................                                    2
Part B: MINED  ..........................................................                                   3
Part C: MIPLAN  ..........................................................                                  4
Implementation Record ..........................................................                                     5
Achievement of Original Objectives ..................................               ........................         7
Major Factors Affecting the Project ...............................              ...........................         9
Project Sustainability ..........................................................                                   10
Bank Performance ..........................................................                                         10
Borrower Performance ...........................................................                                      0
Assessment of Outcome ..........................................................                                    11
Lessons Learned ..........................................................                                          11
Future Operations ..........................................................                                        12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .................................                     .........................         13
Appendix=
A. Last Mission's Aide-memoire
B. Aide-memoire from Meetings with Govemment
Officials in Washington D.C., March 20-21, 1997
C. Government's Evaluation (in Spanish)
D. Government's Comments on the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3348-ES)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for El Salvador's Social Sector
Rehabilitation Project. Loan 3348-ES, in the amount US$26.0 million equivalent, was approved on
June 19, 1991 for this project and was made effective on February 5, 1992. While the closing date
of the Loan was September 30, 1996, the loan account had to remain open until June 30, 1997, to
allow final documentation of the Special Account, as well as processing of refunds of unutilized
project funds returned by UNDP. After processing of the refunds, the amount of US$272,519.77
was canceled. At closing, the total loan amount was thus reduced to US$25.7 million. Total
project cost amounted to $58,951,835 and of this amount, the Bank loan financed 44%, the
Government 51%, USAID 5 % and UNICEF 0.2 %.
This ICR was prepared by Nydia Maraviglia after the final supervision mission which
took place from November 11-16, 1996. The mission consisted of Madalena Dos Santos
(Education Specialist and mission leader, (LASHD), Nydia Maraviglia (Public Health
Consultant) and Linda Larach (Education Consultant). The report was reviewed by Ana-Maria
Arriagada (Acting Human Resources Sector Leader, Central America), Eleanor Schreiber (Team
Leader, Central America Education) and Madalena Dos Santos (Task Leader).
The evaluation of this project is based on several studies conducted during 1995-96 by
consultants to assess fulfillment of objectives; it also drew on documents in the project file,
mission findings, field visits and interviews with Government officials, UNDP staff and Bank
staff . The Borrower prepared its own evaluation of project execution. The Government report
was presented to the mission by the Minister of Education and a representative of the Minister of
Health and is included as Annex C, in Spanish; it was reviewed in detail by the November 1996
mission. Comments were submitted by the mission at a closing meeting chaired by the Minister
of Health and attended by a representative of the Minister of Education. A Government
delegation visited the Bank in March 1997 to present the status of project accounts at closing and
return to the Bank the unused balance.






iii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3348-ES)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    This project was the first Bank-assisted operation in El Salvador to include the health
sector, and the fifth in the education sector after an 11 -year lapse. It had two executing agencies:
the Ministry of Education (MINED) and the Ministry of Health (MSPAS), under overall
coordination of the Ministry of Planning (MIPLAN). However, MIPLAN was abolished as part
of the Government reform in 1995 and the coordinating role was thereafter transferred to the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The project was identified in 1989, during the final stages of the
armed conflict. When the peace process got underway, the Govermnent launched a program of
poverty alleviation. Social sector expenditures had fallen from 40 to 24 percent of total public
expenditures, and health and education were the hardest hit. Moreover, social indicators were
among the lowest in Latin America.
Project Objectives and Description
ii.   The original project objectives were to rehabilitate the public sector capacity to manage
efficiently and deliver health and education services, particularly for the poor, and to increase the
funds flowing to the social sectors. The project targeted some 78 of the poorest districts
comprising a population of 1.1 million. It also had institutional development goals consisting of
improvement of management, supervision and technical capacity of the ministries, including
MIPLAN. These goals were to be pursued through three project parts, one for each ministry,
with two subcomponents each for health and education: (a) basic services; and (b) institutional
development. The third part of the project was intended to support MIPLAN. The project did
not include financing of civil works, since support for physical infrastructure was provided by
the Social Investment Fund (SIF) which was supported through a loan from IDB.
iii.   The objectives coincided with the overall policies and strategies of the Government to
restore priority to the social sectors and target improvements to low income areas of the country.
In health, concentration of resources to improve maternal health and child nutrition addressed
key problems in the sector. In education, placement of responsibility on the community for the
day-to-day operation and preventive maintenance of preschools and primary schools (through the
EDUCO program) was a worthwhile goal to ensure sustainability of the investments. The
objectives of institutional development were less specific and well-dimensioned in relation to the
magnitude of the issues.
Implementation Experience and Results
iv.   During the first year of implementation, the project experienced organizational and
managerial problems. Disbursements were well below appraisal estimates, and the staff initially



iv
appointed in MSPAS and MINED had received little training in project management and
procurement. It was only in the second year that the project coordinating units were brought up
to speed. Although a procurement agent (the United Nations Development Program --UNDP)
had been appointed, this agency needed some time to prepare itself to fulfill that role, by hiring
and training staff. Yet even with these actions, there was a learning curve in terms of effectively
synchronizing the activities of the coordinating units and UNDP. During an annual review
conducted jointly in 1994 by the Bank, the Government and UNDP, there were some revisions in
project details, adopted to increase the likelihood of reaching the objectives. These included
expansion of the EDUCO program beyond original coverage goals and a change in the mix of
additional staff for health facilities. Limited expert advice for preparing terms of reference and
specifications for complex studies and equipment caused delays and increased costs. These and
other experiences were taken into account in the preparation of the follow-up education project
and are currently being applied by MSPAS in planning a broad health modernization program for
which the Government is seeking external financing.
v.   In health, the project helped address the problem of excessive maternal deaths,
strengthening services in the 26 maternity hospitals of the country with the purchase of state-of-
the art equipment, hiring of specialists, and staff training to enhance quality of care and keep
facilities opened 24 hours a day. The selection of improvements was well thought out, since two
prominent factors that negatively affect the rates of maternal mortality are low quality of care
during delivery and the lack of timely access to institutional care. A sample of institutions
assisted by the project showed a reduction in hospital maternal mortality from 14 per 10,000 live
births to 10 during the period 1990 to 1995. Additionally, the health centers in the targeted
districts were strengthened with staff, promoters, equipment and vehicles for supervision. The
project also supported a program of salt iodination that reached 99 percent of the salt consumed
in the country. Moreover, MSPAS assisted the MINED School Health Program (Escuelas
Saludables) conducting health assessments for 225,000 basic education students (30% of the
total student population at this level) and providing vaccinations and micronutrients.
vi.   Through this project, MINED experimented successfully with a new modality to expand
preschool and primary education to poor rural areas, relying on communities to establish and
administer classes for preschool and primary education and providing quality enhancement and
much needed financial and technical resources, including new materials and training programs
for teachers, community leaders and parents. The program covered 1,700 communities and
nearly 170,000 children and involved hiring of 3,800 teachers. In addition, a closer relationship
was established between the education authorities and the communities. Another important
consequence of this component was the application of lessons learned to preparation and
implementation of a follow-up Bank-financed education project.
Assessment of Outcome
vii.  The project reached and even exceeded expected targets of expansion of social services to
poor districts of the country. Achievements were more modest regarding institutional
development objectives of strengthening management, supervision and technical capacity in the
ministries and increasing cost efficiency. Although the targeted areas benefited from improved
services, major complementary systems such as management information and maintenance were



v
difficult to tackle and did not develop into significant new tools for, respectively, management
and preservation of the capital investments. Moreover, the project showed that continued
expansion of social services to cover a growing number of low income communities will not
only depend on stronger institutional capacity, but, to a large extent, on sustainable sources of
financing and alternative providers. Future operations need to pay attention to organizational,
administrative and financial reform of the social sector systems.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
viii. Factors not subject to Government control. Delays caused by contractors who did not
meet the terms of their contracts (e.g., by delivering wrong equipment that had to be returned or
exchanged) were beyond Government control.
ix.   Factors subject to Government control. Preventable problems or solvable factors which
delayed the project included: (a) the choice of project design involving three government
agencies, with implicit complicated processes for implementation; (b) inaction in resolving the
delays in handling reimbursement requests and direct payments to contractors, involving several
agencies (IJNDP, the Project Coordinating Units (PCUs), Finance and the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs) with the result that frequently, by default, UNDP assisted by advancing funds; (c) a
reluctance to hire relevant and high quality technical assistance; and (d) failure to keep
accounting systems compatible with both the Ministry of Finance and Bank requirements.
x.    Factors subject to implementing agencies' control. The main factors that affected the
project and were dependent on direct action by the implementing agencies were: (a) the initial
low commitment to the project by the MSPAS; (b) the long time taken to put into motion an
effective procurement process; and (c) instability in the PCU caused by organizational changes in
MIPLAN resulting in changes in the staff, and lack of appropriate training for new staff. An
additional factor affecting project implementation was the existence of two projects in one.
Complex institutional/ organizational arrangements, which El Salvador was unprepared to
manage.
Summary of Findings
xi.   Overall, the project met the objectives of expanding basic services in health and
education in 78 poor districts. However, the second objective conceived to strengthen the
management, supervision and technical capacity of MSPAS and MINED to plan and deliver
services, improve cost recovery and increase hospital efficiency, was less successful, in part due
to the uneven commitment prevailing at the time for organizational change. Nevertheless,
judging from the spin-off activities, the project appears to have inspired a subsequent
modernization process in MINED. However, in MSPAS the organizational issues were more
complex and deep-rooted and were not significantly affected by this project.
xii.  The lack of success in both ministries with establishing state-of-the art MISs may be tied
to the mentioned constraints; moreover, successful MIS development would have required
considerably more intensive and high quality technical advice and expertise. First steps were
taken by MINED to improve the maintenance system with preparation of a manual and a pilot
program. The institutional objectives also aimed to increase MIPLAN capacity to assess and



vi
monitor social programs but this part of the project could not be completed in view of the
abolishment of that Ministry. Concerning project-financed studies, although some were of good
quality and contained sound recommendations, use of their findings has yet to be realized to its
full potential, especially in the MSPAS.
Key Lessons Learned
xiii. Main lessons learned from the implementation of this joint health and education project
may be summarized as follows: (a) it is important to carefully ascertain the implementing
agencies' commitment and institutional capacity in the process of determining the content and
complexity of projects; (b) joint Government/Bank annual reviews of project progress are useful
to maintain flexibility in implementation by adjusting components as well as implementation
support and processes as required to achieve objectives; (c) expert advice for defining expected
products and preparing terms of reference and specifications for complex studies or complex
equipment is cost-effective; (d) continued expansion of social services to cover a growing
number of low income communities not only needs stronger institutional capacity, but also
requires sustainable sources of financing and cooperation from a variety of providers; (e) a
successful MIS for any sector depends not only on good electronic equipment, but, most
importantly, on highly skilled technical expertise for designing and adopting adequate software
and training the users (hence, purchase of electronic equipment must be conditioned on prior
development and pilot testing of the system); (f) studies and research need a clear plan defining
the topics and the way the studies will be managed, and providing for their use and
dissemination; and (g) projects greatly benefit from baseline and follow-up surveys for
evaluating achievements and performance.
Future Operations
xiv.  Many of the lessons learned were applied by the MINED in the preparation of the Basic
Education Modernization Project (Loan 3945-ES) and by the MSPAS in designing a program of
modernization of the health sector for which the Government is seeking external financing. The
education project is targeted to 135 districts (out of a total of 262); it aims at expansion of
services and quality improvement, as well as institutional modernization and strengthening.
Innovative methods of combining the public and private sectors in service provision will be
tested. In the health sector, the Bank, through Japanese assistance and jointly with IDB, financed
several studies and preparatory activities for the development of a modernization program for the
sector, and IDB is considering financing a health modernization project.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EL SALVADOR
SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3348-ES)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Project Background
1.    This project was the first Bank operation in El Salvador to include the health sector and
the fifth operation in the education sector, after an 11 year lapse. It had two executing agencies:
the Ministry of Education (MINED) and the Ministry of Health (MSPAS), under overall
coordination by the Ministry of Planning (MIPLAN). MIPLAN ceased to exist in 1995 and the
coordinating role was thereafter transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The project
supported the Govermment strategy of poverty alleviation and aimed at improving social services
delivery as well as institutional strengthening of the social ministries to develop capacity to
evaluate social programs.
2.    When this project was designed and prepared in 1990-91, the country was going through
the final stages of the armed conflict and serious social and economic upheavals. From the late
'70s until 1982, gross domestic product (GDP) fell by 22 percent, followed by a period of very
slow annual growth (under 2 percent) which barely kept up with the net rate of population
growth. During that difficult period defense efforts crowded out social and infrastructure
spending, with total public expenditures falling from 33 percent of GDP at the beginning of the
1980s to 19 percent in 1988. Social sector expending fell from 40 to 24 percent of total public
expenditures, and health and education were the hardest hit. Practically all annual resources for
these sectors were used for operational expenditures, at the expense of capital and human
resource investments. Although the country received foreign aid and assistance from non-
governmental organizations (NGOs), these inputs did not completely offset the impact of falling
public resources.
3.    Toward the end of the 1980s, social indicators were among the lowest in Latin America,
with an infant mortality rate of 57 per 1,000 live births (80 per 1,000 in rural areas), 15 percent of
infants with low birth weight, hospital maternal mortality at 14 per 10,000 live births (over 10
times the rate in developed countries), and child malnutrition at 50 percent of children under 5
years of age. In education, at the national level, illiteracy was over 35 percent, primary school
enrollment was 70 percent and average school attainment was 3.1 years. The project supported
Government efforts toward the alleviation of poverty and effective delivery of social services.
Project Objectives and Description
4.    The original project objectives aimed at: (a) improving coverage and delivery of basic
health and education services to a population of about 1.1 million (or 27% of the total population
of the country) in some 78 of the poorest municipalities; and (b) strengthening the public sector



2
capacity to efficiently plan, manage, and evaluate the delivery of social programs. These
objectives would be achieved by enhancing the management, supervision and technical capacity
of MSPAS and MINED and MIPLAN's capacity to analyze social investment programs and
evaluate their impact.
5.    Assessment of Original Project Objectives. The objectives defined as part of the project
design coincided with the overall policies and strategies of the Government to restore priority to
the social sectors and target improvements to regions of the country most in need, while
strengthening the institutional capacity of relevant ministries to carry out effective basic social
services. In health, concentration of resources to improve maternal health and child nutrition
addressed key public problems in the sector. In education, placement of responsibility on the
community for the day-to-day operation and preventive maintenance of preschool and primary
schools was a worthwhile goal to ensure sustainability and effectiveness of the investments. The
objectives of institutional development of the ministries --particularly the ambitious goal of
personnel management reform and down-sizing, and the creation or expansion of management
information systems -- were less well dimensioned vis-A-vis the magnitude of the problems faced
and the tools available through the project to resolve those problems. Moreover, the adoption of
a multi-agency design to implement sectoral components with very few technical and
administrative linkages among them did not offer significant advantages, and was bound to
produce administrative complications.
6.    Original Project Design and Organization. The project consisted of three parts, A)
MSPAS, B) MINED and C) MIPLAN. Each of the Parts A and B had two components, basic
services and institutional development.
7.    Part A, Health Sector, under MSPAS, comprised: The Basic Health Services
Development Component to support the expansion of outreach activities as follows:
(a) Health Promoters and Birth Attendants: i) training (partly with USAID funds) 342
health promoters); (ii) training (with UNICEF funds) about 275 additional birth attendants; and
(iii) ) posting (and paying salaries with Loan funds on a declining basis) 342 health promoters
(additional to other 579 health promoters financed by the Government).
(b) Primary Health Care Services: The capabilities of the health centers in the project
area were to be improved to respond to anticipated increased demand as a result of expanded
outreach activities by i) Employment of 44 health specialists (9 physicians, 15 graduate nurses
and 20 auxiliary nurses) in new posts that were to be paid by the project as incremental; (ii)
augmenting provision of medicines and supplies; (iii) developing and carrying out of a
maintenance and training program for the community boards at each primary level facility in the
project area to promote preventive maintenance with community participation; and (iv)
reassigning the following existing medical personnel to health posts and health units in the
project area: about 7 physicians, 22 social service doctors, 10 graduate nurses, and 19 auxiliary
nurses.
(c) Nutrition: The project would integrate strengthened nutrition activities into the
program of primary health care services provided by MSPAS in the project area, through: i)
Employment of 14 additional nutritionist positions for supervision; (ii) provision of scales and
supplies of micronutrients for pregnant and lactating mothers and children with nutritional



3
deficiencies; (iii) provision of educational materials and equipment for MSPAS staff and
community training programs; (iv) technical assistance for design of a pilot weaning food
program to distribute food through health facilities to about 1,000 children and for expanding
such program (under a structural adjustment loan -- SAL) to 100,000 children in high risk
municipalities; and (v) technical assistance to prepare and evaluate a pilot food coupon program.
(d) Safe Motherhood Initiatives: In support of safe motherhood, and to strengthen
MSPAS' referral system from primary to secondary level and to provide 24-hour birth
emergency services and upgrading first aid at primary level facilities, the project included
financing for: (i)) 83 incremental staff of a total of 150 needed; the remainder was to be
reassigned to the project areas from other locations. Total needs and project contributions were
estimated, respectively, at 3 doctors, 46 graduate nurses (23 from project), 50 auxiliary nurses
(25 from project), 25 anesthesiologists (all from project), and 26 blood bank technicians (10
from project); (ii) equipment, technical assistance and training program in emergency births for
MSPAS referral and counter-referral system.
8.    MSPAS Institutional Development. The project planned to improve MSPAS
management capacity to deliver services, particularly regarding supervision, financial and
personnel management and design of health financing policies. This would be accomplished as
follows:
(a) Supervision System by providing: technical assistance, five vehicles and 30
motorcycles for supervision; office equipment and supplies, travel costs and allowances for
supervisors, training, printing of manuals, and workshops, and assignment by MSPAS of at least
16 vehicles exclusively for supervision;
(b) Financial and Personnel Management: would be improved through: (i) Expansion
and implementation of the health management information system (HMIS) and development and
implementation of operational budgets; (ii) training of MSPAS staff for use of the HMIS and
operational budgets; (iii) employment of four budget analysts; (iv) computer equipment; and (v)
technical assistance to perform a study to guide the improvement of efficiency in personnel
policies; and
(c) Health financing policy would be improved through studies on feasibility of cost
recovery systems, hospital costs and efficiency; and on provision of health services by the private
sector.
9.    Part B, Education Sector, implemented by MINED consisted of the following
components:
(a) Preprimarv Education Program supported expansion of quality preschool education
through involvement of community school associations (ACEs) selected according to specific
criteria established by the EDUCO program (to complement this component, the Government
was to finance, under the SAL, a school nutrition program; the project provided funds for
technical assistance); it financed the following: (i) educational materials including about 3,000
teachers'guides, 125,000 children's workbooks and books for about 750 libraries; (ii) training for
about 2,500 preprimary teachers, particularly on early childhood development and of 3,000 ACE
members in program administration and accounting; (iii) teachers' salaries, school supplies and



4
travel expenses and allowances for training; and (iv) preparation and printing of training
materials and guidelines for the ACEs;
(b) Prir  Education Program: It was intended to expand the provision and quality of
primary education services in the project area to children of low income families through the
following: (i) provision of 850,000 handbooks, 8,000 teachers'guides for grades 1 to 6, and
books for 1,400 libraries; (ii) training of teachers and ACE members (150 teacher-trainers, 7,200
first-grade teachers, and 5,200 ACE members; (iii) teachers' salaries, school supplies, and travel
expenses and allowances for training; and (iv) preparation and printing of training materials and
guidelines;
(c) School Nutrition: financed technical assistance for design and implementation of a
complementary school nutrition program; and
(d) Formative Evaluation: technical assistance for designing evaluation of preprimary
and primary education programs to assess their impact on child development and their cost-
effectiveness.
10.  Institutional Develoment of MINfED. This component aimed at improvement of
MINED's management capacity to deliver services, paying particular attention to Planning and
management information, supervision, distribution of materials and school maintenance. This
would be done through:
(a) Planning and Management Information Systems: Included the development of basic
educational statistics, indicators for monitoring expenditures and personnel, updating information
on status of school buildings and maintenance needs, and evaluating program and policies. For
this, the project would finance the design of a MIS and the necessary equipment, as well as
related training. The project was to finance 14 incremental staff for the MIS;
(b) Supervision System: The project supported the design and implementation of a
unified supervision system including supervision guidelines and manuals, a reporting system (as
part of the MIS), training of 150 supervisors, 19 vehicles and 30 motorcycles, financing of
incremental costs of travel and allowances for supervision and studies to evaluate supervision
impact on teachers and principals' performance and on students;
(c) Textbooks and Materials Distribution System: Consolidation of the distribution units
within MINED, and provision of technical assistance, 4 vehicles, office equipment and furniture
and incremental costs related to distribution of textbooks and materials;
(d) School Maintenance System: The project sought an improved school maintenance
system with community participation, and provided financing for a pilot maintenance program in
45 schools in the project area, four vehicles and equipment for three regional workshops, revision
and printing of maintenance manuals and incremental costs related to the expansion of the pilot
experience to 434 schools in the project area, as well as the monitoring of such program.
11.   Part C. Social Sector Planning. This part was to be implemented by MINPLAN
(abolished in 1995). It placed overall project coordinating functions in MIPLAN and included
financing for developing its capacity for strategic planning and monitoring of social sector



5
policies and programs. To achieve these goals, the project was to strengthen data gathering
through surveys and evaluation and finance an MIS. This would have been done through studies,
technical assistance and training.
12. Agreed Changes. A major change was the transfer of project coordinating functions from
the Ministry of Planning to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in view of the cancellation of the
former as part of overall Government restructuring.
Implementation Record
13.   During its first year, the project experienced organizational and managerial problems,
disbursements were well below appraisal estimates, there was no implementation manual, and
the staff initially appointed in the Ministries of Health and Education had not received enough
training in project management, handling of financial accounts, and procurement. It was only in
the second year that the project coordinating units were brought up to speed and the procurement
agent (UNDP) began to perform its functions, after one year of preparation for this role. Yet even
with these actions, there was a learning curve in terms of effectively synchronizing the activities
of the coordinating units and UNDP. There was also a lack of expertise in the Government
ministries to select and prepare specifications for equipment and inspect, receive and distribute
the equipment and materials purchased. The UNDP played an important role as procurement
agent and, in addition, advanced funds when needed, maintained detailed records and conducted
periodic reviews. It also participated in annual reviews conducted jointly by the Bank and the
Government. Annual reviews enabled assessment of the adequacy of budgets for the following
year and were used as opportunities for deciding on revisions of certain elements of the project,
aimed at a closer achievement of project objectives. These revisions included expansion of the
EDUCO program beyond original coverage goals, and a change in the mix of additional staff for
health facilities favoring more promoters and some medical specialties needed for the maternal
health program.
14.   Both units confronted difficulties in selecting consultants and in defining expected
products, as well as in applying the results and recommendations of studies and consultancies.
However, lessons were learned and staff now readily acknowledge the importance of planning
and timing of the procurement processes, as well as the benefits of obtaining expert advice for
preparing terms of reference and specifications for complex studies or equipment. These and
other experiences have been taken into account in the preparation of the follow up education
project and are currently being applied by MSPAS in planning a broad health modernization
program, for which the Government is seeking external financing. Regarding execution of the
proposed health and education programs in the selected districts, after a first year of slow action,
both ministries enlisted the cooperation of the technical staff at the center, and, in the districts,
plans of action and field activities began to gain speed.
The Health Sector
15.  Intensification of health services implied increases in the 78 districts in the numbers of
permanent positions for doctors, nurses, nursing auxiliaries, and promoters, training of traditional
birth attendants, motorcycles for supervisors, boats to take health services to coastal populations
with no other access, and replacement of deteriorated and outdated medical equipment and



6
transport for 70 health facilities. New positions were created and staffed with 17 doctors, 15
nurses, 20 nursing auxiliaries and 401 health promoters, meeting and in some cases exceeding
original targets. A variety of training courses took place to prepare the staff for the provision of
services in the targeted areas of the country. In view of the short time elapsed between the
availability of these inputs and the evaluation surveys conducted in 1996 it is difficult to
categorically state any claim of impact over health status in the areas where interventions were
made. However, some indications of improvements, which may be partly due to the project, are
mentioned in the section below, on achievement of objectives.
16.   To address the problem of excessive maternal deaths, services were strengthened in the
country's 26 maternity hospitals, including increased resources to enable them to function 24
hours a day. Additionally, the staff was augmented with anesthesiologists (given that improper
application of anesthesia was a main cause of maternal deaths). The maternity hospitals also
were provided with state-of-the art equipment, and doctors and nurses received appropriate
training based on updated protocols for gynecological and delivery-related medical procedures.
17.   The project supported the Salt Miners Association in a program of salt iodination that has
reached 99 percent of the salt consumed in the country. Although this assistance was not
included in the original project design, its addition was justified for its positive impact on
children nutritional status in relation with its low cost. The project also assisted the MINED
program of Healthy Schools by providing check-ups for 225,000 primary and secondary school
students in pre-school and in primary and secondary schools, distributing vitamin A, iron and
other supplements and vaccines, and offering teachers' training. The project also financed studies
and consultants to improve the design of nutrition programs and these activities resulted in good
models which have not yet been applied fully by MSPAS. With respect to the institutional
development component, achievements were more modest, since major changes would only be
possible if accompanied by well designed health policy reform, which was not contemplated in
this project. Improvements in supervision of field work were sought with increases in transport
for supervisors (12 vehicles and 30 motorcycles) and in frequency of visits to the field, but there
were no major changes in the system and content of supervision.
18.   The project also provided computers for 15 hospitals, 15 health centers and 13 district
health departments, and 4 financial analyst positions. Moreover, the staff in those facilities and
offices received training on managing the operational budget. Yet at project's conclusion, the
underlying concepts of MIS and operational budget still needed further work and development.
This component also produced several studies on efficiency and alternative sources of health
financing and some of their results and recommendations are being applied, such as updating the
system for cost recovery.
The Education Sector
19.   Through this project, the Ministry of Education experimented successfully with a new
modality of expansion of preschool and primary education to poor rural areas, supporting and
reinforcing an approach used by many communities during the war period which relied on
communities to establish and administer schools for preschool and primary education. The
project helped formalize this approach (which is known as EDUCO) and provide proper
standards to ensure quality, as well as financial and technical resources to poor communities.



7
20.   With much needed additional support and training from the Government, the parents'
associations continued to manage schools. Pre-project activities began with a three-month pilot,
financed in part by UNICEF. A large part of the Ministry of Education was mobilized for this
initial trial effort, forming multi-disciplinary teams to deal with administration of the program
and with curricula. There was some initial resistance from the teachers' unions, but it was
overcome when results from this approach began to be better known.
21.   New materials and training programs for teachers were launched and agreements with the
community associations were signed. Children attending EDUCO classes were also given
supplemental snacks financed by the Government. The Bank accepted the EDUCO concept and,
after the information from the pilot was available, the program began to operate with retroactive
financing. During 1991-1996 the program covered 1,700 communities and 43,392 children in
preschool classes and 125,696 students in primary level classes. The heads of the ACEs in the
1,700 communities received training regarding their participation in school activities and in
administrative and financial handling of the funds provided by the project. The program
involved hiring of 3,800 teachers (79 percent with university studies, 11 percent with a high
school diploma and 7 percent with studies in technical institutes).
22.   With assistance from this project, MINED began the rationalization and decentralization
of its functions, improved its management, and began a practice of contracting various activities
with the private sector. This practice is proving cost-effective, particularly with regard to
peripheral services for which the private sector has comparative advantages (e.g., distribution of
materials, production and printing, transport, etc.).
Achievement of Original Objectives
23.   Studies were conducted during the last year of the project, making comparisons with data
obtained from various sources for the period around project initiation. Based on several surveys
conducted in 1996,1 it may be concluded that overall the project met the objectives of increasing
the basic services in health and education in 78 of the poorest districts of the country. However,
the second objective, conceived to strengthen the management, supervision and technical
capacity of MSPAS and MINED to plan and deliver services, improve cost recovery and increase
hospital efficiency, was less successful, given the uneven commitment prevailing at the time for
organizational change. Nevertheless, judging from recent spin-off activities in MiNED, the
project appears to have inspired a strong modernization process in that Ministry. Organizational
issues in MSPAS, on the other hand, were more complex and deep-rooted and were not
significantly influenced by this project. The lack of success in both ministries in establishing
state-of-the art MISs may be tied to the mentioned constraints surrounding organizational issues;
moreover, successful MIS development would have required considerably more intensive and
high quality technical advice than was available. The institutional objectives also intended to
increase MIPLAN capacity to develop a social sector information system, analyze social
investment programs and evaluate their impact, but the Ministry was abolished and this objective
was achieved only to the extent that the function of data gathering and analyzing social program
1Evaluaci6n de indicadores de procesos y de impacto en 78 municipios de alto riesgo. Informe Final, Fernando
Ernesto Minervini, Consultorias e Investigaciones en Servicios de Salud, S.A. de C.V., in coordination with
Ministry of Health, ANDA and Municipal Governments, San Salvador, April 15, 1996.



8
data was transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Fulfillment of specific objectives in
health and education are discussed below.
In the Health Sector
24.   The project enabled the intensification of traditional health programs to reach poor and
previously inaccessible communities with essential basic health services. The selection of
improvements was correct, since it is generally observed that the factors that have a negative
effect on the rates of maternal mortality are the low quality of the care received during delivery
and the lack of timely access to institutional care. A sample of institutions assisted by the project
showed a reduction in hospital maternal mortality from 14 per 10,000 live births to 10 during the
period 1990 to 1995.
25.   With regard to project impact on other health conditions, as already mentioned, the
project period was too short to measure the direct effects upon health indicators. However, if the
trends of key indicators were influenced at all by the project in the targeted areas the effect
appears to have been favorable. Results of several studies point to notable improvements in
vaccination coverage and in the indicators related to some health problems that had been targeted
by the project for intervention, such as malnutrition and infant and child mortality.
Improvements in rates exceeded those achieved in non-project areas. During the project period,
infant mortality in the project areas decreased by one third, from 33 per 1,000 live births to 22.2,
and child mortality declined 45 percent, from 3.6 to 2 per 1,000 children aged one to four.
26.   In institutional development, however, all the efforts and resources invested did not result
in marked improvements in supervision, in maintenance, or in a truly interactive management
information system that could be used in establishments and district offices to manage the
services. These are complex topics and would have required a strong commitment on the part of
the MSPAS to change the systems and considerably more intensive and high quality technical
advice than that received during the project. Concerning the studies financed by the project,
although there were some studies of good quality and with sound recommendations, utilization
of study findings did not reach its full potential.
In the Education Sector
27.   Coverage gains surpassed by about two and a half times the goals established at project
inception. About 170,000 children benefited from preschool and primary classes and school
snacks. In addition to a notable expansion of school coverage, a closer relationship was
established between the education authorities and the communities. This was the first program
following the end of the armed conflict that managed to bring together the Government and
communities in a joint effort to improve educational access.
28.   A study conducted in 1994 concluded that the Community Associations (ACEs)
constitute an important support to improve the quality of preschool and primary education. Its
members met with teachers between one and six times per month, and with a school supervisor
up to three times a year, and considered the latter as the main support in the community's efforts
to improve the schools. Both men and women had the same chance of being elected to the ACE
Managing Committee independent of their level of literacy, and there was very little turnover.



9
Some 89 percent of the Associations followed the requirements proposed by EDUCO to select
teachers. Most teachers (95 percent) indicated their desire to continue to work within the
EDUCO program. In 95 percent of the cases there were no problems with the administrative and
financial handling of the classes by the Associations. They also took care of contacting parents
when students were persistently absent from classes.
29.   Most parents (over 99 percent) trusted teachers and 84 percent reported that teachers
worked 20 or more days per month. Reasons for withdrawing children from the classes before
the end of the school year were: to work (53 percent), illness (19 percent), lack of money (15
percent).
30.   There were some partial gains in institutional development in the education sector, but
the comprehensive goals of improving policy planning and logistic systems and developing an
all-embracing MIS were not achieved as planned. Notwithstanding these limitations, first steps
were taken to improve the facilities' maintenance system, with preparation of a manual and a
pilot program for 263 schools where parent associations were trained to maintain buildings,
furniture and equipment. A manual for supervision was prepared and the system received a
major push by the EDUCO program, which relied on supervision as a main element to achieve
its objectives. A less positive experience was confronted with regard to information systems.
Indeed, there were some inefficiencies in the purchase of electronic equipment, which was
initiated prior to any firm planning and development of an MIS, with a consequent obsolescence
and low utilization of the equipment purchased. A meaningful MIS for the education system is
still being pursued under the new project. The causes for failing to achieve this objective were
similar to those mentioned in the case of the health sector -- i.e., lack of a clear perception of the
need for this system at higher levels of decision making and unavailability of appropriate
technical assistance.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
31.   Factors not subject to Government control. Delays caused by contractors who did not
meet the terms of their contracts (e.g., by delivering the wrong equipment, causing long delays in
merchandise return) were beyond Government control.
32.   Factors subject to Government control. Preventable problems or solvable factors which
delayed the project included: (a) inaction in resolving the delays in handling reimbursement
requests and direct payments to contractors, involving several agencies (UNDP, the PCUs, and
the Ministries of Finance and of Foreign Affairs); (b) lack of perception of the importance of
hiring relevant and high quality technical assistance in specific cases where resources within the
respective organizations were not enough to undertake a task; (c) inaction in settling disparities
in the accounting systems required by the Ministry of Finance and by the Bank; and (d) delays on
several occasions in the release of funds and in the submission of reimbursements or requests for
direct payment to contractors; in many instances, by default, UNDP assisted by advancing
funds.
33.   Factors subject to implementing agencies' control. Two main factors that affected the
project and were dependent on direct action by the implementing agencies are: (a) the initial low
commitment to the project by the Ministry of Health; (b) the long time taken to put into motion



10
an effective procurement process; and (c) instability in the PCU caused by organizational
changes in MIPLAN, resulting in changes in the staff, and lack of appropriate training for new
staff.
Project Sustainability
34.   Both in health and education, the positions created and other expenditures initiated
through this project had been absorbed in the Government budget before project completion.
Also, more resources for health and education were directed to the poor. These are positive
developments and a demonstration of strong Government commitment towards the programs
supported by this project. The innovative education program (EDUCO) has been extended to the
rural areas of the whole country within the national budget. At the sane time, MINED has
initiated a process of rationalization and modernization for which it is receiving financial
assistance from the Bank through a new project.
35.   However, although MINED's nominal budget more than doubled since 1991 to 1996, in
real terms the trend was stationary; further, as a proportion of the GOES budget, it has held a
slightly declining trend -- from 15.5 percent in 1991, to 14.3 percent in 1996. And MSPAS has
been unable to extend the special health programs to all rural areas of the country with regular
GOES funds. The MSPAS budget declined slightly in real terms during the period 1991-96.
The proportion with respect to GOES' total budget remained unchanged at 9 percent. It may be
concluded that future expansion of social services will require major reform of the systems --
along the lines already initiated in the education sector -- which would need to include
reorganizing the administration and financing of the programs, improving efficiency, and
exploring new sources of financing.
Bank Performance
36. Preparation and Appraisal. The Bank was well-founded in the selection of the policy
issues it emphasized in this project, as well as in the programmatic choices it decided to support.
However, the adoption of the objective of increasing financial resources to the social sectors
perhaps over-estimated the Government capacity to handle these increases without major sector
reforms. The complexity of the project structure, involving three agencies, caused delays in
project execution, required several layers of approval for certain activities and complicated
management of project accounts. And although the Bank identified the lack of project
experience in procurement and implementation as risks for delays, these risks were apparently
more serious than anticipated and the initial procurement training was insufficient or lost due to
staff changes.
37.   Supervision. The Bank conducted regular supervision missions which also served as
opportunities to render technical assistance and to redirect activities to make them more relevant
in meeting project objectives. In addition, it conducted annual reviews with the participation of
the Government and UNDP that led to important decisions to improve implementation.



11
Borrower Performance
38.   There were initial delays in setting up and maintaining high quality Project Coordinating
Units (PCUs), but after the first year these units began to show better performance. Procurement
efficiency improved with the training of the agent and disbursements moved at a faster pace due
to the patient work of the PCUs to overcome complicated procedures which required the
participation of several agencies and approval levels. There were problems with the differences
in the accounting systems required to keep the project accounts in accordance with requirements
of the Ministry of Finance on the one hand, and with those of the Bank on the other. This issue
was not fully resolved, and at project closing considerable work was required to reconcile the
accounts under both systems. Audit reports were often delayed and in some cases the Bank
requested many revisions. Finally, although the implementing agencies acted responsibly in
implementing the special programs as planned, they were not always willing or ready to accept
technical assistance to take care of complex tasks or to define specific requirements in terms of
equipment or studies.
Assessment of Outcome
39.   The project reached, and even exceeded, targets for expansion of social services to poor
districts of the country. Achievements were more modest regarding institutional development
objectives of strengthening management, supervision and technical capacity in the Ministries to
deliver services and increase cost efficiency. Although the targeted areas benefited from
improved services, major complementary systems such as management information and
maintenance were difficult to tackle and did not develop, respectively, into significant new tools
for management and for preservation of the capital investments. Moreover, it is evident from the
project that the continued expansion of social services to cover growing low income
communities not only depends on institutional capacity on the part of implementing agencies,
but, to a large extent, on sustainable sources of financing. Future operations need to pay
attention to administrative and financial reform of the social sector systems, following existing
successful models in Latin America and elsewhere.
Lessons Learned
40.   This section presents lessons learned from the implementation of this joint health and
education project which are being applied in the development and execution of sector specific
projects and programs by the Ministries of Health and of Education.
41.   To prevent initial project delays and to reach realistic estimates of project costs and
disbursements, the implementing agencies' commitment and institutional capacity have to be
carefully ascertained and taken into account in project design. Even if there is a high level of
commitment to the project, when capacity is low, projects need to be relatively uncomplicated
and additional capacity should be ensured through pre-project and continuing technical
assistance and training of the project coordinating and technical staff.
42.  It is important to design, from project onset, an accounting system compatible with the
requirements of the Government and the Bank to administer project expenditures; the project
coordinating unit should issue monthly reports by item of expenditure, on expenditures and



12
reimbursement requests, and on available balances in each category; those reports should be
made available, also on a monthly basis, to the executing agencies or units and to the
procurement agent.
43.   Projects comprising several sectors (in this case Education and Health) and involving
several implementing agencies (MINED, MSPAS, MIPLAN and later the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs), with project components separately executed and few technical or administrative
linkages among them, do not derive significant advantages; in addition, they are very
complicated to administer.
44.   Joint Government/Bank annual reviews of project progress enabled them to maintain
flexibility in implementation, while keeping in mind original project objectives. This made it
possible to take timely decisions on corrections as necessary.
45.   The limiting of access to expert advice for defining expected products and for preparing
terms of reference and specifications for complex studies and equipment caused delays, worked
against the optimal quality of studies or equipment selected, and ultimately increased costs.
46.   Continued expansion of social services to cover a growing number of low income
communities cannot rely only on stronger institutional capacity of the agencies responsible for
these programs. Expansion also requires access to sustainable sources of financing, flexibility
for adjusting components to changing situations, and a variety of service providers
(communities, NGOs, private sector), in addition to the public services. Future operations in the
social sectors need to pay particular attention to organizational, administrative and financial
reforms needed in these sectors.
47.  Improvement or development of MIS in all sectors is a delicate task whose success does
not only depend on availability of electronic equipment, but on highly skilled technical expertise.
This includes consulting staff and managers on information needs and possible applications,
designing and adopting adequate software, and training the staff and managers on use of the
system once developed. Purchase of electronic equipment must be conditioned to prior
development and pilot testing of the system.
48.   Although the inclusion of studies and research is important in projects intended to
implement changes in service delivery to reach underserved groups, there needs to be a clear plan
defining the topics, the administration of the studies, and provisions for their use and
dissemination. Additionally, it is essential to include baseline and follow-up surveys to trace and
evaluate project performance.
Future Operations
49.   Many of the lessons learned were applied by MINED in the preparation of the Basic
Education Modernization Project (Loan 3945-ES) and by MSPAS in designing a program of
modernization of the health sector for which the Government is seeking external financing. The
education modernization project was designed to promote greater equity, quality, and efficiency
in basic education and also to strengthen the managerial, financial, and administrative capacity of
MINED to set policies and guidelines for the sector and deliver public education services. It is
targeted to 135 districts (out of a total of 262). It has two components for expansion of services
and quality improvement and one on institutional modernization and strengthening. The latter



13
includes testing innovative methods of combining the public and private sectors in service
provision. In the health sector, the Bank, through Japanese assistance and jointly with IDB,
financed several studies and preparatory activities for the development of a modernization
program for the sector. IDB is also considering financing a health modernization project.



14
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EL SALVADOR
SOCUIL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3348-ES)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Studies Included in the Project
Table 7A:    Project Costs
Table 7B:    Project Financing
Table 8:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10:    Bank Resources: Missions



15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Macropolicies                 n                  X                 0                  0
Sector Policies               0                 X                  0                  0
Financial objectives          o                  X                 n                  n
Institutional development     0                  X                 0                  0
Physical Objectives           X                  n                 0                  0
Poverty reduction             X                  0                 0                  0
Gender issues                 X                  0                 0                  0
Other social objectives       X                                                       o 0  0
Environmental objectives      o                  O                 O                  X
Public sector management      0                  X                 0                  0
Private sector management     0                  o                  1                 X
Other (specify)               0                  O                 O                  1
..''B..w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
Identification                oxo
Preparation assistance                           X 
Appraisal                     n                  Xn
Supervision                   X                 [      
Preparation                   o                  X                 o
Implementation                n                 X 
Covenant compliance                             Xo
Operation (if applicable)                  
E   Msess_..... . ..... ....t.t..i.
Identificataionctoy                                         usatsfator
Appraisal  ~0                            X                  Li 



16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Lon itleProeYa  fSan
Preceding operations
1. First Education Project Improving secondary  1969  Completed
(Loan 609-ES)         school system
2. Second Education   Establishing rural      1974     Completed
Project (Loan 1007-ES)  basic education
schools
3. Industrial and     Creating a network of   1978    Completed
Agricultural Training  non-formal training
Project (Loan 1571-ES)  centers for agricultural
and industrial workers
Following operations
1. Basic Education    To continue            1995     Under
Modernization Project   expanding basic               implementation
(Loan 3348-ES)        education in rural
areas and help
modernize MINED



17
Table 3: Project Timetable
S.RS,< ~~~.....  .......... . .. .. . .. ...........    .................... . . ... ...  ...,.,.,   ... . . . .
IEPS                                                         November 9, 1989
First preparation mission  November 1989                     November 26, 1990
Appraisal                  February 1990                     February 24, 1991
Negotiations               May 10, 1991                      May 13, 1991
Board Presentation         June 19, 1991                     June 19, 1991
Signing                    September 11, 1991                September 11, 1991
Effectiveness              February 5, 1992                  February 5, 1992
Mid-term Reviewal          June 30, 1994                  .  June 30, 1994
Project Completion        |December 31, 1995                 March 31, 1996
Loan closing    0 0       |March 31, 1996                    September 30, 1996
a/ There were joint Government/Bank annual implementation reviews.
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                               .   .. ... ..    ,. ... . .w
~~~~~~~~~~. .     . . . .   . . . . . .,   .   .   .   '"" ' ''  . . . . . . . .   . .   . . X.
Appraisal Es:timat e         3.8     9.3       16.4     22.9     26.0
Actual                      2.0       7.1      13.5       20.6   23.8      25.7
Actual as % of estimate     53%      76%      82%       90%      92%       99%
Date of final disbursement  January 9, 1997



18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
.~~~~~~~~~~~          .   ~   .............lfi  19A6 (ier.   dop Je"i    Peren o
S.E....{ .......................           projct         stafTarget....... .....
A. Health
Component (a). Basic Health Services
Development
1. Increase in Pop. in Region              1.3 m.         NA           1.6           +23%
2. Health Indicators
Infant Mortality                      33.2           NA           22.2         -33.2%
Child Mortality (1-4 years)           36.3           NA           20.0         -45.0%
Hospital Maternal Mortality            14.1          NA           9.9          -30.0%
3. Staff Expansion in 70 centers
a. Medical Doctors                                   16            17
of which New posts                               (9)          (17)           189%
b. Soc.Serv.Doctors                                  22           NA
c. Graduate Nurses                                  25            15
of which New Posts                              (15)         (15)           100%
d. Nurse Auxiliaries                                39           20
of which New Posts                            (20)          (20)           100%
e. Health Promoters                  140           342           401           117%
f. Nutritionists                                    14           14            100%
4. Safe Motherhood Initiatives
a. Doctors                                          3            3            100%
b. Anesthesiologists                               25           26            101%
of which new posts       _                   (25)          (26)          101%
b. Graduate Nurses                                 46           23            50%
of which new posts                            (23)         (23)           100%
c. Auxiliary Nurses                               50           25            50%
of which new posts                           (25)          (25)          100%
e. Empirical Midwives              332         200-275        (204)          86%
B. Education
1. Expansion ofPre-PrimarySchools,        25,000        43,392                       174%
Number of Students to be added
2. Expansion of Primary Schools           45,000        125,696                      279%
Number of Students
3. Number of Communities                    NA           1,700
4. Education Indicators
Illiteracy                          35% ('89)        NA           27%           +31%
Enrolled
In pre-primary                      14%           NA            NA       _
In primary                         70%0/          NA           83%           +19%
New teachers in Target Areas          NA            NA           3,800
Teachers with Univ. Studies           NA        --NA            3,000
New Community Associations            NA            NA           1,700



19
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
Studies in the Health
Sector
Financial Analysis of the   Promote equity, efficiency,  Proposed structure of
Users' Costs -MOH      and effective monitoring of  charges for services, that
collections and expenditures while protecting indigent
users, discourages excessive
use of services. Pilot plan
Studies___________________  _________________________  tested   in   1995
Analysis of the Private    Obtain data on number and   A complete inventory of
Health Sector      type of private health      private health sector
facilities, equipment     resources and cost of
available and their       services. It was found that
condition, levels of services  fees charged are relatively
offered and price structure   low, particularly by private
of the main services      physicians. Used in sector
modernization program
(1995)
Research on Practices,    Document existing nutrition  Study provided information
Perceptions and Means of   habits in the targeted groups to design an effective
Improving Child and       and districts and propose    nutrition education
Mothers' Nutrition in the    changes that may have an    program, but it has not yet
Targeted Districts (Initial   impact on nutritional status  been acted upon (1993)
study
Baseline Survey for       Issue recommendations on   The study provided good
Evaluating the National   nutrition, to be included in  information and
Nutrition Program         the education programs;    recommendations that could
know the nutritional status   be used in a nutrition
of the population in targeted  program (1994)
districts
Communication Strategy    Improve nutrition practices   The results could be used
for a National Program of   among women and children  for a nutrition program
Nutrition Education                                  through various media
(1994)
Analysis of the Nutrition  Analyze the quality and   Comparisons were made
Situation of Infants in the   adequacy of the information  and recommendations
Targeted Districts and    currently generated by     issued re. the surveillance
Proposal for a Surveillance   various sources in the MOH  system; study has been
System                    and make comparisons       used to improve
among the different sources  coordination within
I MSPAS, train staff and



20
improve organization of
nutrition programs; it is also
being applied in preparing
the sector modernization
plan (1996)
Hospital Maternal        Know the magnitude and    An infornative study on
Mortality, January 1990-    causes of maternal deaths    numbers and causes of
December 1995            occurring in hospitals and   maternal deaths in hospitals,
health centers of the MOH   which may be used for
further improvements in
this area of public health as
part of the sector
modernization plan (1996)
Evaluation of Process and   To assess the extent to  The study has several
Impact Indicators in 78  which the project resources  numerical indicators of
High Risk Districts, 1990-   have contributed to  process and impact, that
94                      improving health in the   were used by the
targeted districts       Government and the Bank
in the evaluation of the
implementation of this
project and are being
applied to the sector
modernization plan (1996)
Study of the health private   Refine de definition of the   Results being analyzed
sector                   role of the private sector in  (1996)
a modernized health sector
Design and implementation  Introduce a more responsive The new system is being
of the Operating Budget    Operating Budget System    applied in planning human,
System                   for the health sector    physical and financial
resources (1992-93)
Studies in the Education
Sector
Testimony of an Experience  Compilation of the history   Description of EDUCO's
Underway                 of the EDUCO program     history was used for
dissemination (1992)
Comparative Analysis of    To have information on  Evaluation was used for
First Grade Sessions of  comparative results     introducing improvements
EDUCO and No-EDUCO                                in first grade courses(l992)
Evaluation of the EDUCO    Evaluate performance of the  Same as above (1992)
Program                  first year of the EDUCO
program
Basic Statistical Indicators   To begin building a data    First efforts at integrating
base for EDUCO from its   data on EDUCO (1992)
first year              I_I



21
Analysis of the          Highlights of the         Results used for training
Management Process of    management style of this    and dissemination (1993)
EDUCO                    program
Systematization of EDUCO  Efforts at developing    Being used for expanding
standards for this program    program to new areas
(1994)
Basic Statistics on EDUCO   Establish a system for  System still evolving
reception and compilation   (1994)
of data on EDUCO
Working with the         Identify key issues in the    A document was issued
Community Associations    field work, to establish a  containing key issues
for Education            plan for developing and   relating to EDUCO program
organizing Community     (1994)
Associations for Education
Comprehensive Framework  Provide a framework for    A framework was
for the Relationship     this activity             developed (1994)
School/Community
Updating the Legal       Determine existing laws and System designed (1995)
Framework of EDUCO       required changes if any for
this programn
Research on Education    Data collection directly in   A data base was developed
Statistics               the communities where    (1994-1995)
EDUCO is operating
Community Work with the   Develop methodologies and  Methodologies were
Associations for Education   materials for promotion,    developed and applied
organization, training,  (1995)
monitoring of Associations
Identification of the    Needs assessment of       Communities and needs
Communities that Joined    infrastructure for education  were identified (1996)
the EDUCO Program
Earliest, to Assess
Infrastructure Needs



22
Table 7A: Project Costs
(US$ million)
:::::::::nj..,,-t  wS-   m  1        W .i ........................... ...........
1. Goods                      -        4.0         4.0      2.9      6.6       95
2. Consultant Services
and Proc. Agent          3.1        3.3         6.4      5.6      0.5       6.1
3. Training                 3.2          -         3.2      2.9       0.1      3.0
4. Incr. salaries          10.9          -        10.9     35.5         -     35.5
5. Drugs                    1.8        2.0         3.8      2.2       0.5      2.7
6. Ed.materials &
supplies                 3.3          -         3.3      0.3      0.1       0.4
7. Other operating
costs                    4.0          -         4.0      1.8        -       1.8
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. ............._.
al Data from SAR Table 4.3
Table 7B: Project Financing
(US$ millions)
i,"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .8i.. ...,... .,   ;tss..;
.      . B.5     t......... 
IBRD          16.7         9.3      26.0       17.9        7.8       25.7
Government        7.2          -        7.2      30.0          -        30.0
USAID          2.1           -        2.1       3.2          -        3.2
UNICEF          0.3          -         0.3       0.1          -        0.1
TOTAL          26.3         9.3      35.6       51.2        7.8       59.0



Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance
LAC - Latin America & Caribbean Region
LAD - Central America Country Departme
LADCN - Central America Country Departmt
Form 590 Date: 02109/199
Project ID: SV-PE-7168    - SOCIAL SEC RHB
Original     Revised
Covenant              Fulfill     Fulfill
Clas (s)   Status     Date         Data     Description of Covenant                                Commenta
Agreement: LOAN Loan Number: IBRD -3340
Text Reference: Schedule 5 (a) 3
11           C                                The government would absorb, under regular posi-
tions, 100 health promoters by no later than                                            d
April30, 19931 100 more health promoters by no
later than April 30, 1994; 100 more health
promoters, byno later than April 30, 1995, and the
remaining additional health promoters, by no later                           X  
than april 30, 1996; and that about 86 of the
referred health promoters will be assigned to the
project.                                                                              I
Text Reference: Schedule 5 (a) I
11           C                                The MOH would employ incremental staff to health
units and posts in the project area, only to
extent that it is unable to reassign or transfer
existing personnel from hospitals or administra-
tive posts (para. 3.9).
Text Reference: Schedule 5 (a) 6
10           C                                The MOH would present the maintenance and                                              .
trainingprogram, satisfactory to the Bank, nod
later than December 31, 1991 (para. 3.9)
Text Reference: Schedule 5 (a) 2
11           C                                The Government would absorb 14 additional nu-
tritionists at the rate of five per year
beginningin the first year of project
implementation (para.3.10).
Status-
C    - Complied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
MC   - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Sxpected In Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
NWD  - Not ret Due



Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance
IAC - Latin America & Caribbean Region
LAD - Central America Country Departme
LADCN - Central America Country Departmt
Form 590 Date: 02/09/1996
Project ID: SV-PE-7168    - SOCIAL SEC RHB
Original     Revised
Covennt              Fulfill    Fulfill
Claus(s)   status     Date         Date     Description of Covenant                               Coments
Text Reference: Schedule 5 (a) 7
09           C                                Draft supervision manuals would be submitted to
the Bank for review no later than April 30, 1992
(para. 3.18).
Text Reference: Schedule S (a) S
10           C                                The MOH, assisted by consultants, would carry out
a study, no later than May 31, 1992, under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, on
personnel efficiency at hospitals, health centers
and administrative offices at the national and
regional levels, and no later than July 13, 1992
submit to the Bank for review an action plan and                                            t.
timetable for implementation (para. 3.22)
Text Reference: Schedule 5 (a) 4
10           C                                The MOH studies on cost-recovery and hospital
costs and efficiency would be completed and sub-
mitted to the Bank no later than April 30, 1993
for review.
Text Reference: Schedule 5 (a) 4
10           C                                That studies on the provision of health services
by the private sector would be completed no later
than April 30, 1994.
Text Reference: Schedule 5 (a) 4
10           C                                The government would submit an action plan,
satis-factory to the Bank no later than 6 months
after the completion of each study.
s
C - Complied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Co2plied with
SOON - Compliance Sxpected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
NYD  - Not Yet Due



Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance
LAC - Latin America & Caribbean Region
LAD - Central America Country Departme
LADCN - Central America Country Departmt
Form 590 Date: 02/0911996
Project ID: SV-PE-7168    - SOCIAL SEC RHB
Original     Revised
Covenant             Fulfill      Fulfill
Claeaus)   status     Date         Data    Description of Covenant                                Comments
Text Reference: Schedule 3.01 (a) & Sect. 3.05
04           C                                The Government would increase: (a) the total
aggregate amount of ordinary budgetary resources
for recurrent expenditures for primary health
care(pre-primary & primary education); and (b) the
share of such budgetary resources for non-salary
recurrent expenditures in relation to the total
amount of recurrent expenditures for primary
health & pre-primary and primary education.
Text Reference: 3.04 (c)
03           C                                The Bank, in consultation with Government, may
suspend disbursements for any component that is
not performing satisfactory according to annual
work plans and targets, and may transfer the loan                                        tn
funds allocated to that component to other
projectactivities (para. 4.12)
Text Reference: Schedule 6
04           C                                A Special Account would be opened in the Central
Reserve Bank (para. 4.13)
Text Reference: Section 4.01
01           C                                The project ministries, the procurement agents
andthe Central Reserve Bank would: (a) maintain
and audit annually the project accounts and the
Special Account, (b) forward copies of audit re-
ports, including a separate opinion on the
adecuacy of SOBs, to the Bank within six months
after the end of each calendar year; and (c)
follow satisfactory auditing arrangements.
Sta;ual
C    - Complied with
CD   - Coapliance after Delay
NC   - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Rxpected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
NYD  - Not Yet Due



Legal Covenant Report Latest status of Covenant Compliance
LAC - LAtin America & Caribbean Region
LAD - Central America Country Departme
LADCN - Central America Country Departmt
Form 590 Date: 02/091199o
Project ID: SV-PE-7168   - SOCIAL SEC RHB
Original     Revised
Coveant              Vulf ll     Fulfill
Class(a)   Status     Dat-        Data     Description of Covenant                               ComWate
__._--   -   ------  -- - - - - _  - - - -- _  - - -- - - - -- - - -                               .........___.___________ ___._.___ ____
Text Reference: Section 3.01 (b)
Os           C                                PCU staff, with qualifications, experiences,
functions, and terms of employment satisfactory
tothe Bank, would not be reassigned to other
functions during the life of the project without
agreement by the Bank and that any replacement
would also be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.4)
Text Reference: Section 3.04 (a) & (b); side letter
09           C                               The Government would  (i) submit, no later than
April 30 of each year, an annual work plan; and
(ii) conduct, jointly with the Bank, no later
thanMay 31 of each year, annual reviews on overall
project implementation according to the agreed
upon agendal and (iii) agree on follow-up
actions,and on measures to be taken if
satisfactory pro- greos is not achieved (para.
5.8).
Text Reference: Section 3.04 (c); side letter
09           C                               Main monitoring and evaluation indicators and
targets of project implementation in HIPLAR, MOC
and MOB (para. S. 9)
Text Reference: Sched*de 5 (b) 4
10           c                               The MKO  woulds (i) submit terms of reference for
the formative evaluations of the programs, satis-
factory to the Bank, no later than six months
after project effectiveneass (ii) submit, no
laterthan March 31 of each year during project
imple- mention, the results of the respective
formative evaluations.
C    - Coqpl ed with
CD   - Copliance after Delay
NC - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance xpected in Reasonably Short Time
CP - complied with Partially
NYD - Not Yet Due



Legal Covenant Report; LAtest status of Covenant Compliance
LAC - Latin America & Caribbean Region
LAD - Central America Country Departme
LADCN - Central America Country Departmt
Form 590 Date: 02/09/1996
Project ID: SV-PE-7168    - SOCIAL SEC RHB
Original     Revised
Covenant             Fulfill      Fulfill
Clas Cs)   Status     Date         Date     Description of Covenant                               Co3ments
Text Reference: Schedule S (b) 3
10           C                                The MOE would prepare action plans, no later than
April 30 of each year, beginning in 1992, includ-
ing a timetable for implementation (para. 3.39)
Text Reference: Schedule 5 (b) 5
09           C                                The Government would:  Mi) no later than April 30,
1993, complete the evaluation of MOEs personnel
management system; (ii) promptly,thereafter ex-
change views with the Bank on the reaults of the
evaluation; and (iii) no later than April 30,
1994, prepare and submit to the Bank an action
plan and timetable for implementation (para. 3.42)
Text Reference: Section 3.06
09           C                                The Government would: li) complete the health
facilities and school mapping study, under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, no later
than December 31, 1992; and (ii) based on the re-
sults of the exercise referred to above, prepare
and submit to the Bank, no later than April 30,
1993.
Text Reference: Section 3.06
09           C                                An investment plan, satisfactory to the Bank; and
no later than April 30, 1994, a plan,
satisfactoryto the Bank, for the updating of the
data collect-ed under (i), and implement the plan
referred to in lii) in a satisfactory manner
(para, 3.44)
Text Reference: Schedule 5 (b) I
10           C                                A central textbook and materials distribution
unitwould be established in the MOE by no later
than December 31, 1991 (para. 3.47)
C    - Complied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
- Not Yet Due



Legal Covenant Report: Latest status of Covenant Compliance
LAC - Latin America & Caribbean Region
LAD - Central America Country Departme
LADCN - Central America Country Departmt
Form 590 Date: 02/09/1196
Project ID: SV-PE-7168    - SOCIAL SEC RIIB
Original      Revised
Covenant              1alflfl      halfill
Clasm.s)   status      Date         Date     Description of Covenant                                 Coments
Text Reference: Schedule 5 (b) 2
10           C                                  (i) No later than December 31, 1991, the DCM
wouldprasent a finalized proposal of the
implementationplan, satisfactory to the Bank, for
the pilot maintenance program;
Text Reference: Schedule 5 (b) 2
10           C                                  (ii) implement the pilot and its evaluation by no
later than April 30, 1992;
Text Reference: Schedule 5 (b) 2
10           C                                  (iii) based on its results, prepare and furnish                                              '
tothe Bank no later than July 31, 1992, a plan for
the expansion of the referral pilot program
including a timetable for implementation (para.
3.48).
Text Reference: Schedule 5 (c) 1
09           C                                 No later than two months after project effective-
ness, MIPLAN would submit to the Bank the final
-proposals for the studies, which would be carried
out no later than April 30, 1993, and prepare
action plans no later than July 31, 1993
includingtiming for implementation (para. 3.50)
Text Reference: Schedule 5 (b) 4
10           C                                  The Government would present to the Bank for re-
view an action plan for purposes of promoting and
disseminating information about the community
operated school program and timetable for imple-
mentation by December 31, 1991 (para. 3.34).
C    - Complied with
CD - Compliance after Delay
NC - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
NMD - Not Yet Due



29
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .   ....   ..         ,......        .'..'..."# --}-..F''  
Preparation to Appraisal                   50.7        93,717
Appraisal                                  36.9        69,970
Negotiations through Board Approval         8.5        21,427
Supervision                               115.0       324,919
Completion                                  3.0         6,876
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Cycle                      represente~~~~~~~~~~d tlve
Appraisal    2/24/91     7        10    ES, E, H, P        n/a      n/a        n/a
Supervision    7/5/91    2         4      E, ES             1         1        n/a
Supervision   10/12/91   4         4      E, ES, P          I         I        n/a
Supervision    7/3/92    4         5      E, ES, P          I         I        n/a
Supervision   2/13/93     7        6      E, ES, H          1         1        n/a
Supervision    7/3/93     6        5      E, ES, P          1        2
Supervision   12/6/93    6         10    ES, E, P, H, A     1         1        n/a
Supervision   5/20/94     5        7      ES, H, A, F      HS        HS        n/a
Supervision   5/21/95    6         4      ES, K A, F, N    HS        HS        n/a
Supervision   2/21/96    2         5      ES, E            HS        HS        n/a
Completion   11/16/96    3         5      ES, P            HS        HS        n/a
Specialized skills: E economist; P procurement specialist; ES education specialist; N nutrition; F
financial; A architect; I implementation specialist; H health specialist






APPENDIXES






APPENDIX A
PROYECTO DE REHABILITACiON DE LOS SECTORES SOCIALES (3348-ES)
Ayuda Memoria de la Misi6n de Cierre del Banco Mundial
11 al 15 de noviembre de 1996
l. Una misi6n del Banco Mundial visit6 San Salvador del I I al 15 de noviembre para llevar a
cabo la ultima misi6n de supervisi6n del Proyecto de Rehabilitaci6n de los Sectores Sociales y
obtener la informaci6n necesaria para preparar el inforrne de cierre requerido por el Banco
(Inmplemenitatioiz Conmpletiont Report - I(CR).
2. La misi6n estuvo compuesta por Madalena Dos Santos (Jefe de Misi6n), Nydia Maraviglia
(Consultora de Salud Publica y de Operaciones), Cynthia Hobbs (Consultora de Educaci6n) y
Linda Larach (Consultora de Educaci6n).
3. La misi6n se reuni6 con las autoridades y personal del Ministerio de Educacion (MINED),
Ministerio de Salud Publica y Asistencia Social (MSPAS), y Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores
(MPRE) responsables por la ejecucion del proyecto, al igual que con representantes del PNUD.
4. La misi6n agradece todas las atenciones y apoyo brindado por los Ministerios durante la
visita y desea indicar su satisfacci6n con los logros obtenidos en el transcurso de la
implementaci6n del Proyecto.
Antecedentes Generales
5. El convenio de prestamo del Proyecto de Rehabilitaci6n de los Sectores Sociales entr6 en
vigencia el 31 de octubre de 1991 y las actividades se completaron el 30 de septiembre de 1996,
con s6lo una extension de 6 meses. Se ha desembolsado casi la totalidad del pr6stamo de 26
millones de d6lares. El costo total del proyecto todavia no se ha deterrninado ya que se necesita
-%-rimar con mas precisi6n las contribuciones del Gobierno de El Salvador (GOES).
Resultados Generales del Proyecto
6. La misi6n considera que, en general, se cumplieron los objetivos del proyecto consistentes en
aumentar la cobertura de servicios basicos de educaci6n y salud en areas prioritarias y fortalecer
la capacidad del sector publico en llevar a cabo esos programas. La misi6n estuvo de acuerdo con
los logros identificados en el informe presentado por el GOES y en las entrevistas Ilevadas a cabo
durante la visita. Se observ6 que la implementaci6n del componente de Servicios Basicos en
ambos sectores fule mas fuerte que la ejecuci6rr del componente de Fortalecirniento Institucional.
Componentes de Servicios Bdsicos
7. En forma breve puede concluirse que el MINED experiment6 exitosamente con una
modalidad innovadora para expandir la educaci6n parvularia y primaria a las zonas rurales
(EDUCO), apoyando y perfeccionando un esfuerzo iniciado por las mismas comunidades.
AdemAs de los efectos en la cobertura, este programa incidi6 en una mejora de la calidad de la
educaci6n, un nuevo modelo de participaci6n comunitaria, el desarrollo de una relaci6n mas



estrecha entre;el MINED y la comunidad y un mejor conocirniento de las necesidades al nivel
local.
8. En el caso 'de salud, el proyecto pefniti6, entre otros, intensificar programas que han probado
ser efectivos tales como vacunaci6n y atenci6n materna y pen-natal, mediante el aumento de
insumos y personal medico y para-medico en las areas prioritarias. Los indicadores demuestran
mejoras notables en indices de cobertura de los servicios de salud y el estado nutricional infantil y
disminuciones considerables en la mortalidad materna hospitalaria.
Componentes de Fortalecirnienlo Istintucional
9. Los esfuerzos de fortalecirniento institucional incidieron no s6lo sobre el sector educativo y
de salud si no tambien sobre el area de planificaci6n social. En esta area se apoyo el desarrollo de
un sistema de informaci6n gerencial.
10. En el sector de educacion, se destacan los esfuerzos en la supervisi6n educativa, el
mantenimiento preventivo, el sistema de distribuci6n de materiales, la implementaci6n de pilotos
de capacitaci6n y descentralizaci6n y la provisi6n de asistencia tecnica en diversos estudios. Los
ultimos dos aspectos no fueron previstos en el documento inicial de proyecto sino que surgieron
como respuesta a las necesidades de preparaci6n del nuevo proyecto que le da respaldo a la
implemrentaci6n de la reforma educativa en marcha.. En el area de evaluaci6n se logr6 una mejor
apreciaci6n de la importancia y relevancia del mismo. En relaci6n al subcomponente de sistemas
de planificaci6n y de informnaci6n gerencial, Jos logros fueron limitados, particularinente en cuanto
al establecimiento de un sistema de informacion gerencial.
I 1. En el caso del sector de salud, se lograron me3oras en el sistema de supervision a travis de la
preparaci6n de un manual, la conformaci6n de equipos de supervisi6n, y el aumnento en la
frecuencia de las visitas principalmente a unidades y puestos de salud. Sin embargo, no se
alcanzaron plenamente las metas esperadas en cuanto al mantenirniento preventivo con
participaci6n comunitaria y el fortalecimiento del sistema financiero y de personal. En relaci6n al
desarTollo de politicas de financiamiento en salud, se ejecutaron los estudios y sus
recomendaciones se estin aplicando en programas pilotos y en la preparaci6n del proyecto de
Modemizacion del Sector de Salud.
Analisis General de la Implementaci6n
12. Este fule el primer proyecto con financiamiento externo que tenia contenido programatico en
las areas sociales y en el cual se tuvieron que coordinar los esfiuerzos de trjs instituciones
(MINED, MSPAS, MRE). En la evaluaci6n de la implementaci6n del proyecto debe tenerse en
cuenta este antecedente. Asi mismo, debe considerarse que la organizaci6n y disefho de los
componentes fule complicado y anbicioso en algunos aspectos y la atenci6n inicial a los aspectos
administrativos y operativos fue insuficiente.
2



13. A pesar de las dificultades confrontadas, las entidades ejecutoras lograron, en gran parte,
sobrepasar estos obstaculos.  El personal entrevistado manifest6 que entre los factores que
contribuyeron a subsanar estos impedimentos se encuentra la flexibilidad y continuidad del
personal del Banco.  A pesar que el PNUD  tambien enfrent6 inicialmente problemas para
implementar las tareas encomendadas, se considera que la participaci6n de este organismo como
agente de compra y facilitador de muchos otros aspectos, incluyendo el adelanto de fondos en
varias ocasiones, fue otro factorbeneficioso. Los problemas enfrentados sirvieron asirnismo para
capacitar al personal involucrado en WlProyecto. El hecho que los equipos de proyecto se
mantuvieron relativamente estables penniti6 mantener una memoria institucional de este
aprendizaje de gesti6n de proyectos con financiamiento externo.
14. Entre las lecciones aprendidas, todo el personal entrevistado destac6 la importancia de
prestar especial atenci6n a la preparaci6n de Terminos de Referencia y especificaciones tecnicas, a
la capacitaci6n del personal ministerial de contraparte para la definici6n y seguimiento de los
trabajos, y la discusi6n, diseminacion y evaluaci6n de los estudios desarrollados. Para obtener
rnas informaci6n sobre esta experiencia, la mnisi6n ha solicitado al MINED  y al MSPAS
informaciones sobre, entre otros, los costos, resultados y utilizaci6n de los estudios y
consultorias.
Analisis General de Aspectos Financieros
15. Se observ6 que uno de los problemas enfrentados en relaci6n a los aspectos financieros fue la
falta de un sistema contable que respondiera tanto a los requerimientos del Banco como a los del
GOES. A raiz de este problema, se requerira trabajo adicional para cerrar las cuentas del
Proyecto.
16. Todavia esta pendiente la entrega del informe de la auditoria de 1995.  La misi6n fue
informada que ya fule contratado el auditor externo para realizar la auditoria correspondiente a
1 996. La Secretania Tecnica del Financiarniento Extemo (SETEFE) se comprometi6 a enviar
ambos informes al Banco antes de fines de diciembre.
17. El GOES ha absorbido los gastos incrementales generados por el proyecto. Esto se refleja
particularmente en el programna EDUCO donde el GOES no s6lo absorbi6 los gastos
incrementales, generando sostenibilidad, sino tambien expandi6 considerablemente el modelo con
fondos propios. En el programna de salud, el GOES absorbi6 todos los nuevos puestos de
personal medico y para-medico asi como los gastos recurrentes generados por el proyecto para
las Areas prioritarias.
Informaciones Pendientes para el ICR
18. La misi6n revis6 en detalle el contenido del Inforrne de Cierre del Proyecto presentado por el
GOES y desea indicar su satisfacci6n con el trabajo realizado por los grupos designados por el
MINED, el MSPAS y el MIRE. Para completar el inforne requerido por el Banco se solicitaron
las informaciones adicionales descritas a continuaci6n:
3



a. El grupo designado para completar el cierre financiero del prestamo en la SETEFE se
encargara de obtener la siguiente informaci6n:
i. los gastos del proyecto por categoria de desembolso clasificandolos segun
prestamo y contrapartes del GOES y desagregandolos por moneda local y
extranjera.
ii. los informes de auditoria correspondientes a 1995 y 1996.
iii. un cuadro actuidizado indicando el estado final de cumplimiento de cada una de
las clausulas del convenio de prestamo.
b. Cada una de las unidades ejecutoras del MSPAS y el MINED enviarin al Banco listas
de los estudios y consultorias contratadas especificando:
i. el tipo de estudio o consultoria,
ii. el nombre del consultor o firma y si este flue intemacional o local,
iii. breve evaluaci6n de la metodologia y de los restiltados,
iv. utilizaci6n de los estudios y
v. los costos respectivos.
c. Cada una de las unidades responsables del MINED, MSPAS, MRE prepara una breve
evaluaci6n del desempeilo del Banco en la preparaci6n y ejecuci6n del proyecto.
d.  Con respecto a EDUCO, MINED enviara informes de evaluaci6n si existiesen
posteriores a 1993 (por ejemplo, evaluaciones de logros de aprendizaje que comparen
escuelas EDUCO y no-EDUCO).
19. El inforne de cierre del Banco (ICR) profiundizara y ampliara las observaciones presentadas
en esta Ayuda Memoria. El borrador del ICR se enviara al GOES a fines de enero para su
revisi6n y comentarios antes de su publicaci6n. Para poder cumplir con esta fecha de entrega es
indispensable recibir la infornnaci6n solicitada en e!l. !rrafo anterior antes del 12 de diciembre de
1996, con la excepci6n de los informes de auditoria que seran enviados antes del 20 de diciembre
de 1996.
Dr. Eiardo 1ntefiano                                     lLic. Cecilia Gallard de Cano
Mimistro de Salud Publica y Asistencia Social             Ministra de Educaci n
Dra. Ma-dalena RoDdri e   Santos
Oficial de Proyecto
4



APPENDIX B
EL SALVADOR
PROYECTO DE REHABILITACION DE SECTORES SOCIALES
Banco Mundial (Pr6stamo # 3348-ES)
Ayuda Memoria sobre las Reuniones de Cierre del Pr6stamo
Washington D.C., Marzo 20-21, 1997
Por mutuo acuerdo entre el Gobierno de El Salvador y el Banco se realizaron reuniones
en la sede del Banco en Washington para intercambiar informaci6n pertinente al cierre del
prestamo, presentar comentarios sobre el informe de cierre preparado por Banco
(Implementation Completion Report - ICR), y acordar el monto de la devoluci6n por parte del
Gobierno al Banco, de fondos que quedaron sin utilizar en la Cuenta Especial del proyecto, al
momento del cierre del prestamo el 31 de Diciembre de 1996.
La delegaci6n del Gobierno estuvo constituida por: Lic. Jose Mauro Iraeta, Director de la
Secretarfa Tecnica de Financiamiento Externo (SETEFE) del Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores
(quien encabez6 la delegaci6n); Lic. Ricardo Martinez, Coordinador de la UCP (SETEFE); Lic.
Mario Aquino, Gerente Financiero, OPCI, Ministerio de Educacion; Lic. Judith de Lopez,
Gerente Interina, DSTN, Ministerio de Salud, y Lic. Jose Rasmunssen, Representante del PNUD.
Por parte del Banco, participaron en las reuniones Ana Maria Arriagada, Leader del Sector de
Desarrollo de Recursos Humanos para Am6rica Central; Madalena Dos Santos, Gerente del
Proyecto; Rosita Estrada, Especialista en Adquisiciones (Mision Residente, Costa Rica); Nydia
Maraviglia; Consultora; y Lucia Villalobos, Departamento de Prestamos.
La Delegaci6n del Gobierno hizo presentaciones sobre los aspectos financieros
relacionados con el cierre del proyecto y entreg6 al Banco informes de las cuentas, con detalles
de gastos para la totalidad del perfodo de implementaci6n del proyecto, clasificados segu'n las
categorfas de desembolso del Banco, y desglosados ademAs por fuente de financiamiento y
agencia ejecutora. Los representantes del Banco elogiaron el excelente trabajo realizado en los
ultimos cuatro meses por el equipo de SETEFE, asistido por las respectivas agencias ejecutoras y
PNUD, que permiti6 al Gobierno rendir cuentas precisas sobre los gastos realizados,
cotejandolos con los desembolsos solicitados al Banco durante el periodo de implementaci6n.
En base a un cuidadoso analisis de los datos financieros presentado por el Lic. Martinez,
se arrib6 durante estas reuniones a los montos precisos que el Gobierno debfa retornar al Banco
por adelantos hechos a la cuenta especial del proyecto. La Delegaci6n entreg6 oficialmente a la
representante del Departamento de Prestamo del Banco cinco cheques por los siguientes montos:
$13,723.86, $18,463.56, $171,236.41, $27,393.27, y $4,162.78, por un total de $234,979.88. El
Gobierno hara tambien una transferencia al Banco, de $100.68 como saldo de la Cuenta Especial
y queda un saldo pendiente de reintegro al Banco por $20,685.82 que se remitirl a principios de
abril. En el cAlculo del monto total a desobligar se tom6 en cuenta que hubo un saldo negativo
de $7,288.46 debido a diferencias cambiarias, en el manejo de la cuenta especial. Ademas hubo
un saldo no desembolsado por el Banco, de $16,753.39 que forma parte del monto total a
desobligar. Asi quedaran saldados los adelantos efectuados a la cuenta especial y no utilizados



2
en gastos del proyecto, por las razones indicadas anteriormente. En consecuencia, el monto del
pr6stamo result6 ser $25,720,191.77; el Banco cancelara la diferencia de $279,808.23 con
respecto al prestamo original.
Las sunias a desobligar del prestamo no resultaron de la no realizaci6n de actividades o
adquisiciones, sino mis bien se debieron a que la informacion que hubiera permitido a las
agencias ejecut6ras disponer de .esta suma para actividades del proyecto s6lo se conoci6 despues
de la clausura del proyecto, el 30 de septiembre de 1996, cuando SETEFE se hizo cargo de la
conciliaci6n del las cuentas para completar el cierre del pr6stamo. El saldo no desembolsado se
debi6 ademas al hecho de que en los ultimos reembolsos solicitados el Banco no pudo
reembolsar, total o parcialmente, algunas aplicaciones por cuanto las mismas pertenecfan a
categorias que ya no tenian fondos disponibles. Debido a la falta de informaci6n financiera
oportuna, las unidades del proyecto omitieron solicitar una redistribuci6n de los fondos
remanentes entre las categorias de gastos, que hubieran permitido usar todos los fondos del
prestamo. Por ultimo, tambien hubo casos de pagos repetidos al agente de compras (PNUD) por
un mismo gasto, los cuales posteriormente fueron devueltos a la cuenta del proyecto por esta
agencia, aunque quedaron sin poder reembolsarse debido a que su devoluci6n fue posterior a la
terminaci6n de las actividades del proyecto que tuvo lugar a fines de septiembre.
Se estuvo de acuerdo en estas reuniones que una lecci6n importante de este proyecto es la
necesidad de establecer desde un principio los sistemas contables que deben regir la
administraci6n de los fondos del proyecto, la importancia de una cuantificaci6n y justificaci6n
mensual de los gastos y pedidos de reembolso, y el intercambio de informaci6n financiera en
forma regular entre el ente coordinador del proyecto, las agencias ejecutoras, y el agente de
compras. Se destac6 que el agente de compras debe tambi6n recibir informaci6n regular sobre
desembolsos por categorfas de gastos y los topes 'xistentes en cada una de estas categorfas. Los
representantes del Banco destacaron que en el caso de este proyecto se logr6 una buena
utilizaci6n de fondos (99% del pr6stamo original), a pesar de los problemas creados por la falta
de un sistema contable compatible con los requerimientos del Banco y la ausencia de un
intercambio regular de informacion financiera entre los varios participantes en el proyecto. Los
efectos de estas deficiencias lograron superarse en gran parte debido a los esfuerzos de las
unidades de proyecto en las agencias ejecutoras y por SETEFE en los u(ltimos meses, con lo que
se lograron cerrar las cuentas en forma enteramente aceptable. Sin embargo, los participantes
coincidieron en que es importante tomar en cuenta las consideraciones antes mencionadas en la
preparaci6n y ejecuci6n de otros proyectos.
Con respecto a las experiencias en materia de adquisiciones se destac6 que aunque en un
principio se determin6 que el PNUD Ilevarfa a cabo todos los procesos de adquisiciones, a medi o
camino se traslad6 la responsabilidad de compras menores a las-unidades ejecutoras. Esto fue la
piedra angular para el fortalecimiento de dichas unidades. Otra experiencia fue que durante la
ejecuci6n del proyecto no se presion6 a hacer economfas de escala a traves de grindes paquetes
de adquisiciones. Por otra parte, se hizo uso de la metodologfa de "limited external Bidding" o
LIB) con lo cual se facilit6 la retenci6n de servicios de mantenimiento locales calificados y se
ejerci6 un mayor control de calidad y mantenimiento de los bienes y servicios.



3
Los resultados de estas conversaciones y las lecciones derivadas de las experiencias de
este proyecto seran incorporadas al informe final de cierre del Banco que se remitira al Gobierno
a fines de marzo.
Madalena Dos antos                                   ose Mauro Iraheta
Gerente de Proyecto                            Director SETEFE






APPENDIX C
GOVERNMENT OF EL SALVADOR REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION
PROGRESS OF THE SOCIAL SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT,
PREPARED FOR THE FINAL BANK SUPERVISION MISSION
November, 1996
(In Spanish)



- t
'u,iu:iirig~ i                                                                                                                           -                                                 :n.=:n,ti''i     inii
ttitittittitttiittiiiint.a  = .ititii.ti  Iiitt tt.tt.  .ii itii it  V   stii i-                                      -t ZS  ii it.iti,GiZlSiG              iS          i        n 'i it iWiinitinitinit 
.t,..it*i                ----- in!         .t.g=   *t       it                     .it  4=       it          -                                                   it  in=                                                  itt.!f- 33*   - 33@* 
r 4i                                                       -.....-tttt..j 
.                               -....-.e,ii=.i-|                                                                                -. ...-. ..-..-. i.in I --*E-.
,3ii3iiiii3 iii aiiijajji3jri2i3ijjj33ii j=jii.-..-....-......-.... .........-. i-ijj3jui j=3iiii .......  .......-..-...-.5.f3-                 . i         .3..i3...-....-..-.-.. .-.3..'33..                 . ..      ii
3            it.......a...an..  a  .nt            it-   ii   iii i.t.nt . .titn.....i.....t  -  . t. .titi ........... Lie H:i3LSiSiiiiiiiEiE ii2-i.              3             E               ii .i:..iitnni.itiit.ttiiiit  in .iit.itnnnithit..............................n...itnitit.. ,E
i*riiiri3:L eirir iiiiiiiiiidi3Ededid3i.-..-............-3.3ii3      *Li                 i3iiiiiii3 iiidbrr3 33i3i..-. .. -..-.... -.-...-..-..-.....i                                    ...-...
t i         t di3 iid i    at a*d            r.itura3W *r  i                       n    .3E*eiu3i3ded3i**  =*  iiiiit  itititi3iii33iei3ddrdiiiii*iiE                             d      E gddd.*e                i ... ..ittitittti..itt..d.
t                                                                        i:i 3 Ltt. i33.ndz==r5r                                       tffiu.iil,uut.tt3u3*sn.n*3tnus         mnntnt   .    ittij3.ui    nn |ti.Llin:3iti iiijj itttniiitdt3jii3fl b 



IND I CE
Pigina
1.  ANTECEDENTES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
2.  OBJETIVOS DEL PROYECTO. . . . . .      .  . . ...           1
3.  EL PROYECTO .                    . . . .  . .  . . . .      2
4.  LOGROS DEL PROYECTO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         3
4.1 LOGROS EN EL SECTOR SALUD . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
4.2 LOGROS EN EL SECTOR EDUCACION . . . . . . . . . . .         9
4.3 LOGROS EN PLANIFICACION . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        15
5.  RETOS DEL PROYECTO . . . . . . . . . . .   .   . .         16
6.  COSTOS Y FINANCIAMIENTO DEL PROYECTO  . . . . . .          17
7.  SOSTENIBILIDAD DEL PROYECTO    . . . .  . . . . .          18
ANEXOS
-* COSTOS DEL PRESTAMO MSPAS
-7  GRAFICAS FINANCIERAS MSPAS
-* COSTOS DEL PRESTAMO MINED
*   GRAFICAS FINANCIERAS MINED
*   RELACION DE LOS PRESUPUESTOS DE EDUCACION Y SALUD CON
EL PRESUPUESTO NACIONAL
*   GRAFICO FINANCIERO DEL PRESTAMO RELACIONADO CON EL
GOES Y PIB
*   ESTUDIOS REALIZADOS EN EL SECTOR SALUD.
*   ESTUDIOS REALIZADOS EN EL MINED.



PROYECTO REHABILITACION DE LOS SECTORES
SOCIALES
PRESTAMO EIRF NO. 3348-ES
1.  ANTECEDENTES
El 3 de octubre de 1991, el Gobierno de El Salvador, en
concordancia con lo estipulado en   la politica de desarrollo
social del Plan de Desarrollo Econ6mico y Social 1989-1994,
firm6 un Convenio de Prdstamo con el Banco Internacional de
Reconstruccifn y Fomento (BIRF) para financiar el Proyecto de
Rehabilitacion de los Sectores Sociales.   El Convenio entr6 en
-.vigencia el 31 de octubre de 1991 y lleg6 a su termino el 30 de
septiembre de 1996.  Cumpliendo con el comproomiso del Convenio
de Pr6stamo, se elabora el presente documento que presenta los
objetivos del proyecto, los logros alcanzados y el impacto que
6ste  ha  tenido  en  la  poblaci6n  beneficiaria  y  en  las
instituciones -ie los sectores sociales.
2.  OB JETIVOS DEL PBOYECTO
El objetivo general del proyecto fu6 de fortalecer la
capacidad  de  los  sectores  sociales,   en  particular  los
Ministerios de Educacifn y Salud Ptblica y Asistencia Social,
para administrar y proporcionar con eficiencia servicios de
educaci6n y de salud en el pals.
Los objetivos-especificos del proyecto fueron: (i) mejorar
y ampliar la prestacifn de servicios b6sicos de salud y
educaci6n a una poblaci6n de aproximadamente 1.1 millones de
habitantes en el area prioritaria del proyecto que incluye los
78 municipios del pals clasificados como los m6s pobres; y (ii)
fortalecer  la  capacidad  de  los  sectores  sociales  para
planificar,  administrar  y  evaluar  de  manera  eficiente  la
prestaci6n de servicios sociales.



2
3. EL PROYECTO
El Proyecto de Rehabilitaci6n de los Sectores Sociales
incluy6 las siguientes acciones:
En el sector salud, la mejora de la prestaci6n de
servicios   de   atencion   primaria   en   areas   geogrAficas
prioritarias, especialmente en las areas de: (i) contrataci6n y
capacitaci6n de promotores de salud, (ii) capacitaci6n de
- parteras empiricas, (iii) fortalecimiento de los puestos y
* unidades de salud, (iv) integracifn de las actividades de
nutrici6n a los servicios y (v) fortalecimiento del sistema de
referencia del Ministerio de Salud para proporcionar servicios
de emergencia para partos 24 horas al dia y para mejorar los
servicios de primeros auxilios en establecimientos del nivel
primario. En lo relacionado a fortalecimiento institucional se
program6 mejorar la capacidad de administracion financiera y de
diseflo de politicas financieras del Ministerio de Salud y
mejorar los sistemas de supervisi6n y de manejo de personal.
El Ministerio de Salud Puiblica y Asistencia Social (MSPAS)
estableci6 unr Unidad Coordinadora responsable de asegurar la
ejecuci6n de estas acciones.
En el sector educaci6n, las acciones incluyeron la
'expansi6n y mejoramiento de los servicios de educaci6n
parvularia y primaria en las creas rurales de los municipios
prioritarios mediante: (i) un sistema de administracion escolar
innovador que deleg6 en asociaciones comunitarias organizadas
la responsabilidad de selecci6n,  contratacion y pago de los
maestros, asi como la provisi6n de materiales educativos
gastables para. .maestros y alumnos, (ii) la provisi6n de
bibliotecas para aulas, (iii) el establecimiento de un programa
de alimentaci6n complementaria para los estudiantes; y (iv)
capacitaci6n de las asociaciones comunitarias y los maestros.
Las acciones de fortalecimiento institucional incluyeron el
fortalecimiento del Ministerio de Educaci6n mediante la mejora
de  los  sistemas  de  planificaci6n  e  informaci6n  gerencial,
supervisifn, distribucion de materiales y de mantenimiento de
escuelas.     El  Ministerio  de  Educaci6n--- (MINED)  tambien
estableci6 una Unidad Coordinadora conformada por funcionarios
de alto nivel de varias unidades administrativas del Ministerio
para garantizar la ejecuci6n eficaz del proyecto.



3
Con   el   objetivo   de   fortalecer   la   capacidad   de
planificaci6n estrategica y el monitoreo de las politicas y
programas  de  los  sectores  sociales,  el  proyecto  incluy6
acciones y estudios destinados  a:  (i) crear  un  sistema de
informaci6n para los sectores sociales; (ii) evaluar el impacto
de programas  especificos  para  alivio de la  pobreza;  (iii)
revisar la asignaci6n de recursos en los sectores de educaci6n
y salud; y (iv) reorganizar el sistema presupuestario por
fuentes  de  fondos  y  programas.        Estas  acciones  fueron
responsabilidad del Ministerio de Planificacion del Desarrollo
Economico y Social (MIPLAN).
Dado que la responsabilidad de la ejecuci6n del proyecto
estaba en tres ministerios, el Gobierno de El. Salvador (GOES) y
el BIRF acordaron que la direcci6n nacional del proyecto
estaria a cargo del Despacho del Ministerio de Planificaci6n
(MIPLAN). A solicitud del BIRF se cre6 una Unidad Coordinadora
del Proyecto (UCP), bajo la Direcci6n General -del Grupo Asesor
Econ6mico y Social, con el fin de dar seguimiento a la
ejecuci6n del proyecto, cumplir con las estipulaciones del
Convenio  de  Prestamo  relacionadas  a  las  adquisiciones,
desembolsos, elegibilidad de los gastos, presentacion de
informes  de _avance  peri6dicos,   y  coordinaci6n  de  las
actividades entre organismos ejecutores.  El GOES suscribi6 un
convenio con el Programa de las Naciones Unidas para el
Desarrollo (PNUD) para obtener servicios como agente de
adquisiciones  del proyecto.    En el momento  del cierre del
proyecto,   las  funciones  del  Ministerio  de  Planificaci6n
(MIPLAN) fueron asumidas por el Ministerio de Relaciones
Exteriores.
4. LOGROS DEL P N YECTO
El analisis de los resultados alcanzados y el cumplimiento
de las metas fisicas y financieras del proyecto muestran que
los objetivos definidos al inicio se cumplieron, los logros son
importantes y el impacto del proyecto es claro en la poblacion
beneficiaria.       Tambien   hubieron   retos   importantes   y
experiencias valiosas que servirAn para mejorar la ejecucion de
futuros proyectos y programas en los sectores sociales.



4
4.1  laogz on el Seotor mloud
)bor .a d  2a Vzt.*Aft de SaIau de A*eadn P=aria
La focalizaeci6n de las intervenciones en salu3d realizadnz
a trev6s de lam mociones del proyecto demumetran que .oto fu6
una excelente estrategia para resolver los problemas de salud
en poblaclones de mayor riesgo.
Las principales acciones del proyecto estuvieron dlrigidas
a incrementar on 401 el neOero de promotore. de salud y
capacitarloss capacitar a 204 partera. empirica.s,  rortal ecer
lou ewtablecimientos del primer nivel de atencftr  (unidades y
puestou de salud), modiante la contratacifn de 17 m6dios, 15
enfermeras y 20 auxiliares de enfermneria, dotaciOn de equipo de
nutrici1n,  modicamentos  esenciales  y  micronutxientes  a  70
eatablocimientos ubicados en los municipios de alto  rJewgo,
contrataci6n de 14 nutricionistas para ejecutar acciones en los
niveles central, rogional y/o departamental y local. P;jciruci6xi
de uns estrategia educativa nutricional, y tortalecimlento del
siatema de referencia, contrareferencia y retorno de embarazo
de alto  rioegor mejorando la capacidad resolutJva de las 26
maternidades   del  MSPAS  para   proporcionar   aervicios   de
emergencia las 24 horas al dia y del primer nivel de atencifn
para brindar servicios de primneros auxilios en la atencion
obst6trica perinatal a travds de contratacion de personal.
capacitacitn y dotacifn de equipo especializado. Asimismo fue
implantado un sl9tema de mantenirmiento preventivo plan.tricado
para planta  fisica, mobiliario y equipo bioumddico para  los
eatablecimientos ubicados en los 70 municipio3 de mito riesgo,
fortaleciendo los talleres de mantenimiento del Ministerlio de
Salud con rocurso humano y equipo.
Los objetivos y metas del proyecto  fueron  cumplidos y
algunof   sobrepasadon.  En 1996 me lelv6 a cabo una evaluaci6n
de indicadores de proceso y de impacto en 78 munlcipios de -dluo
rieug9 que cubri6 el periodo de 1990-19941 comparandolos con
unr  mueatra repres.ntativa de 22 municipios correspondiente al
12%  del resto de los municipios de menor riesago  en sal ud a
nivel nacional.   La evaluacifn  hace  una  comparaci6n  y  un
Estudlo elaborado par el Dc. Fernando Ernesto Kizierviri,
Cgnoultox1.*  Z inv.utig.cioneo au servic&ow de selud, S.A. de c.v.,
con 1 colaboreal6n del NINSA, ANDA, DUlESTIC y Alcaldiaa MunicLpslev.
Intom. rInal, 1S do abril, 1996.



5
analisis entre los indicadores estudiados en ambos grupos de
mu-icipios.
Las conclusiones principales del estudio, que no cubre
todo el periodo de ejecuci6n de las acciones del proyecto y que
reporta dificultades en la obtenci6n de documentaci6n completa
y de validez comprobada para obtener informacion suficiente y
poder  determinar  conclusiones  mas  precisas,   indican  lo
siguiente:
*    Los  indicadores  de  proceso  y  de  impacto  seleccionados
permiten concluir que las tendencias de aumento en las
coberturas en los programas infantil, control prenatal,
innunizaciones del niffo menor de un aflo y atencifn en el
programa de nutricion a embarazadas y niflos menores de 5
aftos, son mayores en el area del proyecto que en el irea de
los municipios de la muestra que no se beneficiaron de las
acciones del proyecto, por lo que se puede inferir que el
aumento de coberturas se debe en gran parte a las acciones
del proyecto;
*    En el area del proyecto la mortalidad en menores de un aflo
pas6 de una tasa de 33.2 por mil nacidos vivos en 1990 a 22.2
por mil en LV4; en los niflos de 1 a 4 aflos 6sta pas6 de una
tasa de 36.3 a 20 por 10,000 nifnos de esas edades;
*    La conclusi6n final, en base a los hallazgos del estudio,
indica que los resultados positivos obtenidos en los aumentos
en las coberturas y en la disminuci6n de las tasas de
mortalidad infantil y en los niflos de 1 a 4 anlos, han sido en
gran parte determinados por la concentraci6n de recursos
humanos, de equipo, infraestructura, dotaci6n de medicamentos
y micronutrientes proporcionados por el MSPAS con recursos
del pr6stamo del BIRF.
En 1996, el Ministerio de Salud P(iblica y Asistencia
Social, llev6 a cabo un estudio sobre mortalidad materna
hospitalaria que cubri6 el periodo de enero 1990 a diciembre de
19952.    El estudio  compara  a  traves  del  indicador  muerte
materna hospitalaria, la calidad de atenci6n obstetrica que se
brinda en los diferentes centros de atenci6n del ministerio en
2
Estudio elaborado por el Dr. Jos6 Douglas Jarquin. Informe
Final, marzo de 1996.



6
los periodos 1983-1990, contra los afnos 1990-1995 en el que se
realiza  la  intervencion  de  acciones  del  proyecto.           La
principales conclusiones del estudio indican que:
*    La tasa de muerte materna se ha reducido de 14.1 a 9.9 por
10,000 nacidos vivos, aunque se desconoce la tasa de muerte
materna de otras instituciones y las que ocurren fuera de los
hospitales;                                                   I
*    El 85% de muertes fueron producidas por el embarazo y el 95%
de las muextes maternas son prevenibles.   La muerte materna
directa mas frecuente fue hemorragia (32%), la infecci6n fu6
otra causa frecuente (12%) que disminuy6 considerablemente
comparada con el periodo de 1983-1990, que era de 50%.  La
hepatitis es la causa de muerte indirecta mas frecuente;
*    El 60% tenian su domicilio en el Area rural y el acceso a los
servicios de salud representaron el 21% de los recursos con
que no cont6 la paciente;
*    La estrategia de equipar las maternidades, contratar personal
y capacitarlo con recursos del pr6stamo del BIRF fue un
factor muy importante en 13 reducci6n de la tasa de muerte
materna.
En resumen,  el proyecto ha cumplido con el objetivo de
ampliar la cobertura de los servicios de atenci6n primaria y ha
contribuido a reducir la mortalidad infantil y materna.
En Marzo de  1996  se desarroll6 el estudio  'Analisis de la
Situaci6n  Nutricional  de  la  Poblaci6n   Infantil  en  los
Municipios prioritarios y propuesta de un sistema de vigilancia
nutricional para El Salvador', con el prop6sito de analizar la
calidad de la informaci6n generada por el MSPAS y analizar la
informaci6n obtenida en el sistema de vigilancia nutricional, a
fin  de  proponer   un  sistema   de  vigilancia   alimentaria
nutricional para ser implementado por el MSPAS. Las principales
conclusiones. del estudio indican que:
0 La informacion de la Unidad Tecnica Administrativa de
Alimentos tiene un valor limitado para analizar la situaci6n
nu.tricional de la poblacion y el reporte epidemiologico
semanal tiene un importante subregistro.
3 Estudio realizado por el Dr. Eduardo Atalah. Informe Final Marzo 1996



7
* De la informaci6n disponible la de mejor representatividad y
utilidad para un sistema de vigilancia nutricional, es la que
genera los promotores de salud.
* El  sistema  de  informaci6n  estadistico,  es  el  sistema de
informacion  oficinal  del  MSPAS,   pero  tiene  limitantes
importantes como la representatividad del dato que se obtiene
en las maternidades para detectar el bajo peso al nacer y la
existencia de un subregistro importante.
FoPta.laOimiznto InatituoionaI
Los logros alcanzados en el area de fortalecimiento
institucional incluyen acciones para mejorar la gesti6n y
eficiencia en la prestaci6n de servicios:
Sistema de Supervisi6n.
Se elabor6 un manual para supervision y se capacit6 a
Wtodos los supervisores en su uso.  Se hizo una dotacion de 12
vehiculos  para  apoyar  la  supervisi6n  que  realizan  los
supervisores regionales y 30 motocicletas para los supervisores
de promotores que trabajan en municipios de alto riesgo y se
entreg6 mobiliario, equipo de oficina y suministros para las
unidades de salud. Actualmente las unidades de salud reciben
una visita bimensual y la totalidad de los puestos de salud
reciben 1.5 visitas bimensuales. Los 1,483 promotores de salud
reciben una visita mensual de los supervisores quienes son los
responsables de proporcionarles educacion continua y asistencia
tecnica.
Sistema de informacion descentralizada, financiera y de
gesti6n.
Se instalaron computadoras en 15 hospitales, 15 centros de
salud,  13 Oficinas  Departamentales de Salud,  se elabor6 el
software del presupuesto operativo y se capacit6 al personal



8
t6cnico en el uso del sistema de presupuesto operativo y del
.istema de informaci6n  gerencial  (SIG).    Se  implement6 el
presupuesto operativo en 13 establecimientos de salud y en 3
Oficinas Departamentales,. iniciandose su implementacion en los
establecimientos de las ex-regiones Oriental y Paracentral de
Salud.    Se  contrataron  4  analistas  financieros  para  la
implementacion del presupuesto operativo a nivel central, en
las Oficinas Departamentales de Salud, hospitales y centros de
salud.
Estudios   de   eficiencia  y   fuentes   alternativas  de
financiamiento.
Se desarrollaron los siguientes estudios durante el
periodo de ejecuci6n del proyecto: (i) factibilidad de sistemas
de recuperacion de costos, (ii) costos hospitalarios y de
eficiencia, (iii) prestaci6n de servicios por parte del sector
privado, (iv) mortalidad materna hospitalaria del MSPAS, 1990-
1995, (v) evaluaci6n de indicadores de proceso y de impacto en
78 municipios de alto riesgo, (vi) procesamiento y anilisis de
la   informacion   proveniente   del   Sistema   de   Vigilancia
Alimentaria Nutrcional (SISVAN), y comparacion con la obtenida
en el estudio de la linea basal.   Dando seguimiento a las
recomendaciones de los  estudios,  se estan  implementado  los
siguientes sistemas en un plan piloto: (i) actualizaci6n del
sistema de tarifas y cuotas de recuperaci6n de costos, (ii)
subsistema de clasificaci6n socioecon6mica de pacientes,  (iii)
facturacifn y cobros, (iv) vigilancia y control del manejo y
uso de los fondos, (v) sistema de informaci6n de planificaci6n
financiera.
Otros logros significativos del proyecto incluyen: (i) el
apoyo a la Asociaci6n de Salineros de El Salvador en el
programa de yodaci6n de la sal mediante el cual se ha alcanzado
un 99% de la sal para consumo humano con las concentraciones de
yodo recomendadas, (ii) el apoyo al programa de Escuela
Saludable mediante la evaluaci6n de aproximadamente 225,000
estudiantes de parvularia, primero y segundo ciclo, la
provisi6n de vitamina A, sulfato ferroso, megadosis de aceite
yodado, tratamientos antiparasitarios y vacunas MMR para estos
nifios y la provisi6n de equipos, suministros, capacitaci6n de
personal, y (iii) .la capacidad institucional generada para
planificar, ejecutar, supervisar y monitorear proyectos en
todos los niveles.    -



9
4.2 Logros en el Sector Educaci6n
EZpaauion y  ejoxazmento de  o0J SrvciCozs Educatiros
A inicios de los noventa, el problema de la cobertura era
uno de los mas sentidos, sobre todo en el area rural, ya que el
sistema no generaba las estrategias mas adecuadas y pertinentes
para dar respuesta e esta problematica.   La insatisfaccion de
las demandas educativas se daba en medio de dos fen6menos:
altas tasas de exclusi6n, manifiestas en un elevado indice de
fracaso escolar y una creciente diferenciaci6n entre la calidad
de los servicios educativos ofrecidos en el area urbana
comparada con el area rural.   Estas situaciones entre otras
justificaban  que  la  principal   estrategia  de  desarrollo
educativo   fuera   la  descentralizaci6n   de   los   servicios
educativos con la participacion directa de la comunidad en la
gesti6n de la educaci6n, dejando al Ministerio de Educaci6n un
rol de normador y financiador del sistema.
Dentro  del  proyecto,   se  implement6  el  programa  de
-pliacifn de los servicios educativos en el area rural que mas
adelante  se  conoci6  con   el  nombre  de  Educaci6n  con
Participacion de la Comunidad,  EDUCO.
Las metas planteadas originalmente fueron superadas en un
240% ya que se ampli6 la cobertura en 1,700 comunidades,
ofreciendo servicios a 43,392 nifnos y nifias en 1,356 secciones
de parvularia y en educaci6n b&sica a 125,696 estudiantes en
3,923 secciones.  Se di6 empleo a 3,800 maestros, se potenci6
la participacion de 1,700 Asociaciones Comunales para la
Educaci6n (ACE) para lo cual se les brind6 capacitaci6n en las
Areas de participaci6n en la vida educativa de la escuela y
manejo administrativo financiero de los fondos transferidos a
las ACE.   Tambien  se ofreci6 un complemento  nutricional a
trav6s de la galleta nutricionalmente mejorada, posteriormente
sustituida por un refrigerio escolar.
Las comunidades rurales reconocieron la importancia de la
educaci6n parvularia, asi como la necesidad de iniciar la
educaci6n de las niflas y niflos con el nivel parvulario.   Esto
propici6 un trabajo coordinado con la unidad de diseflo de
curriculo a fin de elaborar nuevos programas de estudio, que
conservaran  unidad,   coherencia- y  continuidad  del  nivel
parvulario al nivel de educaci6n bAsica.
EDUCO represent6 el primer esfuerzo de envergadura
realizado en el pals por acercarse a las comunidades con el



10
criterio de trabajo conjunto para la solucion de los problemas
en materia de cobertura y acceso a la educaci6n. Este programa
se perfil6 y demostr6 ser la alternativa posible para
consolidar un modelo educativo en las Areas rurales, de cara a
un franco proceso de dermocratizaci6n. No s6lo se ampliaron las
posibilidades de acceso para los niflos y niflas de las
comunidades mas pobres del pais, sino que los principios del
modelo que llevan implicitos un claro proceso de educacifn de
adultos, conllevaron el crecimiento individual y colectivo de
la comunidad.   Adicionalmente,  EDUCO propici6 la articulacion
efectiva entre la escuela y la comunidad ya que los padres de
familia saben que la gesti6n educativa local esta en sus manos,
desde la contrataci6n del maestro hasta lo que sucede en el
aula:   ausentismo   del   maestro   y   de   los   estudiantes,
disponibilidad de materiales educativos, etc.
A fines de 1994 se llev6 a cabo un estudio4 con el
prop6sito de obtener informaci6n directa de las comunidades
donde funcionan las Secciones EDUCO que sirviera de base para
retroalimentar y/o fortalecer los procesos de organizaci6n y
funcionamiento  del  programa  y  para  facilitar  la  toma  de
decisiones del MINED sobre la continuidad y expansi6n del mismo
lacia otras comunidades del pais.
Los resuLtados de la investigaci6n con relaci6n a las ACE
mostraron que la funcionalidad de las ACE constituye un punto de
apoyo importante para mejorar la calidad educativa en los niveles
parvulario y primer ciclo de educaci6n basica, como se muestra a
continuaci6n:
*    Los miembros de las ACE se reunian con los maestros de una a
seis veces al mes, seguin las necesidades y con el supervisor
escolar hasta tres veces en el aiio (frecuencia considerada
insuficiente)   y  consideraban  a  los  supervisores  como
funcionarios de apoyo en sus gestiones sobre el progreso de
las comunidades;
*    La capacitacion que el MINED proporcion6 a los miembros de la
Junta Directiva de las ACE habia cubierto casi. al 89% de
ellos. En el 24% de las ACE todos los miembros directivos
recibieron capacitacion y en el 65% algunos miembros la
recibieron;
4 Elaborado por el MINED, la Universidad Francisco Gavidia de El Salvador,
con asesoria del Centro para la Educaci6n Latinoamericana de la Universidad
de Luisville, Kentuccky, incluy6 una encuesta, a nivel nacional, de las ACE,
maestros y padres de familia



11
*    Tanto las mujeres como hombres de la comunidad tuvieron la
misma oportunidad de ser electos miembros de la Junta
Directiva, independientemente de su grado de alfabetizaci6n;
se not6 poca rotacion de los miembros de las ACE;
*    El 89% de las ACE tomaron en consideracion los requisitos
propuestos por el Programa EDUCO para la contrataci6n de los
maestros y en el 82% de los casos la decisi6n sobre la
selecci6n del maestro o maestra que se contrataria fu6 tomada
por los padres de familia;
*    En mas del 95%  de  las ACE  se lievaban  los registros de
ingresos y gastos y archivos de la documentaci6n generada en
la administraci6n de los servicios educativos; el manejo del
estado de cuentas del banco no tenia mayores dificultades;
*    Algunas  ACE  (26%)  establecieron  contactos  con  organismos
gubernamentales y no gubernamentales para gestionar ayuda
para la escuela; y
3    En casos de marcada  inasistencia  de los estudiantes,  los
miemnbros de la Junta Directiva de las ACE tomaron medidas,
tales como hablar con los padres de 6stos.
Con relaci6n a los padres de familia, la investigaci6n
encontr6 que hAgy un importante involucramiento de los padres de
'imilia en la actividad educativa:
*    Mas del 99% de los entrevistados guardaban confianza en la
labor que desarrollaban los maestros, manifestando que 6stos
eran responsables, que reportaban correctamente la matricula
de los alumnos y que las relaciones personales entre maestros
y alumnos eran muy positivas; tambi6n manifestaron que el 84%
de los maestros trabajaban 20 o mas dias en el mes;
*    Un poco mas de la mitad de  los padres de familia  (53%)
afirmaron qu .retiraban a sus hijos antes de que terminara el
afio escolar, por el trabajo que ellos tenian que desempentar;
el 19% indicaron que era por enfermedad del nifio y el 15%
indicaron que era por falta de dinero en el hogar (los
maestros coincidieron en estas afirmaciones);
*    Ella. reportaron que las causas de mayor importancia por las
quo sum hijos repiten el grado eran el desinteres de estos y
la falta de tiempo para dedicarse al estudio;
*    En el 54% de las Secciones EDUCO funcionaba la Escuela de
Padres como una organizaci6n de apoyo a la labor educativa
que desempefiaba el maestro, en el restante 46% de las
Secciones las Escuelas de Padres no se hablan organizado.



12
En lo que respecta a las Secciones EDUCO y a los maestros,
el estudio concluy6 que:
*    El 88% de las secciones funcionaban en la mafnana y el 12%
restante por la tarde en instalaciones construidas para
escuela en su mayoria;
*    75% de las secciones contaban con biblioteca de aula y este
recurso era utilizado frecuentemente por los alumnos; tambi6n
contaban con material indispensable, pero se reportaron
requerimientos de materiales;
*    Algunas secciones se beneficiaban de programas alimentarios
para  retener  a  los  alumnos  (48%),  pero  un  porcentaje
significativo no se beneficiaba de ningd1n programa de este
tipo;
*    El 79% del los maestros tenian formacion universitaria, el
11% tenian titulo de bachiller y el 7% eran graduados de
Institutos Tecnol6gicos;
*    El  33%  de  los  maestros  vivian  en  la  comunidad  donde
trabajaban y el 67% restante viajaban diariamente desde media
hora hasta ocho horas para llegar a la escuela;
3    El 95%  qLe los maestros manifestaron su deseo de continuar
trabajando con el programa EDUCO, mostrando un alto grado de
aceptaci6n del sistema de parte de los educadores.
Los logros mas importantes en cinco aflos de ejecuci6n del
programa se resumen en: (i) la consolidaci6n de una politica
educativa clara para el area rural, ya que la participacion de
los padres de familia en la educaci6n demostr6 ser una
estrategia   exitosa;   (ii)   la   descentralizaci6n   de   la
administracion de la educaci6n hasta el nivel local; y (iii) la
redefinici6n del rol del Ministerio de Educaci6n como un ente
normador y financiador.  (iv) La participaci6n de los padres de
familia ha permitido crear un nuevo modelo de administraci6n de
la escuela publica tradicional en donde se involucran ademas de
los padres, a los maestros y estudiante.
Otros logros que contribuyeron al exito del programa
incluyen  la  creaci6n  de  una  capacidad   de  gerencia  y
planificaci6n, asi como la mejora de la coordinaci6n con ONGs
para fortalecer la gesti6n comunitaria de las ACE. El programa
contribuy6 a la mejora de la instituci6n generando cambios de
actitud en el equipo tecnico a nivel central, departamental,
distrital y local.   De igual manera el programa gener6 mayor
capacidad de gesti6n institucional convirtiendose en punta de



13
lanza para iniciar una serie de mejoras y cambios en la
prestaci6n de servicios, buscando formas innovadores para
descentralizar la administracion de los servicios.   De igual
manera EDUCO ha potenciado el cambio de rol de algunas
instituciones del estado, tales como el Ministerio de Hacienda
y la Corte de Cuentas.
Es innegable el papel  relevante que ha desempeflado el
Programa EDUCO en el fortalecimiento de la democracia, en el
proceso de participaci6n del pais y en el respeto a las
libertades individuales y los derechos humanos; a pesar de ello
no todo esta logrado y es mucho lo que aun falta por hacer.
FoztaL.m.nto Ins ttuionalJ
Los  logros  y  resultados  alcanzados  para  mejorar  la
capacidad gerencial del Ministerio en la prestacion de
servicios educativos son los siguientes:
Sistemas de planificacion y de informaci6n gerencial.
Se ha logrado mejorar las estadisticas educativas y
difusi6n de informacion estadistica e informacion sobre el
estado de la infraestructura escolar y se ha iniciado el disefho
de un sistema de informacion gerencial.  Se elabor6 un modelo
de simulaci6n financiera y se conform6 la Unidad de Evaluaci6n.
Se ha elaborado un diagn6stico del sistema de administracifn de
recursos humanos y se realizaron los estudios de escalaf6n
magisterial y escalaf6n administrativo.
Sistema de supervisi6n educativa.
Se disefl6 e implement6 un sistema unificado de supervisi6n
mediante  la  elaboraci6n  de  manuales   de  supervisi6n  y
capacitaci6n  a  los  supervisores.    Tambien  se  dot6  a  los
supervisores de: vehiculos, motocicletas, mobiliario y equipo.



14
Se logr6 dar supervisi6n regular al 100% de las escuelas y
apoyo a la implementacion del Programa EDUCO.
Sistema de distribuci6n de materiales.
Se elabor6 y divulg6 un manual para el manejo de bienes y
se disefnaron e implementaron sistemas de control de bodega. El
MINED cambi6 los mecanismos de transporte de materiales que al
presente se hace a trav6s de la empresa privada.
Sistema de mantenimiento de escuelas.
Se  disefno  y  distribuy6  el  manual  de  mantenimiento
preventivo y se finaliz6 el disento de un plan de mantenimiento
a nivel nacional. El programa piloto se ampli6 a 263 escuelas,
donde se capacit6 a las Sociedades de Padres de Familia y se
transfirieron recursos para el mantenimiento de edificaciones y
mobiliario  escolar.    Tambien  se fortalecieron  los talleres
regionales de mantenimiento mediante la dotaci6n de equipo.
Las acciones de fortalecimiento institucional tuvieron un
desarrollo mas lento por la falta de fondos de contrapartida
para estas acciones ya que durante los primeros dos anios de
ejecuci6n del proyecto estos fondos alcanzaban para cubrir
uinicamente los compromisos del Programa EDUCO.   Ademas hubo
atraso inicial en la compra de equipos para los sistemas de
informacifn,  supervisi6n y mantenimiento preventivo.   En el
curso de la ejecuci6n del proyecto se redimensionaron las
actividades, se hicieron cambios en la organizaci6n y en la
modalidad  de- ejecuci6n  de  las  acciones.    El  MINED  hizo
esfuerzos para lograr los objetivos- de fortalecimiento de la
instituci6n, obteniendo la colaboraci6n del proyecto SABE,
financiado por USAID.
Los logros mas importantes se resumen en los avances en la
descentralizaci6n de funciones y competencias para mejorar la
prestaci6n de servicios educativos, mejorar la eficiencia en el
manejo  de  los  recursos,  definici6n  del  rol  normador-  y
financiador del MINED, elaboraci6n de estudios de base- y
desarrollo de cuadros gerenciales y tecnicos en la ejecuci6n de
proyectos.



15
4.3 LOGROS EN PLANIFICACION
Con el objetivo de fortalecer la capacidad de planificacion
estrategica y el monitoreo de las politicas y programas de los
sectores sociales, el- proyecto incluy6 acciones y estudios
destinados a: (i) crear un sistema de informaci6n para los
sectores  sociales;   (ii)  evaluar  el  impacto  de  programas
especificos  para  mitigar  la  pobreza;   (iii)  revisar  la
asignaci6n de recursos en los sectores de educaci6n y salud; y
(iv) reorganizar el sistema presupuestario por fuentes de
fondos y programas.  Estas acciones fueron responsabilidad del
Ministerio de Planificacion del Desarrollo Econ6mico y Social
(MIPLAN).
El proyecto Rehabilitaci6n de los Sectores Sociales contribuiy6
sustantivamente   al   fortalecimiento   de   la   funcifn  de
planificaci6n  estrategica  y  supervisi6n  de  politicas  y
programas del Sector Social, brindando asistencia t6cnica para
la  constitucion  del  Sistema  de  Informacion  Social  (SIS),
conformado a partir de las Encuestas de Hogares y Prop6sitos
Multiples, orientado a proveer indicadores sociales basicos que
permitieran definir, monitorear y evaluar el impacto de las
politicas y programas sociales, asi como a medir las tendencias
en la evoluci6n de las condiciones de vida de la poblaci6n. El
SIS esta ya operando y brindando informacion pertinente para la
toma de decisTones al Gabinete Social, a las distintas Agencias
de Gobierno, a Organismos Internacionales y a Fundaciones
privadas que definen y/o implementan proyects sociales.
Asi mismo, el mencionado proyecto, fortaleci6 las politicas
sociales mediante la realizaci6n de estudios orientados a
evaluar el impacto de programas especificos para la mitigaci6n
de la pobreza, tales como, los Bancos Comunales y los Hogares
de   Cuidado  Diario.   Tambien   se   realiz6   la   evaluaci6n
institucional del Fondo de Inversi6n Social (FIS) y la
Secretaria de Reconstruccifn (SRN). Todos estos estudios fueron
tomados en cuenta en las decisiones posteriormente asumidas.
Por otra parte, y con la finalidad de hacer del presupuesto un
instrumento de politicas, se realizaron tres estudios, para
revisar la asignaci6n de recursos en los sectores vivienda,
salud y educaci6n, como resultado de estos estudios se
realizaron propuestas de reorganizaci6n presupuestaria, a fin
de que las nuevas estructuras - presupuestarias reflejaran de
mejor manera las prioridades de politica.



16
5. RETOS DEL PROYECTO
Aunque el proyecto ha sido altamente exitoso, los retos
que  las instituciones ejecutoras enfrentaron al incio de su
ejecuci6n incluyen:
(i) desconocimiento de los procedimientos para adquisici6n de
bienes y contrataci6n de servicios,
(ii) falta de divulgaci6n de los planes de acci6n a todas las
instancias involucradas en la ejecuci6n del proyecto,
(iii) falta de capacitaci6n en la elaboraci6n de planes de
acci6n anuales,
(iv) desconocimiento del documento de proyecto por parte de las
instancias ejecutoras por lo menos durante el primer afno de
ejecuci6n del proyecto,
(v) falta de capacitaci6n para la elaboraci6n de terminos de
referencia con el formato y requerimientos del BIRF,
(vi) falta de definici6n   de los indicadores de impacto del
proyecto y el disefno de una metodologia para medirlos,
(vii) carencia de un sistema mecanizado para el monitoreo y
seguimiento del proyecto,
(viii) falta   de un sistema mecanizado de manejo financiero
contable del proyecto y
(ix) un esquema de financiamiento que no permiti6 a las
instituciones conocer en todo momento el monto total asignado o
los saldos disponibles para la ejecuci6n del proyecto.   Los
puntos anteriores pueden considerarse como las lecciones
aprendidas qute estan siendo implementadas en la preparacion
para la ejecucion de futuros proyectos.



17
6.   COSTOS Y FINANCIAMIENTO DEL PROYECTO
Los costos y financiamiento  del proyecto  se resuimen a
continuaci6n   (el  anexo   estadistico   contiene   informacion
detallada):
SALUD       '.
Serviclos de Salud                     16,820.0                11,273.|
Fortalecinmiento
Instituconal                           2,690.0                 8,152.
EDUCACION
Servcios de educaci6n                 12,660.0                8,731.4
Fortalecimiento                         5,693.0               7,887.6
Institucional.
1,001.0               1,047.0
IMIPLAN
Financiamiento:               Programado                 Real
GO3ES                                   7,230.0              20,783.8
BIRKF                                  26,000.0              10,109.3
USAID                                   2,100.0              2,840.07
UNICEF                                     300.0                376.10
TOTAL                         35,630.0             34,109.27



18
7.   SOSTENIBILIDAD DEL PROYECTO
Las acciones del proyecto tienen alta probabilidad de ser
sostenibles a mediano y largo plazo porque el recurso humano
calificado y capacitado, elemento mas importante para la
sostenibilidad de las acciones del proyecto, fue absorbido por
el presupuesto del GOES durante el periodo de ejecuci6n del
proyecto.    En  el caso  del  MINED,  su politica  incluye  la
ampliaci6n del programa EDUCO con presupuesto propio a toda el
area rural del pais.   El MINED ha iniciado un proceso de
modernizaci6n que continuara mejorando la calidad, eficiencia y
eficacia de los servicios educativos; para este prop6sito el
GOES ha firmado un nuevo Convenio de Prestamo con el BIRF y
otro con el Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo (BID) que tendra
una duraci6n de cinco aflos.  El MSPAS tambi6n ha iniciado un
proceso de modernizaci6n para mejorar la calidad y eficiencia
en la prestaci6n de servicios y continuar la ampliaci6n de
cobertura para los grupos de poblaci6n en situaci6n de alto
riesgo.   A corto plazo el MSPAS presentara una propuesta de
proyecto para la consideracion -del BIRF y del BID. El plan de
sostenibilidad de las acciones del Proyecto de Rehabilitaci6n
de los Sectores Sociales y los indicadores de monitoreo del
plan estan en el Anexo1.



APPENDIX D
San Salvador, 30 de Mayo de 1997.
Senlora Eleonor Schrelber
Jefe Sectorial Interino America Central
Grupo de Desarrollo Humano
Oficina Regional para America Latina.
,Estimada Senfora Schre!ber:
Hago referencia al informe final de ejecucion del proyecto "RehlabiliIaci6n de los Secaores
Sociales, Sector Educacion "' No. 3348-ES, enviado para nuestra revisi6n y comentarios y/o
conformidad.
Al respeclo tengo a bien comunicarle que dicho informe ha sido revisado por el equipo, y
cantiene la informacion presentada por este Ministerio y discutido con los consultores que han
apoyado su preparaci6n.
Por lo antes expueslo, deseo expresarle nuestra aceptacion at informe final del proyecto y
agradecer por el apoyo brindado.
Muy atentamente.
ECITAG DE         O DE CANO
->. / MNISTRA DE EDUCACJCN






IMAGING
Report No.:          16774



