Report No. PID8839
Project Name                     Morocco-Tourism Development (LIL)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Other Urban Development
Project ID                       MAPE65757
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO
Implementing Agency
MINISTRY OF TOURISM
Direction des Amenagements et des
Investissements
Address: 64, Av. Fal Ould Oumeir -
RABAT-Agdal MAROC
Contact Person: Mr. Jawad Ziyat
Tel: (212-7) 77 07 56
Fax: (212-7) 77 06 26
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                March 28, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 10, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 8, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Main sector issuesTourism generates more than 15 percent of direct export
receipts of Morocco and comes second after transfers from Moroccans
residing abroad. Currently, 2 million international tourists visit Morocco
annually. It is an important sector of Moroccan economy whose contribution
to the economic growth can be expanded : currently estimated direct (4.7
percent) and indirect (3 percent) value added by tourism sector in GDP is
well under the total of 18.3 percent in Greece, 16.5 percent in Turkey,
and 13.9 percent in Tunisia. It generates 330,000 direct jobs (4.5 percent
of total), and 210,000 induced jobs (3 percent of total), of which retail
and construction jobs are most important.However, the sector has been
stagnating for more than ten years: overly liberal Tourism Investment Code
in the 70s and 80s led to an excess hotel capacity, while at the same time
failing to meet the actual demand in quality and type of tourism products.
Accommodation and services for tourists deteriorated in publicly-owned and
private hotels, and the three main local private hotel chains became
severely indebted. From 1988 to 1997, the number of international tourists
(Algerians excluded) increased by 1.4 percent per year, as compared to 8.3
percent in the Middle East and 9 percent worldwide.In 1998, out of 90,000
beds, only 60,000 could be marketed for international tourism. Pollution
and sprawling urbanization also had a negative impact on the quality of
tourism products.Tourism sector does not take enough advantage of the
assets and knowledge inherent in the country's cultural heritage, and
although tourists' safety in not an issue in Morocco, harassment,
particularly in Medinas, can have a negative impact on their perception of
the country and, hence, their return rates.Private sector investment,
local and international, has been constrained by the scarcity of land
available for tourism investment and by poor planning and protection of
tourism development sites. At the same time, the two existing public



developers, SONABA in Agadir and SNABT in Tangiers, though owning huge
assets of valuable coastal land property, were severely indebted and had
not been successful in attracting new investors. Disagreements exist
between various Ministries as to their viability and capacity to undertake
new developments.The present Investment Code (Charte des Investissements),
enacted in December 1995, is no longer sector specific and has eliminated
across the board subsidies to local investors. The removal of subsidies
has precipitated the drop in investment, from 85OMDH/year between 1983 and
1995, to 230 MDH/year between 1996 and 1998. This decline made the
Government of Morocco even more aware that the previous Code had
encouraged poorly planned investment in non viable projects. GOM strongly
believes that creating a sound institutional framework and promoting new
resorts will make private investment profitable without direct subsidies
and accelerate overall development of the tourism sector.Government
strategySince 1998, the Government of Morocco has started to implement a
new strategy to catch up with its main competitors. The objective of this
new strategy is to achieve an accelerated annual growth of more than 10
percent by promoting all categories of tourism for which the country has a
comparative advantage:n Coastal tourism: promote and develop sustainable
and high standard tourism in existing and new coastal resorts on the
Atlantic and the Mediterranean;n Cultural tourism: build upon
rehabilitation of old medinas and cultural activities to promote tourism
in historic cities;f Desert and Mountain tourism: promote discovery
tourism, outdoor sports and leisure, local handicraft and traditions,
accommodations in small inns and family houses.The measures already
implemented include :n Decentralization of Tourism promotion through the
creation of GRITs (Groupements Regionaux d'Interot Touristique) that
comprise most stakeholders at a regional level (Hotels, airlines, local
communities, travel agencies, etc.) and manage their own resources and a
share of the sector taxes receipts.n Privatization of the 37
publicly-owned hotels, which is almost completed now (details),fn
Reengineering or dissolution of heavily indebted private hotel chains, in
cooperation with CIH (Credit Immobilier et H¶telier), a specialized public
bank that is the main creditor of these chains. Their assets are now
mostly managed by international hotel chains or tourism operators, called
in by CIH, and bankruptcy procedures are under way.n Proactive policy of
attracting leading international companies in hotels and resorts. These
companies had been, before 1995, crowded out by the local chains
benefiting from public subsidies.The impact of these measures is already
apparent: there is an upswing in the sector's activity; tourism revenue
has been steadily growing for the last three years (+19 percent in 1998
and + in 1999) and there is a growing foreign and local investor interest
in the sector. (details on investment) The strategy also requires specific
measures for each of the three main categories of tourism in Morocco :n
For mountain tourism, an integrated development project launched more than
ten years ago has been successful in training local guides and creating a
network of labeled inns and accommodations in family houses.n For cultural
tourism, specialized police units have been created in main historic
cities to fight tourists' harassment. However, the development of this
category of tourism is dependent upon the rehabilitation of historic
medinas and the improvement of urban planning and urban environment. The
Fes Medina Rehabilitation project, financed by the Bank, is the first
project that establishes a direct link between urban rehabilitation,
cultural heritage and tourism development. If successful, it could be
replicated in other Moroccan historic cities such as Meknes, Marrakesh and
- 2-



Essaouira. In addition, two resort sites in Fes and Marrakesh have been
identified and would be developed by private investors.n As for coastal
tourism, the Government strategy calls for "a renewed leadership role of
the Ministry of Tourism through restructuring and reorienting the
national public developers (SONABA, SNABT) and developing new coastal
sites, avoiding by all means the development of real estate at the expense
of tourism development". The strategy identifies, in addition to
completing existing sites in Agadir and Tangiers, priority development of
8 sites by private developers- Saidia/Ras El Ma (close to the Algerian
border, on the Mediterranean), and on the Atlantic, Khmis Sahel, south of
Larache, Dahomey near Ben Slimane, Sidi Bounaym south of El Jadida, Sidi
Rahal (Settat), Taghazout (15 km North of Agadir), Tifnit (30km south of
Agadir) and Plage Blanche (260 km South of Agadir, near Tan-Tan) The
mid-term objective is to add 30,000 to 40,000 beds to the existing
capacity. An on-going survey is reviewing all the coastal sites identified
in the Strategy as suitable for tourism development to: l)delimitate the
areas to be covered by indicative master plans, 2) assess land property in
theses areas, and 3)propose a list of sites to be developed during a first
phase.Rationale for Bank Involvement in Coastal Tourism
DevelopmentPrevious Bank involvement in Morocco's tourism sector dates
back to the late 70s-early 80s : Morocco Bay of Agadir Tourism Project
Loan 1202-MOR and Morocco Second and Third Loans to CIH (Credit Immobilier
et Hotelier), Loans 848-MOR and 1279-MOR. In these projects the Bank
sought to 1) expand tourism capacity in Agadir, prime all year round
tourist location, by working with SONABA, the public developer of the Bay
of Agadir that was to develop land for sale or lease to (mostly) private
hotel investors; 2) strengthen CIH capacity to finance primarily private
sector hotel investments. The projects had a residential housing component
as it was believed that tourism site development would become part of
Agadir urban expansion. Project implementation coincided with the Bank's
gradual discontinuation of direct investment in tourism projects. More
importantly, the implementation process proved the project design faulty,
the crucial problem being the inability of a weak public developer to
withstand the pressures of influential established public (central and
local authorities) and private interests on land use, project design, and
land sale policies. SONABA currently finds itself severely indebted and
discredited in the eyes of many government agencies and private investors.
It will not be in charge of developing new sites in Agadir. However, the
on-going operation of Founty (Bay of Agadir) will be completed by SONABA.
Infrastructure has been finished several years ago, and the four remaining
land lots located along the beach have been recently sold to international
and local hotel investors working with international tourism operators
(one of the hotels is financed by IFC) .Meanwhile, rehabilitation of aging
hotels by international chains has accelerated, and the Ministry of
Tourism, in cooperation with the Ministry of Public Works, has launched an
emergency project to protect the beach against marine erosion and
pollution.In Tangiers, where the Bank was not involved in SNABT, most lots
were sold, but investment activity has been deterred by heavy
environmental problems, in particular, by beach erosion and pollution by
household and industrial wastewater. A program is also being launched to
rehabilitate the beach and treat wastewater.There is now no more prime
sites available in Agadir and Tangiers and private investors are waiting
for the 8 new coastal sites already identified to be put on the
market.None of these sites have been yet developed nor are readily
available for investment, and while the Moroccan tourism authorities
- 3 -



acknowledge the huge economic benefits of large scale coastal tourism
operation, they feel unprepared and hesitant, given the past experience,
to undertake such a complex business venture. The Moroccan Government
again has turned to the Bank for assistance, underscoring that there are
severe institutional and operational policy capacity constraints that need
to be addressed as a matter of priority.
2. Objectives
The project's overall development objective is to accelerate the
revitalization of the tourism sector and increase its contribution to the
economy through creating the appropriate institutional conditions for
attracting and promoting private investment in coastal sites development,
and insuring the socio-cultural and environmental sustainability of these
investments.. It is in line with the recent draft Tourism Sector Note,
Morocco CDF, "Sources of Growth" study, and CAS priorities of achieving
sustained growth by enhancing competitiveness, fostering a more dynamic
private sector and building a more effective and efficient public
administration. CAS encourages the use of new instruments and pilot
projects that will help bring together Morocco's private sector and
foreign entrepreneurs. A Learning and Innovation Loan is proposed, since
at this stage it can not be known with certainty what institutional and
financial structures are best suited for integrated development of coastal
sites in Morocco, and more broadly, whether the institutional capacity
exists in the tourism sector as a whole to bring all stakeholders together
in agreeing on priorities for promoting sustainable tourism development
and attracting private capital for tourism development projects. The LIL
will examine a number of alternative designs of public-private
partnerships in coastal development, provide technical assistance in
preparing prototype master plans and business plans for a few selected
sites, propose mechanisms for financing off-site infrastructure imperative
to attract private developers in greenfield sites, assist in building
capacity of the Ministry of Tourism for it to become a "local champion" in
further negotiations with other government agencies ( Ministry of Public
Works, Regional and Town Planning, Environment, Interior, Finance), local
governments and urban agencies, and private domestic and foreign
investors. Thus, the LIL will finance the learning process of defining and
evaluating institutional and organizational mechanisms that are best
suited for integrated and sustainable development of coastal sites.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
4. Description
Component 1. Drafting of Master Plans and Business Plans for Plage Blanche
(Tan-Tan) and Sidi Bouna§m (El Jadida) ? (To be confirmed): The loan will
finance the process of preparing indicative development plans (Master
Plans) and economic and financial appraisals of the projects defined in
the Master Plans (Business Plans), that will be used in negotiations
between Government and private investors. Master plan will take into
account the definition of the tourism product to be developed, regional
and urban planning issues, impact on neighboring communities, coastal zone
environmental management issues, pattern of land property, accessibility
and requirements in off-site and in-site infrastructure.The case of Plage
Blanche is specific and will require a two-step approach: it is a large
greenfield zone with several sites classified as sensitive ecological
- 4 -



areas. The first step consists therefore in preparing an indicative
development plan for the whole region, identifying priority areas for
coastal tourism development. The second step would be to prepare a
detailed Master Plan for the first area to be developed.Business plans
will include detailed economic and financial appraisals for each one of
the potential partners: land owner, private land developer, investors in
hotels and tourism facilities, operators, national and local governments,
utilities. They will include models for legal and contractual arrangements
between partners in the project. Appraisals will also focus on the cost of
financing off-site infrastructure ( electricity, water, waste-water and
solid waste treatment and disposal, access roads and upgrading of
airports). For more details, see Attachment 1. Component 2. Technical
assistance for the management of on-going projects :The Master Plans and
Business Plans of Saydia/Ras El Ma and Khmis Sahel are already financed
respectively by a grant from the Spanish Government and by the Northern
Provinces Development Agency. The loan will finance technical assistance
to prepare models for legal and contractual arrangements between partners
in the project. For Taghazout, the technical assistance will help GOM
prepare safeguards ensuring the sustainable development of the area, and
carry out feasibility studies that could be used during negotiations with
the consortium.Component 3. Implementation of the new institutional
framework :Once the strategic audit and reengineering study of the
existing tourism development agencies have been completed, and the
proposals for a new institutional framework at the national and regional
level endorsed by all stakeholders, assistance will be provided in making
the new institution fully operational. Cooperation models will also be
promoted with other agencies involved in coastal tourism development:
Ministries of Public Works, Regional and Town Planning, Environment,
Interior, Finance, as well as the municipalities and local utilities.(a)
Technical Assistance for the new national institution in charge of
tourism development. Direct technical assistance will be provided to help
this institution fulfill its tasks, namely to monitor Master and Business
plans preparation, conduct negotiations with potential investors, create
and manage databanks on sites suitable for development and on private
investors and operators.    (b) Joint workshops for the new institutions.
The purpose of these workshops will be to improve the qualification of
staff to adapt to their new tasks and functions : Organization and
management of Tourism Development Agencies, Relations with Agencies in
charge of Regional and Urban Planning and with Local Governments,
Incorporating and managing environmental issues in tourism development,
Applying economic and financial analysis techniques for land development
in tourism areas, Analyzing trends in international tourism markets, etc.
1. Drafting of Master Plans and Business Plans
Sidi Bounaym (El Jadida)
Master Plan
Business Plan
Plage Blanche (Tan-Tan)
Master Plan
Business Plan
2. Technical assistance for the management of on-going projects
Sayda, Khmis Sahel and Taghazout
a) Technical Assistance for the new national institution
b) Joint workshops for the new institutions
-5-



5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government 0.33
IBRD 1.75
IDA
GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN 0.3
GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN 0.22
Total Project Cost 2.6
6. Implementation
7. Sustainability
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues    :   Coastal Zone Management in Morocco remains
inadequate, while more than 50 % of population live in coastal areas and
their importance for tourism and port development is recognized. Morocco
still lacks an environmental framework or regulations requiring systematic
Environmental assessments for new investments. The project will address
standard environmental issues related to the development of coastal
resorts, and will make sure that the institutional aspects of tourism
include appropriate attention to identifying and resolving environmental
and resettlement issues in each case.General guidelines will be provided,
and the Master Plans will include Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA)
and mitigation measures to be implemented. The EIAs will take into
consideration the results of the survey of biologically and ecologically
sensitive coastal sites (SIBE), completed under the authority of Ministry
of Agriculture and Forestry and Ministry of Environment. "Green Labels"
will be defined for new sites and resorts. The contribution of the project
will be to integrate environmental aspects of tourism development into the
regional and town planning documents, and make a strong case for
obligatory EIA in projects of such type.ResettlementThe land for coastal
sites is mostly publicly held, and at this stage there is no indication
that involuntary resettlement could be required in relation with any of
the potential sites. On the contrary, it is expected that the sites chosen
will provide job opportunities within the resorts and in the near
vicinity.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Jean-Hubert Moulignat
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 458-7697
-6-



12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 7 -



