                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                             Report No: 30971-MOR

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       (SCL-45730)

                                         ON A

                            LEARNING AND INNOVATONS LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 2,4 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                                  KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                         FOR A

               SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                     December 21, 2004




Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2004)

                                  Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham
                                          1 DH = US$ 0.11
                                         US$ 1 = 9 DH

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1- December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BA        Financial Management Consultant (Banque d'affaires)
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CDG       Savings and Management Fund (Caisse de dépôt et de gestion)
CGEM      General Federation of Moroccan Enterprises (Confédération générale des entreprises
          marocaines)
CIH       Real Estate and Hotel Bank (Crédit immobilier et hôtelier)
DAI       Departement for Planning and Investment (Direction des Aménagements et des
          Investissements)
FDI       Foreign Direct Investments
GNP       Gross National Product
LIL       Learning and Innovations Loan
MoT       Ministry of Tourism
MoPW      Ministry of Public Works
MoTD      Ministry of Territorial Development
MoWF      Ministry of Water and Forestry
ONE       National Electricity Board (Office national de l'éléctricité)
ONEP      National Water Board (Office national de l'eau potable)
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
RFP       Request for Proposals
SNABT     Bay of Tanger National Development Agency (Société nationale d'aménagement de la
       baie de Tangiers)
SONABA    Bay of Agadir National Development Agency (Société nationale d'aménagement de la
       baie s'Agadir)
TOR       Terms of Reference

                                Vice President:    Christiaan Poortman
                             Country Director      Theodore O. Ahlers
         Department Director/Sector Manager        Emmanuel Forestier/Hedi Larbi
             Task Team Leader/Task Manager         Anthony Bigio

                                          MOROCCO
                     Sustainable Coastal Tourism Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23

Project ID: P065757                                                  Project Name: Sustainable Coastal Tourism
                                                                     Development Project
Team Leader: Anthony G. Bigio                                        TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 22, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Sustainable Coastal Tourism Development                  L/C/TF Number: SCL-45730
                            Project
   Country/Department: MOROCCO                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Other industry (51%); Central government administration (49%)
                  Theme: Other financial and private sector development (P); Infrastructure
                            services for private sector development (P); Other urban
                            development (S); Participation and civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/17/2000                                     Effective: 10/31/2000                04/17/2001
     Appraisal: 03/17/2000                                         MTR:                             10/18/2002
      Approval: 06/30/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO/MINISTRY OF TOURISM
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager/Director:        Hedi Larbi                                     Sonia Hammam
Team Leader at ICR:             Anthony G. Bigio                               Jean-Hubert Moulignat
ICR Primary Author:             Ekaterina Massey


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project's development objective was to propose, test, and evaluate the institutional framework and
contractual procedures for managing public-private partnerships that are best suited for integrated and
sustainable development of coastal tourism sites in the Moroccan context.

At the time of project preparation and appraisal in 1999, the tourism sector in Morocco was experiencing
accelerated growth and was considered one of the critical sectors for earning foreign exchange and for
employment generation, particularly by the private sector. The Government prepared a tourism
development strategy that fixed a target of 10 million tourists visiting the country in 2010, a four-fold
increase over the 2.4 million visitors in 1999. The Government conducted intensive consultations, as a
result of which in January 2001 it signed a Framework Agreement (Accord Cadre) with the General
Federation of Moroccan Enterprises (Confédération Générale des Entreprises Marocaines, CGEM) for
the period of 2001-2010. By signing the agreement with the national private sector, the Government
committed itself to creating the conditions for implementing the program efficiently in partnership with
public and private institutions and enterprises.

The first pillar of the national strategy was to develop integrated coastal resorts by granting land
development concessions to private developers and investors. The Government needed guidance to structure
large-scale, risky investment transactions appropriately with the private developers/investors. The
Department of Planning and Investment (Direction des Aménagements et des Investissements) (DAI) of the
Ministry of Tourism (MoT) stepped forward as the "champion" public agency for this effort. Previously it
had been unsuccessful in developing land through regional public operators and was at the time managing a
sole source concession to a private developer on one of its prime coastal sights that had not been
successful. Convinced that it was necessary to change its operations but unsure of how to proceed, the DAI
was willing to experiment on a number of sites using a more carefully prepared competitive bidding process
to structure and negotiate large scale coastal land development concessions.

The project was in line with the priorities of the CAS of achieving sustained growth by enhancing
competitiveness, fostering a more dynamic private sector and building a more effective and efficient public
administration. The project development objective was realistic and highly relevant to the Borrower's needs.
The project was intended to provide timely support to enable a public sector institution to experiment with
a new approach to development. If successful, the new way of developing coastal resorts was likely to
leverage a significant amount of international private expertise and investment, to allow MOT to gain
visibility and credibility and to increase the scale of its work in coastal resort development and in other
aspects of the tourism market.


3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project components were as follows:

Component 1. Preparation of indicative development plans and pre-feasibility studies that would be the
basis for Request for Proposal (RFP) packages to prepare investment projects in new coastal tourism
development of three sites: Plage Blanche, Haouzia (Mazagan) and Essaouira (Mogador); (total cost of
US$1.20 million; World Bank financing of US$1 million). Detailed, comprehensive technical pre-feasibility



                                                     - 2 -

studies and standardized RFP packages were to be prepared, based on the model terms of reference drafted
and validated during project preparation.

The outputs of the first component were to be the three main inputs for structuring the terms of pilot
concessions: 1) careful descriptions of the expected contribution of the public sector in each operation; 2)
the definition and validation of the tourism product to be negotiated with the private sector on each site,
based on the competitive position of Morocco and on the Government strategy; 3) sensitivity analysis of the
financial viability of each resort project, and 4) the details of the proposed contract and of the incentives to
be offered to attract competent private developers and investors.

Component 2. Technical Assistance to the DAI for the management and supervision of three new coastal
tourism development sites in Plage Blanche, Mazagan and Mogador and of three additional sites in Saïdia,
Khmis Sahel (Lixus) (already under preparation by DAI prior to the project), and Taghazout (already
assigned to a foreign investor through direct negotiation prior to the project); (total cost of US$0.90
million; World Bank financing of US$ 0.75 million).

This component consisted of two activities: 1) advisory assistance to the DAI team to assess the
consultant's conclusions on infrastructure needs, environmental and financial feasibility, and the quality of
the final RFP documents and selection criteria for proposed sites; and 2) advisory services to evaluate the
proposals of private investors, draft preliminary contract agreements and assist during negotiations.

Component 3. Technical Assistance to implement the new institutional framework for tourism site
development; (total cost US$0.24 million; World Bank financing of US$0.20 million).

Because the existing sector framework did not enable Government to develop integrated resorts using
public-private partnerships, an institutional study (Strategic Audit), financed by a grant from the Japanese
Government (PHRD ­ TF25852, US$220,000) was launched concurrently with the project. The Strategic
Audit consisted of four phases: (1) stakeholder consultation; (2) evaluation of the existing situation; (3)
recommendations for a new institutional framework; and (4) design of the new institutional framework. The
study and all stakeholder consultations were expected to be completed by the closing of the LIL, and its
recommendations were to have been implemented under this component. The component was included
under the LIL to finance an activity that would be needed near the end of the learning process. Since there
were no existing framework and procedures for managing integrated tourism and land development contract
agreements, the contents of the technical assistance to DAI were not defined to enable a flexible response to
client needs.

The amount allocated for contingencies was US$0.30 million, with World Bank financing US$0.25 million,
11.4% of the total project cost.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory, based on the choice of development objectives and components and
the use of the LIL lending instrument.          There was a high level of Government involvement and
commitment, and a realistic risk assessment and evaluation of how the public would accept the new
implementation arrangements.

The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) conducted a Quality at Entry Assessment on March 19, 2001.
Quality at entry (QE) was assessed as satisfactory overall, but there were some reservations concerning the



                                                       - 3 -

realism of the development objectives. Implementation arrangements and risk assessment and management
were rated marginally satisfactory. Doubt was raised about whether the operation was truly a LIL, and if it
was, what was to be learned and how should success be measured. However, given the past unsuccessful
coastal real estate development by the public sector in Morocco, the need to resolve the overlapping
responsibilities of ministries, and the limited managerial capacity at the MOT, the project's development
objectives, particularly experimenting with private coastal development, now appear have been appropriate.


The project design minimized the risks of delay by the DAI by supporting the role of the MOT and building
its capacity to program, budget and implement the new strategy with the support of all stakeholders,
particularly Ministry of Finance (MOF). To build Government commitment and ownership, and to mitigate
risks, the project team, jointly with DAI, carried out consultations with professionals in the tourism sector
and reviews of recent international experience. Bank staff involved in private sector development and IFC
staff provided inputs on other private sector participation in land development concessions in Morocco.
This broad consultation helped to frame the structure of the project.

The QE assessment pointed out that the project lacked some of the characteristics of a LIL, because more
could have been done to capture and monitor the obstacles of developing land for resort purposes with
private capital and private operators and to monitor what was learned. However, the results of the project
indicate that the project has met the criteria to be a LIL, because it aimed at enabling innovation and
learning by an existing Government department, MoT, from highly visible and large-scale operations that
would not have occurred without the project. The project had clear learning and innovation indicators to
assess the success of the new approach and whether innovations were being internalized, from the
preparation and approval of the feasibility studies and RFP packages to the signing of contracts with
private developers. The indicators chosen at entry measured the ability of the DAI to complete the critical
steps of the innovation process and evaluate the degree of acceptance by the public and private sectors of
the new innovative tools.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project has largely achieved its objectives. The institutional framework and contractual procedures for
establishing and managing public-private partnerships for integrated coastal tourism sites were prepared,
tested, and evaluated. In this process, the DAI of the MoT learned to initiate sustainable integrated coastal
resort development under public-private partnerships. The introduction of additional sites and a longer than
estimated negotiation process required a one-year project extension. Of the three performance indicators
chosen at appraisal, the first and the second were exceeded and the third was substantially met:

(a)      Three indicative development plans were financed under the project and approved by the Ad Hoc
Committee and the Government, and a total of five RFPs, instead of the originally planned three, were
issued for competitive tendering, which drew the attention of multiple bidders.
(b)      Two concession agreements (Conventions) with international consortiums of developers and
investors were signed before the closing date. One was signed one month after closing and a fourth was
signed three months after closing, compared to the one or two expected at appraisal.
(c)      The institutional framework for tourism land development was proposed and discussed but not
endorsed by all stakeholders. However, the quality and capacity of the existing public institutions and their
modus operandi, especially of DAI, have significantly improved. New procedures for public-private
partnerships in coastal land development have been established. The evaluation of the new framework and
contracting procedures was carried out the private sector bidders themselves. Their participation and



                                                    - 4 -

response rate is the best indicator of the outcome of the project.

Framework agreements were discussed, detailed, and signed with public agencies for off-site development
for each resort. A private Site Development and Management Company was legally established by each
developer and was required to raise equity financing. The Government now has started the process of
managing the implementation of these arrangements. Not only are the development works advancing, but
the promotion and financing of hotel development is underway with private investors, indicating that that
the public-private partnership approach has been internalized.

The learning and innovation objective has been achieved, as is evident by the increased support the MoF is
providing to the DAI. Before the project the DAI investment budget was only MDH 4 million, with no
investment budget for its regional delegations, and it had a heavily indebted public operator, Agadir, and a
weak public operator, Tangier. At closing DAI had an operational budget of MDH 12 and an investment
budget of MDH 17 million, a four-fold increase. The financial situation of the public operators had
improved to allow them to support the implementation of the Plan Azur. Therefore, although the formal
restructuring of DAI and its two public operators did not take place, they have been reinforced and
integrated into the new framework for public-private partnerships and land concessions.

By project closing, the DAI had prepared four large land development concessions on about 1,500 hectares,
that will create about 30, 000 new beds and 100, 000 direct and indirect jobs. The DAI, with the support of
the project, has fully prepared and launched the Plan Azur program, the total investment cost of which
amounts to MDH 45 billion. What started as the piloting of two or three new coastal resorts, developed
during the project into a Plan Azur that reaches beyond the four negotiated sites and includes Taghazout
and Plage Blanche, for which private-public partnerships have not yet been established. The table below
gives the breakdown of investment projected to date. The public share (not including land cost) is below
5% of the estimated investment cost.

                                        MDH million
           Site            Public Investment           Private          Total      Share of public
                                (Off-site           Investment       Investment    investment in
                             infrastructure)       (on-site infra,                 total investment
                                                     hotels and                    (%)
                                                     facilities)
 Lixus                              280                   5,340          5,620     5
 Mazagan                             99                   5,218        5,317       2
 Mogador                            150                  4,615           4,765     3
 Saidia                             460                  9,000           9,460     5
 TOTAL                              989                 24,173          25,162     4

A special clause stipulating the contribution of the private developers to the socio-cultural development of
the local communities was used in the contract agreements. In Saïdia, the private contribution amounts to
MDH 27 million and in Mogador to MDH 11 million. There was a high level of participation by the local
steering committees.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The first component was intended to produce three indicative development plans and five RFP packages.
For the three project sites financed under this component (Mazagan, Mogador and Plage Blanche),
indicative development studies were made of the market and concept analysis (Plan d'Orientation Global)
and pre-feasibility. These studies, technical and financial, were used to prepare evaluation criteria for



                                                     - 5 -

international competitive bidding. Despite the original plan to select only two sites for bidding, the request
for bids on all five sites and the high response from the international developers and investors indicates the
quality of this component's output. At the pre-selection stage, 104 requests were received and at the
submission stage 22 proposals were obtained. By project closing, two contracts, Saïdia and Mogador, had
been finalized and construction had started in Saïdia. The contracts for the other two sites, Mazagan and
Lixus, have become effective since.

Although the project was classified for environmental impact in Category C, it made and important
contribution to the environmental aspects of tourism development. Environmental considerations were
introduced into feasibility studies, RFPs and final agreements with the private sector and the precedent has
been set for introducing environmental criteria into similar projects in Morocco. The final agreements
included clauses to protect environmentally sensitive areas, natural habitats and cultural properties within
and near the future resorts and to set environmental guidelines for resort management.

Output under this component is rated highly satisfactory.

The second component was to deliver technical assistance to evaluate pre-feasibility studies and RFP
packages and to conduct bidding and negotiation with developers and investors. Technical assistance on
infrastructure, environment and land development was provided by two engineering firms. The firms
evaluated the studies and plans, that were discussed with the DAI team, communicated with the
consultants, and incorporated comments in revised indicative plans. A financial management advisor ("
banque d'affaires") worked under a separate contract on financial simulations and the elaboration of a
business plan for phased development, and assisted DAI in marketing, bid evaluation and negotiation.

DAI commissioned additional topographic studies, reconsidered the feasibility of some of the proposed
development plans, defined the public sector contribution for each development program, and used robust
criteria to evaluate technical and financial proposals. Output was further enhanced by close collaboration
with the technical assistance consultants and knowledge was transferred to DAI. The contract with the
financial management advisor was difficult for DAI to manage and could have been better prepared and
managed.

The output of this component is also rated highly satisfactory.

The third component was to provide technical assistance to the DAI to establish the new institutional
framework for tourism site development. Bank loan financing for this component was cancelled because the
Government financed all the activities from its own budget. However, the satisfactory outputs of the first
two components effectively established the administrative processes and provided external expertise and
skill transfer to the DAI staff to manage transactions, complete the negotiation process and develop the
contract agreements with all parties of the private-public partnerships in four resort sites.

The output of this component is also rated satisfactory.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A




                                                     - 6 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
During implementation the DAI team grew, and the DIA went through several reorganizations. At the start
of the project, the DAI had 7 managers and 37 staff members. At the end of the project, the DAI had 12
managers and 46 staff members. Some of the managers were newly hired staff members who had joined the
DAI at the start of the project. Investment budget allocations grew four-fold after project launch. The
DAI's capacity, management, and reputation with the private sector have improved considerably. The DAI
has internalized more effective management techniques, including: (a) improving the organizational
structure, hiring of new staff and engaging more effectively in current and new operations; (b) establishing
working relationships and with major government counterparts and committees and shortening bureaucratic
procedures; and (c) establishing model TORs, RFPs, contracts and simplified administrative
communication.

Internalized technical learning is demonstrated by (a) improved quality of TORs for consultant services; (b)
appreciation of the extent and the quality of feasibility analysis needed to prepare a viable public-private
partnership; (c) awareness of the "corporate" and financial interests of major public and private partners in
integrated development projects; (d) acquisition of negotiating and contract management skills; and (e)
active involvement of the DAI team in the local steering committees to integrate tourism zone projects into
the local and regional development agenda.

The project has had a major impact on private sector involvement in land development projects for tourism
by (a) building capacity for preparing land development and infrastructure provision projects with the
private sector; (b) providing inputs into the regulatory framework for cooperation with the private sector;
and (c) establishing institutional arrangements to maximize the provision of capital by the private sector
and to ensure compliance with the terms of agreements.

The main tools for effective private-public partnerships piloted under the project were: (a) contract
agreements for the duration of the site development with detailed technical and urban planning frameworks
and guidelines; (b) institutional arrangements for resort development and management upon completion; (c)
phasing works and using financial and technical performance indicators; (c) remedies for public and private
partners in the case of non-compliance with agreements; (d) monitoring and reporting procedures; (e)
transitional arrangements to operations; and; (f) social and environmental performance criteria for resort
development and operation.

The project improved interagency cooperation in integrated land development projects. The establishment
of the private-public partnerships with international and national private developers led to efforts (not
financed under the LIL) to propose and test "public-public" partnerships between MoT, governorates, local
authorities, and public agencies in charge of infrastructure, such as roads, water supply, wastewater
management and electricity. MoT signed agreements with the Ministry of Public Works and Transport
(MoPWT) to construct and upgrade access roads with the National Water Board, Office national de l'eau
potable (ONEP), for water supply, and with the National Electricity Board, Office national de l'électricité
(ONE), for electric supply. Agreements were reached and "hotlines" established with the Ministry of
Territorial Development (MoTD), the regional urban planning agencies ("Agences Urbaines") and local
authorities to the ensure the compliance of planning documents and the delivery of building permits, and
with the Ministry of Water and Forestry (MoWF) for the use of natural areas.

Institutional development under the project was substantial.




                                                     - 7 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was under implementation during the recession in international tourism in the wake of 9/11.
The Casablanca terrorist attack in May 2003 and the war in Iraq added further risk for both public and
private investors. In addition, the local currency rating was downgraded, reflecting the Kingdom's large
budget deficit. Moody's increased the rating of Morocco sovereign risk in 2002 at a critical time for the
project. The negative perception of the country's investment climate was shared by international investors
and lenders. These factors, however, appear to have had only a minimal effect on implementation, as many
international developers and investors bid for the sites under Plan Azur.

The initial delays in launching the studies for the Saïdia station, financed by the Spanish government, were
related to delays in the availability of grant financing, possibly due to political difficulties between
Morocco and Spain during project implementation. However, the delay proved inconsequential for the
project success, and Saïdia is now the most advanced project with on-site works well underway.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The Government took steps to strengthen human resources in the DAI and to provide budgetary resources
in a timely manner. Most importantly, the Government maintained its commitment to the chosen approach
and proved its credibility as a reliable partner to the private sector.     To attract competitive bids from
international investors it started the liberalization of Royal Air Maroc and planned airport upgrading in
Casablanca and Essaouira, relevant to the Mazagan and Mogador station. It opened new charter routes
and signed contracts with tour operators to promote Morroco aggressively in European markets. These
actions reassured investors interested in bidding for the development of coastal resorts, indicating that the
Government was serious about promoting private sector involvement.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The DAI improved its internal structure considerably during the project. The DAI team grew during project
implementation in numbers and experience, which allowed the DAI to manage the expanding number of
issues. The structure of the department was modified to reflect the requirements of the private sector
institutions and the geographical spread of operations. The team also assumed a large promotional
responsibility that had not been anticipated. Eventually this function will be delegated to other parts of
MoT, but DAI is successfully marketing the sites at this critical point. Whenever additional expertise was
needed (financial, legal, or engineering), DAI was able to find solutions and to tap the necessary skills.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The IBRD single currency, euro denominated loan of EUR 2,400,000 signed on January 17, 2001
amounted to EUR 2,400,000. EUR 400,000 was cancelled on May 18, 2004, and the undisbursed
remainder of EUR 168,181 was cancelled at closing on October 30, 2004. The total disbursement rate for
the loan was 76.3%; total Bank financing amounted to EUR1,832,819 (US$1,922,991). The total
estimated project cost was US$2.64 million.

The actual cost of the first component amounted to US $1.534 million, or 128% of the estimate at
appraisal. The actual cost of the second component was US$887,000, or 99% of the estimated cost.
Financing for the third component was cancelled. The main reason for the underutilization of the Bank
funds was the increased allocation of the Borrower's own funds for project activities. While less Bank loan
financing was used than planned, the project cost surpassed the estimated amount. Unforeseen costs were
incurred during implementation and lower cost funding was identified. MoT and other public agencies


                                                      - 8 -

assumed financing for some inputs, such as additional topographic and hydraulic studies, preparation of
technical annexes to contracts, negotiations and promotional activities.



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability rating of the project is based on (1) the extensive nature of managerial and technical
learning internalized and mastered by the DAI staff and the executing agency of the project, (2) the DAI's
increased visibility and credibility, and (3) the evidence that the procedures developed under the project will
be used in other tourist project developments in partnership with the private sector.

During implementation, the TORs and RFPs for the development of other tourist sites outside of this
project were adjusted to include more transparent objectives, competitive selection procedures for private
developers, and sound feasibility analysis. Business plans were reviewed using the methodology and
knowledge acquired during the project. The two major projects outside of Plan Azur that are being
implemented using similar operational principles are the tourism zones of Aguedal (Marrakech) and
Gandouri (Tangier), both with National Savings Fund, Caisse de Depôts et de Gestion (CDG) as the
developer. According to interviews held during the ICR mission with the DAI staff, other land development
projects for promoting national, cultural, and rural tourism are under preparation and are likely to benefit
from approaches and methodologies developed under this project.

The project's sustainability is rated as likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

DAI is a permanent department of the MoT, and the learning process that occurred during implementation
has been mainstreamed into its regular activities.



7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank brought strategic vision to the sector issues and identified the main challenges. It provided strong
expertise in assisting the client to prepare this innovative project and brought in external consultants with
international reputations in tourism promotion and integrated tourism zone development. However, a more
appropriate mechanism could have been formulated for contracting a private financial management
consulting firm for this important contract.

The Bank's performance during project identification, preparation and appraisal is rated satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
The original team leader (a seconded staff member) left the Bank soon after implementation started. Given
the innovative nature of the project and that the project team consisted mainly of internal and external
consultants, the change in the team leader (to another seconded staff member) influenced the effectiveness
of supervision. The third team leader, who took over the project during its last year, while regular Bank
staff, was not familiar with the tourism sector in Morocco or with the related private sector issues. A
partial risk guarantee product of the Bank was discussed with the Borrower as a possible follow-up project,


                                                      - 9 -

but the Government was making all possible efforts to inspire confidence to large international developers
interested in Morocco. A cultural tourism project was more recently discussed as a follow-up operation.
The opportunity to conduct in-depth evaluation of the project through the intensive learning ICR was
abandoned due to a lack of Borrower interest.

During the mid-term review, the need to extend the contract of the financial management consultant
("banque d'affaires") was raised and an addendum to the contract was proposed, given the increase in the
scope of work and changes in the timing. However, an agreement was not reached with MoT on the terms
of the addendum because of the conflict of interest identified by the Bank following the appointment of the
new Tourism Minister who had and ownership stake in the "banque d'affaires". These developments
precluded loan funds from being reallocated to remunerate additional services by the financial management
consultant and the Borrower had to find alternative sources of funding. This procurement issue influenced
the interaction between the Bank team and the Borrower on technical and policy issues during the last year
of the project.

Bank performance during project supervision is rated satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Given the innovative design, the effective use of the LIL mechanism and the successful outcome, overall
Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
There was a very high degree of cooperation between the Borrower's team and the Bank team throughout
preparation. The Borrower was fully committed to the project, assumed full ownership of the project and
acquired a good understanding of the proposed loan. It made a consistent effort to visit the project sites
with the Bank team and to meet with the main stakeholders in Morocco.

The Borrower's performance during preparation is rated highly satisfactory

7.5 Government implementation performance:
All project activities with the exception of those under Component 3, were implemented with minimum and
justifiable delays, and additional resources were made available by the Government for unanticipated
studies and promotional activities in order to achieve project objectives. DAI staffing ratios and budget
allocations were increased and working relationships were facilitated with critical counterparts in the public
and private sector.

Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency has complied with all obligations assumed under the Learning and Innovation
Loan agreement except on regular quarterly progress reporting and on the contribution to the ICR. The
expertise and willingness of the project staff to innovate was high. This enabled higher quality outputs than
were estimated at appraisal. However, some of the contracts were not adequately managed, that resulted in
payment and disbursement delays. The financial management consultant contract terms led to some
ambiguities in the scope and terms of services, and increased the financial liability of the public sector
under the project, outside of the Bank loan.

The performance of the DAI of MoT is rated satisfactory.



                                                     - 10 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Given the important contribution of the public sector agencies under the project, the improvement of those
agencies during implementation and the successful outcome, the Borrower's overall performance is rated
satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

1.       For a public-private sector partnership to succeed, particularly in Morocco, a strong and
unwavering Government commitment and broad political support is critical. The commitment of the
Government to an ambitious new program for the expansion of coastal tourism through land concessions,
and the continuity of leadership and effort of in the lead public agency were key factors that ensured
success. Indeed, this type of project involving large-scale private sector development can only succeed if the
Government is fully committed to the project and remains a constant "champion" throughout project
implementation.

2. LILs can be highly effective if they support a reform-minded public agency and use Bank support to
design an innovative implementation framework to deliver effective outputs. In this project's case, a
combination of Bank technical and financial support enabled the DAI to gain access to additional budget
funds, gain visibility, mobilize funding from other public agencies and leverage private investment (a ratio
of 1:25 on resort development projects). However, to achieve this type of impact, the Bank needs the right
mix of technical staff and will incur high project preparation and supervision costs relative to the amount of
the loan, without necessarily being able to expect a follow-up investment operation. The high quality of
technical advice is crucial for the Bank to take the lead role among donors and make an effective use of
bilateral funds.

3.   Quality private sector investments will be attracted only if the transactions are well structured and
there is a transparent and competitive bidding process. The approach emphasized competition,
transparency, and professionalism in all stages of preparation and promotion. Feasibility work led to the
understanding of the terms, the necessary incentives, and the risk-mitigation measures needed. Independent
private advisors provided guidance and legitimacy to the process and increased investor and public
confidence.

4.    Structuring and concluding a transaction leading to a viable public-private partnership should
involve "learning by doing." It is clear the DAI built credibility through a careful process of learning and
re-evaluating its own successes and mistakes. The broad consultations that were conducted with other
public stakeholders and professionals with the private sector allowed the DAI to build productive
partnerships.

5.       The project demonstrated the importance of the support of rear-line public agencies to the
front-line negotiating agency in order for the private sector to feel confident that Government will deliver
on its commitments. The success of the public-private partnership that implemented the Plan Azur relied on
the DAI ensuring coordination among public entities (including local administrations).                For the
international private investors, the DAI was the representative of the Government and it was important that
it should be able to deliver on agreements with the local authorities and providers of public infrastructure
(such as road construction, water supply and sanitation, electricity).

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Despite repeated requests since the ICR mission in June 2004, no comments or contributions to the ICR



                                                     - 11 -

have been obtained from the Borrower.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information




                                             - 12 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                 Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
A new institutional framework endorsed by all 1 framework is not likely to be endorsed, 6 The framework was proposed, discussed
stakeholders and fully operational.The           plans and RFP approved, 4 agreements     and is under review by the Prime Minister.
number of indicative development plans and       signed                                   The public-private partnerships are however
RFP packages approved by the ad hoc                                                       operational, and the existing public agencies
Steering Committees.The number of contract                                                are reinforced. 6 plans and RFPs were
agreements with private master developers                                                 approved, and 4 contract agreements signed.
signed




Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                 Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Produce indicative plans for Mazagan,            6 packages approved                      For three project sites financed under this
Mogador, and Plage Blanche, consisting of                                                 component, Mazagan, Mogador and Plage
the concept and the pre-feasibility                                                       Blanche, the planning consultants carried out
assessments. Approve the concept,                                                         research and technical analyses according to
feasibility of the public off-site development                                            the TORs, and produced indicative
support and simulate the business plan of a                                               development plans, consisting of the concept
potential private investor. Validate the criteria                                         (Plan d'orientation global) and pre-feasibility
of selection and issue RFP packages                                                       assessments. The total cost of the three
                                                                                          consultancy contracts amounted to US $1.3
                                                                                          million. Complimentary topographical studies
                                                                                          were launched by MoT and their cost
                                                                                          amounted to US$ 0.234 million. Therefore,
                                                                                          the total actual cost of this component
                                                                                          amounted to US $1.534 million, or 128% of
                                                                                          the estimate at appraisal.

                                                                                          The indicative development plans
                                                                                          differentiated the competitive products based
                                                                                          on the international market analysis and
                                                                                          potential of each destination. and presented
                                                                                          an optimum tourism development scenario
                                                                                          for the study area. The strategic visions were
                                                                                          widely discussed with the stakeholders and
                                                                                          professionals and validated by the steering
                                                                                          committees (comités de pilotage). The
                                                                                          selection criteria were elaborated and
                                                                                          incorporated into the RFP packages, all 6 of
                                                                                          them were issued .




The skill mix in DAI is improved (especially in 4 sites negociated                        The highly satisfactory outputs of the first two
finance). On the job training performed by                                                components effectively established the
consultants at each pivotal stage.The                                                     administrative processes, provided necessary
process is under control of Project                                                       external contractual expertise and transferred
Implementation Unit and is smoothly                                                       significant skills to the DAI staff to complete
advancing according to schedule                                                           the negotiation process and sign the contract
                                                                                          agreements with all parties of the
                                                                                          private-public partnerships in four resort
                                                                                          sites. Over the course of project
                                                                                          implementation, the DAI team grew in
                                                                                          numbers and went through several iterations
                                                                                          of the organization structure. At the start of
                                                                                          the project, the DAI comprised 7 managers
                                                                                          and 37 staff (total 44), at the end of the
                                                                                          project, the DAI consisted of 12 managers




                                                                  - 13 -

                                                                                    and 46 staff (total 58). Some of the managers
                                                                                    were those newly hired junior staff that joined
                                                                                    the DAI at the start of the project. Its
                                                                                    investment budget allocations grew fourfold
                                                                                    since the project launch.
                                                                                    As of the ICR writing, 4 sites were negotiated
                                                                                    and agreements with the private developers/
                                                                                    investors signed on these sites.
Preliminary agreement for Taghazout is      2 agreements signed                     The agreement for Taghazout was concluded
concluded by mid term review and the main                                           by mid-term review, but then rescinded due
agreement by the closing date, one more site                                        to non-performance of the developer. Instead
can reach this stage.                                                               of one, four agreements were signed at the
                                                                                    ICR completion time.
Decision to create a new institutional      1 framework unlikely to be implemented  As a result of the Strategic Audit (outside of
framework by second quarter of                                                      the LIL financed project), institutional
2001.Institutional designs, operation                                               designs, operation manuals, and draft policy
manuals, and draft policy statements ready                                          statements were prepared, but the
and implementation started by mid-term                                              Government decision to restructure DAI and
review.                                                                             the sector institutions was not taken by
                                                                                    project closing.

1End of project




                                                             - 14 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                               Appraisal     Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                               Estimate         Estimate          Appraisal
                        Component                              US$ million     US$ million
1. Preparation of indicative plans and pre-feasibility studies    1.20              1.53                128
for 3 new coastal tourism development sites in Plage
Blanche, Mazagan and Mogador
2. Technical assistance to the Department of Planning and         0.90              0.89                 99
Investment of the Ministry of Tourism for management and
supervision of launching of 3 new coastal sites in Plage
Blanche, Mazagan and Mogador, and 3 on-going sites in
Saïdia, Lixus, and Taghazout*
3. Technical Assistance to implement the new institutional        0.24              0.00                  0
framework for tourism development

Total Baseline Cost                                               2.34              2.42
  Physical Contingencies                                          0.30              0.00
                          Total Project Costs                     2.64              2.42
                   Total Financing Required                       2.64              2.42
* Second component actual costs are known to be understated as they do not include additional resources
by the Ministry of Tourism allocated to reimbursement of the financial management consultant. The exact
figure was not known at the time of the ICR preparation.




                                                    - 15 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                              0.00                0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
2. Goods                              0.00                0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
3. Services                           0.00                0.00               2.64             0.00              2.64
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (2.18)           (0.00)             (2.18)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00                0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00                0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00                0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
   Total                              0.00                0.00               2.64             0.00              2.64
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (2.18)           (0.00)             (2.18)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                              0.00                0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                              0.00                0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
3. Services                           0.00                0.00              2.42             0.00              2.42
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.92)            (0.00)           (1.92)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00                0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00                0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00                0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                              0.00                0.00              2.42             0.00              2.42
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.92)            (0.00)           (1.92)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
  managing the project




                                                     - 16 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                              Bank     Govt.       CoF.    Bank       Govt.       CoF.  Bank   Govt.   CoF.
1. Preparation of indicative  1.00     0.20        0.00     1.22       0.31       0.00  122.0  155.0    0.0
plans and pre-feasibility
studies for 3 new coastal
tourism development sites
in Plage Blanche, Mazagan
and Mogador
2. Technical assistance to    0.75     0.15        0.00     0.70       0.19             93.3   126.7    0.0
the Depart. of Planning
and Investment of the MoT
for management and
supervision of launching of
3 new coastal sites in Plage
Blanche, Mazagan and
Mogador, and 3 on-going
sites in Saïdia, Lixus, and
Taghazout
3. Technical Assistance to    0.24     0.20        0.00     0.00       0.00             0.0     0.0     0.0
implement the new
institutional framework for
tourism development
Contingency                   0.25     0.05        0.00     0.00       0.00       0.00  0.0     0.0     0.0




                                                    - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The project did not finance any investment costs, but it co-financed the preparation activities for the
national investment program (Plan Azur) the public costs of which are summarized in the table below. The
program will generate at least 162, 000 direct and indirect jobs, and will contribute significantly to
increasing annual foreign exchange revenue and accelerate GDP growth.




                                                    - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/12/99                  5    ECONOMIST/TTL (1), URBAN
                                             SPECIALIST (SM) (1), LAND
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (CONS), (1), MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (CONS) (1),
                                             TOURISM DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (CONS) (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/09/2000                7    ECONOMIST/TTL (1),
                                             URBAN PLANNER (1),
                                             PRIVATE SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST (1),
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1), ENV.SPECIALIST (1),
                                             TOURISM SPECIALIST
                                             (CONS) (1), RESORTS and
                                             REAL ESTATE
                                             SPECIALIST (CONS) (1)
              05/31/2000                3    ECONOMIST/TTL (1), LEGAL
                                             COUNCEL (1), FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST

 Supervision

              11/17/2000                2    ECONOMIST/TTL (1); URBAN         S               S
                                             PLANNER (1)
              02/13/2001                4    ECONOMIST/TEAM LEADER            S               S
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); URBAN PLANNER (1);
                                             LEAD FIN. ANALYST (1)
              10/19/2001                3    FINANCIAL ANALYST/TTL            S               S
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); URBANIST (1)
              03/22/2002                3    FINANCIAL ANALYST/TTL            S               S
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); CONSULTANT-URBANIST
                                             (1)
              10/18/2002                5    FINANCIAL ANALYST/TTL            S               S
                                             (1); FINANCIAL MGT SPEC.
                                             (1); CONSULTANT-URBANIST
                                             (1); URBAN SPEC.(1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALYST(1)
              01/21/2003                1    FINANCIAL MGT                    S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1)



                                              - 19 -

               05/15/2003              2    FINANCIAL ANALYST/TTL             S    S
                                            (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
               02/13/2004              3    SR. URBAN SPEC./TTL (1);          S    S
                                            URBAN SPECIALIST (1);
                                            FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)

 ICR
               06/04                  2     SR.URBAN SPEC/TTL (1),            S    S
                                            URBAN SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              3.0                          39.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   2.9                          60.0
  Supervision                           17.8                         151.0
  ICR                                     6.0                          25.0
  Total                                 28.7                         275.0




                                            - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Documents in the project file and on IRIS
- PAD
- Legal documents
- Back to Office Reports
- Progress reports
- Mid-term review report
- PSRs




                                             - 23 -

- 24 -

