Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20412-MOR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 2.4 MILLION
TO
THE GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO
FORA
SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 16, 2000
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective at appraisal (April 24, 2000))
Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham
I DH - US$ 0.096
US$ I  10.4 DH
FISCAL YEAR
July 1-December 31 2000
and January 1-December 31 from 2001 on
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CICATL:       Commission Interministerielle Chargee de lAmenagement Touristique du Littoral
CIH:          Credit Immobilier et H6telier ( Housing and Real Estate Bank)
DAI:         Direction des Amenagements et des Investissements
(Department of Development and Investment)
EIA:          Environmental Impact Assessment ( Etude d'Impact sur l'Environnement)
GOM:          Government of Morocco (Gouvernement du Maroc)
LIL:          Learning and Innovative Loan (Pret au Developpement des Connaisssances et a
l'Innovation)
MOT:          Ministry of Tourism (Ministere du Tourisme)
PIU:          Project Implementation Unit (Unite d'execution du projet)
RFP:          Request for Proposals (Dossier d'Appel d'Offres)
SDAU:        Schema directeur d'amenagement urbain (Urban Development Plan)
SNABT:       Societe nationale d'amenagement de la baie de Tanger
(National Agency for the Development of the Bay of Tangiers)
SONABA:    Societe nationale d'amenagement de la baie d'Agadir
(National Agency for the Development of the Bay of Agadir)
TDU:          Tourism Development Unit (Unite d'Aminagement Touristique - UAT)
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:    Christian Delvoie
Sector Director:    Jean-Claude Villiard
Task Team Leader:   Jean-Hubert Moulignat



MOROCCO
SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                      8
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                                9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  9
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       11
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                              14
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           15
2. Financial                                                                           16
3. Technical                                                                           16
4. Institutional                                                                       16
5. Social                                                                              17
6. Environment                                                                        18
7. Participatory Approach                                                              19
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     20
2. Critical risks                                                                     20
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     21
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            21
2. Other                                                                              21



H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          21
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         22
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          23
Annex 2: Project Description                                                             27
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         31
Annex 4: Standard Terns of Reference for the Indicative Development Plans                32
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               45
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       46
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     53
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   54
Annex 9: . Statement of Loans and Credits                                                55
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            57
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 30935



MOROCCO
Sustainable Coastal Tourism Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
Infrastructure Development Group
Date: June 15, 2000                               Team Leader: Jean-Hubert Moulignat
Country Manager/Director: Christian Delvoie       Sector Manager/Director: Jean-Claude Villiard
Project ID: P065757                               Sector(s): UY - Other Urban Development
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Urban
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
1 Loan         Li Credit        Li Grant       O Guarantee    O Other (Specify)
LIL
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 2.2 equivalent
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                               Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Fai__ P '; fla:    Soui,:                                   tocsl         Poreg7
GOVERNMENT                                                     0.15            0.29          0.44
IBRD                                                           0.73            1.47          2.20
Total:                                                          0.88           1.76          2.64
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF TOURISM
Direction des Amenagements et des Investissements
Address: 64, Av. Fal Ould Oumeir - RABAT-Agdal MAROC
Contact Person: Mr. Jawad Ziyat
Tel: (212-7) 77 07 56              Fax: (212-7) 77 06 26               Email: directeur~dai.gov.ma
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY,.  2001                E2- .i03r
Annual    0.7           1.0          0.5
Cumulative     0.7          1.7          2.2
Project implementation period: JULY 2000 - DECEMBER 2002
Expected effectiveness date: 10/31/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2003
OCS PAD F- RP- ,, 2. O



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project's development objective is to propose, test, and evaluate the institutional framework and
contractual procedures for managing public-private partnerships that are best suited for integrated and
sustainable development of coastal sites in the Moroccan context.
A number of recent World Bank documents explicitly call for increased contribution of the Bank to this
rapidly growing sector of most development economies, and Morocco in particular:
*   The importance of tourism  for poverty alleviation and catalyzing growth has been underlined in the
Sector Note "Tourism and Global Development", prepared by a joint team of World Bank/MIGA/IFC
tourism experts. Tourism brings multiple economic benefits and "most visibly: employment, foreign
exchange, and tax revenues". To maximize its impact on the poor, Governments must encourage wide
distribution of the benefits from the sector through the inclusion of local communities in tourism
projects. It states, however, that "the extent of demand for community-based tourism frequently depends
on the existence of an already thriving tourism sector to bring visitors to the country."
_   The Sector Note recognizes that, while tourism development is predominantly a private sector activity,
in order to maximize its overall potential for the country, "effective sector management by government
must be combined with strong partnerships with the private sector."
=   The "Sources of Growth" study, in preparation by the Morocco country team, singles out tourism as one
of the major growth sectors of Moroccan economy, whose true potential has not yet been tapped into.
*   The Tourism Strategy Matrix, being discussed with the Moroccan authorities as part of the broader
Comprehensive Development Framework process, stresses lack of institutional capacity, poor public
management, land issues, and insufficient private sector involvement, as major reasons for the slow
growth of the sector.
A Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) is proposed, since at this stage it can not be known with certainty
what regulatory, management, and financial structures are best suited for integrated development of
coastal sites in the Moroccan context, and more broadly, whether the institutional capacity exists in the
tourism sector as a whole to bring all stakeholders (relevant ministries, local and regional authorities,
planning agencies) together in agreeing on priorities for promoting sustainable tourism development and
attracting private capital for tourism development projects. Thus, the LIL will finance the learning process
of defining and evaluating institutional and organizational mechanisms that are best suited for integrated
and sustainable development of coastal sites. The LIL will (a) provide technical assistance in preparing
indicative development plans and pre-feasibility studies for a few selected sites; (b) initiate the process of
piloting public-private partnerships in coastal development; (c) propose mechanisms for financing off-site
infrastructure imperative to attract private developers in greenfield sites; (d) assist in building capacity of
the Ministry of Tourism (MoT) for it to become a "local champion" in further negotiations with private
master developers and investors.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key performance indicators will reflect the learning process in-built in the project, and sustainability of its
outputs. They will include (a) a new institutional framework endorsed by all stakeholders and fully
operational (b) the number of indicative development plans and RFP packages approved by Ad Hoc
Steering Committees, and (c) the number of contract agreements with private master developers signed.
-2-



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16219-MOR                Date of latest CAS discussion: 01/30/97
The project is fully in line with the CAS priorities of achieving sustained growth by enhancing
competitiveness, fostering a more dynamic private sector and building a more effective and efficient public
administration. CAS encourages the use of new instruments and pilot projects that will help bring together
Morocco's private sector and foreign entrepreneurs.
2. Main sector,issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues
* Potential Contribution of the sector is not being fully tapped:
Tourism is an important sector of the Moroccan economy though its contribution to the overall economic
growth of the country could be much more significant, given the natural beauty and diversity of Morocco,
and its rich cultural heritage. Presently, tourism generates more that 15 percent of the country's foreign
exchange earnings, and in 1999 it came first, outpacing the remittances of Moroccans residing abroad. Its
value added to GDP amounts to 7.7 percent (4.7 direct and 3 indirect), that is about half of what tourism
contributes in major comparator countries, like Greece, Turkey, and Tunisia. It generates 7.5 percent of
total employment (3 percent indirect, mostly in retail and construction).
However, the sector had been stagnating for more than ten years. The Investment Code of the 70s and 80s
was sector specific and granted liberal subsidies to local investors, that incited excess hotel capacity. At the
same time, many of these hotels were poorly planned and managed, and did not meet the actual demand for
tourism products and services. As a result, three main hotel chains found themselves severely in the red,
and less than 70 percent of available hotel beds in 1998 met intemational quality standards. The new
Investment Code of 1995 removed the subsidies, contributing to a drop in investments.
In the last couple of years the sector experienced an upswing and its revenue has been growing (by 19
percent in 1998 and 15 percent in 1999). In 1999 it was 19.2 billion DH, and a total of 2.4 million tourists
visited Morocco. International and local investors are also increasingly more interested in the country.
Since the beginning of 1999, eleven conventions have been signed for a total of 7.6 billion DH, or 17,116
hotel beds.
*   Institutional and structural constraints:
The scarcity of land available for tourism projects and inadequate planning and protection of tourism
development sites have been constraining factors for the growth of the sector. Additionally, pollution and
sprawling urbanization have detracted from the quality of existing sites and reduced the opportunities for
new development. Reliance on public developers has also turned out to be inefficient in the Moroccan
context: two regional, development agencies, SONABA in Agadir and SNABT in Tangiers, have not
proved successful at attracting investors for over two decades, despite their access to considerable land
reserves.
The capacity and the decision-making power of the MoT to manage the expanding land development
program for coastal tourism is currently quite limited. There is no national agency that can assume the
responsibility for the whole process. In order to get approval, investment proposals have to be submitted to
two interministerial commissions, MoT being part of them:
-3 -



*   CICATL, a consultative interministerial commission in charge of coastal tourism development, which
examines all investment proposals for tourist sites to be located outside of the urban areas and less than
5 km from the coast;
*  The Interministerial Investment Commission, chaired by the Prime Minister, which has a final say in;
settling investment appeals and granting contractual fiscal and financial benefits for investment
packages over 500 million DH.
Before projects can be launched, the Ministry of Urban and Regional Planning, Housing and Environment,
and its regional agencies (Agences Urbaines) have to issue subdivision and building permits, according to
the prescriptions of urban (SDAU, coastal SDAU) and rural planning documents, that in principle (and
which is not always the case) should exist for all urbanized and rural areas. Though these documents often
(e.g. Agadir, Larache, Essaouira) envision tourism zone development, and are discussed for 3 months with
the local communities, no professional input is required' from the tourism industry specialists for'delimiting
land, planning for infrastructure needs and maintenance, setting appropriate land use coefficients, etc.
Government Strategy
In 1994-95 the GOM undertook a study to help formulate a new tourism sector strategy in order to resolve
some of the most pressing issues, and accelerate annual sector growth to more than 10 percent. Some of
the measures that have been implemented since 1998 are:
*   Decentralization of tourism promotion through creation of associations at the regional level;
*   Introduction of management contracts with the private sector instead of direct hotel management by the
State, and proactively attracting leading international companies in hotels and resorts;
•  Reengineering or dissolution of heavily indebted private chains, in cooperation with the CIH, the
specialized bank that was their main creditor;
*  Privatization program for 37 publicly-owned hotels, 24 of which have been sold.
The Strategy promotes specific measures for each of the three main categories of tourism in Morocco, and
synergies between them:
* For mountain tourism and hiking, a network of about one hundred rural inns has been created and 37 of
them have been given an official label, from MoT. About 351 professional guides have been trained.
The program will be extended to new mountain zones to avoid overburdening fragile eco-systems.
*   For cultural tourism, police units have been created to prevent harassment of visitors in historic cities,
and many historic buildings have been converted into family-run inns. At the same time, improvements
in urban management and environment are seen as critical to attracting more tourists into the
traditional cities. The Fez medina project, financed by the Bank, is the first one that makes this
connection.
*  For coastal tourism, the strategy calls for an increase of 40,000 beds in hotel accommodation capacity,
that meets international standards. Priority is given to developing sustainable resorts with high revenue
and employment generation potential, capitalizing on the natural and cultural assets of the Moroccan
coasts, and preventing real estate from occupying the prime sites needed for tourism promotion.
However, the existing capacity of the MoT to manage this ambitious program limits the number of
sites that can be launched simultaneously.
Strategy of Ministry of Tourism in Land Development for Sustainable Coastal Tourism
Given the described procedures and existing institutional framework, it is difficult to design and implement
sustainable and commercially viable investment projects in coastal tourism sites. To respond to these
pressing institutional challenges the MoT has initiated two action programs:
-4 -



Short-term Action Plan
T,he MoT is initiating a series of studies to prepare indicative development plans for developing new coastal
resorts, likely to attract international tourists. In addition to their international marketability, sites chosen
for priority study have clearly defined land tenure rights, that would permit to avoid costly and lengthy land
acquisition procedures. The plans will be only indicative in nature (the actual detailed master plans will be
designed and implemented by private developers), and elaborated in close cooperation with the urban
planning authorities, and in compliance with the existing local and regional planning documents. The
rationale for having indicative development plans at the disposal of MoT and affiliated public agencies
prior to negotiating with potential investors, is to equip the Government with the necessary benchmarks and
projections about the physical, commercial and financial potential of the site. This way, the Government
will be able to take firm ground during the transparent process of competitive selection of a private
developer, and enter into a long-term commercial relationship that would maximize financial and
socio-economic benefits for the State and the local communities.
Medium-term Action Plan
The short-term capacity of the MoT to manage the studies, and conduct negotiations even with external
assistance, limits the number of sites to be launched simultaneously. In the medium term, the following
measures are planned:
-   The Ministry envisions to increase visibility of its operations throughout the country. The sites,
identified in a study of 1994-95, are being further assessed for their development potential and land
tenure structure. Tourism Development Units (TDUs) within the sites are being clearly defined and
delimited in order to create a computerized database that would be used for formulating a credible and
coherent long-term program of coastal land development for international and domestic tourism.
*  To ensure enough capacity to implement such an ambitious program, the Ministry plans to restructure
the two existing local development agencies (SNABT and SONABA) and create a new institutional
framework for Tourism Development. The question whether the new institutions will own or manage a
land reserve to facilitate launching operations with the private developers, is currently under
consideration as part of the law on creating a National Land Development Agency (4gence Nationale
de Promotion Fonciere).
Rationale for Bank Involvement in Coastal Tourism Development
Past Experience of Coastal Land Development for Tourism Projects in Morocco
Previous Bank involvement in Morocco's tourism sector dates back to the late 70s - early 80s: Morocco
Bay of Agadir Tourism Project Loan 1202-MOR and Morocco Second and Third Loans to CIH (Credit
Immobilier et H6telier) Loans 848-MOR and 1279-MOR. In these projects the Bank sought to (a) expand
tourism capacity in Agadir by working with SONABA, the public developer of the Bay of Agadir that was
to develop land for sale or lease to (mostly) private hotel investors; and (b) strengthen CIH capacity to
finance primarily private sector hotel investments.
Project implementation coincided with the Banks gradual discontinuation of direct investment in tourism
projects, increasingly believed to be a purely private sector activity. More importantly, the implementation
process proved the project design faulty, since the local public developer was unable to withstand the
pressures of influential established public (central and local authorities) and private interests on land use,



project design, and land sale policies. As a result of these events, SONABA became severely indebted
and the Ministry of Finance has had to take over its debt service. Recently, under a new management,
SONABA resumed its operations and is now completing the development of the site of Founty (Bay of
Agadir). However, the other sites belonging to SONABA (Taghazout, Tifnit, Aghroud and Tama Ou
Anza) will not be developed directly by the agency and the Moroccan authorities wish to have it developed
by private master-developers according to specified terms of conditions.
Therefore, launching the first indicative development plans and preparing of the requests for proposals
(RFPs) for the private investors is a priority for the Moroccan authorities. However, given the past
experience, and given that private-public partnerships for managing such investments is a new undertaking
in Morocco, the authorities want to use the outside expertise needed to ensure the success of this complex
business venture. The Moroccan Government again has turned to the Bank for assistance, underscoring
that there are severe institutional and operational policy capacity constraints that need to be addressed as a
matter of priority.
An Enhanced World Bank Group Contribution to Tourism Development in Morocco
Globally, the institutions of the World Bank group support tourism in various ways: IFC through equity
and loan finance for hotels (among others, a hotel in Agadir); MIGA through investment promotion,
marketing advice and guarantees for hotel investment; and the IBRD predominantly through environmental
and cultural heritage activities, with some new initiatives as part of the urban projects (Fez Medina
Rehabilitation project).
Important synergies can be realized if the three institutions combine their expertise and provide assistance
to the Moroccan government in leveraging a sustainable investment program by the private sector. Some
of the crucial contributions the Bank can make are as follows:
D  Support to enabling the business environment that would offer private investors/master developers the
opportunity to operate profitable tourism projects. The experience of the Project Finance and
Guarantees (PFG) network of the Bank in concession design is also complementary for setting up
*   commercially viable private-public partnerships.
* The considerable convening power of the World Barik will be used to facilitate partnerships with the
stakeholders upstream, and help achieve consensus on the national and local priorities for tourism
development and its integration into the country's broader policy framework.
* Capacity building and training for central and local governments to manage the sector growth will be
at the heart to the project.
* Experience in designing public infrastructure development projects to attract private sector investment
and enhance competitiveness. will be applied to setup mechanisms for off-site infrastructure provision
for integrated tourism sites.
* The Bank's wide international experience will be transferred to manage urban and economic growth
and protect natural and cultural assets, while introducing policies that would bring accelerated
regional development.
The last point is elaborated below, as it has direct bearing on fulfilling the mission of the World Bank
Group in maximizing downstream benefits from its development policy assistance to the governments.
-6 -



Importance for Poverty Alleviation, Job Creation, and Social Inclusion
-It is worth repeating that in 1999 tourism was the top foreign exchange generating item (19.2 billion DH)
for Morocco. However, it is even more important to note here that according to the estimates of the
Strategic Study of 1994-95, only about 30 percent of the inputs in tourism production were imported. That
means that the leakages of foreign exchange related to tourism in Morocco are relatively small.
Considering that creating resorts in Morocco attracts investment that would otherwise go to competitor
countries, the ratio suggests an important contribution of tourism to national production and employment.
The real challenge is, therefore, to maximize the benefits accruing to the population in the immediate
proximity to the resort being developed.
The World Bank Group can bring its policy knowledge and dissemination instruments to increase the
public good content of tourism sector interventions. Some of the linkages that will be enhanced are given
below:
* Well planned, integrated resort developments are generally more cost effective in terms of
infrastructure use and are more environmentally sensitive than mass tourism or ad hoc developments
that are often mixed with spontaneous urbanization. That is a real threat, for example, in the proximity
of rapidly growing Agadir agglomeration.
*   Strategic tourism planning at the national level can boost tourism  in the regions that lack the critical
mass of visitors to make the sector viable locally. It applies to the Northern coastal provinces of
Morocco where seasons are significantly shorter than in Agadir. The North has many precious
historical sites and picturesque coastal towns that are not earning tourism revenues. Often they have
high level of unemployment (30 percent in Larache) and are poorly maintained for lack of local tax
base. Overall, the economic benefits of tourism to the local comnmunities are known: tourists spend
money on restaurants, transport, guides, entertainment, shopping and handicrafts, entrance fees, etc. In
terms of employment, while being built a resort creates local jobs in construction, and demands
building supplies, furnishings, and traditional items for interior decoration. Operating tourist centers
generate a continuing direct demand for agricultural products, food processing and fisheries. Fishing is
a main source of livelihood in many settlements on the Moroccan coast, and fishing ports and villages
are in themselves a major source of animation and cultural experience.
* Operation of resorts is labor-intensive and employs a large proportion of low-skilled workers and
women. Training at various levels will be provided and offers growth opportunities for young people.
Micro-enterprises and informal employment opportunities will also grow, which is a positive
development even if they do not translate into full-time jobs.
*   Higher standards are implemented for water treatment, solid waste collection, and additional public
health and safety facilities will be developed and encouraged.
Some of the linkages outlined above can be made explicit in the contracts with the private developers.
Others will be brought up in consultations with the relevant authorities and agencies to be incorporated into
their policy agendas. According to the Moroccan planning law, local communities are involved in
discussing the planning documents (SDAUs) that are submitted to local councils for 3 months prior to
approval, and among others, contain proposals for tourism promotion.
In sum, the World Bank involvement in the LIL and a follow-up program in tourism sector development
will ensure that all stakeholders are represented in the policy process, and socio-economic benefits from
public and private investments are maximized to the largest extent possible.
-7 -



3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
Given the past experience and failures, lack of private sector involvement in land development for tourism,.
overlapping responsibilities of various ministries, and limited managerial capacity of MoT, it is risky to
undertake a sector reform and investment program for coastal tourism in Morocco without due preparation
and testing.
As a LIL, the project is expected to build capacity and test the procedural efficiency for:
*   Forming a consensus between all stakeholders in coastal land development for allocation of land,
development, and management of integrated coastal resorts, meeting international standards and
primarily targeting international visitors, all while preserving the environment and safeguarding
natural and cultural heritage, and maximizing the social and economic benefits for the regional and
neighboring communities.
*   Designing sound and sustainable public-private partnerships for the development of these new sites
so that the ventures are profitable for the private investor while the public interest is respected and the
risks and gains are shared fairly. The Government will learn to delegate the preparation of detailed
development plans, promotion and management to private master developers capable of attracting
investments in accommodations, leisure, and commercial facilities, flexible enough to match the
changing demand of the international tourism market.
3   Designing and making fully operational a reformed institutional framework to ensure enough
visibility and capacity of the public sector to promote and manage an accelerated and balanced growth
of the tourism sector, which requires the simultaneous process of launching and supervision of many
new site development projects on the Mediterranean and the Atlantic coast.
The design of the operation should permit achievement of these tasks by concentrating almost 50 percent of
the loan proceeds on the technical assistance to accompany the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the
process of: (a) championing a consensus between all stakeholders; (b) designing and negotiating sound and
sustainable partnerships with developers; (c) on-going reinforcement of management capacity at the MoT.
The two and a half years is expected to be enough to accomplish these tasks.
The indicators, chosen to measure the success of the learning experience, are designed to reflect the
progression from a conceptual study to the final contract for at least a few sites (it is understood that not all
proposed sites will get to the investment stage within the life span of the LIL):
*   for the 5 sites for which an indicative plan is being prepared (3 are financed by the first component of
the LIL): approval of the plan by the ad hoc committee and the Government, and approval of the terms
of the Request for Proposals on which base a consultation will be launched;
*   signing of preliminary agreements between selected master developers and the GOM (at least 3);
*   signing of the main agreement and financial closing for the most advanced sites (one or two);
*   creation of the new institutional framework.
Unlike pure hotel development, integrated site development is longer in term and involves high
infrastructure development costs, that means high debt and capital requirements, which significantly
increase the risks, barriers to entry, and management complexity/accountability for private developers. The
models tested in the LIL will create the necessary prerequisites and identify priorities for future Bank
Group  involvement with scaled-up investment into site development and  off-site infrastructure, or
guarantees for private investments in these and other coastal resorts.
-8 -



At the time of the Mid-Term Review (end of 2001), a decision will have to be made to proceed with the
launching of the sites with the best development potential and attractiveness for private investors. The
GOM will therefore have to
0 Develop criteria for the selection of sites to be developed as a priority. The multi-criteria analysis will
take into account the results of the indicative development plans and pre-feasibility studies: net profits
and rates of return for private investors, financial costs and benefits for national and local governments
(taking into account the cost and. source of financing of off-site infrastructure, and socioeconomic
programs for existing local population and new employees), direct and indirect revenues and
:employment benefits for neighboring communities, compliance with the policy of environmental
protection, degree of interest already manifested by private developers and other potential investors,
*degree of consensus reached between stakeholders on the likely international market to be served and
type of tourism products to be developed, etc.
*   Decide on the number of sites to be developed simultaneously, taking into account the management
capacity of the MoT and of the new institutional framework for tourism development; the acceptable
regional distribution of resorts on the coast, the potential market demand and volume of private
investment that can be directed to the sites; the need to concentrate investments to insure a sound and
comprehensive development of the selected sites, and the capacity to finance the necessary off-site
infrastructure through national and local budgets, or private financing.
The project will help the GOM manage this process through technical assistance. This process will also
help the GOM bring together all stakeholders to define an operational strategy for the' sustainable
development of coastal sites. It will also help the MoT translate the operational strategy into a reliable
programming and budgeting exercise.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
I_ Economic ' E Technical    1 Social          1 Participation
1 Financial    1 Institutional  Z Environmental 3l Other
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component 1. Preparation of indicative development plans and pre-feasibility studies for 3 new
coastal tourism development sites in Plage Blanche (Tan-Tan), Haouzia ( El Jadida), and
Essaouira.
For each site, the following documents will be produced: a conceptual plan for the whole tourism
development site, an indicative development plan and a pre-feasibility study for the selected
Tourism Development Unit (TDU), and request for proposals (RFP) for the selection of private
master developers.
Component 2. Technical assistance to the Department of Development and Investment (DAI) of the
Ministry of Tourism for the management and supervision of the 3 new coastal tourism
development sites in Plage Blanche (Tan-Tan), Haouzia ( El Jadida), and Essaouira and of the
3 on-going sites: Saidia/Ras El Ma, Khmis Sahel (Larache) et Taghazout (Agadir).



This component will consist of 2 parts:
Component 2.1: Technical assistance to DAI for managing the process of preparing the indicative
development plans for the three new sites (Plage Blanche, Haouzia and Essaouira) and for the two
sites whose indicative development plans have already been launched by the Ministry of Tourism
(Saidia/Ras El Ma and Khmis Sahel/Larache).
Component 2.2: Technical assistance to evaluate the private developers' proposals and to draft
preliminary contract agreements with the selected developers.
Component 3. Technical Assistance to implement the new institutional framework for tourism sites
development.
A strategic audit of the existing institutional framework and proposal for a reformed framework
are being launched under separate financing through a PHRD Grant. Component 3 will finance the
technical assistance to make the new institutions fully operational.
I1ndic"at, ifeB -                 %o
1. Indicative Development Plans and    Pre-Investment /  1.20     45.5       1.00      45.5
pre-feasibility studies            Portfolio
Development
Plage Blanche/TanTan                                               0.0                  0.0
Haouzia/EI Jadida                                                  0.0                  0.0
Essaouira                                                          0.0                  0.0
2. Technical assistance to DAI     Institutional       0.90       34.1       0.75      34.1
Development
2.1 Management of indicative                                       0.0                  0.0
development plans
2.2 Selection of Master Developers and  Institutional              0.0                  0.0
negotiation of contract agreements  Development
3. Technical assistance to the new  Institutional      0.24        9.1       0.20       9.1
institutional framework for tourism  Development
development
4. Contingencies                                        0.30      11.4       0.25      11.4
Total Project Costs                    2.64      100.0       2.20     100.0
Front-end fee                    0.00        0.0       0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                     2.64      100.0      2.20      100.0
- 10 -



2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented over a 30 month period, from July 1st, 2000 to December 31, 2002. The
Ministry of Tourism, and more specifically, the DAI of the Ministry will be the executing agency. DAI
comprises 7 managers and 37 professional staff. A PIU has been formed within DAI. It includes, under
the authority of the Director of DAI and of the Division Chief for Tourism Development and Infrastructure,
two managers, 2 urban planners, 2 architects, I environmental specialist, and 1 economist. Teams for each
site have already been constituted.
Coordination with other ministries and local communities
However, the decision-making process of coastal tourism development cuts across the responsibilities of
several other Ministries '
* Ministry of Finance is involved through National Budget, the Land Administration (Domaines) if
public land is to be sold or leased to private investors, as a major shareholder and administrator of
SONABA and SNABT, and for financing of off site infrastructure.
* Ministry of Public Works is in charge of the Domaine Public Maritime (a 6-meter wide 'strip of land
from the high tide shore line), and its authorization is needed for any activity affecting this Domaine
(construction, provisional use, or alteration of the shore line).
- Ministry of Urban and Regional planning, Housing, and Environment, is in charge of the preparation of
Regional, Urban and Area planning documents, through its regional branches, the Agences Urbaines.
Therefore, the indicative development plans will have to be cleared by these agencies.  The
Environment Department will also have to monitor the Project's compliance with the national policy
for Coastal Management and Environmental Protection.
*   Ministry of Interior is involved through Governors and their jurisdiction over the local authorities.
* Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry may also be involved in the Project, if public rural land, managed
by the Forestry Department, is to be sold or leased to private investors.
A close cooperation and coordination between these ministries and local communities is therefore a
condition for success.
For each site, an ad hoc Steering Committee comprising these ministries, the Provincial Government, and
the local communities affected by the project, will be formally created. -The first such Committee, for the
site of Larache, has already been created and is fully operational. The Committees will analyze and discuss
the documents prepared by the consultants for each phase of the indicative development plans and
pre-feasibility studies. The final plans and Requests for Proposals will be approved by the GOM.
At the national level, coordination is already in place between the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of
Regional and Urban planning, Housing and Environment. During Project implementation, this coordination
will be reinforced by joint workshop on urban planning and land development for tourism areas.
Coordination with the private sector
Periodic consultations will also be organized with the private sector, particularly tourism operators, hotel
chains, potential long term investors and financial institutions, to gather their reactions and comments on
each phase of the indicative development plans. This includes their technical comments on the development
plans proposed by the consultants, and their assessment of the willingness to invest and availability of long
term financing for the proposed sites.
- 11 -



The Ministry of Tourism already has a large experience with coordination and consultation with the private
sector. The Contrat-Programme 2000-2010 (Long term Development Program for the Tourism Sector) is
a joint document between the GOM and the Confederation of Moroccan Enterprises, and tourism operators,
hotels chains and fmnancial institutions actively participated in its elaboration. Moreover, the GOM has
already included in the Investment Conventions signed with major tourism operators a clause requesting
their participation and advice for the selection and design of new site development projects.
Procurement (see Annex 6)
The Project includes only consultant services. Procurement will be done according to the Bank's Guidelines
for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997 (revised in
September 1997 and in January 1999).
Financial Management (see Annex 6)
The Accounting and Budget Department (SCB - Service de la Comptabilite et du Budget) of the Ministry
of Tourism (MoT) will be responsible for overall project financial management. The public accounting
system in Morocco is based on principles and procedures adopted from the French system as well as from
European Union and international standards. In addition, the MoT internal control system is based on
specific separation of duties and description of tasks described in Note of the Minister of Tourism of April
13, 1994. In MoT, as in all government organizations in Morocco, the "ordonnateurs" (Ministers, agency
directors, heads of departments) authorize and comrnit expenditures. In the case of expenditures under the
project, the MoT will delegate the powers of "ordonnateur" to PIU Director. Project expenditures will be
subject to the three levels of internal controls before any disbursement can take place. The first level of
controls will be executed at.the Mintistry of Tourism level (MoT) by the PIU Director (Ordonnateur) and,
in addition, by the MoT Accounting and Budget Department. Consequently, the second and third level of
control will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance (MoF) and it will be carried out by (i) the
budget performance controllers (Controleur des Engagements des Depenses - CED) who give their
approval in a form of sign off on the commitment proposals, and (ii) the public accountants (Agent
Comptable) who carry out the cashiers' function by initiating payments which are carried out by the
Treasury. These policies and procedures provide reasonable assurance of: (a) a proper authorization of
transactions; (b) access to and use of assets and records; and (c) separation of custody of cash from
authorization and record keeping, and separation of authorization from record keeping.
However, the MoT financial management system currently in use has no capacity to generate the
Bank-required management-oriented project reporting. Therefore, reporting and accounting functions for
project expenditures will be the responsibility of the PIU which has been created. A Project Accounting
and Administrative Officer was designated by the DAI Director during negotiations. A Chart of Accounts
and -financial management reporting formats in the form of Excel spreadsheet were agreed and given to the
PIU during negotiations. They will be used to produce relevant and timely financial information on the
project activities. This Project financial information system established by the PIU accounting officer will
allow to generate PMRs, and ensure timely transmission of these documents to the World Bank. Timely
transmission of the payment records by the Treasury will allow the PIU to include this information in the
quarterly PMRs.
Project Management Reports (PMRs)
Project funds will be disbursed under the Bank's traditional disbursement procedures. Still, the PIU will
- 12 -



submit on a quarterly basis Project Management Reports to the Bank (PMRs). The PMRs will be based on
the minimum requirements for Bark's project management reporting (reference to Project Management
Reports -PMRs -Cash Model) discussed during appraisal. The management-oriented PMRs will be used
for project monitoring and implementation. The reports will include the two following parts:
(i) Financial Statements: (a) summary of sources and uses of funds; (b) uses of funds by project
component; and (c) Special Account Statements.
(ii) Procurement management reports: (a) contract expenditure report for consultant services; (b)
procurement management report for consultant services (as only consultant services will be procured under
the Project).
The PMRs will also include a summary of physical progress in project implementation, and explain
variances between the actual and forecast implementation targets.
The agreed report formats are attached to the Minutes of Negotiations. The PIU will produce the PMRs
for every calendar quarter throughout the life of the project. The first PMR will be produced no later than
twelve months after effectiveness.
Audit Arrangements
Project records and accounts will be audited by an independent auditor, acceptable to the Bank. Audited
Project Financial Statements (PFS) to be submitted to the Bank will include: (i) a statement of sources and
utilization of funds, indicating funds received from various sources, project expenditures, and assets and
liabilities of the project. This would also include appropriate schedules classifying project expenditures by
components, expenditure categories, and implementing agencies; (ii) a Special Account Reconciliation
Statement; and (iii) a Statement of Withdrawals from the Bank Loan made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs). The project-specific Terms of Reference (TORs) for the auditor will be transmitted
by the Bank. They will include both the obligation to audit financial transactions, and the obligation to
carry out an assessment of the operation of the financial management system per se, including a review of
internal control mechanisms. The audit will be carried out in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing and the' Bank's guidelines reflected in the Financial, Accounting, Reporting and Auditing
Handbook (FARAH). The MoT would provide the auditor an access to project-related documents and
records, and any other information required for the purposes of the audit. The annual'audited Project
financial statements would be submitted to the Bank within six (6) months of the close of Government of
Morocco's (GOM) fiscal year. The cost of audit will be covered by the GOM.
Special Account
The GOM would open a Special Account in Moroccan Dirhams within the Kingdom General Treasury.
The GOM will bear the foreign exchange risk. The GOM would provide the Government's contribution as
well as counterpart funds for the Project through budgetary allocations to DAI. Budgetary allocations
would be based on the annual budget for Project activities prepared by the PIU. The PIU would prepare an
annual budget for project implementation by October 31 each year and submit it to the Bank before
submitting the budget proposal to the Ministry of Finance.
Retroactive financing
Withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$100,000 may be made on account of payments
made for expenditures before effectiveness but after July 1, 2000.
- 13 -



3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
The PIU will play a central role in disseminating consultants reports, tracking proceedings of consultations
and keeping all parties informed. It will therefore be able to closely monitor, before Mid-Term Review (end
of 2001), the consensus building process and the impact indicators: (a) the approval of the new'institutional
network, (a) the approval of indicative development plans and draft Requests for Proposals, for the 3 sites
financed by the Bank, and for the 2 ongoing projects (Saidia/Ras El Ma and Khmis Sahel/Larache), and (c)
the selection of the master developer and the signing of the preliminary agreement for the most advanced
site (Taghazout).
The process will also be closely monitored by the Bank team during supervision missions every 6 months
(one in September 2000, one in March 2001 and the Mid-Term Review before the end of 2001). The PIU
will also prepare Project Management Reports (PMRs) every 3 months.
Since the Project is a LIL, a thorough Mid-Term Review will be particularly important: the review will
have to:
*  Assess the capacity of the Ministry and of the new institutional framework to manage several site
development projects at the same time;
*   Assess the multi-criteria analysis developed by the MoT for the selection of sites to be developed as a
priority; and incorporate lessons learned from the analyses of 5 sites into the standard TORs for future
projects.
*   Assess, together with the Moroccan authorities, the results of the launching of the first sites
(Taghazout, Khmis Sahel, and Saidia),. and the programming of the new sites. For priority sites, the
call for bids for the selection of master developers will be launched, so that the preliminary agreements
can be signed during Project implementation;
*   Decide, for the site of Taghazout, for which a private developer will have already been selected,
whether to proceed with the assessment of the developer's detailed proposals and the preparation of the
main agreement and financial closing;
-   Assess the availability of funds (from the Budget or from private sources) to finance the required
off-site infrastructure and other expenses such as investments for mitigating the projects'
environmental impact, and investments for maximizing the economic and social benefits for the
neighboring communities and the poor. DH 500 million have already been earmarked in the Hassan II
Fund for Social and Economic Development (financed by the proceeds of the second mobile phone
license) for the 3 most advanced sites.
At the end of the Project, the same assessment will have to be carried out to determine the eventual scaling
up of the Project which would require additional technical and management skills from the Ministry and
the new institutional framework. The World Bank Group, through IFC financing or guarantees, may also
get directly involved in private investments as a follow-up project once a demonstrated capacity exists, as
an outcome of the LIL, to sign preliminary agreements with master developers, prepare the main
agreements and financial closings, and create sound and sustainable partnerships with the master
developers for the construction and management of infrastructure and accommodation, leisure and
commercial facilities.
- 14 -



D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The economic rationale of the LIL is, through capacity building at the MoT and the preparation of
indicative development plans and pre-feasibility studies, to attract large private investments in sustainable
integrated tourism projects in coastal sites, with high cost-benefit ratios. For an initial budget cost of
US$2.64 million, the LIL will make possible the launching of integrated projects that could attract several
hundred million dollars of private investment, for a cost for the Government (mainly for financing off-site
infrastructure) twenty of thirty times lower.
The MoT has estimated these ratios for the three most advanced sites (Taghazout, SaYdia/Ras El Ma, and
Khmis Sahel/Larache) as a justification of its request for funds from the Hassan II Fund for Economic and
Social Development.
These estimates are as follows: (Millions DH)
Taghazout   Safdia/Ras El Ma      Khmis                Total
Sahel/Larache
Studies                                  10               3              3                  16
Land acquisition                        121              40             40                 201
Off-site infrastructure                 106              65             65                236
Total cost                              237             108             98                 443
Capacity (beds)                      20,000          10,000          10,000             40,000
Private investment                    5,000           2,500          2,500              10,000
Receipts                              2,900             900            900               4,700
Direct employment                    36,000          18,000          18,000             72,000
These are only rough estimates and may be overly optimistic. They show a high potential leverage of the
front-end investments financed mainly by the GOM.
The indicative development plans and pre-feasibility studies financed by the LIL will make more precise
and reliable estimates, based on the market potential of each site and a more detailed estimate of the cost of
off-site infrastructure. A pro forma assessment of net profits and rate of return on investment will be
calculated, on both an annual and a cumulative basis. An estimate of the financial and economic costs and
benefits accruing to the public sector will also be calculated. It will take into account the revenues
produced at both the national and local government level as a result of taxes and fees paid over time.
- 15 -



The ratios estimated by the studies will be used during Mid-Term Review as selection criteria to choose the
sites for priority development by the Project.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
See above
Fiscal Impact:
Launching studies for new integrated tourism sites requires a large increase in the DAI investment budget
for the next 3 fiscal years: the budget was only 1.5 million DH for FYI 999/2000; it is 2 million DH for the
FY2000 (July/December), will reach 16.6 million DH in FY2001 (of which 16.1 for the Bank Project) and
18.9 million in FY2002 (of which 9.4 for the Bank Project). However, when viewed at the national level
these figures are very small, while potential multiplier effect on fiscal receipts from tourism is very high.
After signing preliminary agreements with private master developers, the GOM will also have to finance
the necessary off-site infrastructure. 500 million DH are already earmarked for this purpose within the
Hassan-II Fund for Economic and Social Development.
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
N/A
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The executing agency is well defined: the Department of Development and Investment (DAI) of the
Ministry of Tourism. If the new institutional framework for Tourism Development is created by the
Mid-Term Review, its role in promotion and management of the new integrated coastal sites will have to
be clearly defined.
b. Project management:
A PIU has already been created within DAI. This structure, reinforced by the technical assistance provided
under Component 2 of the Project, should be sufficient until the end of year 2001 (Mid-Term Review). By
then, the first preliminary agreements with private master developers will have been signed and the need for
project management and project finance skills will increase rapidly. If the new institutional framework
envisaged by the GOM is fully operational at that date, it will take over these new tasks; otherwise, DAI
skill mix will have to be additionally reinforced.
c. Procurement and financial management:
The financial management arrangements proposed in the agreed action plan will mitigate the risk linked to
the reporting insufficiencies identified in the MoT existing financial management system. The actions
proposed in the action plan, which will be implemented by no later than twelve months after effectiveness,
will enable setting up an adequate project reporting system.
The risks related to the project's financial management system are related to the two following aspects: (i)
the proposed project is the first World Bank-financed project to be implemented by the MoT and,
consequently, the MoT is not familiar with the World Bank financial management, disbursement and
procurement requirements and procedures; and (ii) the PIU, newly created within the MoT, still does not
have in place a comprehensive project financial management information system, and, as a result, there
- 16 -



could be possible delays in project implementation, including preparation of Project Management Reports.
The risk-mitigation factors are the up front actions which will be taken including: (i) use of Excel
spreadsheet models format to generate the agreed Project Management Reports; (ii) training of PIU staff 'in
the bank basic disbursement, financial management. reporting and auditing procedures, including the
preparation of the 'agreed reports. This training will be provided as a part of the project supervision
missions during the first year of project implementation. Also, the existing public accounting legal
framework that is in use by the MoT, including the PIU, could be considered as mitigating the risk related
to the weaknesses related to the Management information system.
The Bank will give special attention to the project financial management risks. The risks will be subject to
a rigorous follow-up during the supervision missions. The implementation of the Project financial
management information system will be reviewed by the first supervision mission in September, 2000.
5. Social:
The sustainable tourism development approach advocated by the project should have positive employment
and overall social impacts on the neighboring population of the sites to be developed, through the
implementation of social inclusion practices. Indeed, revenue generated will directly and indirectly benefit
the local population. Operation of resorts is labor-intensive and employs a large proportion of low-skilled
workers and women that can be recruited in neighboring communities. In addition, the sites to be
developed will capitalize on the adjacent ecological and cultural environment to attract quality international
tourism. This implies the creation of small inns, restaurants, and cafes in the adjacent communities, in
rural areas as well as in historic cities. It also implies promoting and labeling traditional agricultural
products (olive and argan oils, honeys and jams, etc.) as well as local handicraft. The use of 'local
agricultural and fishing products can also be promoted in the hotels and resorts. In collaboration with the
private sector (tour operators, etc.), trails and circuits can be designed, providing additional employment
for guides coming from the neighboring communities. The local souks should also benefit from these
developments.
It should also be noted that, in accordance with Moroccan law and practices, the beaches will still be open
to the local public. More generally, the new infrastructure designed for the sites will have to benefit the
neighboring communities to avoid a social gap that could be detrimental to the sustainability of the site.
The project, as a learning and capacity building operation that is meant to prepare sustainable investment
activities, will contribute to incorporating the social aspects into site and regional tourism planning.
Specifically, the project design will address these issues through providing for public consultations and
elaborating contractual standards for site and regional tourism investment:
(a) during the consensus building process between various stakeholders, inputs will be solicited from the
local communities, urban planning bodies, professional and community associations, and the private
sector, to create a balanced social profile and identify needs of the community, likely to be affected by
the proposed tourism site. The regional delegations of the MoT and recently created GRITs (
Groupements d'lnteret Touristique) will have a convening role in this process.
(b) broad social inclusion and mitigation measures are integrated in the standard TORs for the preparation
of indicative development plans (Annex 4). The RFPs will include proposed terms, including financial,
that the developers and investors will have to abide by, in order to maximize the benefits to local
population and mitigate negative aspects of increased tourist presence. The GOM might finance some
of the social mitigation measures. The exact terms and shared responsibilities will be further detailed in
- 17 -



the preliminary agreements signed between GOM and the selected master developer. A social
development program and phased monitoring indicators during the construction and operation periods
will be equally agreed upon at that stage and become part of the project supervision check-list.
6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category: C (Not Required)
This LIL, which promotes a sustainable coastal tourism development "framework", and does not finance
investments, is a category C project, which is free of compliance issues. Nevertheless, the proposed
framework will promote an environmentally sound approach to development on each site, as well as the
conservation of adjacent ecological and neighboring cultural environment, as these are important assets in
the attraction of quality tourism while respecting the carrying capacity of the fragile coastal Atlantic and
Mediterranean ecosystems. This approach fully adheres to the requirements of OP 4.01 (Environmental
Assessment), OP 4.04 (Natural Habitats), and OPN 11.03 (Cultural Property).
Coastal Zone Management in Morocco remains inadequate, while more than 50 percent of population live
in coastal areas and their importance for tourism and port development is widely recognized. Morocco still
lacks an environmental framework or regulations requiring systematic environmental assessments for new
investments. Presently, the only legal document that regulates the use of coastal zones is the 1914 Dahir
concernant le domaine public which delineates a strip of public coast land of up to 6 meters from the
highest tide (domaine public maritime) managed by the Ministry of Public Works. The draft framework
environmental and EIA law and regulations are currently being considered at the first stage of the
government endorsement process. Another draft Law proposed for coastal zone management is being
prepared.
The contribution of the project will be to integrate the environmental aspects of tourism development in the
indicative development plans and in the detailed master plans prepared by the mnaster developers, and make
a strong case for mandatory EIA in projects of such type.
The project sponsors a three-step approach to ensure environmental soundness, within and beyond the
tourism development unit, accompanied by the training, through the TA component of the site development
teams (which include environmentalists):
(a) environmental aspects are integrated in the standard TORs for the preparation of indicative
development plans (Annex 4). The RFPs will include requirements for the initial environmental
management that developers will have to comply with. These requirements will be part of the
preliminary agreements signed between the GOM and the selected master developers,
(b) as part of the approval of the detailed master plans and of the first phase construction programs, the
master developers will have to prepare a detailed environmental management plan which will be an
intrinsic part of the approval process. The standard requirements of this environmental management
plan will be detailed during project supervision.
(c) for accommodation, leisure and conmmercial facilities, a set of mandatory environmental guidelines will
be enforced by MoT in a participatory manner with the site managers. The implementation of these
guidelines is outside the scope of the Project, as the construction phase will not start before the closure
date. However, these guidelines will be developed at part of the TA to DAI. This will be done in
conjunction with the development of a coastal environmental/green label system.
The Government is committed to promoting projects that respect and enhance the adjacent or neighboring
- 18 -



sites of ecological and cultural importance:
* Plage Blanche: Special attention will be afforded to the adjacent Priority 3 SIBEs (Sites of Biological
and Ecological Interest), in close collaboration with the Forest Administration. Most sensitive sites
include the oued Aoreora delta, the beach and the dunes.
* Haouzia: Special attention will be given to the adjacent forest and dunes owned by the Forest
Administration. The cultural heritage of the neighboring medinas of El Jadida and Azzemour should be
enhanced.
* Essaouira: The adjacent dunes and the "archipel" nearby, which are Priority 1 SIBEs, will be the
subject of special care in collaboration with the Forest Administration. Special attention will also be
given to the integration and enhancement of Essaouira's community and cultural heritage.
*   Taphazout: Priority should be given to the conservation of the argan trees (arganiers) on the site.
Also, the areas surrounding the sites are subject to increasing unplanned housing developments,
frequently. illegal. The growth development aspects should be planned urgently and government land
should be allocated to allow for these illegal surrounding developments to grow inland as well as for
coastal buffer zones to preserve the globally important argan trees and prevent further erosion from
occurring.
Resettlement
There is no resettlement.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The project aims at bringing together various agencies and groups, involved in tourism promotion and local
development, understanding that consensus and collaboration between them is a prerequisite for a
competitive and sustainable tourism sector. In addition to the ad-hoc Steering Committees (one for each
site), workshops, public meetings and review of documents will be set up to foster participation of NGOs,
local communities, and private stakeholders in tourism and local development (hotels, travel agencies,
airlines, tour operators, etc.). This process is particularly important for the design of indicative
development plans : building a consensus on the main characteristics of the new coastal developments is the
best guarantee against local conflicts or polemics on the cultural and social impact of tourism.
b. Other key stakeholders:
- 19 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk              -.  Risk Rating              Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1. GOM agencies and local authorities       M         Collaborative process will be encouraged from
cannot agree among themselves and the                 the very outset, consultations and ad hoc
process of preparation and approval of                committees ( like the one, already in existence
some indicative development plans is                  for Khmis Sahel site) will be set up to associate
blocked                                               relevant Ministries and authorities at each stage
of the approval process. Special attention is
being paid to encouraging formal integration of
tourism zone planning into regional and town
planning documents.
2. Potential developers/investors will      S         Every possible effort will be made through TA
disagree with GOM expectations and/or                 and early consultations with tourism
conditions for the integrated site                    professionals and private sector specialists to
development, defined in requests for                  ensure maximum acceptable flexibility and
proposals, and consequently fail to submit            realism in the preparation of RFPs for all sites.
their proposals.                                      In case some sites require more stringent
environmental or social standards that would be
acceptable to make the operations profitable for
private investors, altemative development
solutions will be sought, or another site will be
chosen for priority development among the 6
included in the scope of the project.
3. As volume of operations is expected to   M         The main goal of the project is to build enough
grow rapidly after signing preliminary                institutional, including project management,
agreements with private developers, the               capacity for MoT to handle multiple large scale
management capacity of MoT may prove                  private investment projects. Mid-term review
insufficient.                                         will assess whether the TA envisioned in the
design in the project would be enough to carry
on developing all proposed sites concurrently, or
the project should be scaled down and not all 6
studied sites will be immediately offered for
actual investrnent.
-20 -



From Components to Outputs
No agreement is reached within GOM on       M         The GOM has already launched strategic audits
the creation of a new institutional                   of the existing institutions to propose a new
framework for Tourism Development                    institutional framework. TA components aim at
building core capacity at MoT, namely at DAI
and PIU within it. During the consensus building
stage of the project as consultations are held
with other ministries and agencies, especially for
developing sites in the regions that currently do
not have local tourism development agencies,
visibility and national importance of the MoT
agenda is expected to grow and bring additional
support for a new institutional framework.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
N/A
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Prepare the first Project Management Report (PMR) no later than twelve months after effectiveness.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
1 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
n1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 21 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
CII 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Jean-V-ubert Moulignat        $. Jean-Claude Villiard                 Ch nDv
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director             Country Manage Director
- 22 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MOROCCO: Sustainable. Coastal Tourism Development Project
Key Peiforiance
Hierarchy of Objectives.         Indicators.        Monitoring & Evaluation    -Critial Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Tourism sector will contribute Number of foreign tourists per World Bank Group Sector    *Increased foreign revenues
to sustained growth by    year, revenue from tourism as Note "Tourism and Global  from tourism will contribute
enhancing competitiveness,   percent of GDP, direct and    Development";         to spurring the Moroccan
fostering a more dynamic    indirect employment      "Sources of Growth" Morocco  economy, improve the
private sector, building a more generated, hotel occupancy    Study;             balance of payments and
effective and efficient public  rates, private investment in   New CAS, CDF.     contribute resources and jobs
administration            total investment                                       for poverty alleviation
*lnvolvement of private sector
on a competitive basis will
increase efficiency, and free
public resources for fighting
poverty
*A more effective and
transparent public sector
management of tourism
projects will prevent
corruption and nepotism.
Follow-on Development
Objective
Sustainable private investment Private investment /national  Partnerships: review of  The private-public model for
in integrated development of  budget significantly increased contractual arrangements,   integrated tourist site
tourism sites throughout the                         financial statements and   development proves to be
country, strategically managed Number of preliminary and   physical advancement of the  viable and sustainable in the
through a new institutional   final agreements with private  projects           Moroccan context. Solutions
framework for Tourism     developers signed per year                            are found to maximize
Development                                          National Strategy and      transparency, competi-
Distribution of projects  Database of coastal tourism   tiveness in the selection
throughout the country,   development, land data.    process and fair sharing of
number of public-private                             risks between various
partnership created and their                        partners and stakeholders.
volume of operation
The State regulates the
Diversified sources of                               process in a flexible and just
investment (international                            manner. Legal and regulatory
banks, insurance companies,                          environment is improved as
consortuims, local private                           consensus is built between
capital)                                             relevant government agencies
and elected officials.
- 23 -



Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Propose, test, and evaluate the A new institutional framework *Project monitoring reports  *Lessons learned during the
institutional framework and   endorsed by all stakeholders  *Project mid-term review  implemenation of the LIL
contractual procedures for    and fully operational.  *MOT surveys and statistics   will permit the GOM to have
managing public-private                              *Official correspondence    enough institutional and
partnerships that are best    The number of indicative                           managerial capacity to
suited for integrated and  development plans and RFP                             launch a large number of
sustainable development of   packages approved by the ad                         sustainable private-public
coastal sites in the Moroccan  hoc Steering Committees.                          ventures for integrated site
context.                                                                         development.
The number of contract                               *Private investment in new
agreements with private                               coastal resorts in partnership
master developers signed                              with the State will jumpstart
the tourism sector, and
bring about induced benefits
for the economy as a whole,
and neighboring
communities in particular.
*Successful examples of
public-private operations in
land development and
management for coastal
resorts could be extended to
other sectors ( e.g. industrial
and technology parks, new
town development).
- 24 -



Key Peofrmance-
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. For each site the following Timely (before mid-term  Actual plans and packages   Sites are retained in the
documents will be produced:  review) and within budget                         investment program as
*  a conceptual plan for the delivery and approval of the                     suitable for acceptable type of
site !               whole agreed package for 2                            development and attractive for
*  an indicative        sites (Haouzia, Essaouira),                           private investors/developers.
development plan for   and mostly completed                                Land-acquisition does not pose
TDU                  packages for Plage Blanche                            a problem.
* pre-feasibility study
*  request for proposals
package
2. Project Management'    The skill mix in DAI is    Consultants reports,       The management capacity of
capacity of DAI is improved:  improved (especially in  minutes of the meetings,  DAI has improved and is
finance). On the job training  training materials, approval  proven sufficient to continue
2.1. With the assistance of    performed by consultants at  letters and draft RFPs  on towards negotiations with
consultants preparation of 5  each pivotal stage.                               private investors
sites for negotiations is
managed and supervised.   The process is under control
of Project Implementation
Unit and is smoothly
advancing according to
schedule: by mid-term review,
the RFP for Khmis Sahel and
SaYdia have been launched,
and Essaouira and Haouzia
are at the draft RFP stage
(Plage Blanche by second
quarter of 2002). A decision is
made on the programming of
new sites.
2.2. With the assistance of    *Preliminary agreement for   Consultants assessments of
consultants submissions of  Taghazout is concluded by   developers submissions.
private developers are     mid term review and the   negotiation protocols,
evaluated and draft contract    main agreement by the  preliminary agreements.
agreements are prepared for    closing date, one more site
up to 2 sites.             can reach this stage.
3. The,new institutional  Decision to create a new   Documents enacting the new   The new institutions are
framework is agreed on and a institutional framework by    institutions, organigrams,    viable, efficient, and visible on
new national Tourism      second quarter of 2001.    business plans and staffing.  the local arena to promote
Development Agency created  Institutional designs,                              sustainable tourism and
to take over from DAI the    operation manuals, and draft                       negotiate with international
extended management       policy statements ready and                           investors and smoothly takes
program of coastal site   implementation started by                             over DAI's responsibilities.
development under         mid-term review.
preparation and negotiation.
- 25 -



Key Performanc
Hierarchy of , bje.t..e . . I..i.at.r. . Mo..toring&,,,aluation  2 Critica* Ass  ip''oC
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            CDmponent)                                             Outputs)
US$M                       Consultants reports,        All plans and studies are of
1. Preparation of indicative  1.2                     approved indicative         good quality, delivered on
development plans and                                 development plans and draft  time and approved by all
pre-feasibility studies for 3                         requests for proposals      stakeholders
new coastal tourism
development sites in:
1.1 .Plage Blanche (Tan-Tan)
I .2.Haouizia (El Jadida)
1 .3.Essaouira
2. Technical assistance to the 0.9                                                Consultants are well selected
Department of Development                                                         and are capable to provide
and Investment (DAT) of the                                                       hands-on training and transfer
Ministry of Tourism for:                              Consultants reports,        knowledge to staff in PIm, and
minutes of the meetings,   identify capacity gaps
approval letters and draft
RFPs
2.1 Management and                                    Consultants assessments of
supervision of preparation of                         developers submissions.
indicative plans                                      negotiation protocols,
2.2 Selection of Master                               preliminary agreements.
Developers and negotiation of
preliminary agreements
3. Implementation of the                              Enactment of the new        The proposed responsibi- lities
new institutional framework  0.24                     institutions, organigrams,    and mandates of the new
business plans and staffing    institutions are acceptable to
documents                  GOM
Contingencies              0.30
- 26 -



Annex 2: Project Description
MOROCCO: Sustainable Coastal Tourism Development Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$1.20 million
Preparation of indicative development plans and pre-feasibility studies for 3 new coastal tourism
development sites in Plage Blanche (Tan-Tan), Haouzia ( El Jadida), and Essaouira.
For each site the following documents will be produced:
*   a conceptual plan for the whole tourism development site, based on a market study, and the
analysis of the advantages and limitations of a few proposed integrated Tourism Development
Units (TDU).
*   indicative development plan for a selected TDU, that would take into consideration the findings of
the conceptual plan and detail them further to estimate an investment program, acceptable
densities, infrastructure needs, circulation flows, etc.
* pre-feasibility study that would estimate rates of return of the alternative scenarios proposed in the
indicative development plan, and furnish the financial ratios to be used as reference in the
negotiations with the private investors/developers.
*   request for proposals (RFP) package and criteria for selection of developers/investors for the
TDU.
The main characteristics of the three sites to be studied are as follows:
- Plage Blanche (Tan-Tan) is a greenfield site isolated from urban centers that requires major off-site
infrastructure investment, and possibly, a private developer to be fully responsible for the project. That
would permit to avoid "marginal" projects that can jeopardize the integrity of the site. Designing a
mechanism for long-term financing of off-site infrastructure is a major challenge in this case. The
contract might have to encompass some provisions for social and economic development, induced by
the construction and operation of the site - housing and minimum social services for the construction
workers and hotel 2ersonnel.
- Haouzia (El Jadida) is also a greenfield site, but close to the city of El Jadida, and off-site
infrastructure should not be a major constraint for its development. The zone is already partially
developed for international and local tourism and a new TDU could be developed incrementally, which
might be done without resorting to a singular master developer. The region is developing fast, and
local authorities are fully on board to make the most of the tourism revenues. The Haouzia zone is
between the two historic cities of El Jadida and Azemmour. Both cities have an enormous potential for
developing their cultural assets to complement the attraction of the Haouzia beach site old Portuguese
town centers that are being restored, but could be further promoted as the loci of galleries, concert
venues, crafts shops, and restaurants in an attractive historic setting.
- Essaouira is a historic city with a strong cultural heritage and is surrounded by an ecologically
sensitive forest created to fix sand dunes. In identification of the sites suitable for integrated tourism
development special care will be taken to preserve the forest and the cultural identity and image of the
lity-
- 27 -



Project Component 2 - US$0.90 million
Technical assistance to the Department of Development and Investment (DAI) of the Ministry of
Tourism for the management and supervision of the 3 new coastal tourism development sites in
Plage Blanche (Tan-Tan), Haouzia ( El Jadida), and Essaouira and of the 3 on-going' sites:
Saidia/Ras El Ma, Khmis Sahel (Larache) et Taghazout (Agadir).
This component will consist of 2 parts:
* Component 2.1: technical assistance to DAI for managing the process of preparing the indicative
development plans and Requests for Proposals for the three new sites ( Plage Blanche, Haouzia,
and Essaouira) and for the two sites whose indicative development plans have already been
launched by the Ministry of Tourism (SaYdia/Ras El Ma and Khmis Sahel/Larache). A single team
of consultants will be contracted for this task and will provide hands-on training for DAI staff.
- Saidia/Ras El Ma, whose indicative development plan is being financed by a grant from the Spanish
Government, is not far from an existing destination frequented by the Moroccans and tourists from
other Maghreb countries. However, it has high potential for international tourism, so compatibility and
integration between the new site and the existing popular resort will have to be thouahtfullv planned
and managed. There is no development agency currently in place and land is publicly and privately
owned.
- Khemis Sahel (Larache) -a zone covered by urban planning documents, that envision development of
tourism in the area. There is a high level of local consensus and leadership to develop tourism facilities
to the north of the historic city, not far from the archeological site (roman ruins of Lixus). The high
level of local unemployment (30%), and the variety of potential service activities to be developed in
relation to the tourist site make this case particularly interesting for designing ways to maximize the
impact tourism can have to boost local employment and economy, and help protect the historic
heritage of Larache and Lixus.
*   Component 2.2: assistance to evaluate the private developers' proposals and to draft preliminary
contract agreements with the selected developers. This task will start with the site of Taghazout
(Agadir), for which private master developers have already submitted proposals. It will eventually
be extended to the preparation of the main 'agreement and financial closing with the selected
developer. Due to the limited duration and amount of the loan, this type of assistance will be
provided for a maximum of two sites (beginning with Taghazout).
- Taghazout allows fast development and is a matter of priority. Being integrated in Agadir economy,
it has major off-site infrastructure already in place, and all land is consolidated in the hands of
SONABA. At the same time, the area is undergoing rapid urbanisation (as it is in close proximity to
the bustling agglomeration of Agadir whose population had been growing at 7-8% a year in
1972-1994). As indicated in the Coastal Master Plan for the North of Agadir Region, while tourism is
very important for the local economy, local growth is equally fuelled by agriculture, fisheries and
industry. Thus, the unique challenge of this site is to find a setup that would reconcile the spatial claims
of: a ciuality international resort: sprawling urbanisation and consequent migration of population
towards the coast: land and infrastructure needs of other economic sectors: and coastal environmental
Mreservation. Private master developers are already preparing proposals for site development and
gathering potential investors. These proposals will have to be negotiated with the GOM before any
decision is made on the transfer of SONABA land property.
- 28 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 0.24 million
Technical Assistance to implement the new institutional framework for tourism sites development.
The strategic audit of the existing institutional framework for tourism sites development (two regional
development agencies, SONABA and SNABT, the Department of Development and Investment, and
regional representations) is being launched and is financed by a Grant from the Japanese Government
(PHRD). The study will provide recommendations for the reengineering of the current institutions
and/or propose a new institutional framework that would be indispensable to launch and manage
simultaneously a large number of integrated tourism sites. The study should be ready by the end of
2000 and will include proposals for the status of the new institutions, organigrams, business plans, and
a transition plan from the existing to the new institutional framework.
Hence, Component 3 will finance the technical assistance to make the new institutional framework filly
operational. Detailed TORs for this component will be finalized by the end of 2000.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Component 1. The Standard TORs for the Indicative Development Plans have been prepared and are
ready for implementation. A notice for EOI will be posted by PIU and the Bank in June 2000. The call
for proposals for the first IDP (Essaouira) will be launched by PIU in September 2000, for the second
IDP (El Jadida) in October 2000, and for the third IDP (Plage Blanche) in January 2001.
Component 2. Draft TORs for Component 2.1 (TA for management of IDPs) have been prepared by
the Bank, and the final TORs will be submitted by PIU to the Bank in June 2000. The call for
proposals will be launched in July 2000. For Component 2.2 (TA for selection of master developers
and preparation of prelimninary agreements) TORs for the first site (Taghazout) will be prepared when
the details of the selection process will have been decided by GOM.
Component 3. The call for proposals for the Strategic Audit, financed by the PHRD, will be launched
by PIU before the end of May 2000. The final report will be ready in November 2000, and the TORs
for TA to implement the new institutional framework will be prepared by PIU by the end of the year
2000.
-29 -



For details, see attached Project Implementation Schedule.
Morocco - Sustainable Coastal Tourism Development (LIL)
Project Implementation Schedule
Mid. Term Review
>000                              i DI               21                  0 2n
Task Name                    -                         Q1                 Ql      Q2        Q31  Q4           Q
Component #1                                                                                         .
IDP Larache                                                                       R -   -   P  RFP
IDP Saidia                                             -       -         -        -
lDP Essaouira                                                            -                     RFP
IOP El Jadida
lDP Plage Blanche                                                                                             RFP
Component #2
Component # 2       s            _          -       =         =         =        =      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Main A! reement +
TA Management of IDP & training                                             pM AP                    APD       _      Financi Ae Closing +
Agreement Taghazout                                    _       _lA                                     m      _                Cloning
Agreement Site 2                                                                                                 PA     APS  .         P0
Component # 3
Audit SONABA/SNABT/DAI (PHRD)                          _       gaI sisi National Ag ncy Creati.
TA for national Agency
RF P   R  qiiest fm pmjmsals
r) 3:  hiwili~&eiN  3 evcluopalewi Plai
PA.:   Prelhinw¢ay Agreim!Wi ii
APS;  Piellinsiaty e   ~ir .
A P C.  Ptiiiei tl aresi
MoarSCTD(LILYPCV-.500.ppt
- 30 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MOROCCO: Sustainable Coastal Tourism Development Project
Local       Foreign,       Total
Priojet Cost By, Component               US $million    US $miliion    US. $million
1. Indicative Development Plans                           0.40          0.80         1.20
2. Technical Assistance DAI                               0.30          0.60         0.90
3.Technical Assistance for the new institutional framework  0.08        0.16         0.24
Total Baseline Cost                                       0.78          1.56         2.34
Physical Contingencies                                   0.05          0.10         0.15
Price Contingencies                                      0.05          0.10         0.15
Total Project Costs              0.88          1.76         2.64
Total Financing Required               0.88         1.76          2.64
Local       Foreign-       Total
Project Cost Ey Category                US $million    US $million   US $million
Goods                                                       0.00          0.00          0.00
Works                                                       0.00          0.00          0.00
Services                                                    0.88           1.76         2.64
2.64Training                                                0.00          0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs     0.88           1.76         2.64
Total Financing Required      0.88          1.76          2.64
- 31 -






Annex 4
MOROCCO: Sustainable Coastal Tourism Development Project
Standard Terms of Reference
for the preparation of a Preliminary Site Development Study
for proposed Integrated Tourism Development Centers in Morocco
I. BACKGROUND
Tourism has recently emerged as the leading source of foreign exchange for the Kingdom of Morocco,
notwithstanding the recent low level of new investment in this sector. The quality and diversity of
Morocco's tourist attractions-both natural and cultural-can allow tourism to play an even greater
role in the Kingdom's economic future. However, in order to maximize the many economic and social
benefits that can reasonably be expected from an expansion of this sector, it will be essential to adopt a
long-term vision and strategic planning approach. Sustainable development of Morocco's tourism
industry will require a broad range of actions on the part of both the public and private sectors,
including:
* identification and preservation for future use of sites of a size and quality capable of supporting
integrated tourism center developments in the coming decades;
* involvement, as Master Site Developers, of highly qualified tourism development/ management
organizations possessing exceptional international experience and expertise, in combination with
local knowledge and experience of the Moroccan tourism industry;
*  willingness on the part of the Government of Morocco to assist in providing meaningful incentives,
as appropriate, including assistance in the provision of off-site infrastructure improvements,
expediting permits and approvals, and exoneration of various duties, taxes and fees for qualifying
tourism development centers;
* close coordination among various governmental bodies, NGOs, and the private sector to protect,
preserve, and enhance the features of Morocco's extraordinary natural and cultural environments
which attract international tourists to Morocco, and thereby serve as the foundation of the tourism
industry.
The Ministry of Tourism, in cooperation with other governmental agencies, elected officials, and
private sector tourism investors/managers, has therefore initiated an ambitious program to expand and
better manage the Kingdom's tourism industry, particularly in the coastal regions where Morocco
possesses numerous sites that can provide a wide and varied range of competitive attractions targeting
the European and larger international tourism market. The World Bank is reviewing various
opportunities for assisting the Ministry in these efforts.
Among the key planning and project identification actions undertaken (or to be undertaken) by the
Ministry are the following:
1.    Preparation of a computerized data base identifying the location and key characteristics of
potential tourism development stations along the entire Moroccan coast line;
2.    Retention of tourism planning consultants charged with the responsibility of preparing a
Preliminary Site Development Study (consisting of conceptual development plans and financial
prefeasibility studies) for each of the most promising sites (approximately eight in number,
including two inland sites). These consultants will also assist the Ministry in obtaining and
- 32 -



evaluating competitive proposals from potential "Master Site Developers."
3.     Selection of Master Site Developers to plan, construct and operate the integrated tourism
development centers. After selection and negotiation of a suitable public/private agreement, the
Master Site Developers will be responsible for managing the physical development of the new
stations, as well as for the provisi6n and coordination of infrastructure facilities, destination
marketing programs, and animation activities serving the entire station.
4.     Strengthening of management capacity within the Ministry to assure adequate resources for
carrying out the planned program of tourism facilities expansion.
The following Terms of Reference are intended to guide the work of the several planning consultants
who will be retained to perform the work described under component 2, above.
II. SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY
The tourism planning consultant will be responsible for performing the following key tasks:
*   Preparation of a 'plan d'orientation global' for the touristic development and management of the
study area, which consists of [ ...brief definition of study area boundaries ...], as delimited on the
attached Study Area boundary location map (see ANNEX A.)
a Identification, within the confines of the above study area, of a site for the development of an
integrated tourism development project, having a surface area of at least L..].. ha, and the
capacity to accommodate new hotel facilities offering a total of approximately [ .. J hotel beds.
X   Preparation of a Preliminary Site Development concept for the selected site, including a phased
development program and showing, in general terms, the location of major programmatic
components such as roadways and other infrastructure facilities, as well as major building sites and
landscape features (e.g., golf courses, etc.)
*   Preparation of an initial financial feasibility assessment of the Preliminary Site Development Study
proposal elaborated above.
*   Participation, under the direction of the Ministry of Tourisr, in the identification and selection of a
Master Site Developer for the site.
In performing these tasks, the planning consultant will take note that its primary role is to identify and
describe the principal opportunities and constraints of the proposed tourism development site and its
environs. The planning consultant will thus be responsible for the assembly and/or preparation of a
package of informational materials describing the opportunities and constraints presented by the site.
This information will be used by the potential Master Site Developers in their preparation of their
submissions to the Ministry of Tourism.
Based on its field research and consultation with appropriate stakeholders, the planning consultant, in
coordination with the DAI, will provide guidance to define the limits of clearly acceptable and clearly
unacceptable development, but will not be expected to prepare a detailed or precise master plan of
development for the site. As appropriate during the preliminary site development study process,
alternative development concepts for the site may be articulated by the planning consultant for purposes
of suggesting a range of potential development approaches that might then be explored by the Master
- 33 -



Site Developers.
III. WORK TASKS TO BE PERFORMED BY THE PLANNING CONSULTANT
The planning consultant shall carry out four tasks, as described below.
TASK 1: PREPARATION OF THE PLAND'ORIENTATION GLOBAL
The planning consultant will carry out a series of research and technical analyses as required to
establish a comprehensive data base as well as a strategic framework for assessing the touristic
development potentials of the study area. A list of site inventory data needs is provided as ANNEX B.
Subtask 1.1: Identification and description of the tourism attraction potentials of the study area and its
broader region, including sites and facilities serving as destinations for (a) day trips, and (b) overnight
excursions.
Subtask 1.2: Identification, description and analysis of major infrastructure systems and other public
services now serving or planned for the study area, and capable of expansion and/or extension to serve
the proposed tourism development center. This Subtask will include preparation of estimates of the
potential demand levels for such services; physical improvements likely to be required over time to
satisfy these demands; whether existing facilities and services can be expanded and/or extended to the
site or, in the alternative, whether free-standing facilities need to be constructed; a preliminary phasing
plan for construction; and finally, the likely range of unit and cumulative costs involved. The permits
and approvals required by various agencies in order to carry out these improvements will also be
identified.
Subtask 1.3: Documentation and analysis of environmental resources of value, concern, and/or
sensitivity, including sites having official recognition and protection, and other sites of value which may
be identified by the planning consultant during the course of its field research. (A checklist to aid in
this assessment is provided as ANNEX C.)
Subtask 1.4: Review of tourism market potentials. The planning consultant will assess (through
consultations with knowledgeable international and Moroccan tourism experts, various published
materials and statistics, and drawing upon his own experience) the likely market to be served by and
market products to be provided by new facilities to be developed in this location. Particular attention
will be given to the potentials of the European market, and the competitive advantages offered by the
site vis a vis similar sites in the Mediterranean/North African region.
Subtask 1.5: Property Ownership and Availability. The planning consultant will identify locations
where the pattern of land ownership may help or hinder the assemblage of land needed for a major
integrated tourism development center.
Subtask 1.6: Based on the above findings and analyses, the planning consultant will elaborate a 'plan
d'orientation global' which presents a strategic vision of an optimum tourism development scenario for
the study area. The 'plan d'orientation global' will identify a series of actions and improvements which
will be needed in order to achieve the maximum economic, social and environmental benefits from
tourism sector activities in the study area.
-34 -



The 'plan d'orientation global' will also include an evaluation of one or more potential locations which
are capable of being assembled and developed for a major, integrated tourism development center. The
most suitable site-which best responds to the identified market demands as well as to the
environmental, land ownership, and other opportunities and constraints-will be identified by the
consultant. Following the approval of the Ministry, the recommended Integrated Tourism Development
Center (ITDC, or UAT) site will then be the subject of a more detailed documentation effort, as
outlined in Task 2, below.
The 'plan d'orientation global' will be documented and presented in a report, and will include, at a
minimum, the maps and other material defined below in Section IV of this Terms of Reference, entitled
"Documentation to be Provided for Inclusion in the Request For Proposals."
TASK 2: PREPARATION OFA PRELIMINARYSITEDEVELOPMENTSTUDY
AND RELATED PREFEASIBILITY ASSESSMENT FOR THE
RECOMMENDED INTEGRA TED TOURISM DEVELOPMENT CENTER
Subtask 2.1: Definition of the Preliminary Site Development Study proposal. In order to provide a
basis for deriving the prefeasibility analysis, and to establish a coherent baseline for a comparative
review and evaluation of subsequent Master Site Development submissions, the planning consultant
shall develop an indicative Preliminary Site Development plan. This plan will locate and define the
capacity of the key elements of an integrated tourism development, including major on-site
infrastructure system elements (such as roadways and other utilities and services) hotels, and recreation
facilities (golf courses, marinas, beach and swimming facilities, casinos, etc.) Illustrative site plans,
massing plans, and renderings will be used to describe the plan in graphic terms. The location and size
of all facilities will be determined after careful consideration of the size and environmental carrying
capacity of the site, and the land use planning and control policies of the relevant national and local
planning agencies, when it exists. The environmental planning principles contained in ANNEX C will
help guide this work. A construction staging graphic will be developed to illustrate the physical
location of infrastructure components, hotels, and leisure/animation facilities to be built over time.
As part of the preliminary site development study process, it is expected that the planning consultant
will explore a number of site development scenarios which will illustrate different assumptions as to the
location, magnitude, and phasing of development.
Subtask 2.2: Preparation of preliminary financial feasibility analysis. Based on the Preliminary Site
Development Study proposals, the planning consultant will prepare a phasing plan and construction
schedule for the implementation of the tourism development center. Costs of construction, and project
financing and other development costs will be estimated, and allocated to the construction phases.
Room rate revenues and other operational revenue flows will be estimated, and aproforma assessment
of net profits and rate of return on investment will be calculated, on both an annual and a cumulative
basis.
Although it is expected that the primary emphasis will be on an analysis of the recommended
development program, the planning consultant shall also prepare sensitivity analyses for all major
development scenarios in order to better illustrate the financial implications of alternative development
strategies.
- 35 -



The consultant shall study several scenarios for program management: distribution of investment in
hotels and other infrastructure between the master developers and other private investors, alternatives
for land management and/or sale.
Subtask 2.3: The planning consultant shall then prepare an estimate of the financial and economic
costs and benefits accruing to the public sector. To be included in this analysis will be the costs (and
possible sources of financing) for necessary off-site infrastructure improvements, and the revenues
produced at both the national and local government level as a result of taxes and fees paid over time. In
addition, an estimate of direct and indirect employment benefits (employment opportunities created in
construction and tourism facility operation; secondary employment and business creation effects;
aggregate incomes earned; persons trained with new skills; etc.) shall be prepared
TASK 3. PREPARATION OF THE REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS (RFP) FROM
MASTER SITE DEVELOPERS
Following completion and acceptance by the Ministry of Tourism of the Preliminary Site Development
Study and related prefeasibility analyses, the planning consultant will assist the Ministry in preparing
and widely publicizing a Request for Proposals (RFP) relative to the development of an integrated
tourism development center at [...insert name of proposed center...] The planning consultant will
seek the cooperation of industry organizations (such as the Moroccan Federation of Tourism, the World
Tourism Organization, the World Travel and Tourism Council, and the Urban Land Institute) in
publicizing the availability of the RFP. The planning consultant will also identify potential Master Site
Developer candidates who may be invited by the Ministry to subrnit a proposal for consideration. An
outline of the RFP submission requirements is provided in ANNEX D.
The planning consultant will develop a scoring matrix for the review and evaluation of each proposal
submitted for consideration by the Ministry. The evaluation matrix shall take into account the
following general selection criteria, but may be refined and adjusted to reflect the particular conditions
and issues posed by the site under consideration. The planning consultant will propose a final
evaluation process and related weighting and scoring system to the Ministry, which shall have final say
as to the content and timing of the process.
Criteria to be reflected in the evaluation matrix include:
*  Financial capability: evidence of willingness and ability to raise needed investment capital to
carry out major development projects within the proposed tourism development center as the
market warrants during periods of growing demand, and to successfully sustain the operations of a
tourism center during periods of slack demand.
*   Organizational capacity and structure: clarity and precision of the key roles and responsibilities
of the Master Site Developer team members; with a particular emphasis on the seniority and
qualifications of proposed full-time resident staff; presence of both Moroccan and international
tourism development and operational experience on the proposed planning/management team.
*   Technical capability: evidence of the presence on the Master Site Development team of the full
range of professional skills required for the successful planning, design, construction, and
long-term operation of tourism facilities (e.g., land planners, architects/engineers, environmental
- 36 -



specialists, construction managers, financial managers, legal and accounting specialists, hotel
managers, tourism marketing specialists, etc.)
*  Proposed program of development: suitability and appropriateness of the proposed physical
development program, land use plan, and development schedule to the physical opportunities and
constraints identified in the RFP package, and to the international market which is intended to be
attracted to Morocco.
*  Past performance record and experience: evidence of successful development and management of
large-scale integrated tourism facilities serving an international tourism market, and evidence that
that experience has been used to accurately assess the market which is targeted for the proposed
integrated tourism development center.
TASK 4: EVALUATIONAND SELECTION OF THE MASTER SITE DEVELOPER(S)
Following receipt of competitive proposals from interested Master Site Developers, the planning
consultant will be available, at the request of the Ministry of Tourism, to review, evaluate and critique
the submissions; to advise the Ministry on the preparation of a shortlist of finalists; and to provide
assistance to the Ministry during the stage of negotiations with one or more of the finalists, including
the preparation of all formal contractual agreements.
IV. DOCUMENTATION TO BE PROVIDED FOR INCLUSION IN THE REQUEST
FOR PROPOSALS
The planning consultant will document the findings of each task in the form of a written and graphic
report, and illustrated by suitable maps, tables, diagrams and photographs as may be needed to explain
the principal findings and conclusions of the study. The planning consultant will bear in mind that the
output of its work is intended to define the major opportunities and constraints presented by the
proposed tourism development site, in order to inform and facilitate the preparation of detailed
proposals by potential Master Site Developers.
Further, at the option of the Ministry of Tourism, the materials produced by the planning consultant
should be capable of being mounted on a website to facilitate distribution to interested potential Master
Site Developers.
The following site data items are to be prepared by the planning consultant and included in the package
of materials to be made available to potential Master Site Developers, for their use in preparing detailed
proposals in response to the RFP to be issued by the Ministry:
Regional Study Area Scale:
*  Location plan, showing major cities and other urban centers, coastlines and other water bodies,
significant topographic features, autoroutes, airports, and other regional facilities.
* Major transportation facilities serving the area (roadways, airports, rail stations, marine facilities)
and their existing or planned capacities.
*  Major environmental resource areas and/or protected zones, including a concise description of their
- 37 -



principal features and sensitivities to impact.
*   Information about the conditions (average and extremes) of climate and ocean currents in the study
area, particularly as they may affect the type and location of recreation facilities and activities.
*   Existing golf courses, marinas, camping grounds, souks and other shopping areas, picturesque
villages and landscapes, historic centers or monuments, archaeological sites, and other significant
tourism/recreation attractions and facilities accessible by (a) day trips, or (b) overnight excursions .
*   Verbal descriptions of the type, size and location of the above tourism  attractions (natural,
recreational, and cultural/historic).
*   Locations and capacities of existing urban services and supply lines serving the site, or capable of
extension to the site (water supply, wastewater treatment, electricity, communications systems,
solid waste collection/disposal, etc.).
*   List of permits and approvals likely to be required for extending or expanding any off-site
infrastructure facilities or similar activity associated with the proposed integrated tourism
development center, including name(s) of the agencies involved and a concise resume of the scope
and time requirements of the approval process.
*   Availability and cost of construction material (sand, gravel, other building supplies, etc.) in the
study area or its environs.
*   Availability of labor force for construction and operation of tourism  facilities (including an
estimate of persons trained of available for training in relevant skill areas, if available); distance of
labor force from the tourism development center.
Integrated Tourism Development Center (ITDC, or UAT) Scale:
*   All of the above, as they exist or apply within or immediately adjacent to the proposed tourism
development center, but developed in greater detail.
*   Topographic base map(s) of the development site, suitable for reproduction.
*   Bathymetry of nearby coastal areas, particularly in locations where marinas and other coastal
structures are likely to be developed.
*   Water quality test results (chemical and biological) for all likely beach swimming areas or other
water contact recreation sites.
* Map showing any areas of critical environmental value/concern or sensitivity; including areas to be
left untouched, or to be developed at a low intensity. If extensive landscape modification or marine
dredging is likely to be required, indicate location(s) and extent.
*   Map showing important view corridors.
*   Map showing areas considered to be most suitable (or necessary) for development for proposed
tourism center uses.
*   Site access and circulation diagram (existing, and suggested approach).
*   Wastewater treatment collection/treatment/effluent disposal diagram (suggested approach).
*   Estimates of urban services demands to be expected, at various stages of tourism  center
development, together with a discussion of potential supply options, including preliminary estimates
of the extent and unit costs of extending existing networks and/or developing new service facilities.
*   Map and discussion of the location and extent of current land uses and land types within and
immediately adjacent to the proposed tourism development center.
*   Map showing the staging over time of development of infrastructure improvements, buildings and
other site improvements.
*   If housing must be provided on site for hotel and other workers, include a map showing the number
and location of such housing units and supporting community facilitiesMap and discussion of
existing or in-progress urban planning/management plans and other regulatory documents (SDAU,
PA, etc.).
- 38 -



*  Parcel map of the site and its immediate environs, showing existing property owners of record, and
locations of human habitation.
*  A copy of all financial models and assumptions used to assess profitability of the recommended
preliminary site development scenario and major altemative scenarios, in both hardcopy and
diskette form.
V. CONSULTATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS
At each stage of the technical work, the planning consultant shall endeavor to consult with interested
parties (including national and local governmental authorities, elected officials, NGOs, and
representatives of the tourism industry, both domestic and international, and property owners and other
private parties) to obtain input and feedback on the research and analyses in progress. An early
identification of the concerns and expectations of interested stakeholders will be important to the
ultimate acceptance and utility of the planning consultant's product.
Particular attention will be given to coordination and consultation with:
*  the Ministry for Land Planning and Urban Development, including the relevant Agence urbaine;
3  other members of the Inter-ministerial Commission in Charge of Coastal Tourism Development
Planning;
3  other public agencies owning or managing land resources within or near the proposed tourism
development center;
3  public agencies responsible for the development or operation of infrastructure facilities, particularly
where major additions or changes to such services and facilities are required;
9  local urban or rural communes in which the center is located, or otherwise likely to be affected by
the development of the center;
e  tourism sector companies active in or interested in participation in the area's tourism industry;
3  private property owners within proximity to the proposed development site.
VI. COMPOSITION OF THE CONSULTANT TEAM
The planning consultant will be expected to assemble a team having both international and Moroccan
experience in tourism facility planning and development. The following professional skill areas, at a
minimum, shall be represented on the consultant's team, recognizing that one individual may be able to
carry our multiple roles:
*     project director/manager
tourism marketing analyst/economist
land planner/architect
civil engineer
cost estimator
environmnental planner/engineer
financial analyst
financial advisor
- 39 -



ANNEX A
Study Area Location Plan
(to be provided by the Department of Development & Investment, DAI)
-40 -






ANNEX B
Site Inventory Data Needs
Mapping
Aerial photography
Regional/site location maps
Survey with boundary coordinates
Legal description
Easements and rights-of-way (by type and location)
Patterns of ownership
Municipal and community boundaries
Topography & Views
Mapped slopes by percentage
Ridges and elevations (high and low points)
Drainage ways and valleys
Views, view corridors, visual intrusions (on and off-site)
Landmarks and special features
Drainage
Groundwater table and quality (and depth to groundwater)
Floodplain boundaries
* Wetlands/marshes/tidal flats
Surface drainage features (and permeability/percolation)
Location of wells and water quality
Sources of on-and-off site pollution
Tidal data (seasonal differentials)
Soils
Soil types and characteristics by location
Subsoil conditions
Depth and quality of top soil/erosion
Depth to bedrock
Beach and sand quality/erosion
Vegetation
Types of vegetation/species present on-site and near site
Size and location of specimen trees and other flora
Special features and habitats
Land Use Inventory
Existing on-site structures and activities
Surrounding land uses and activities
Historical site uses
Development patterns in area
Qualitative assessment of nearby communities
-41 -



Circulation
Existing trails and paths
Existing vehicular routes
Primary and secondary site access points
Proximity to regional transit and highway options
Planned regional transport improvements
Public Facilities and Services
Schools location and capacity
Fire, police and medical services
Public transportation and schedules
Employment, post office, social and other services
Commercial services and shopping
Recreational services
Census and socioeconomic data
Utilities
It is important to note location, existing capacity, quality and design, availability, tie-in
distance from site, cost structure, utility company or sponsor, future development
planning and funding.
Potable water
Electricity
Sewerage and Treatment
Garbage removal and Treatment
Storm water Drainage
Telephone (PBX stations)
Other (natural gas, satellite, cable, fiber optic, etc.)
Regulations
Regional Master plan policies (approved and in-process)
Municipal and community Master plan policies (approved and in-process)
All applicable national, coastal, environmental, municipal and community regulations and
procedures pertaining to the permit, assessment and approval processes
Classification, description and organizational charts of all relevant Government authorities
Other Features
Wind direction (prevailing and seasonal) and wind speeds
Sources of pollution and noise
Rainfall (seasonal quantities)
Climate, temperature and hours of sun (seasonal variations)
Tide and ocean currents
Historical, archeological, biological or other special sites
Animal and bird habitats (and migratory patterns)
Regional points of interest
-42 -



ANNEX C
Tourism Environmental Development Strategy
Specific Items that the consultants will need to investigate as part of the TOR:
1.     Land Tenure Data and Issues
2.     Climatic data: temperatures, precipitation and wind patterns; natural disaster information
(floods, storms, earthquakes, etc.)
3.     Oceanographic data: tides, currents, and wave patterns
4.     Beach profile
5.     Vegetation and forest coverage and profile
6.     Fishing activities
7.     Grazing activities
8.     Topography of construction site
9.     Hydrology data of the watershed: aquifers, groundwater quality and salinity level, quality of
oued waters
10.    Presence, and level and type of conservation, of sensitive ecosystems (dunes, forests, wetlands,
seagrass beds on the Mediterranean side, spawning areas, nesting areas) and species, classified
or not classified as protected areas
11.    Presence, and level and type of conservation of archaeological and cultural assets
(archaeological sites, medinas, classified buildings and monuments
12.    Presence of activities such as sand quarries
13.    Existing solid waste collection and disposal arrangements
14.    Existing waste water treatment
15.    Existing water and electricity supply
General Environmental Principles to Promote Sound Site Development:
Encourage development on the land side of the coast versus the beach
In the absence of adequate legislation, propose specific setbacks requirements which will
prevent beach/dune erosion from taking place
Capitalize on undeveloped buffer zones and ensure their protection as protected areas, forests,
agricultural land, archaeological and cultural heritage sites, etc.
Encourage environmentally sensitive, low impact forms of development, especially in areas
with fragile ecosystems
Promote the conservation and management of natural and cultural resources adjacent, or in the
vicinity of, the tourism development sites
-43 -



ANNEX D
Outline of the RFP Submission Contents
(To be further refined by the DAI in association with the planning consultant; initial submissions
will be conceptual in detail; folowing selection (or shortlisting) of the Master Site Developer(s),
more precision will be developed during subsequent negotiations and joint planning activities)
1. Information about the Investor/Developer:
Information on the legal status of the investor/developer's organization
List of Principals/Owners of the investor/developer
*     Financial references
*     Identity of eventual partners in the project (additional investors, hotel developers/operators,
etc.)
*     Prior experience in the field of tourism development and management, with particular emphasis
on master planning and site development
2. Project Description:
*     Overall concept/theme of the proposed development: market to be attracted
*     Program of development (divided into phases)
--site infrastructure elements
--hotels beds to be developed
--other leisure/animation facilities (e.g., golf course, marina, equestrian facility, casino,
etc.)
Scheduling and planning of the development process
3. Conceptual Physical Plan:
Diagram of utility services
Diagram of access/circulation
Zoning of activities
Parcel plan for physical development activities
Massing plan
4. Preliminary Feasibility Analysis:
Cost of the project components (by phases and business lines)
Estimate of income streams and rates of return (annual and cumulative, by business lines)
Financing plan
5.    Investor/Developer's Statement of Environmental Policy
Statement of Corporate environmental policy
General approach to the protection of coastal environmental resources
6. Investor/Developer's Comments on the draft Terms of Agreement with DAI
-44 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MOROCCO: Sustainable Coastal Tourism Development Project
Years Ending
.   Year1 I   Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5| Year 6.    Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.8        1.2        0.6        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          0.8        1.2        0.6        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing              0.8        1.2        0.6        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDiIDA                   0.7        1.0       0.5        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 0.1        0.2       0.1        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.1        0.2        0.1        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     0.8        1.2        0.6        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Project implementation will start on July 1st, 2000 and end on December 31st, 2002.
-45 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MOROCCO: Sustainable Coastal Tourism Development Project
Procurement
Procurement responsibilities:
The Departrnent of Development and Investment (DAI) is the executing agency of the Ministry of Tourism.
The DAI has acceptable experience in dealing with procurement. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
within the DAI will be responsible for preparing and launching the requests for proposals.
Procurement methods (Table A)
The Project includes only consultant services. The hiring of consultants under the Project will be carried
out in accordance with the "Bank's Guidelines for selection and employment of consultants by World Bank
borrowers, published in January 1997 (revised in September 1997 and January 1999) and the provisions
stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
Table A: Project'Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00           0.00          2.64           0.00          2.64
(0.00)        (0.00)        (2.18)         (0.00)        (2.18)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                           0.00          0.00          2.64           0.00          2.64
(0.00)        (0.00)        (2.18)         (0.00)        (2.18)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
-46 -



Consultant Selection Arranaements
All consultant services with an estimated contract value above US$100,000 equivalent would be advertised
for expressions of interest in the United Nations Development Business periodical and in at least one local
newspaper. The selection method for all contract equal to or exceeding US$100,000 for firms will be based
on quality and cost (QCBS). The selection method for the remaining contracts may be Consultants
Qualification (CQ), except for assignments of standard nature where the selection may be on the basis of
the least-cost method. Consultants contracts costing less than US$50,000 per contract for firms and
US$25,000 for individuals may, with the Bank's prior approval, be procured through single source.
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Con'sultant                                 Selection.  Meithod
Servicies
Expenditure     QCBS      QBS      -SPIB       LCS       CQ        Other     N.B.F.  Total Cost
Categor                                      .     -   -_                       --_ ,
A. Firms            1.80     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.54      0.00       0.00      2.34
(1.50)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.45)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.95)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.30      0.00       0.00      0.30
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.23)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.23)
Total   1.80      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.84       0.00      0.00      2.64
(1.50)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.68)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.18)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
-47 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
iExpenditure'Otgor        (US$    ansf         K X                           (       off,
1. Works
2. Goods
3. Services
(a) Firms                       > 100                    QCBS                      All
< 100                 QCBS, CQ             TORs and Short Lists
(b) Individuals  .               > 50           See Section V of Guidelines   TORs, CVs, Contracts
< 50           See Section V of Guidelines  None, post-review
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  1.8 MUSD
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-48 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The Bank loan will finance 100% of the project costs, taxes excluded. The Govemement of Morocco will.
finance the cost of taxes (20% VAT on consultant services). Total Project costs, taxes excluded, is US$2.2
million ; total Project costs, taxes included, is US$2.64 million.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
Consultant services                        2.18                         1.00
Front-end Fee                              0.02                          1.00
0.00
Total Project Costs                        2.20
Total                                      2.20
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Yes, for contracts with firms not exceeding US$100,000, and for contracts with individuals not exceeding
US$50,000
Special account:
The Government of Morocco (GOM) would open a Special Account in Moroccan Dirhams within the
Kingdom General Treasury. The GOM will bear the foreign exchange risk. The GOM would provide the
Government's contribution as well as counterpart funds for the Project through budgetary allocations to the
MoT. Budgetary allocations would be based on the annual budget for Project activities prepared by the
PIU. The PIU would prepare an annual budget for project implementation by October 31 each year for
submission to the Bank for its review, before submitting the budget proposal to the Ministry of Finance.
Retroactive fmancing:
Withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$100,000 may be made on account of payments
made for expenditures before effectiveness but after July 1, 2000.
Project Financial Management System
The Ministry of Tourism, and more specifically, the Department of Development and Investments (DAI -
Direction des Amenagements et des Investissements) of the Ministry will be the executing agency. The
Accounting and Budget Department (SCB - Service de la Comptabi.lite et du Budget) of the Ministry of
Tourism (MoT) will be responsible for overall project financial management.
The existing financial management system of the Accounting and Budget Department of the Ministry of
Tourism (MoT) was assessed during project appraisal. It was noted that the MoT Accounting and Budget
Department is adequately staffed in terms of number (director, 3 managers and 7 accounting professionals)
and capability. The public accounting system in Morocco is based on principles and procedures adopted
from the French system as well as from European Union and international standards. In addition, the MoT
-49 -



internal control system is based on specific separation of duties and description of tasks described in Note
of the Minister of Tourism of April 13, 1994. The main characteristics of the MoT financial management
system are as follows:
*     Accounting system. The decree number 330-66 of April 12, 1967, outlines the basic Government
accounting procedures, including accounting system based on the cash method and description of the
budget line items (components). The general ledger is established on a monthly basis. The transactions in
termns of commitments and disbursements are reflected on legal books maintained manually.
Annual budget. An annual approved budget for commitment and disbursement is issued by MoT
on the basis of the actions to be undertaken and financial needs. The annual budget is submitted to the
Ministry of Finance. The general budget includes funds of the IBRD loan, the Government's contribution
as well as the counterpart funds to be used from a special account.
Fiscal year. Until 1995, the fiscal year was the calendar year for the Government and most public
agencies. The fiscal year now begins on July I and ends on the following June 30. This will be changed
starting January 1, 2001, - i.e., the fiscal year will be the calendar year again as it was before 1995. There
will be a six month Fiscal Year from July 1, 2000 to December 31, 2000.
The internal control system is based on the separation of duties and description of tasks (as per
Note of the Minister of Tourism of April 13, 1994). Specifically, this system includes the following
internal control mechanisms:
(i) operation of a budgeting system, and regular monitoring of actual financial performance with
budgets and targets;
(ii) adoption and operation of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies which
would govern financial management of and accounting for the project (as described earlier).
(iii) at the transaction level, establishment and operation of policies, procedures and systems for
ensuring standard internal controls such as checking of expenditures, appropriate documentation, levels
of authorization, segregation of duties, periodic reconciliation, physical verification, etc.
(iv) establishment and operation of a comprehensive aggregation mechanism, including the issuing of
the project accounts and the project financial and procurement reports.
It was concluded that these policies and procedures provide reasonable assurance of: (a) a proper
authorization of transactions; (b) access to and use of assets and records; and (c) separation of custody of
cash from authorization and record keeping, and separation of authorization from record keeping.
Reporting. However, the MoT financial management system currently in use has no capacity to generate
the Bank-required management-oriented project reporting. Therefore, reporting and accounting functions
for project expenditures will be the responsibility of the Project Implementation Unit (PII). The PIU has
been created and a Project Accounting and Administrative Officer was designated by the DAI Director
during negotiations.
Project reporting and accounting would cover all sources and utilization of project funds.  All
project-related transactions (cash and non-cash-transactions) would be taken into accounts in the reporting
system. Disbursements made by the World Bank and the Special Account maintained by GOM at the
Kingdom General Treasury would also be included in the project accounting system. All funds received
from different sources would be identified separately and reflected in the project accounts. Main task of the
PIU Accounting and Administrative Officer will include (i) maintaining a Project Chart of Accounts; (ii)
gathering project financial information for the MoF and Treasury, (iii) preparation and dissemination of P
- 50 -



roject Management Reports. Timely transmission of the payment records by the General Treasury will
allow the PIU to include this information in the quarterly PMRs.
Project Management Reports (PMRs). Project funds will be disbursed under the Bank's traditional
disbursement procedures. Still, the PIU will submit on a quarterly basis Project Management Reports to
the Bank (PMRs). The PMRs will be based on the minimum requirements for Bank's project management
reporting (reference to Project Management Reports -PMRs -Cash Model) discussed during appraisaL
The management-oriented PMRs will be used for project monitoring and implementation.
Ouarterly Reports. The PMRs will include the two following parts:
(i) Financial Statements:
(a) summary of sources and uses of funds;
(b) uses of funds by project activity
(c) Special Account statements
(ii) Procurement management reports:
(a) contract expenditure report for consultant services;
(b) procurement management report for consultant services (as only consultant services will be
procured under the Project).
The PMRs will also include a summary of physical progress in project implementation, and explain
variances between the actual and forecast implementation targets.
The agreed report formats are attached to the Minutes of Negotiations. The Project Management Reports
will be generated using the existing Department of Development and Investments (DAI - Direction des
Amenagements et des Investissements) computers and software (in Excel spreadsheet formats). The PIU
will produce the PMRs for every calendar quarter throughout the life of the project. The first PMR will be
produced no later than twelve months after effectiveness.
Expenditure Controls and Disbursements. In MoT, as in all government organizations in Morocco, the
"ordonnateurs" (Ministers, agency directors, heads of departments) authorize and commit expenditures. In
the case of expenditures under the project, the MoT will delegate the powers of "ordonnateur" to PIU
Director.   Project expenditures will be subject to the three levels of intemal controls before any
disbursement can take place. The first level of controls will be executed at the Ministry of Tourism level
(MoT) by the PIU Director (Ordonnateur) and, in addition, by the MoT Accounting and Budget
Department. Consequently, the second and third level of control will be the responsibility of the Ministry
of Finance (MoF) and it will be carried out by (i) the budget performance controllers (Controleur des
Engagements des Depenses - CED) who give their approval in a form of sign off on the commitment
proposals, and (ii) the public accountants (Agent Comptable) who carry out the cashiers' function by
initiating payments which are carried out by the Treasury.
Audit Arrangements: Project records and accounts will be audited by an independent auditor, acceptable to
the Bank. Audited Project Financial Statements (PFS) to be submitted to the Bank will include: (i) a
statement of sources and utilization of funds, indicating funds received from various sources, project
expenditures, and assets and liabilities of the project. This would also include appropriate schedules
classifying project expenditures by components, expenditure categories, and implementing agencies; (ii) a
Special Account Reconciliation Statement; and (iii) a Statement of Withdrawals from the Bank Loan made
on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). The project-specific Terms of Reference (TORs) for
the auditor, will be transmitted by the Bank They will include both the obligation to audit financial
transactions, and the obligation to carry out an assessment of the operation of the financial management
system per se, including a review of internal control mechanisms. The audit will be carried out in
accordance with International Standards on Auditing and the Bank's guidelines reflected in the Financial,
- 51 -



Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH). The MoT would provide the auditor an access
to project-related documents and records, and any other information required for the purposes of the audit.
The annual audited Project financial statements would be submitted to the Bank within six (6) months of
the close of Government of Morocco's (GOM) fiscal year. The cost of audit will be covered by the GoM.
Risks Related to Implementing Proiect Financial Management. The main risk related to the financial
management aspects of the Project is that the proposed Sustainable Coastal Tourism Development Project
(LIL) is the first World Bank-financed project to be implemented by the Ministry of Tourism (MoT).
Consequently, the DAI of the Ministry of Tourism, the project executing agency, is not familiar with the
World Bank financial management, disbursement and procurement requirements and procedures. As a
result, there are possible delays in project implementation, including preparation of Project Management
Reports. The risk-mitigation factors are the up front actions including: (i) use of Excel spreadsheet models
format to generate the agreed Project Management Reports; (ii) training of PIU staff in the bank basic
disbursement, financial management. reporting and auditing procedures, including the preparation of the
agreed reports. This training will be provided as a part of the project supervision missions during the first
year of project implementation. Also, it is recommended that the risks should be subject to a rigorous
follow-up during the supervision missions.
Readiness for Implementation and Next Steps
After effectiveness, the following actions will have to be implemented:
Transmission by the Bank of the Project-specific Terms of Reference for the Project audit.
Training in the basic Bank disbursement, financial management, reporting and auditing' procedures for the
PIU staff during supervision missions (first year of implementation).
Generating the first Project Management Report (PMR) no later than twelve months after effectiveness.
- 52 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MOROCCO: Sustainable Coastal Tourism Development Project
Project Schedule                                   PJanned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)                                           01/20/99
Appraisal mission departure                                                   04/10/2000
Negotiations                                    05/30/2000                    05/31/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/01/2000
Prepared by:
JEAN-HUBERT MOULIGNAT AND EKATERINA MASSEY
Preparation assistance:
DOMINIQUE DIETRICH
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialit
JEAN-HUBERT MOULIGNAT             Economist, Team Leader
EKATERINA MASSEY                  Urban Planner
NICOLE GLINEUR                    Senior Environmental Specialist
MARIE-ANGE SARAKA-YAO             Project Finance Specialist
ANNA DANUTA STASZEWICZ            Financial Management Officer
DOUGLAS I. GRAHAM                 Financial Management Specialist
SONIA HAMMAM                      Sector Manager (Urban Development)
-53 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MOROCCO: Sustainable Coastal Tourism Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
See Annex 2
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide-memoire of the appraisal mission (April, 2000)
Financial Management Assessment (April, 2000)
C. Other
*  DAI Organization and staff
*  DAI Investment Budget for FY 2000 (July-December)
*  Five Year Plan (2000-2004): DAI provisionary budgets for FY 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004
*  Contrat-Programme 2000-2010: 10 years Tourism Sector Program agreed between the Ministry of
Tourism and the Private Sector
*  Decision of the Minister of Tourism creating a follow up Committee for the site of Khmis
Sahel/Larache
*  General Methodology and Description for
Indicative Development Plan Phase
Preparation of RFPs and Selection of Master Developer Groups
Concerted Development Phase (Master Developer/Government)
Implementation and Construction Phase (Master Developer)
*Including electronic files
- 54-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MOROCCO: Sustainable Coastal Tourism Development Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions           disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                      IBRD       IDA       Cancel.   Undisb,        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P042414        1998 Morocco                    COOF;IMON SOCIAL PRO                               28.00       0.00       0.00      16.61       4.49       000
P005525        1999 Morocco                    HEALTH MANAGEMENT                                  66.00       0.00       0.00      59.30      16 38       0.00
P005499        1994 Morocco                    IRR. AREAS AGR. SERV                               2500        000        9.90       5.93      1611        6.94
P006619        1999 Morocco                    LAKHDAR WATERSHED MG                                4.00       0.00       0.00       3.96       0.66       0.00
P005514        1993 Morocco                    LAND DEVELOPMENT                                  13000        0.00      34.00       16.31     62.31       9.00
P005524        1999 Morocco                    MA-FES/MEDINA REHAB.                               14.00       0.00      .o.00      1223        3.90       000
P058128        1999 Morocco                    MA-TELECOM, POST AND IT                           101.00       0.00       000       49.99       -051       a00
P005523        1998 Morocco                    MUNICIPAL FINANCE II                               70 00       0.00       0 00      30.66      28.97       0.00
P052247        1999 Morocco                    PILOT FISHERIES DEV                                 5.00       0 00       0.00       4.46       0.70       0.00
P038978        1997 Morocco                    PSD III-VOC TRG.                                   23.00       0.00       o.0o      1648       13.39       589
P043725        1997 Morocco                    RAILWAY RESTR & PRIV                               85.00       0 00       0.00      63.28      26.31       0 00
P040566        1998 Morocco                    RURALW.S&SANITATN                                  1000        0.00       0.00       7.13       5.72      -0.83
P005462        1993 Morocco                    SECOND LSI IMPROVEME                              215 00       0.00      70.56      34.64      76.17      24.37
P005489        1995 Morocco                    SECONDARY ROADS                                    57 60       0.00       0.00      29.19      33.91       0.75
P005503        1996 Morocco                    SEW,& WATER REUSE II                               4000        0.00       0.00      32.55      11.96       0.00
P005601        1996 Morocco                    SPI - EDUCATION                                    54.00       0 00       0.00      33.38       713        0 00
P042415        1996 Morocco                    SPI - HEALTH                                       68.00       0.00       0 00      30.25       -3 94      0.00
P005521       1998 Morocco                     WATER RESOURCE MGMT.                               20 00       0 00       0.00      17.38       4.06       0.00
P005435       1994 Morocco                     WATER SUPPLY V                                    160.00       0.00      70.98      24.95      61 87      -2.12
Total:     1175.60        000       18544       488.88    389.59      44.00
- 55 -



MOROCCO
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1995               Attijari                        0.00    0.48     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.48      0.00    0.00
1987/90            CIH                            13.07    0.00     0.00    0.00    13.07    0.00     0.00    0.00
1990               ENNASR                          0.94    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.94    0.00      0.00    0.00
1994/96            Mediafinance                    0.00    0.66     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.66      0.00    0.00
1999               Settavex                        4.49    9.00     0.00    0.00    4.49    9.00      0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        18.50   10.14    0.00      0.00    18.50   10.14    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000               Maghreb Fd(Mgt.)                  0.00      0.00      20.00      0.00
2000               Maghreb Fund                      0.00      0.00   5000.00       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00      0.00   5020.00       0.00
- 56 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MOROCCO: Sustainable Coastal Tourism Development Project
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             & North  mniddle-
Morocco      Africa   Income       Development diamond
1 998
Population, mid-year fmillions)                         27.8       285       908                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas tmethod, US$)                    1,250     2,050      1,710
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                        34.8       586      1,557
Average annual arowth. 1992-98
Population (%)                                           1,8       2.2       1.1
Labor force (%-                                          2.2       3.0       1,5       GNP                _              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                           ,     capita         . ,               primary
capita               ~~~~~enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)    13
Urbin Population (% of totalrpopulation)                 54         58        58
Life expectancv at birth (years)                         67         67        68
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)                 51         49        38
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               10         14                           Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                   57         81        75
Illiteracy (S6 of pooulation age 15+)                    54         38         14    -
Gross primarv enrollment (% of school-age population)    86         96        103        -     orocco
Male                                                   97        103       105               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 74         89       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENOS
1977     198?      '1997      1998
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                            11.0      18.7       33A4      3651
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                 34.2      21.1      20.7       22.6
Exports of.goods and serviceslGOP             16.9      23.6      27,6       27.3                      Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                    13.8      16.8       13.6      14.7
Gross national savingslGDP                    17.1      22A1      20.4       22.3
Current account balancelGOP                   -16.6      1,0       -0 3      -0,1
Interest Payments/GOP,                         1.8       3.6        31        2.8      DomescInvestment
Total detbVGDP                                48.3    110.2        67.8      55.8     Savings                       I
Total debt servicelexports                    14.5      295.       286.      23.4
Present value of debUGDP       -      -.                          51,3
Present value of debtlexports      -    - -148.6
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988498     1997       1998   199943
(average annual growth)                   .M-roc.
GOP                                   4,1      2.4,     -2.3        6.5                   -      orocco
GNP per capita                        1 5      0.6      -3 9        4.5        ,,                Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         4.5      6.5     . 6 3        3.6       7.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            20
Agriculture                                   16.4      15.4       15.4      16.6
Industry                                      32.6      32.9      33.0       32.0     15
Manufacturing                                16,6     18.2       17.7      17.1
Services                                      51.1      51.8       51.6      51.4
Private consumption                           65.6      67.5      68.7       67.2    -10
General aovernment consumption                20.6      15.7       17.8      18.2               -      GDI       a-GDP
Imports of goods and services                 37.3      27.8      34.7       35.2
(average annual growth)                    1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                    4.1      -0.7      -26.5      23.6    is
Industry                                       2.3       3.0        8.1       1.8    10
Manufacturing                                 4.1      3.1        3.3       2.4
Services                                       5.2       3.0        0.8       4.9 s
Private consumption                            2.9       2.5       -3.9       3.6
General government consumption                 5.3       1.3      -13.2       9.5                  94                97   98
Gross domestic investment                                1.5       10.6      19.1     -                        v
Imports of goods and services                 -0.4       5.2        1.6       8.2             -     Exports      eImports
Gross national product                         3.8       2.5       -2.2       6.4
.Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 57 -



Morocco
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997     1998
Domestic prices
(%/ change)
Consumer prices                              12.6     2.8        1.0      2.7
Implicit GDP deflator                       15.7      3.9        2.0      0.7      1 
Govemment finance                                                                  2
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                oi
Current revenue                             21.7    16.0        24.7     25.1             93   94   9s   96   97   99
Current budget balance                        3.1     0.3        2.6      3.1             -     GDP deflator    * C PI
Overall surplus/deficit                       2.7    -5.7       -3.6     -3.1
TRADE
1977    1987       1997      1998     Export and Import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                         1,314    3,068     7,039    7,185    12,000
Other agriculture                          429      858      1,374    1,362
Phosphorus                                 469      368        435      453      5,00D
Manufactures                               218      876      1,467    1,490
Total imports (cif)                        3,237    4,388      9,522   10,120
Food                                       432      476      1,065     1,167     300    l
Fuel and energy                            371      738      1,296      905
Capital goods                             1,104     881      1,661     2,213        0
92  93  94  95  96  97   9
Export price index (1995=100)                          71        84        87
Import price index (1995=100)                          76        89        97              U Exports     *lmports
Terms oftrade (1995=100)                               94        95        90
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
*             ~~~~~~~1977    1987  1997    1998
(US$ millions)                              1                                      Current account balance to GDP ratio (7.)
Exports of goods and services              1,839    4,420      9,510    9,964     0        i
Imports of goods and services              4,041    5,218    10,627    11,210
Resource balance                          -2,202     -799    -1,117   -1,247.      1
Net income                                  -192    -767    -1,175    -1,090    -2
Net current transfers                        560    1,759      2,205    2,304
Current account balance                    -1,834     194        -87      -32
Financing items (net)                      1,832       94       640       268
Changes in net reserves                        2     -288       -553     -236      4.
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (US$ millions)        531      427      4,620    4,951
Conversion rate (DEC, locaUlUS$)              4.5      8.4       9.5      9.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997     1998
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       5,335   20,651    19,321    19,609
IBRD                                       340    2,558      3,271    3,388                       G 336   A
IDA                                         38       41        31        29
Total debt service                           357    1,779      3,081    2,841
IBRD                                        41      345       532       505        F s ,2118                  B: 29
IDA                                                             2 
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                 D: 3,056
Official grants                             60       77       269       225
Official creditors                         648      481       -753     -284
Private creditors                        1,144      294      -141      -181
Foreign direct investment                   57       60      1,200      800
Portfolio equity                             0        0       243       174                   E: 7,582
Wortd Bank program
Commitments                                168      802       155       130      B-IDA     D-Othermultilateral   F-Private
Disbursements                               71      405       141       291     C - IMF                      G -  - Short-tem|
Principal repayments                        17      164       295       299
Netflows                                    54      240      -154        -8
Interest payments                           24      182       238       207
Net transfers                               31       58      -392      -214
Development Economics                                                                                                9/9/99
- 58 -



MAP SECTION






MOROCCO                                                         Aii Mediterranen -Sea
SUSTAINABLE COASTALS TOURISM                                                                                                              or
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                          ToOran
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT
DURABLE:W TOURISME BALNEAIRE
52T ~ ~ ~ ~   ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       T
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IAC PA LAA&i0                                                                  RANQI
'~~~~A T I A --hN TA'C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~A   THR
T-ta                                                                          AL; XechV 5t To ESenifra
91 >    Chichoozut   )   g  S)<                                         .J(n &~~~~~u 
Plage                                                                                                                RIVERS~~~~~~~ a
Blanche                                                       This mop ss'os~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-r prou idi byo BeniLEunif
D     IJ                                                                o              0         I   CA
[~~~~~e                                 adnotsrifraonsa,nn                           NAINLAPToBca r
. . - TheWorld Book Gr, ay N                                                                                                  NEnW COASTAL TOU RISM SITES:
:            .                                                    KI.OMETER                on the legaldannt  status of anyterritorONOUVEAUX SITES DE OURSME BANEAIRE
t                                    t                                           t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NDICATlVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN
. aI                                                                                     any edorsement or      FfNANCED BY THE BANK
.   . Sidi If;14<4                                              r<>t                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FJNANICE PAR LA BANQUE
TizWi Tto                                                                                                         v AUTRES
-Sidi solJJ1¢ n                                                             -*t   PORTS
/  sJ (  '            t                                                               +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AIRPORTS
-lage   /                                                                              This maop was prodluced by the            FLtEURVES
B lanculmme/                                                                       Map Design Unitof The worldl Bank./    PROVtNCE CAPITALS
The boundaries, colors, denominations        CHEFStlIEUX
/R  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~   /    ~ ~~~~~~~~~    o~~~~nd onyother information shown on                           6S NATIONAL CAPITAL
Ton-         ,                                              o       so                        t o ]s  his map do not imply on the part of  CAPITALE NA17ONAtE
Ao Tarfaya ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ j X~~~~ILOMETERS                                                                                    IN -T= -3__ ERNTONL BOUNDA rIE
ZT Tn                                                                                                   such boundories. -a-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (APPROXIMATE)  28 L
CZmd                                                                                                                                                  FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES JAPPROXIMATIF)    O
10
12'                                    I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                          4'                                                 Ca~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



