Report No. PID9175
Project Name                     East Timor-Agriculture Rehabilitation (+)
Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Other Agriculture
Project ID                       TPPE70533
Borrower(s)                      PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT OF EAST TIMOR
Implementing Agency
Address UN TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION
FOR EAST TIMOR (UNTAET)
Department of Agriculture, Dili, East Timor
Contact Person: Mr. Serge Verniau, Director,
Department of Agriculture
Tel: (61 4) 18903701
Fax: (61 8) 89422203 ext. 5361
Email: UNTAETAGRI@Yahoo.com
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                May 26, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         May 15, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 15, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
East Timor faces the need for extensive rebuilding, while at the same
time establishing its political, economic and social structures. In the
violence that followed the referendum it is estimated that over 75t of the
population of 850,000 was displaced, and approximately 100,000 are still
refugees in West Timor.   Almost 70t of physical infrastructure was
destroyed. The agricultural sector was not exempt from the violence.
Livestock for meat and traction were destroyed or driven to West Timor,
farm and food-processing machinery was destroyed, and food stocks and
seeds were looted. Farmers' houses were burned and their tools
destroyed. Few facilities remain, and most staff of the former Ministry
of Agriculture and of the food agency (BULOG) have left the territory. In
addition, rural infrastructure had been allowed to deteriorate and a
centralized planning approach to agriculture had been imposed on farmers.
Prior to the 1999 referendum, agriculture and its support activities
(agro-processing and agricultural input industries) employed more than 85
percent of the population, contributed 40 percent of GDP, and accounted
for 90 percent of foreign exchange. Per capita income is now estimated to
be $210 - 40 to 50 percent below its 1996 level. The World Bank-led Joint
Assessment Mission's (JAM) in November 1999, reviewed priorities for the
transitional period. It recommended a "community empowerment and
governance program" and identified several priority areas for the
reconstruction of agriculture. These include, inter alia, support to: (i)
vulnerable groups, including the victims of violence and those who have
lost their productive assets; (ii) the restoration of basic agriculture
infrastructure, including irrigation systems and access roads; (iii) the
restoration of livestock; and (iv) small-holder coffee development
initiatives, including the provision of agricultural services. It is



against this background that the proposed agricultural rehabilitation and
development program was designed. It supports the main objectives of the
Trust Fund for East Timor: to start rehabilitation and reconstruction of
the major productive sector; and return agriculture to being the engine of
growth for the East Timorese economy.
2. Objectives
The proposed Agriculture Rehabilitation and Development Project (ARDP) is
an emergency recovery project, which aims at achieving the following two
objectives: (i) improving food security of selected poor households; and
(ii) increasing agricultural production in selected project areas and
promoting rural growth. Progress towards the achievement of objectives,
outcomes and impacts would be measured through a set of key indicators
which will be monitored on a semi-annual basis. The following are the key
project outcome indicators: (i) nutrition of project beneficiaries would
be improved with increased availability of eggs, poultry, and rice at the
household level; (ii) off-farm employment opportunities increase in the
project areas; (iii) area under irrigation and access to main roads
improve in project areas; and (iv) yields of rice and maize increase by
about 10 percent at full development. The key project output indicators
are: (i) cattle, buffalo, small ruminants mortality rates decline by 50
percent; (ii) length of access roads rehabilitated by communities is at
least 100 km; (iii) irrigation schemes covering a total area of at least
7000 ha are maintained and rehabilitated; (iv) eight Pilot Agriculture
Services Centers established; (v) five community radio stations
established; (vi) a minimum of twenty research, extension, PASC staff
trained in country and/or abroad.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is managing its trust funds which are available for the
reconstruction and development of East Timor. In addition, the Bank can
bring to bear its experiences in other post-conflict construction, while
assisting UNTAET and the East Timorese counterparts in designing the
post-conflict rehabilitation program.
4. Description
The project would finance the four major components described below:1.
Priority Productive Asset Restoration. The project would finance the
provision of hand tools, chickens, buffalo, and Bali cattle to benefit
26,000 poor rural households; and a national livestock vaccination
campaign.2. Irrigation and Rural Infrastructure Rehabilitation and
Maintenance. The project would finance pre-feasibility design and
hydrological studies; reconstruction, rehabilitation and maintenance of
irrigation schemes (about 7000 ha); and community maintenance of
agricultural access roads (about 100 kms).     3. Pilot Agricultural
Service Centers. The project would finance the establishment of eight
centers to supply farm inputs and services; training of extension and
center staff; establishment of community radio stations; and land
mapping.4. The Project Management Unit. To be established within the
Department of Agriculture and Rural Development, to implement the project.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost $ 20.7 million
-2-



Total project cost is presently estimated at about US$ 21.4 million of
which TFET (Trust Fund for East Timor) would finance about US$20.7 million
(96.6 percent). Because the Trust Fund for East Timor does not have all
of the necessary project funding at this stage, project financing would be
divided in two grant tranches. The first will finance priority activities
to be carried out during the initial 12 month of the project. The second
grant tranche would finance the remaining project activities whose
implementation may have started during the first tranche , but would need
to continue until the project closing date of December 31, 2002. The
implementation of the second tranche could start before the end of the
first grant tranche as soon as funding from the Trust Fund becomes
available.
Component
Indicative Costs (US$M)                                % of Total
1.    Priority Productive Asset Restoration
3.0                                                              14.0
2.    Irrigation System Rehabilitation
8.6                                                              40.3
3.    Pilot Agricultural Service Centers
8.5                                                               39.6
4.    Project
Management
1.3                                                               6.1
TOTAL
21.4                                                            100.0
6. Implementation
The United Nations Transitional Administration for East Timor (UNTAET) is
managing the administration and reconstruction of East Timor. It will
oversee the country's reconstruction, develop Timorese administrative and
technical capacities, and prepare to hand over functions to an East
Timorese administration. Funding for UNTAET is from a trust fund which
supports administrative costs; a short-term humanitarian pledge; and a
medium term development trust fund (Trust Fund for East Timor, TFET) that
is managed by the IDA. To facilitate the implementation of project
activities, the ARP would finance the establishment of a Project
Management Unit (PMU). The PMU would be an integral part of UNTAET's
Interim Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (IDARD).
7. Sustainability
Under the priority first tranche, productive activities will be sustained
with the help of investments in a vaccination program. Sufficient
training and technical assistance have been provided under the project to
improve veterinary staff capacity and sustain their work after the life of
the project. Only minor and medium maintenance and rehabilitation have
been planned under the project. It is expected that the farmers in the
project schemes will take over subsequent annual maintenance of secondary
and tertiary irrigation canals. Establishing PASCs will provide urgently
needed inputs and services to the rural communities. To ensure good
management and profitability of PASCs, safeguards have been included:
technical assistance, training, organizational structure, annual audits,
-3 -



etc. However, it can be expected that some of these PASCs will fail. All
of the above investments will generate rural incomes which will eventually
produce tax revenue.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
A number of lessons learned from other countries with similar
post-conflict situations have been reflected in the project design. These
include:n Using of broad participation of donors, NGOs and civil society,
as well as beneficiaries, in the design of the project.n Making the best
use of donor financing by directing it towards sustainable capital
investments that benefit a large segment of the rural population.n
Limiting government's role to the creation and implementation of a policy
framework that rewards hard work and innovation and offers employment
opportunities for rural people through market-driven growth.n Government
development programs should be participatory in design, transparent with
high community participation and a focus on poverty alleviation.n
Supporting the building of farm organizations, such as cooperative,
limited liability companies, partnerships and NGOs to foster community
self-reliance and help implement government programs.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)
The project has prioritized the poorest rural inhabitants to
receive replacement of lost productive assets. This will be carried out
with full community participation and empowerment. The project impact
would be on improving agricultural productivity and farm incomes. This
will also contribute to the alleviation of poverty and the nutrition of
the poor who are concentrated in rural areas. Subsequently, the farmers
will have better access to agricultural inputs and services to maximize
their productive resources.
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         There are no significant negative environmental
impacts associated with the project.  Accordingly, the project is
categorized as B. As noted above, the design and implementation plan
requires measures be taken to avoid adverse environmental impacts.
Measures such as not lengthening or widening roads, controlling pesticide
use, and requiring irrigation rehabilitation feasibility studies to
evaluate environmental aspects, are built into the project.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Mohamed N. Ben Ali
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-7357
Fax: 202-477-2733
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
-4-



Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 9, 2000.
- 5 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.
-6-



