Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 2043 9-TP
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$6.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT
AND A SECOND GRANT OF US$11.4 MILLION
TO
EAST TIMOR
FOR AN
AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
June 14, 2000
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
Papua New Guinea/Pacific Islands C6untry Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



Page 2
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 5, 2000)
Currency Unit = US Dollar
LC = US$ 1
US$ I = LC
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARP                   Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
ADO                   Agriculture District Officer
AusAid                Australian Agency for International Development
BNU                   Banco Nacional Ultramarino
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
FAO                   Food and Agriculture Organization (of the United Nations)
GPA                   Governance and Public Administration
IDA                   International Development Association
IDARD                 UNTAET's future Interim Department of Agriculture
and Rural Development
JAM                   Joint Assessment Mission
NGO                   Non -Government Organization
PASC                  Pilot Agriculture Services Center
PMU                   Project Management Unit
SEP                   Small Enterprises Project (TFET funded)
TFET                  Trust Fund for East Timor
UNTAET                United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor
Vice President: Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director: Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager/Director: Geoffrey B. Fox
Team Leader: Mohamed Noureddine Benali



Page 3
East Timor
Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
CONTENTS
A  Project Development Objective ..................................................................6
1. Project development objective ..................................................................6
2. Key performance indicators ..................................................................6
B Strategic Context ..................................................................6
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ........6
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .................................................................7
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .................................8
C  Project Description Summary ..................................................................9
1. Project components ..................................................................9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .................................... 11
3. Benefits and target population .................................................................                         11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ...........................................................I 11
D Project Rationale .................................................................                                                   14
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................. 14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ....... 15
3. Lessons learned and reflected  in the project design ...................................................... 16
4. Indications of Recipient commitment and ownership ...........................                         ....................... 16
5. Value added of IDA  support in this project ................................................................. 16
E  Summary Project Analysis .................................................................                                           16
1. Economic .................................................................                                               16
2. Financial ................................................................. 17
3. Technical .................................................................                                              17
4. Institutional ................................................................. 18
5. Social ................................................................. 18
6. Environmental assessment .................................................................                               18
7. Participatory approach ................................................................. 19
F Sustainability and Risks .................................................................                                            20
1. Sustainability ................................................................. 20
2. Critical Risks .................................................................                                         21
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .................................................................                         21
G  Main Grants Conditions .................................................................                                             22
1. Negotiations Conditions ................................................................. 22
2. Effectiveness Conditions ................................................................. 22
3. Other ................................................................. 22



Page 4
H Readiness for Implementation ........................                          24
I Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                         24
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary
Annex 2.  Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.   Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.  Financial Summary
Table A    Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities
Annex 6.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al   Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C    Allocation of Grants Proceeds
Annex 7.  Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.  Documents in Project File
Annex 9.   Statement of Grants
Annex 10. Country at a Glance
Annex 11. Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Strategy
Annex 12. Environmental Assessment
Annex 13. Project Performance/Impact Indicators
Annex 14. Financial Management Action Plan
MAP IBRD 30626
Additional annexes, where applicable: Letter of Sector Policy, Eligibility Criteria for Beneficiaries and
Subprojects, and summaries of the Environmental Assessment, Social and Environmental Analyses,
Indigenous Peoples' Plan, Resettlement Plan, etc.



Page 5
East Timor
Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Papua New Guinea/Pacific Islands Country Unit
Date: June 14, 2000                                     Team Leader: Mohamed Noureddine Benali
Country Manager/Director: Klaus Rohland                 Sector Manager/Director: Geoffrey B. Fox
Project ID: SF-P070533                                  Sector: AC, AE, Al, AG
Lending Instrument:                                     Theme(s): Poverty Alleviation, Crop Prod., Cap. Building
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [ X] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data
[x ] Grant                          [] Other [Specify]
For Grant:
Amount (US$m): US$6.81 million for the first Grant2 and 11.4 for a second grant.
Proposed terms:    [       ] To be defined       [     ] Multicurrency    [X] Single currency
Government (UNTAET)                                                 0.1 I1tgrant   0.62nd grant         0.7
IDA-Managed Trust Fund For East                                     6.8 Is' grant  11.4 2  grant       18.2
Timor
Total:                                                              6.9 1 t grant  12.0 2ndgrant       18.9
Responsible agency: UNTAET Department of Agriculture
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
Annual         6.8           5.5          6.6
Cumulative           6.8          12.3         18.9
Project implementation period: 12 months 1st grant & 30 months for the whole project
Expected effectiveness date:  June 30, 2000              Expected closing date: June 30, 2002
Implementing agency: GPA/UNTAET Department of Agriculture
Contact person: Mr. Serge Verniau, Director, Department of Agriculture
Address: UNTAET/GPA Building Dili, East Timor
Tel: (61 4)18903701; (61 8) 89422203     Fax: (61 8) 89422203 ext.5361    E-mail: untaetagrii3yahoo.com
'A US$2.5 million line of credit dedicated to the agriculture sector will be included in the next grant of the Small
Enterprise Project (SEP) on the basis of a supplementary Grant Agreement to be disbursed through the BNU.
2 Because the Trust Fund for East Timor does not have all of the necessary project funding at this stage, Project
financing would be divided into two grants. The first will finance priority activities to be carried out during the
initial 12 months of the Project. The second grant would finance the remaining Project activities whose
implementation may have started during the first grant, but would need to continue until the Project closing date of
December 31, 2002. The implementation of the activities under the second grant could start before the end of the
first grant as soon as funding from the Trust Fund becomes available.



Page 6
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed Agriculture Rehabilitation Project (ARP) is an emergency recovery project, which aims
at achieving the following two objectives:
(i)  improving food security of selected poor households; and
(ii)  increasing agricultural production in selected Project areas and promoting rural growth.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The following indicators will be monitored by the Project Management Unit (PMU). These indicators
will be used to follow up on Project implementation progress and to evaluate the achievement of its
development objectives and eventually its impact.
Key project outcome indicators:
(i)   Nutrition of Project beneficiaries improved (1St grant): Increased availability of eggs, poultry, and rice
at the household level.
(ii)  Off-farm employment opportunities increase in the Project areas (Ist grant and whole Project).
(iii)  Area under irrigation and access to main roads improve in Project (whole Project).
(iv)  Yields of rice and maize increase by about 10 percent at full development.
Key project output indicators:
(i)   Cattle, buffalo, small ruminants mortality rates decline by 50 percent. (I st grant)
(ii)  Length of access roads rehabilitated by communities is at least 100 km (I5' grant and whole Project).
(iii)  Irrigation schemes covering a total area of at least 7000 ha are maintained and rehabilitated (whole
Project).
(iv)  Eight Pilot Agriculture Services Centers established (Ist grant = 5 and whole Project = 8).
(v)  Five community radio stations established (15' grant = 2 and whole Project = 5).
(vi)  A minimum of twenty research, extension, PASC staff trained in country and/or abroad (1s' grant = 15
and whole Project = 20).
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: Not Available (NA)              Date of latest CAS discussion: NA
No CAS has yet been prepared for East Timor. However, the IDA-led Joint Assessment Mission
(JAM), in November 1999, identified short-term reconstruction priorities and their costs. The JAM used a
comprehensive development framework approach covering eight sectors, including agriculture, and
incorporated intemational technical expertise from five donor countries, four UN agencies, and three
multilateral institutions.
One of the poorest regions in Indonesia before the disruption, East Timor now faces the need for
extensive rebuilding, while at the same time establishing its political, economic and social structures. In the
violence that followed the referendum it is estimated that over 75% of the population of 850,000 was
displaced, and approximately 100,000 are still refugees in West Timor.  Almost 70%  of physical
infrastructure was destroyed. Even before the disturbances the territory lagged behind the rest of Indonesia in
most social indicators, and 30% of the population lived below the poverty line - twice the national average.
Per capita income is now estimated to be $210 - 40 to 50 percent below its 1996 level.
The United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET) is managing the
administration and reconstruction of East Timor.  UNTAET was established by the Security Council
Resolution 1272 (S/RES/1272) on October 25, 1999. UNTAET will oversee the country's reconstruction,
develop Timorese administrative and technical capacities, and prepare to hand over functions to an East



Page 7
Timorese administration. Funding for UNTAET is from a trust fund which supports administrative costs; a
short-term humanitarian pledge; and a medium term development trust fund (Trust Fund for East Timor,
TFET) that is managed by the IDA. Significant additional resources are provided through bilaterals and
NGOs.
The agricultural sector was not exempt from the violence. It was, in fact, brought to a halt by the
events following the referendum. Livestock for meat and traction were destroyed or driven to West Timor,
farm and food-processing machinery was destroyed, and food stocks and seeds were looted. Farmers' houses
were burned and their tools destroyed. Few facilities remain, and most staff of the Ministry of Agriculture
and of the food agency (BULOG) have left the territory. In addition, rural infrastructure had been allowed to
deteriorate and a centralized planning approach to agriculture had been imposed on farmers.
Prior to the 1999 referendum, agriculture and its support activities (agro-processing and agricultural
input industries) employed more than 85 percent of the population, contributed 40 percent of GDP, and
accounted for 90 percent of foreign exchange. Coffee, some sandlewood and (formerly) some live cattle were
exported. Agriculture's key position in the economy has created an imperative for rapidly rebuilding
agricultural capacity for both food security and income-generating reasons.
The JAM found that virtually the entire pre-independence governance structure had disappeared.
While this leaves a large void, it also presents an opportunity for reform since the civil service was
overstaffed and underpaid under Indonesia. Policy recommendations for the transitional period are that the
aggregate numbers for the civil service should not exceed 12,200 in the first three years, of which
approximately 90% will be teachers and health workers. The JAM review of priorities for the transitional
period recommended a "community empowerment and governance program" and identified several priority
areas for the reconstruction of agriculture. These include, inter alia, support: (i) to vulnerable groups,
including the victims of violence and those who have lost their productive assets; (ii) to the restoration of
basic agriculture infrastructure; including irrigation systems and access roads; (iii) to thie restoration of
livestock; and (iv) to small-holder coffee development initiatives, including the provision of agricultural
services.
It is against this background that the proposed agricultural rehabilitation and development program was
designed. It supports the main objectives of the Trust Fund for East Timor: to start rehabilitation and
reconstruction of the major productive sector; and return agriculture to the engine of growth for the East
Timorese economy.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
East Timor faces many challenges as it develops its agricultural sector. But it has one great advantage:
it is starting life with a clean slate. It can design the framework for agriculture from the ground up. East
Timor is drawing from the successes and failures of other countries to put together a policy environment
based on appropriate best-practices from around the world. In formulating an agricultural strategy for East
Timor, the government was strongly influenced by certain characteristics of the country and of the post-
conflict situation:
*  One of the key issues of the rural sector is poverty. East Timor as a whole was already the poorest part of
Indonesia prior to independence. East Timor and particularly its rural population fell behind Indonesia in
most poverty aspects, including malnutrition.
*  East Timor will have very limited public resources to spend on agriculture. Estimates of tax revenue
when reconstruction is completed are around US$30 million. The priorities of schooling and health will
require at least half of this, leaving very little for other sectors, including agriculture.
*   East Timor is presently receiving substantial amounts of foreign assistance to reconstruct its economy.
These foreign grants should be seen as a one-time event and should be used for capital investment to put
in place the framework and infrastructure for a thriving agriculture. Foreign aid is likely to diminish
drastically at the conclusion of the transition period and judging by the present lack of interest of many
bilaterals in agriculture, the sector will not be able to rely on significant foreign aid.



Page 8
Agriculture will continue to be the principle economic activity in East Timor and will be the chief engine
of growth for the economy;
Given these pre-conditions, the Government formulated a strategy that would lead toagriculture being the
engine of growth for the economy where fanners can freely choose how to market their crops and animal
products; where the population need not fear food shortages created by civil strife and poor policies; and
where government is the 'enabler' or 'facilitator' of rural development rather than the 'provider' of
agricultural services. The strategy incorporates the following policy and strategic features:
(i)    Ensure that the short-term reconstruction and development activities recommended in the Joint
Assessment Mission report3 and complemented by this mission are completed.
(ii)    Agriculture, including agricultural inputs and value-added processing and marketing, will be private
sector driven, i.e. farmers and farmer groups.
(iii)   Government's role will be to create and implement a policy framework that rewards hard work and
innovation, and that offers employment opportunities for rural people through market-driven growth.
(iv)   Govemment development programs will be participatory in design, selection, and implementation,
community owned and will focus on poverty alleviation.
(v)    Agricultural education and institutional capacity are starting from a very low base and will be given
high priority in government expenditure.
(vi)   Support the building of farm  organizations such as cooperatives, limited liability companies,
partnerships, associations, and NGOs. The objective is to foster community self-reliance and develop
organizations capable of implementing government programs.
(vii) Much of East Timor's farmland is fragile and steep, ensuring the conservation of land and other
resources, as well as promoting sustainable fanning systems are a priority environmental goal.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
a.   Undertaking Priority Reconstruction Activities: Component one of the Project, Productive Asset
Restoration, will help improve the food security of poor rural households that have been the victims of
violence. This component will help them at least partially restore their most immediate family assets by
providing them with capital grants in the form of four to six-week old chicks, buffalo, cattle, and hand tools,
as well as information to enable them to benefit from the assistance of the ARP and other projects.
b.   Encouraging Community-Based Activities: The ARP will undertake community-based extension and
access road rehabilitation. Activities would include repairing and maintaining a minimum of 100 km of
feeder/access roads through labor-intensive community participation, using hand tools and support to
community radio extension by financing procurement of short range transmission equipment and radios for
the purpose of providing rural dwellers with information and technical advice.
c.   Providing Food Security: Component 2 of the grant seeks to rehabilitate irrigation schemes requiring
light to medium work. To qualify for rehabilitation the irrigation schemes must: have an economic rate of
return of 10 percent; benefit the largest number of people; have no negative environmental impact; and be
ones where users are willing to manage the operation and maintenance of the scheme. Rehabilitating the
irrigation schemes will increase rice production by approximately 10 percent, and will ensure improved
production during an El Nino.
d.   Strengthening the Private Sector: Up to eight Pilot Agriculture Services Centers (PASCs) will be
established. These will be community-owned and operated businesses which would provide agricultural
services and supplies, on a demand-driven, full-fee basis to farmers. Services offered might include tractor
rental, seeds, agro-chemicals (according to Bank guidelines), veterinary services and supplies, hand tools, and
other farm inputs not now provided by the private sector. To avoid political capture, thePASCs would have a
3"East Timor: Building a Nation, A Framework for Reconstruction and Development". Agricultural Background
Paper, November, 1999.



Page 9
board of directors, drawn from farmers, civil society, businessmen, women's organizations, financial
institutions, local NGiOs/cooperatives, and a government representative as an observer.
e.   Furthering Agricultural Education and Institution Building: Component 3 will also provide for
short and long-term training of East Timorese extension and research staff, a researcher exchange program,
and twinning arrangements with overseas teaching and research institutions.
In addition to the sectoral issues addressed specifically by the Project components, the design of all
components has been consistent with the government's strategy of allowing maximum responsibility of the
private sector and minimal intervention by government. Communities are important organizational and
implementing entities, and bottom-up, participatory processes are employed. The components are designed to
undertake first the most important activities limiting agricultural growth; and are designed to give agriculture
a significant capital injection to jump start agricultural development in the belief that the generosity of donors
will not be repeated nor be matched by future public investment in the sector.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown).
Because the Trust Fund for East Timor does not have all of the necessary Project funding at this stage,
Project financing will be divided in two grant s. The first will finance priority activities to be carried out
during the initial 12 months of the Project. The second grant will finance the remaining Project activities
whose implementation may have started during the first grant, but would need to continue until the Project
closing date of June 30, 2002. The implementation of the second grant could start before the end of the first
grant, as soon as funding from the Trust Fund becomes available.
Annex 2 provides the description of both the activities that will be financed under the first grant of the Trust
Fund Grant and the activities of the Project as a whole. The matrix below provides a summarydescription of
the whole Project.
A US$2.5 million line of credit originally designed into this Project will instead be financed under the
next grant of the on-going Small Enterprise Project (SEP). This line of credit will be dedicated to the
agriculture sector and will be disbursed through the Banco Nacional Ultramarino (BNU) along the same
arrangement currently in place for the SEP. The next grant of the SEP is expected to be financed in about two
to three months.



Page 1 0
component the Project would finance: (i) national vaccination c l
campaigns to immunize livestock against infectious diseases   Socila
and emergency clinical services;                          Assist.
(ii) the provision of 5 four to six-week old chicks and chicken
feed to about 20,000 poor rural families;
(iii) the procurement of up to 1,000 head of buffalo and 1000
head of Bali cattle to replace animals lost during the violence;
(iv) the replacement of simple hand tools needed by poor rural
people to undertake farming, household and communal work;
and
(v) information campaigns for the purpose of infonming farmers
of the services provided by the ARP and other development
projects.
2. IrrigationlRural Infrastructure Rehabilitation and    Al                   8.6       45.5           8.4      46.2
Maintenance: Under this component the ARP would finance:   I.ig   &
(i) pre-feasibility design, hydrological and engineering studies;
(ii) reconstruction, rehabilitation and maintenance of irrigation    Drain.
schemes covering up to 7,000 ha; and (iii) the rehabilitation and
maintenance through community participation of a minimum
of 100 km of agricultural access roads .
3. Pilot Agriculture Services Centers: The ARP would  AC, AE                  6.0        31.7          5.8      31.9
finance:                                                 AG,AR
(i) the establishment of up to eight commercially operating
Pilot Agriculture Services Centers (PASC) for the purpose of    Grant
providing  farming   communities   with  demand-driven   Extens.
agricultural services;                                   Agency
(ii) short and long-term training of East Timorese research,   reform
extension and PASC staff;
(iii) Design  of an  agriculture  research  laboratory  and  Research
experiment stations for the Faculty of Agriculture of the
University of East Timor; and
(iv) establishment of Community Radio Extension/Stations and
the procurement of radios for the purpose of providing isolated
rural communities and farmers with information and technical
advice;
(v) land/soil mapping and aptitude studies, as well as the
establishment of a documentation center within IDARD.
MY                   1.3         6.9          1.1        6.0
4.The Project Management Unit: To facilitate the
implementation of Project activities, the ARP would finance,  Multi
over the two-and-half-year life of the Project, the recruitment of   sector
East Timorese and expatriate (experienced UN volunteers)
consultants, technical assistance, training for East Timorese
staff, as well as equipment, vehicles and operating costs to
build, within UNTAET's Department of Agriculture and Rural
Development, the necessary capacity to implement the Project.
Total              18.9        100           18.2    100
Total Financing Required                                                                              18.2



Page I 1
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
*  Support to community empowerment through the provision of support for the establishment of the
PASCs.
*  Reduce fiscal impact of Project activities by minimizing the impact of public sector staffing, transferring
the operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes to users.
*  Encouraging private sector initiatives by improving production and other infrastructure.
*  Support agricultural education and institutional capacity.
*  Support the building of farm organizations such as cooperatives, limited liability companies, partnerships,
associations, and NGOs to foster community self-reliance.
*  Encourage environment-friendly development by contributing to the introduction of integrated pest
management, encouraging organic coffee farming and improving the use and management of water
resources.
3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits that will accrue as a result of the Project include:
*  Increased food production and security at the household level as more eggs, poultry meat and rice, as well
as garden vegetables.
*  Increased rice production (8,000 incremental tons per year at full development) as a result of improved
rice yields caused by improved irrigation conveyance systems and on-farm water management.
*  Improved marketing of agriculture products as a result of the improved maintenance of agricultural access
roads.
*  Strengthened agriculture productivity in both the rain-fed and irrigated areas as a result of greater
availability of agriculture services and farm inputs provided by the Pilot Agriculture Services Centers to
be established under the Project.
The Project will use community village, sub-district and district-level councils that will be created under
the IDA-financed Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project, as well as civil society (e.g.
churches), informal groups and village elders to target the benefits of the productive asset restoration
component of the Project towards the poor. Community participation will be sought by the PMU and other
project-executing agencies for the purpose of defining eligible poor households who will benefit from the
chicks and hand tools to be given free by the Project. The rehabilitation of irrigation schemes will be
undertaken on the basis of a number of agreed criteria (ref. sub-section 4 below). The proposed PASCs will
cater to farmers who require extension services, farm inputs and services. The PASCs will not target the poor
but the general population of farmers.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
To facilitate the implementation of Project activities, the ARP would finance the establishment of a
Project Management Unit (PMU). The PMU would be an integral part of UNTAET's Interim Department of
Agriculture and Rural Development (IDARD). During the first year of the Project, the PMU would be
headed by the director of IDARD and his deputy would be East Timorese. During the initial year of the
Project, the deputy PMU Director would be trained and mentored by the head of the IDARD/PMU. In the
second year, the deputy PMU director would take over the function of PMU director and the previous director
would become his advisor. Leadership of the IDARD would remain with the UNTAET designated director.
Under the ARP, East Timorese staff would be recruited to undertake the following functions: Project financial
management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, irrigation engineering, etc. Expatriate technical
assistants would also be recruited under the Project to train and mentor their Timorese counterparts. The
objective of the creation of the PMU and the recruitment of expatriate staff is to build Project management
capacity within the IDARD and enable it to sustain its Project planning, management and monitoring
capacity.



Page 12
The PMU would be responsible for: (i) preparing, advertising, evaluating tenders and awarding
contracts for the procurement of civil works, goods and services for the various activities of the Project; (ii)
obtaining relevant clearances, including customs and transporting the equipment to the Project sites; (iii)
managing the Project's special account and preparing withdrawal/replenishment applications; (iv) making
payments and keeping Project accounts; (v) having Project account audited annually and submitting audit
reports regularly to IDA; (vi) implementing, following up, supervising, monitoring and evaluating the
implementation of all Project activities including those that have been contracted out or are being
implemented through the Pilot Agriculture Services Centers (PASC) or District Agriculture Offices; and (vii)
consolidating and submitting to IDA Project progress, mid-term review and implementation completion
reports as well as following up and consolidating reports on monitoring and evaluating of Project actions.
The PMU staff which are also staff of IDARD would be based in Dili and undertake other IDARD activities..
It is anticipated that implementation of the priority productive asset restoration component (component
No. 1) would be completed within the first six to twelve months of the life of the ARP. Implementation of the
activities of this component would be undertaken by the PMU with technical assistance from a consulting
firm to be identified and selected by UTNTAET. For the distribution of the chicks, buffalo, Bali cattle, and
hand tool sets the PMU and associated NGOs would give first priority to the poor among the population of
farmers and/or rural people who have lost animals during the period of strife. The PMU andNGOs would
work with community councils and village elders to define the poor who will benefit from the Project.
Implementation of the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes under the second component of the Project
would be undertaken in accordance with the following criteria:
(i)    the rehabilitation of the scheme has an economic rate of return of at least 10 percent;
(ii)    rehabilitation would benefit the greatest number of poor beneficiaries;
(iii)   the rehabilitation would have no negative impacts on the environment;
(iv)    the schemes with the highest beneficiary participation; and
(v)     schemes with users that are willing to take over responsibility for the operation and
maintenance of the irrigation system (with the exception of large works) and hence, schemes
that have the least fiscal impact on government budget.
It is anticipated that a consultant firm chosen from a short list of consultant firms would be asked to
submit a proposal for pre-feasibility studies to prioritize viable irrigation, detailed designs and preparation of
LIB tender documents. Because of the emergency nature of the rehabilitation, consulting firms may be
contracted directly. Capacity building and training of East Timorese staff in O&M, irrigation systems
planning, design of irrigation systems, as well as the cost of delayed maintenance on several schemes has
been included in the cost of this component. Contracting for construction/rehabilitation of irrigation schemes
will be done by the PMU using LIB tendering procedures. In view of the relatively small size of individual
schemes and the unavailability of contractors in East Timor, the PMU will group all the schemes selected for
rehabilitation into two or three contracts in order to attract contractors from abroad.
Implementation of the delayed maintenance of irrigation schemes and the rehabilitation of agriculture
access roads will be undertaken by communities through the same guidelines established by the recently-
approved, IDA-financed Community Empowerment Project. These guidelines can be summarized as follows.
The PMU's rural engineer (whose cost in included in the Project) would consult and enlist the active
participation of village, sub-district and district councils, as well as civil society (e.g. churches) in defining the
access roads and irrigation schemes that need repair and/or maintenance. He will use the same process to
obtain the nomination of the villagers (priority given to the poor, as defined by the councils) who will be
recruited by the PMU as temporary laborers to repair and maintain the roads and irrigation canals. ThePMU's
rural engineer consultant will set the technical guidelines for the maintenance work and help organize work
crews from the laborers chosen by the community councils. The engineer will designate crew chiefswho will
supervise the work and record work progress. It is expected that the engineer will first make an estimate of
the cost of the work to be undertaken by communities and then contract the work to one or several
communities on the basis of a lump sum contract per kilometer of road rehabilitated or length of canals



Page 13
maintained. Most of the work will be conducted by laborers using simple hand tools. Work completion will
be certified by the engineer prior to making full payment to the communities.
The initial steps in the implementation of the third component of the Project, i.e. the establishment of
the Pilot Agriculture Services Centers, would be taken by the PMU and the Agriculture District Officer
(ADO) in a given district. The PMU Director, the ADO and his counterpart, assisted by an experienced
agriculturist (consultant paid by the Project), would organize meetings in promising districts to provide
information to farmers and gauge their interest in engaging in the creation of a PASC. The PMU would select
five districts where farmers are most engaged and interested and would contactNGOs, other donors to seek
their collaboration in assisting with the management of the initial PASCs. The PMU may also choose to
recruit on Project funds qualified professionals to manage the first five centers. The PMU, ADO and
consultants (sociologist and agriculturist) and the newly recruited managers (each in his district) undertake a
social and needs assessments to ascertain the interest of farming communities and feasibility of the
establishment of the PASCs. Once this'process is complete, a specialist is recruited (Project consultant) to
draft the bylaws for the centers (as cooperatives, associations or limited liability companies) and complete the
registration process. Simultaneously, members of the board of directors would be selected by community
focus groups. The board of directors would have representatives from: (i) farmers-two; civil society-one from
the church; businessman-one; women organization-one; financial institution-one; local NGO/cooperative-one
and one government representative as an observer. Government officials may not serve on the boards. After
the registration of the PASC, the PMU and the ADO help the new manager in organizing the first meeting of
the Board of Directors.
Once the PASC is registered with the authorities and becomes a legal entity owned by the
communities, the manager drafts a letter on behalf of the Board requesting a building to house the center,
inputs, business supplies and inventory. Land to build the PASCs would be provided by the communities and
would be an indication of their interest and support for the center.
Along with the request for buildings, goods and services, the manager will provide a business work
plan in which he will explain the nature of the services that will be provided by the center. He will provide a
detailed description of the accounting procedures to be used and the steps to be taken to ensure the long-term
viability of the PASC He will certify that such services are not in competition with those provided by other
private businesses in the Project area. In order to become eligible and receive works, goods and services
from the ARP, each pilot center would have to fulfill the following criteria:
(i) register with the relevant authorities as a legal entity;
(ii) have a confirmed commitment for its management from a qualified NGO or a professional
manager provided by the PMU under the ARP or by another donor; and
(iii) have submitted an acceptable business work plan to the PMU.
Upon receipt of a complete and satisfactory request for inputs, supplies, and inventory, and business
plan submitted by the PASC's manager on behalf of its board of directors, UNTAET's Department of
Agriculture and the PMU will enter into agreement with the center to provide it with the required inputs in
amounts commensurate with the number of its members and the scope of its business plan. Successful and
profitable PASCs vwho require additional inputs and supplies to expand their services in response to
demonstrated needs, can apply and receive additional support up to a total amount not to exceed US$0.35
million. Once the first five centers are established, the PMU will follow the same process in the establishment
of other centers. All of the services provided by the pilot centers would be against full payment. ThePASCs
would therefore operate as commercial enterprises. The PASCs will, to the extent possible, be twinned with
business centers established under the Small Enterprise Project (SEP). The centers proposed by SEP would
provide marketing information, training in enterprise management and entrepreneurial skills, and office
services. The PASCs and the SEP Centers will be complementary.
Since the PASCs are commercial enterprises they will be subject to normal commercial risks. Their
success and long-term survival cannot be guaranteed, but will depend, in large part, on the quality of their



Page 14
management and of their board. For this reason, the Project provides funding for management assistance and
management training, as well as mentoring by experienced entrepreneurs.
Further details on the administrative and other Project implementation arrangements are included in
Annex 2. Arrangements for the financial management of the Project and the PASCs are in Annex 6.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
*  The alternative of designing a project focused solely on providing emergency relief to the victims of the
violence was considered and rejected.  Such an alternative would have neglected to rehabilitate
productive infrastructure and services such as irrigation, agriculture access roads, research and extension
support as well as the provision of agriculture input and Grant, which is a majorbottle-neck to agriculture
production.
*  The distribution of five four to six-week old chicks and hand tools to poor rural households was selected
because it was the most rapid way of starting a large number of productive family enterprises and
improving family nutrition and food self-reliance.
*  As the type and number of lost assets of rural households was extremely varied, the Project had to limit
itself to the restoration of assets that could benefit the largest number of people at an affordable cost and
those assets that impacted rice production.
* The alternative of having the public sector heavily involved in the provision of research, extension and
input supply services was examined and discarded because: (i) such public sector involvement has not
proven successful elsewhere; and (ii) the anticipated government fiscal resources would not be able to
afford such a burden. That is the reason why the proposed PASCs are designed to be privately owned,
commercially-operated and self-sustaining enterprises.
*  Because of the present lack of financial institutions in East Timor, especially in the rural areas, the Project
has chosen to design the PASCs in a manner that would allow them to engage in the supply of farm
inputs.



Page 15
2. Major related projects financed by the TFET and/or other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Sector issue           Project                                      Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)       Objective (DO)
IDA (TFET financed):
1. Community            The  community  empowerment  and  local  Effctiveness  date:  Not applicable
Empowerment         governance  project aims to build equitable, March 21, 2000
and Local Governance    accountable, transparent and participatory local
Project                government   structures   through   which
communities can work to rehabilitate basic
economic infrastructure.  The elected village
sub-district councils provide the potential for
2.   Small Enterprise  broader  community  participation  in  the
Project                 agriculture sector.
The Small Enterprise Project provides Grants,  Effectiveness date:   Not applicable
3. Dili Community      through BNU, to private sector entrepreneurs to  April 20, 2000
Employment Generation   create industrial enterprises.
Project
This project provides for small labor-intensive  Effectiveness date:   Not applicable
works and job creation to provide short-term   Not available
employment and income opportunities for the
4. Health Sector        poor in Dili. Removal of solid waste and debris
Rehabilitation and      would reduce health risks to the poor and
Development Project     improve their income and nutrition.
5. Emergency School    The project aims to address immediate basic  Effectiveness date:   Not applicable
Readiness Projeclt      health needs and develop appropriate health  Not available
policies and systems.
Not applicable
Aims to revitalize the school system, to rebuild Negotiated
schools in the short term and raise the quality of
educational programs in the medium term.
Other    development
agencies
Asian     Developrnent
Bank (TFET financed)
1. Transport and
infrastructure project  Will rehabilitate and upgrade roads, transport,
ports  and  power  projects  and  support
rehabilitation and long-term planning for
infrastructure  investment.   Project not yet
2. Water and sanitation   appraised.
project
This project aims at improving water supply and
_____   sanitation systems. Project not yet appraised.   I
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HIU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
A number of lessons learned from other countries with similar post-conflict situations have been
reflected in the Project design. These include:
*  Using of broad participation of donors, NGOs and civil society, as well as beneficiaries, in the design of
the Project.
*  Making the best use of donor financing by directing it towards sustainable capital investments that benefit
a large segment of the rural population.
* Limiting government's role to the creation and implementation of a policy framework that rewards hard
work and innovation and offers employment opportunities for rural people through market-driven growth.
* Government development programs should be participatory in design, transparent with high community
participation and a focus on poverty alleviation.
*  Supporting the building of farm  organizations, such as cooperative, limited liability companies,
partnerships and NGOs to foster community self-reliance and help implement government programs.
4. Indications of Recipient commitment and ownership:
* The United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor, acting as the provisional government and
recipient of the grant funds, has mobilized its department of agriculture, representative of the East
National Council of Timorese Resistance (CNRT),NGOs, civil society and its regional staff to participate
in the design of the Project.
-  East Timorese political leaders and the senior officials of UNTAET have shown great interest in the
Project and have participated in its review/wrap-up meetings.
J UNTAET is actively engaged in the recruitment of staff for the purpose of establishing the Project
management unit.
-  UTNTAET's Department of Agriculture and East Timorese counterparts have been in constant contact and
interaction with the IDA's Project preparation team in order to ensure their full participation in the design
of the Project and in defining its implementation arrangements.
5. Value added of IDA support in this project:
In addition to managing the TFET, IDA provided significant value added by:
*  Making use of its experience in other post-conflict countries to assist UNTAET and the East Timorese
counterparts in the formulation of a rural/agriculture sector strategy based on the principals of community
and private sector empowerment, limiting public sector intervention to the formulation of sector policies,
the creation of enabling environments and market-based growth.
*  Assisting UNTAET and CNRT in adopting market-based policies for the growth of the agriculture sector
*  Limiting recruitment of public sector staff to numbers commensurate with expected budgetary/fiscal
resources.
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the Project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$5.4 million; Economic Rate of Return (ERR) = 23%
A cost benefit analysis was carried out for the Project as a whole. All Project benefits and costs were
considered. The duration of the analysis is ten years. Conservative estimates for agriculture and livestock
yields have been provided by the specialists from the sector. Assumptions, analysis and documentation are
provided in the Project files. The results show a rate of return of 23.1% with an NPV of about US$5.4
million. With the exception of coffee, the agricultural sector in East Timor does not have any taxes or
subsidies.
Cost-benefit analysis was not carried out for the Grant line of the Project as it is part of the analysis
carried out under the Small Enterprise Project.



Page 17
Priority Productive Asset Restoration: Quantitative analysis of this component indicate that it is profitable
and, if managed properly, incomes can be improved. The net present values of the priority investments are
positive at 12%.
Irrigation System Rehabilitation: A cost benefit analysis was carried out on some of the irrigation schemes
proposed for rehabilitation to ascertain the highest costs per hectare that could be incurred for viable
rehabilitation. It is expected that the life of such rehabilitation would be about 10 years. At 12 percent cost of
capital, the NPV for these schemes is expected to be about US$1.7 million with an Internal Rate of Return
(IRR) of about 19%.
Pilot Agriculture Service Centers: Pro-forma annual income statement for a representative PASC was
established for a ten year period. The PASCs are expected to have a sales margin of about 20% to generate a
positive NPV.
Assessment of Fiscal Impact and Financial Sustainability: The recurrent costs for the Project is about
US$729,512. These are expected to be less than 3% of the total government's recurrent budget. The Project
design mandates that the local communities take over the responsibilities of maintaining the secondary and
tertiary irrigation systems and the management of Pilot Agriculture Service Centers.
Contribution to Poverty Alleviation: No poverty assessment is yet available for East Timor. However,
given that the population of East Timor is rural and agrarian, poverty is widespread. Measures to improve
incomes and increased agricultural production will improve welfare. Priority investments made in the first
year will provide benefits to about 26,000 poor households. It is expected that about 7,000 tons additional
rice would be produced due to the Project. Other investments under the Project are expected to benefit most
of the farmers in the Project area.
2. Financial: (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 5.4 million; Financial Rate of Return (FRR)=23%
Fiscal impact:
The recurrent costs for the Project is about US$729,512. These are expected to be less than 3% of the
total government's recurrent budget. The Project design mandates that the local communities take over the
responsibilities of maintaining the secondary and tertiary irrigation systems and the management of Pilot
Agriculture Service Centers. The government would be responsible for certain research and extension
expenses and maintaining the primary irrigation channels. Also, the economic evaluation suggests that the
Project investments are expected to generate sufficient rural incomes for sustainability. Mechanisms could be
eventually developed to recover costs for such services.
3. Technical:
*  The technical design of the Project is sound. The priority production asset restoration, i.e. the distribution
of chicks, buffalo, Bali cattle, and hand tools, would allow the beneficiaries to engage in activities that are
familiar to them. The sustainability and profitability of these activities pose no significant risk.
*  The distribution of the buffalo and cattle on a revolving scheme is a novelty for East Timor, but has been
successfully implemented in other countries of the region (Thailand).
*  The rehabilitation of the irrigation schemes and rural access roads will make operational systems with
which farmers are familiar. Farmers have traditionally associated themselves into groups for the purpose
of irrigation canal maintenance and other community endeavors.
*  The proposed tasks are a novelty for East Timor and for the region. It is clear that, although they will be
community owned, the communities are not at this stage able to manage them properly. Hence,
provisions were made under the Project to finance management technical assistance and to seek
donor/NGO support to assist these communities in the management of the tasks until such a time that
local expertise becomes available.



Page 18
* Support to the faculty of agriculture in lieu of creating an independent research institution will help focus
research activities on demand-driven immediate impact research.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
*  UNTAET's GPA-IDARD will be the implementing institution for the Project. The PMU will be an
integral part of this department.
*  The Project management unit will be responsible for the overall implementation of the Project. It will
keep Project records and operate the special account.
*  A consultant will provide technical support to the PMU for the execution of the priority asset restoration
component.
*  Individual consultants and firms will be recruited to conduct studies and provide technical assistance and
training.
b. Project management:
Because IDARD's capacity to implement Project activity is limited, the Project will finance the
recruitment of Timorese and expatriate counterpart staff to build up the implementation capacity of the
department. These new staff would work with existing IDARD staff as a PMU to implement Project
activities and maintain Project accounts. The role and staffing of the PMU are detailed in Annex 2 and in the
Project Implementation Plan (PIP). Provisions have been made so that the PMU and consultants collaborate
with local and international NGOs as well as community councils at all levels in order to implement this
component within the agreed six to eight month period. Arrangements for Project procurement and financial
management are discussed in Annex 6.
5. Social:
The activities proposed under the Project have been defined in a participatory manner in which
farmers, donors, NGOs and civil society contributed. The Project preparation mission undertook a number of
field visits throughout the country and interviewed many farmers. Rapid rural appraisal results indicate that
farmers and beneficiaries in particular are supportive of the activities proposed under the Project. Project
assistance in the form of chicken, buffalo, cattle, hand tools and inputs for the PASCs will benefit more than
50,000 households, half of which would be poor. In addition, the irrigation and road rehabilitation activities
have been designed to be labor intensive for the purpose of fostering economic growth in rural areas. None of
the proposed Project activities will cause resettlement of populations, directly or indirectly. It is anticipated
that by fostering rural growth, improved household nutrition, the Project will contribute to reducing migration
of people from rural areas to Dili and other urban centers.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category    [    ] A  [X] B  [        ] C
An environmental assessment has been conducted and has indicated that:
*  The procurement and distribution to poor households of chicks and livestock would not negatively impact
the environment because they would not represent a significant increase of the poultry and livestock
populations in East Timor. The hand tools, also to be distributed by the Project, would be used essentially
for gardening purposes in households and would not adversely impact the environment.
*  The rehabilitation of irrigation schemes would bring back into irrigation areas that are withinexisting
irrigation schemes and are presently starved of water. Since irrigation water is generally diverted from
river flows during and immediately after the rainy season, the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes would
not affect ground water supply but would only reduce the amount of runoff water that goes to the sea.
*  The rehabilitation of agriculture access roads would be undertaken only on existing roads and would not
enlarge or lengthen them. The impact on the areas served by these roads would be minimal as the
increased traffic would be due to general economic growth and activity rather then due to the maintenance
of the access roads.



Page 19
*  The establishment of the PASCs would make it easier for farmers to have access to farm inputs and
support services.  While it is likely that fertilizer and pesticide use may increase as a result of
intensification of rice production, it is unlikely that this phenomenon would happen in the uplands and
coffee-growing areas. The Project is providing support to research and extension services that will
provide recommendations on appropriate uses of fertilizers and advice and demonstrate the safe use of
pesticides by farmers. Integrated pest management techniques and products will be demonstrated to
farmers for the purpose of promoting the use of biological and/or environmental control methods and
reducing farmers' reliance on synthetic chemical pesticides. Pesticides to be procured under the Project
would, in accordance with OP 4.09, be subject to IDA assessment and would have to comply with its
selection criteria.
*  The ARP would finance the procurement of pesticides by the PASCs on the condition that they and the
extension agents stationed at their headquarters promote integrated pest management techniques. Any
and all pesticides to be procured by the PASCs would be done in accordance with Bank policy and
guidelines on pest management.
*  The land capability studies to be financed by the Project under its third component will be used by
IDARD for land use planning and would most likely result in guidelines and government actions that
would reduce soil and water erosions and protect bio-diversity and sensitive areas.
*  The schemes to be rehabilitated/maintained by the Project cover a total command area of 7000 ha all
located on flat lands. The twenty two potential irrigation schemes are located in nine of the thirteen
administrative districts of East Timor. The list of potential irrigation schemes is in Annex 14. The
majority of the PASCs will be located in areas where crop intensification is possible and in the uplands
where coffee and fruit trees are grown. It is expected that the PASCs will encourage organic coffee
growing in the uplands and sustainable rice intensification in the lowlands.
*  In order to avoid impacting protected areas, the TORs of the feasibility and design studies of irrigation
rehabilitation will include provisions for locating the irrigation schemes in relation to the protected areas
and making an assessment of any impact on these areas.
*  As the Project will only rehabilitate existing schemes and would not extend irrigation to new areas, no
involuntary resettlement is envisaged or anticipated. The construction of the proposed PASCs will be
done on land voluntarily given by the communities who own the centers. The PMU will ascertain prior to
the initiation of the construction of PASCs that the land is voluntarily provided and no one is displaced.
*  While the status of protected areas in East Timor is not known, the Project would include in the TORs for
the feasibility studies for the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes provisions for the consultants to assess
whether the schemes being considered for rehabilitation are inside of or on the perimeter of protected
areas. In such case the study should evaluate the extent to which Project activities would impact the
integrity of the protected area and, if so, formulate offsetting appropriate measures.
*  The Project considered a number of design alternatives to minimize potential negative impacts on the
environment. The new irrigation schemes and repair of major diversion structures and headworks were
considered but rejected because under the emergency framework of this Project the required
environmental assessments and mitigation plan satisfactorily undertaken. The alternative of building
PASC's indiscriminately in all districts of the country was considered but rejected in order not to
encourage the intensification of shifting cultivation. Shifting cultivation, which continues to be practiced
in the uplands of East Timor, requires seeds and plant materials that are adapted to these areas. The
PASCs would not engage in the sale or provision of these seeds or plant materials.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
During Project identification and preparation, the multi-donor and IDA mission members and East
Timorese counterparts conducted rapid rural appraisals and consultations that covered almost all of East
Timor. Results of the rapid rural appraisals and the consultations both confirmed that the components
proposed under the Project are needed and are of a priority nature to remain feasible. It was not possible for



Page 20
the Project to include in its components or finance all of the needs expressed by the people and organizations
that were consulted.
b. Other key stakeholders:
The mission, UNTAET and East Timorese counterparts, as well as a number of donors (AusAID,
Portuguese Government, Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA), Food and Agriculture (FAO)
and local NGOs) participated in workshops that designed project objectives, components and implementation
arrangements. In addition, the mission and UJNTAET conducted two workshops in Dili which were well
attended by NGOs, civil society and UNTAET regional agricultural staff. The mission also undertook visits
to various stakeholders, including vocational schools, churches and villages to consult with these
stakeholders.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Under the priority first grant, productive activities will be sustained with the help of investments in a
vaccination program. Sufficient training and technical assistance is provided for the veterinary staff after the
life of the Project. Market forces and family needs would also be factors for the sustainability of livestock.
For example, a large income from livestock will ensure that livestock arewell-cared for. Conservative budget
estimates of the livestock component show financial viability at present prices.
Only minor and medium deferred maintenance and rehabilitation have been planned under the Project. It is
expected that the farmers in the Project schemes will take over subsequent annual maintenance of secondary
and tertiary irrigation canals. Many of the communities had assigned a member for monitoring the
requirements of irrigation maintenance and had an informal method of assigning responsibilities of annual
irrigation maintenance. This has been discontinued in recent years. It is expected that a one-time investment
in deferred maintenance and rehabilitation of these schemes will be sufficient and the community will then be
able to generate contributions for subsequent maintenance. The Project has provided resources for training
irrigation engineers to help the communities in the future.
Establishing PASCs will provide urgently needed inputs and services to the rural communities. To ensure
good management and profitability of.PASCs safeguards have been included: technical assistance, training,
organizational structure, annual audits, etc. However, it can be expected that some of these PASCs will fail.
This should not be seen as a failure of the Project as the component would have provided priority inputs to
jump-start rural growth and entrepreneurship.
All of the above investments will generate rural incomes which will eventually produce tax revenue.



Page 21
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
From Outputs to Objective
Egg and livestock productions are not M       Vaccination campaigns will help keep mortality
sustained.                                    rates low and the expectation of continued egg
production will keep beneficiaries from
selling/consuming the original stock.
Livestock health services are not sustained. S  Vaccination campaigns and clinical services
funded by UNTAET will help keep mortality
rates low.
Tools are not used by beneficiaries for M     Only  tools  used  for gardening  will be
productive purposes.                          distributed by the Project.
Buffalo and cattle calves are not passed on S  Animals will be given first to farmers of low
to second generation beneficiaries            social status so that community peer pressure to
perform will be placed on them
From Components to Outputs
Irrigation water is not available and M       The incidence of droughts in East Timor is
farmers are not able to irrigate because of   linked to El Nino.
lack of rainfall.
PASCs activities are not demand-driven S      Technical assistance for the management of the
and are poorly managed.                       PADSCs is provided by the Project and donors.
Require an independent board with no civil
PASCs become politicized             S        servants or elected officials
Farmers do not attend field days and M        TA is provided for transport of farmers and
advice given is not adopted.                  quality extension messages
Trainees are not motivated and take on S      Candidates for long-term training should sign a
other activities after their training.        contract to return and work the institution that
trained them.
Radio stations are diverted from  their S     Stations will be controlled by communities.
original mission and do not sustain their
operation.
Overall Risk Rating                  S        IDA will undertake close supervision of Project
and provide training/support to PMU staff in
Project management, procurement, financial
management and M&E.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
*  To ensure a realistic project design and implementation program the Project did not finance certain
activities proposed by UNTAET and East Timorese counterparts. These include the construction of
slaughterhouses, the provision of central grain silos, etc.
*  Some members of UNTAET and East Timorese counterparts may not appreciate the lack of public sector
command and control structures and activities and may not support the Project.



Page 22
G: Main TFET Grant Conditions
1. Negotiations Conditions:
a. IDA obtained assurances from UNTAET that adequate budgetary allocations will be made for funds
required for financing the recurrent costs of the Project during Project implementation.
b. IDA obtained assurances from UJNTAET that it would delegate Project oversight responsibility (both
operational and financial authority) to the Project Management Unit.
2. Conditions of Effectiveness:
The Project Management Unit (a) has been established within UNTAET's Govemance and Public
Administration Pillar, with competent personnel in adequate numbers, including: (i) a Project Management
Unit Director; (ii) a procurement specialist; and (iii) a financial manager; (b) has been provided with
adequate office space and communication facilities; and (c) UNTAET/GPA has prepared a model subsidiary
agreement , acceptable to IDA to be used between UNTAET and the PASC's to define among others the
condition under which PASCs receive goods and services under the Project, , the manner in which PASCs
accounts are audited and the goods and services are used for the purposes intended.
3.   Other:
Accounts/Audits
a. The PMU shall submit quarterly financial statements to IDA that follow agreed formats, no later than
30 days after the end of each quarter.
b. Intemal Audits of Project accounts by the UN Internal Audit Department at least twice a year.
c. Appointment of an independent auditor, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the IDA,
no later than December 31, 2000.
Flow and Utilization of Project Funds
Management of the Project
Monitoring, Review and Reporting
a. The UNTAET/PMU shall prepare and submit to IDA semi annual progress reports in January and July of
each year starting on January 30, 2001.
b. Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in
accordance with agreed project performance indicators
Implementation
I.   UNTAET shall select rural families and farmers to receive chicks and hand tools in accordance with
criteria agreed with IDA, including the following criteria, and shall keep acceptable records of the screening
process and the selected participants, namely beneficiaries of chickens and hand tools shall be selected by the
village councils or focus groups from the poorest families and farmers in rural areas. Inputs on the beneficiary
selection shall be sought from civil society (such as a representative of a church, the head of a local non-
govemment organization, or a women's organization).
2.   UNTAET shall select rural families and farmners to receive cattle in accordance with criteria agreed
with the IDA, including the following criteria, and shall keep acceptable records of the screening process and
the selected participants:



Page 23
(a)   beneficiaries of buffaloes or Bali cattle shall be rural families and farmers of the lowest social
strata who lost buffaloes or Bali cattle. Each beneficiary family shall receive one buffalo or one cow;
(b)  rural families and farmers who have lost buffaloes or Bali cattle but who are the second lowest in
the social strata shall receive the first calf from a beneficiary under sub-paragraph (a) above; and
(c)  the final list of beneficiaries under sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above  shall be signed by a
representative from the PMU, a member of the community or village council or a member of the village focus
group, and a member of civil society (such as a representative of a church, the head of a local non-govemment
organization, a women's organization, or a village elder).
3.   Beneficiaries of chicks, cattle and hand tools shall receive chickens, a set of hand tools, a buffalo or a
head of Bali cattle.
4.   UJNTAET shall select irrigation schemes in accordance with criteria agreed with the IDA, including the
following:
(a)  the rehabilitation has an economic rate of return of at least 10 percent, such rate of return to be
estimated through an economic analysis;
(b)  the selected irrigation schemes will benefit the greatest number of poor beneficiaries;
(c)  the rehabilitation will have no negative impacts on the environment;
(d)  the selected irrigation schemes have the highest beneficiary participation; and
(e)  the selected irrigation schemes have users that are willing to take over the responsibility for the
operation and maintenance of the irrigation system (with the exception of large works) and, therefore, the
selected irrigation schemes have the least fiscal impact on govemment budget.
5.   UNTAET shall enter into a subsidiary agreement, acceptable to the IDA, with each Pilot Agriculture
Services Center, such agreement to include the conditions for qualifying for works, goods and services under
the Project, and the requirements for financial management of the Pilot Agriculture Services Center.
In order to become eligible and receive grants from the proceeds of the Project Grant, the Pilot
Agriculture services centers shall satisfy the following criteria:
(i)   shall be established as private legal entities and registered with the relevant authorities;
(ii)   has a confirmed commitment for its management from a qualified NGO or a professional
manager provided by the PMU under the ARP or by another donor; and
(iii) has submitted an acceptable request for a grant and work plan to the PMU.
6.     UNTAET shall take all measures to avoid the acquisition of land or assets of villagers and to avoid
the displacement of said villagers.
7.   Training under the Project shall be carried out in accordance with a training program acceptable to the
IDA.



Page 24
H: Readiness for Implementation
1. Completeness and readiness of the engineering design documents for the first year's activities.
Discussions for the execution of the priority production asset restoration component is under
preparation between UNTAET's IDARD and consultants.
2. Completeness and readiness of the procurement documents for the first year's activities.
* A request for proposals, for the conduct of pre-feasibility studies and detailed designs for the irrigation
schemes to be rehabilitated has been prepared.
*  The procurement documents for the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes will be prepared by the
consultants who will undertake the pre-feasibility studies described above.
*  Tender documents for other project procurements will be prepared by the PMU with assistance from the
central procurement office of UJNTAET.
3. The Project Implementation Plan
The Project Implementation Plan has been evaluated during appraisal and was found to be realistic and
of satisfactory quality.
4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under Grants conditions (Section G):
*  Nomination of PMU director and staff
* Designation of adequate office space to house the PMU/UJNTAET's Department of Agriculture
* Other covenants
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Policy                                                  Risk of Non-Compliance
X      Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01)               L
X      Natural Habitat (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                  L
NA    Forestry (OP 4.36)
X      Pest Management (OP 4.09)                        L
NA    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)
NA    Indigenous People (OD 4.20)
NA    Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.30)
NA    Safety of Dams
NA    Project on International Waterway
NA    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60)
2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval
Not Applicable
Team Leader: Mohamed Noureddine Benali
Sector Manager/Director: Geoffrey B. Fox    C  
Country Manager/Director: Klaus Rohland  g          i



Page 25
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
East Timor: Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Sector-related CAS Goal:                Sector Indicators:                  Sector / Country Reports:         (from Goal to Bank Mission)
CAS is under development. Agriculture
sector strategy goal:
Improve national food security through  Improved coverage of food import    Country Economic Memorandum.   Equitable distribution of benefits.
efficient use of resources.             costs by exports of goods and
services.                                                             Special focus on the poor.
Improved agricultural production.
Project Development Objective:          Outcome / Impact Indicators:        Project Reports:                  (from Objective to Goal)
I. Improve food security of selected poor   1.1. Increased availability of eggs,  1.2 &3. Beneficiary survey results      .1. Outcomes are sustainable.
households                              poultry meat and rice at household  included in Project progress
level.                              reports.
2. 1. Irrigation systems are well
2. Increase agricultural production in  2.1. Irrigation systems are                                           maintained and irrigation water is
selected Project areas and promote rural    rehabilitated and in operating order.                             available.
growth.
2.2. Condition of selected agriculture                                2.2. Easier access to main roads and
access roads is improved.                                             markets reduces crop losses.
2.3. Farmers have access to essential                                 2.3. Services are used by farmers to
production inputs/Grant,                                              increase their production.
mechanization services and other
high- demand services.



Page 26
Output from each component:         Output Indicators:               Project Reports:               (from Outputs to Objective)
1. Priority Productive Assets
Restoration:
1.1. Household egg, poultry meat and   1. 1. Egg production increases by    1.1 & 2. Beneficiary survey  I. Egg and poultry meat
rice productions increased.         1.5 eggs per day per household by  results in Project progress  productions are sustained and
year 2 and poultry meat increases   reports.                    consumed by household.
by one chicken per month per
household by year 3.
1.2. Livestock health improved.     1.2. Livestock mortality rates                                  1.2. Livestock health services are
decline from 25 to 12 by end of                                 sustained.
year two.
1.3. Households are better tooled   1.3. About 4,000 have            1.3. Procurement contracts.    1.3. Tools are used by
farming/household tools by end of                               beneficiaries for productive
year 2.                                                         purposes.
2. Irrigation/road infrastructure
rehabilitation:
2.1. Irrigation systems rehabilitated.    2.1. Irrigation schemes covering    2.1 & 2. Contracts for works.    2.1. Irrigation water is available
2.2. Irrigation systems maintenance  an area of 2,000 ha by end of year                             and farmers use it to produce
improved.                           2 and an additional 5,000 ha by                                 irrigated crops.
the end of the Project are
rehabilitated & maintained.
2.3. Agricultural roads rehabilitated.    2.3. 100 km of earth agriculture    2.3. Work supervision reports    2.3. Rehabilitated roads are used
access roads rehabilitated by year   by PMU and Community       by transport vehicles.
2.                               Empowerment project.
3. Agriculture Services:
3.1. Agriculture Service Centers    3.1. Up to 8 service centers     3,1, PMU supervision and       3.1. Centers activities are
established.                        established by end of Project.   progress reports.              demand-driven and are used by
farmners.
3.2. Community radio stations       3.2. Up to 5 community radio     3.2. PMU and CEP progress      3.2. Radio stations sustain their
established.                        stations established by end of year  reports.                   operation and provided the
3.                                                              messages intended.
3.3. Farmer information messages    3.3. 10 farmer field days        3.3. PMU progress reports.     3.3. Farmers attend field days and
delivered.                          organized by end of year one.                                   adopt advice.
3.4. Research and extension staff   3.4.Twenty research & extension,   3.4. PMU progress reports.   3.4. Trainees are motivated and
trained.                            ASC, etc. staff trained in                                      use their know-how for the
country/abroad.                                                 purposes intended.
3.5. Faculty of agriculture laboratory   3.5. One faculty of agriculture  3.5. PMU progress reports.  3.5. Laboratory is staffed and
equipped.                           laboratory established.                                         used for relevant research
purposes.



Page 27
Project Components/Sub-components:   Inputs: (budget for each              Project Reports:                 (from Components to Outputs)
component)
1. Priority Productive Assets
Restoration:
I .Project accounts and progress  1. 1. Households accept and care for
I .1. Provision of 5 six-week old chicks to   1. 1. Procurement & distribution of  reports by the PMU.      chicks.
each of 20,000 poor households.        chick and starter feed: US$0.9 million.
1.2. Livestock vaccination and medication                                                                   1.2. Livestock owners accept to
campaign.                              1.2. Vaccines & medications                                          vaccinate animals & vaccines and
dispensed: US$0.8 million                                            medications are administered
properly.
1.3. Replacing of buffalo and Bali cattle                                                                   1.3. Buffalo and cattle are cared for
on a revolving scheme.                 1.3. Purchase & distribution of 1,000                                and used for puddling.
head of buffalo and 1000 head of Bali
cattle: US$0.9 million.
1.4. Replacing household hand tools.                                                                        1.4. Tools are kept by beneficiaries.
1.4. Purchase and distribution of
farm/household hand tools: US$0.2
million.
1.5. Farmer information campaign.                                                                           1.5. Information is understood and
1.5. Farmers training days, Leaflets,                                used by farmers.
workshops, media programs: US$0.1
million
1.6. Recurrent costs: US$0.1
Component total: US$3.0 million
2. Irrigation/road infrastructure                                          2. Project accounts and progress
rehabilitation:                                                            reports by the PMU.
2.1. Conduct feasibility, detailed                                                                           2.1. Studies and construction works
designs/supervision studies and        2.1. Consultant and works contracts:                                  are timely and relevant.
reconstruction of irrigation systems.  US$7.1 million
2.2. Improve the maintenance of irrigation                                                                  2.2. Maintenance of irrigation canals
schemes.                               2.2.1rrigation systems maintenance                                    is taken sustainable and ultimately
contracts and community works:                                       taken over by users.
US$1.2 million.
2.3. Rehabilitation of agricultural access                                                                  2.3. Communities rehabilitate roads
roads.                                 2.3. Community rehabilitation of                                      properly.
agriculture access roads: US$0.3
million
Component Total: US$8.6 million
3. Agriculture Services:                                                   3. Project accounts and progress
reports by the PMU.
3.1. Set-up and support up to eight    3.1. Establishment of up to eight                                    3.1. Centers are adequately managed.
Agriculture Service Centers (ASC).     community-owned ASCs: US$3.5
million.
3.2. Assist communities establish and  3.2. Establishing community owned                                     3.2. Communities are interested and
operate rural radio stations for the   and operated rural radio stations:                                   administrative licensing is obtained.
information of farmers.                US$0.1 million
3.3. Research and extension stafftraining    3.3. Research/extension staff training:                         3.3. Trained staff is motivated by
and Technical assistance.              US$0.8 million                                                       salary and work conditions.
3.4. Faculty of agriculture            3.4. Support to the faculty of                                        3.4. Faculty of agriculture is interested
agriculture: US$0.7 million.                                         and adequately staffed.
3.5. Studies/Documentation center.     3.5. Land use, soils, marketing, DRC                                  3.5. Studies are relevant and
studies and document center: US$0.9                                  information/documents are accessible
million.                                                             and used.
3.6. Line Of Grant through SEP/BNU     3.6. Line of Grant: US$2.5 million.
Component Total: US$8.5 million
4. Project Implementation Unit (PMU).
4.1. PMU established to implement ARP.   4.1. Establishment and operation of    4.Project accounts and progress
PMU: US$1.3 million.               reports by the PMU.               4.1. PMU staff is motivated and
Component Total: USSIJ3 million                                      competent.



Page 28
Annex 2: Project Description
East Timor: Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
I. The Context.
1.   The intense level of violence that followed the 30 August referendum resulted in the temporary
and/or permanent displacement of about 75 percent of the population. Displacement occurred both within
and across the borders of East Timor and current estimates put the number of people who are still in
refugee status in West Timor at approximately 100,000 people. Food distribution and marketing systems,
together with commerce and essential services, were paralyzed and the agriculture production cycle was
severely disrupted in several areas of the country. Although infrastructure and property damage was
extensive, particularly in urban areas and villages, the damage to agricultural crops was less severe as crops
had already been harvested and only limited burning was inflicted on the relatively minor second-season
crop.
2.   Livestock health has deteriorated significantly in the past few months and the spread of disease has
increased due to lack of vaccines and emergency clinical care. Livestock numbers suffered significant
losses, particularly buffalo, Bali cattle, and poultry. Buffalo and cattle are used to puddle rice paddies and
prepare them to receive transplants. The loss of buffalo is very likely to delay soil preparation in paddies
and may reduce the area cropped to rice in regions where mechanization services or alternative forms of
soil preparation is not available. The replacement of buffalo in regions where paddy fields are small and
are not amenable to mechanized tilling is most urgent. Bali cattle are a multi-purpose animal used for
puddling and traction as well as meat and milk. Poultry, both the industrial and household types suffered
heavy losses. The two major industrial poultry farms were looted and are out of commission and many of
the households lost their poultry flocks. Eggs and chicken meat are a major source of food and/or cash for
many poor rural households. Their replacement is also a matter of urgency and would contribute to the
alleviation of malnutrition and poverty.
3.   Many farmers and landless rural people have also lost many of the hand tools they use for household
or farming chores. Without these tools many are unable to cultivate their family gardens nor collect brush
and wood to repair their dwellings or make fire. The replacement of these hand tools is also a matter of
priority.
4.   Much of the damage to agriculture infrastructure was due to delayed maintenance over a long period
of time. The condition of agricultural access roads and irrigation infrastructure deteriorated because users
were unable to maintain them. This lack of maintenance was due, in part, to the lack of security and risks
associated with the freedom struggle. It was also due to the fact that some of the maintenance work needed
the use of heavy machinery that was not available to the users. The lack of road maintenance made it very
difficult for farmers to move their agricultural products to markets (coffee and maize in the highlands and
paddy in the low lands). The damage to large intake structures and poor state of major irrigation canals
kept large areas from being irrigated and cropped. In some schemes (Maliana I and II in Bobonaro; Oebaba
in Covalina; Fatuboro in Liquica; Sare in Ermera; Caraulun, Dotik, and Quiaras in Manufahi, etc.) more
than 50 percent of the command area cannot be irrigated because of broken intakes or major canals being
clogged by heavy sediments.
5.   Agriculture services, i.e. research, extension, input supply, Grant, marketing information, etc. are for
all practical purposes, now non-existent. The UNTAET has recently recruited a number of Agriculture
District Officers (ADO) and their East Timorese counterparts. Although crops such as coffee are in no
need of chemical inputs and have captured a niche market as an organic crop, many of the staple crops such
as maize and rice could gain in productivity with the proper use of fertilizers and Integrated Pest
Management (IPM) practices. The Project will encourage organic coffee growing and support the
introduction of improved, environment-friendly cultural practices such as proper pruning and density in



Page 29
coffee gardens and the use of IPM techniques. Yields of irrigated rice average around 2 tons of paddy per
hectare compared to 4 to 5 tons of Paddy in Java and 5 to 6 tons in Egypt. Food security, a streamlined and
efficient public service and an active role for communities and the private sector in the development
process are a high Government priority. Lessons from other projects in countries similar to East Timor,
point to the fact that while support to agricultural production is essential to improve food security and the
livelihood of rural populations, the delivery of these support services is best achieved through empowered
communities and the private sector.
6.   Restoring productive assets and improving agricultural productivity are high government priorities.
The proposed Agriculture Rehabilitation Project (ARP) would support these priorities by pursuing the
following Project objectives: (i) improving food security of selected poor households; and (ii) increasing
agricultural production and promoting rural growth. In order to achieve the above objectives, the Project
would finance four project components representing two sets of activities. The first set of activities make
up Project component one and would focus, over the next six to twelve months, on restoring lost or
destroyed productive assets at the fanner level. The second set of activities make up Project components
two and three would focus, over the next 30 months, on rehabilitating selected agriculture access roads and
irrigation schemes, as well as improving farmers' access to agriculture services and information. Project
component four concerns the creation of a Project Management Unit (PMU) as a way of building the
capacity of the proposed Interim Department of Agriculture and Rural Development to undertake Project
planning, implementation and management, as well as monitoring and evaluation.
7.   Because the East Timor Trust Fund does not have all of the necessary project funding at this stage,
Project financing would therefore be divided in two grant s. The first will finance priority activities to be
carried out during the initial 12 months of the Project. The second grant would finance the remaining
Project activities whose implementation may have started during the first grant, but would need to continue
until the Project closing date of December 31, 2002. The implementation of the second grant could start
before the end of the first grant as soon as funding from the Trust Fund becomes available. A description
of the Project activities/components that will be financed under the firstgrant is given first. It is followed
by a description of the Project components as a whole. The implementation arrangements for all Project
activities are included in the section entitled "Description of the Components of the Project as a Whole."
II. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A.   Description of the Components to be Financed Under the First Grant.
The implementation of the Project components/activities to be financed under the first Grant will
start immediately after Project signing (expected on June 23, 2000) and continue until the closing date of
the first grant, which would be on June 30, 2001.
Component 1 - Priority Productive Asset Restoration (total estimated cost US$3.0 million).
8.   Activities that would be financed under this component would include:
a. Conducting national vaccination campaigns to immunize cattle, small ruminants and pigs
against infectious diseases and provide emergency clinical services where required.
b. Providing up to 20,000 rural families with 5 four to six-week old chicks each and chicken feed
to improve household nutrition and income. The chicks will be given free of charge to the
neediest families as determined by community consultation.
c. Replacing up to 1,000 head of buffalo and 1000 head of Bali cattle to allow farmers who have
lost their animals during the violence to regain the ability to prepare their paddy fields for
planting rice. The livestock will be given to beneficiaries under a revolving scheme where the
first beneficiaries pass on a calf to another designated beneficiary within a three-year period.
Priority would be given to the poorest farmers and community organizations would be used to
prioritize beneficiaries.
d. Replacing simple hand tools needed by rural people to undertake farming, household and
communal work such as agricultural roads or irrigation canal maintenance.



Page 30
e. Conducting farmer information campaigns. Under this activity, farmer field days and
workshops would be organized for the purpose of informing farmers of the availability and
modalities of accessing rural Grant and other agricultural services provided under the ARP or
other development projects.
Component 2 - Irrigation and Rural Infrastructure Studies, Rehabilitation and Maintenance
(total estimated cost US$1.1 million).
9.   Four activities would be financed under this component:
a. Feasibility and engineering studies for the purpose of: (i) conducting surveys and profiling of
irrigation schemes for the purpose of identifying feasible improvements and selecting the
schemes where rehabilitation would be most viable. The selection of schemes would be
undertaken according to the criteria listed under Section G of the PAD; (ii) preparation of
sketches of canal improvement and structure rehabilitation, as well as the preparation of LIB
tender documents for the selected rehabilitation; (iii) the establishment wherever they already
exist, of Water User Association (WUA).
b. Community rehabilitation and maintenance of irrigation infrastructure and agriculture access
roads for the purpose of bringing selected irrigation systems to good working condition and
improving the movement of agricultural products from farms to main roads.
c. The procurement of equipment, vehicle, motorcycles.
d. The training of staff and the provision of irrigation and road maintenance technical assistance.
Component 3 - Pilot Agriculture Services Centers (total estimated cost US$3.4 million).
10.  Seven activities would be financed under this component:
a. The establishment, through the provision of inputs, supplies and inventory (up to a maximum
of US$0.35 million) to communities, of five Pilot Agriculture Services Centers (five PASC
during the first grant and eight for the whole Project). The purpose of the PASCs would be to
provide farming communities in the area they cover with the agricultural services they require.
The services offered will be demand-driven and could include the provision of farm inputs,
mechanization services, veterinary services, mechanical repair services and transport services,
etc. The pilot PASCs/centers would be legal commercial entities (limited liability companies,
cooperatives, farmers or rural associations, etc.) owned by the communities they serve. They
would be governed by independent board of directors representing stakeholders and civil
society and a government representative as an observer. Government staff would not be
allowed to be members of the PASCs board of directors. The management of the PASCs
would initially be entrusted to NGOs or professional managers paid for by donors and/or the
Project as technical assistance.
b. Providing support to the Faculty of Agriculture of the University of East Timor for the design
of a research laboratory and field research stations.
c. Procurement of radios and the establishment of community radio stations to provide
information to farmers and rural dwellers.
d. Provision of local and international staff training, as well as the organization of workshops and
study tours for PASC, research and extension staff and key farmer.
e. Provision of technical assistance for agricultural research, management of PASCs.
f. The procurement of equipment, vehicles, and motorcycles.
Component 4 - The Project Management Unit (total estimated cost US$0.5 million).
11.  To facilitate the implementation of Project activities, the ARP would finance:
a. The recruitment of local East Timorese and expatriate (experienced UN volunteers) counterparts
staff,



Page 31
b. Technical assistance specialized in procurement, financial management, enterprise
management to help establish and manage the PASCs, monitoring and for auditing Project
accounts.
c. The training for East Timorese staff
d. Procurement of equipment, vehicles.
e. The operating cost of the PMU, which would include office and vehicle operation and
maintenance, as well as staff travel allowances.
B.   Description of the Components of the Project as a Whole.
Project Component 1 - Priority Productive Asset Restoration (total estimated cost US$3.0 million).
12.  Activities that would be financed under this component would include:
f. Conducting national vaccination campaigns to immunize cattle, small ruminants and pigs
against infectious diseases and provide emergency clinical services where required.
g. Providing up to 20,000 rural families with 5 four to six-week old chicks each and chicken feed
to improve household nutrition and income. The chicks will be given free of charge to the
neediest families as determined by community consultation.
h. Replacing up to 1,000 head of buffalo and 1000 head of Bali cattle to allow farmers who have
lost their animals during the violence to regain the ability to prepare their paddy fields for
planting rice. The livestock will be given to beneficiaries under a revolving scheme where the
first beneficiaries pass on a calf to another designated beneficiary within a three-year period.
Priority would be given to the poorest farmers who have lost their livestock and community
organizations would be used to prioritize beneficiaries.
i. Replacing simple hand tools needed by rural people to undertake farming, household and
communal work such as agricultural roads or irrigation canal maintenance.
j. Conducting farmer information campaigns. Under this activity, farmer field days and
workshops would be organized for the purpose of informing farmers of the availability and
modalities of accessing rural Grant and other agricultural services provided under the ARP or
other development projects.
Implementation Arrangements for Component 1
13.  It is anticipated that implementation of this component would be completed within the first six to
twelve months of the life of the ARP. Implementation of the priority productive asset restoration activities
would be the responsibility of the PMU which will procure the services of a consultant for the provision of
technical assistance. The agreement between UJNTAET and the consultant would have to be acceptable to
IDA. In addition, the PMU and consultant would enter into collaborative contractual arrangements with
local and international NGOs to assist in the implementation of the activities financed under this
component. For the distribution of the chicks, livestock, and hand tool sets the PMU and associatedNGOs
would give first priority to the poorest of the poor among the population of farmers and/or rural people who
have lost animals during the period of strife. The PMU and NGOs would work with community councils
and village elders to define the poor who will benefit from the Project.
Project Component 2 - Irrigation/Rural Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenance (total
estimated cost US$8.6 million).
14.  Four major activities would be financed under this component:
a. Engineering studies for the purpose of: (i) conducting surveys and profiling of irrigation
schemes, categorized as having light to medium damage in the UNTAET damage assessment
list, for the purpose of identifying feasible improvements and selecting the schemes where
rehabilitation would be most viable; the selection of schemes would be undertaken according
to the criteria listed under implementation arrangements below ( Also Ref to Section G of



Page 32
PAD); (ii) the establishment and consolidation, wherever they already exist, of Water User
Association (WUA); and (iii) designing and preparing cost-effective designs including
alignment surveys (where needed) and preparation of sketches of canal improvement and
structure rehabilitation, as well as the preparation of tender documents (using IDA standard
documents).
b. Rehabilitation/construction and maintenance of irrigation infrastructure to bring selected
irrigation systems (selected under a above) to good working condition before turnover to
farmer groups for their operation and maintenance (O&M). The rehabilitation works would
include main structures and canals, as well as secondary and tertiary canals covering an area of
up to 7,000 ha.
c. Hydrological studies, structural studies, etc. and redesign of major works that have been
extensively damaged mainly because they were either poorly designed or not sufficiently
protected.
d. Repairing and maintaining up to 100 km of feeder/access roads (not main asphalt roads)
through labor-intensive community participation. The rehabilitation of these roads by local
populations using hand tools and hand handled materials (Gabions). The aim of this activity is
to facilitate the transport of agricultural production to main roads (markets) and to provide
work opportunities for rural people.
Implementation Arrangements for Component 2.
15.  The specific schemes that will be considered for rehabilitation are listed in Annex 14 under the
category light to medium damage. The schemes that will be selected for rehabilitation would have to
satisfy all of the agreed criteria. The agreed criteria are:
(i)    the rehabilitation of the scheme has an economic rate of return of at least 10 percent;
(ii)   rehabilitation would benefit the greatest number of poor beneficiaries;
(iii)  the rehabilitation would have a positive impact on the environment;
(iv)   the schemes with the highest beneficiary participation; and
(v)    schemes with users that are willing to take over responsibility for the operation and
maintenance of the irrigation system (with the exception of large works) and hence,
schemes that have the least fiscal impact on government budget.
It is anticipated that a short list of consultant firms would be asked to submit proposals for pre-feasibility
studies to prioritize viable schemes, detailed designs and preparation of ICB tender documents, as well as
supervision of construction. Because of the emergency nature of the rehabilitation, consulting firms may be
contracted directly. Capacity building and training of East Timorese staff in O&M, irrigation systems
planning, design of irrigation systems, as well as the cost of delayed maintenance on several schemes has
been include in the cost of this component.
16.  Contracting for construction/rehabilitation of irrigation schemes will be do'nie by the PMU using
Limited International Bidding tendering procedures. In view of the relatively small size of individual
schemes and the unavailability of contractors in East Timor, the PMU will group all the schemes selected
for rehabilitation into two or three contracts in order to attract contractors from abroad. At critical stages of
the studies and construction, the PMU may recruit an irrigation engineer consultant to follow up and
supervise the work of the consulting firm in charge of the feasibility studies, design and work supervision.
The conduct of hydrological and design studies of major works would be contracted on the basis of
proposals submitted by firms selected from a short list for this purpose. Terms of reference for these
studies would be developed by the consulting firm selected to undertake the feasibility studies described in
paragraph 1O above.
17.  Implementation of the delayed maintenance of irrigation schemes and the rehabilitation of
agriculture access roads will be undertaken by communities through the same guidelines established by the



Page 33
recently-approved, IDA-financed Community Empowermnent and Local Governance Project. These
guidelines can be summarized as follows. The PMU's rural engineer (whose cost in included in the Project)
would consult and enlist the active participation of village, sub-district and district councils, as well as civil
society (churches) in defining the access roads and irrigation schemes that need repair and/or maintenance.
The engineer will use the same process to obtain the nomination of the villagers (priority given to the poor,
as defined by the councils) who will be recruited by the PMU as temporary laborer to repair and maintain
the roads and irrigation canals. The PMU's rural engineer consultant will set the technical guidelines for the
maintenance work and help organize work crews from the laborers chosen by the community councils. The
engineer will designate crew chiefs who will supervise the work and record work progress. It is expected
that the engineer will first make an estimate of the cost of the work to be undertaken by communities and
then contract the work to one or several communities on the basis of a lump sum contract per kilometer of
road rehabilitated or length of canals maintained. Most of the work will be conducted by laborers using
simple hand tools. Work completion will be certified by the engineer prior to making full payment to the
communities.
Project Component 3 - Pilot Agriculture Services Centers (total estimated cost US$8.5 million).
18.  The ARP would finance three activities under this component. The first activity would be to
establish up to eight Pilot Agriculture Services Centers (PASC). The purpose of the PASCs would be to
provide farming communities in the area they cover with the agricultural services they require thatare not
now provided by other businesses in the area. The services offered will be demand-driven and could
include the provision of farm inputs, mechanization services, veterinary services, mechanical repair
services, etc. The pilot PASCs/centers would be legal commercial entities (limited liability companies,
cooperatives, farmers or rural associations, etc.) owned and governed by the villages or villagers the centers
serve. However, their management would initially be entrusted to professional managers paid for, by
donors, NGOs and/or the Project as technical assistance.
19.  The second activity to be financed under this component is the short and long-term (maximum 2
years) training of East Timorese research staff, extension and PASC managers, as well as the exchange of
researchers, twining arrangements and procurement of experimental equipment and materials to set up
research laboratories and experiment fields and stations for the Faculty of Agriculture of the University of
East Timor.
20.  Support to Community Radio Extension would be the third activity to be financed under this
component. In collaboration with the IDA-financed Community Empowerment and Local Governance
Project, the ARP would finance the procurement of radio sets and short range transmission stations. The
radios and transmission stations will be operated by trained community volunteers for the purpose of
providing farmers and other rural dwellers with information and technical advice.
Implementation Arrangements for Component 3.
21.  The initial steps in the establishment of the PASCs would be taken by the PMU and the Agriculture
District Officer (ADO) in a given district. The PMU Director, the ADO and his counterpart, assisted by an
experienced agriculturist (consultant paid by the Project), would organize meetings in promising districts to
provide information to farmers and gauge their interest in engaging in the creation of a PASC. The PMU
would select five districts where farmers are most engaged and interested and would contactNGOs, other
donors to seek their collaboration in assisting with the management of the initialPASCs. The PMU may
also choose to recruit on Project funds qualified professionals to manage the first five centers. The PMU,
ADO and consultants (sociologist and agriculturist) and the newly recruited managers (each in his district)
undertake a social and needs assessments to ascertain the interest of farming communities and feasibility of
the establishment of the PASCs. Once this process is complete, a specialist is recruited (Project consultant)
to draft the bylaws for the centers (as cooperatives, associations or limited liability companies) and
complete the registration process. After the registration of the center, the PMU and the ADO help the new
manager in seating the board and launching the business. To avoid capture by politicians, board members
may not be civil servants nor elected government officials. members of the board of directors would be



Page 34
selected by community focus groups. The board of directors would have representatives from: (i) farmers-
two; civil society-one from the church; businessman-one; women organization-one; financial institution-
one; local NGO/cooperative-one and one government representative as an observer. Government officials
may not serve on the boards. After the registration of the PASC, the PMU and the ADO help the new
manager in organizing the first meeting of the Board of Directors.
22.  Once the PASC is registered with the authorities and becomes a legal entity owned by the
communities, the manager drafts a letter on behalf of the Board requesting provision of goods and services
from UNTAET (represented by the PMU) in the form of inputs, supplies and inventory. Along with the
request for the inputs, supplies and inventory, the manager will provide a work plan in which he will
explain the nature of the services that will be provided by the center that are not available from other
businesses in the area. Provisions have been made in the Project for the PMU to recruit specialized
consultants to help in the management and training of managers for the centers. In order to become eligible
and receive in-kind grants from the ARP, each pilot center would have to fulfil the following criteria:
a.  be registered with the relevant authorities as a legal entity;
b.  have a confirmed commitment for its management from a qualified NGO or a professional
manager provided by the PMU under the ARP or by another donor; and
c.  have submitted an acceptable business work plan to the PMU.
23.  Upon receipt of a complete and satisfactory request and business plan submitted by the PASC's
manager on behalf of its board of directors, UNTAET's Department of Agriculture and the PMU will enter
into a subsidiary agreement with the center to provide it with works, goods and services commensurate
with the number of its members and business plan. Successful and profitable PASCs who require
additional resources to expand their services in response to demonstrated needs, can apply and receive
additional resources up to a total not to exceed US$0.35 million. Once the first five centers are established,
the PMU will follow the same process in establishing other centers. All of the services provided by'the pilot
centers would be against full payment. The PASCs would therefore operate as commercial enterprises.
24.  When an NGO volunteers to manage a PASC, the NGO's capacity to manage the funds and other
assets of the centers would have to be assessed by the PMU before its responsibility for managing the pilot
center is accepted by IDA. Eligible pilot centers would receive inputs, supplies and inventory paid for from
the proceeds of the TFET Grant . The value of the goods and services would be in proportion to the
number of villages and area served and a function of the likely services to be rendered. Itis anticipated that
up to eight PASCs may be created under the Project. They would most likely be needed in areas where
agriculture practices require the use inputs, transport, processing and mechanization services. The
management and bookkeeping of the centers would be audited regularly by the Government and annually
by a private auditor. With the exception of the manager and an accountant whose salaries will initially (for
a maximum of 24 months) be paid by the Project, the salaries of other staff working at thePASCs will be
paid by the centers. The local and external training and technical assistance needs, particularly in
enterprise management would be paid for under the Project and/or other donors.
25.  While the Project is designed to minimize risks, there can be no guarantee that all PASCs will
become viable, self-sustaining enterprises. Some may fail after a number of years, as is typical everywhere
for new businesses. Beyond the normal good business practices, such as keeping accounts and having them
independently audited, other aspects of the PASC design which minimizes risk, are the independent (non-
political) board, the provision of business management mentoring, and the provision of independent advice
to the board. In the event that some PASCs become non-viable after a start up period of about four years,
they should be allowed to fail. Their assets would liquidated and invested in the successful centers. Failure
of a PSAC should not be seen as a failure of this component of the grant. Even a failed PASC would have
accomplished its immediate goal of providing farm inputs and services over the transition period.
26.  With regard to capacity building in research and extension, it is anticipated that district and/or sub-
district extension agents would be recruited under a fixed duration contract and placed within thePASCs
where they exist. These agents would be paid by and remain under the authority and control of the
Department of Agriculture for the first three years. Subsequently, the PASCs would either take over the



Page 35
payment of the agents' salary or, if the agents' performance is unsatisfactory, terminate their employment
contract. The cost of research and extension staff training, the funding of exchange programs, research and
extension equipment and materials, faculty of agriculture exchange and twining programs have been
included in the Project.
27.   Implementation of the community radio extension will be done through the process established and
by the on-going IDA-financed Community Empowerment Project. Village, sub-district and district
councils would be involved in the choice of the location for setting up the stations and for the content of
messages.
Project Component 4 - The Project Management Unit (total estimated cost US$1.3 million).
28.  To facilitate the implementation of Project activities, the ARP would finance the establishment of a
Project Management Unit (PMU). The PMU would be an integral part of UNTAET's Interim Department
of Agriculture and Rural Development (IDARD). During the first year of the Project, the PMU would be
headed by the director of IDARD and his deputy would be East Timorese. During the initial year of the
Project, the deputy PMU Director would be trained and mentored by the head of the IDARD/PMU. In the
second year, the deputy PMU director would take over the function of PMU director and the previous
director would become his advisor. Leadership of the IDARD would remain with the UNTAET designated
director. Under the ARP, East Timorese staff would be recruited to undertake the following functions:
Project financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, irrigation engineering, etc.
Expatriate technical assistants would also be recruited under the Project to train and mentor theirTimorese
counterparts. The objective of the creation of the PMU and the recruitment of expatriate staff (UN
volunteers) is to build Project management capacity within the IDARD and enable it to sustain its Project
planning, management and monitoring capacity. To build this capacity, the ARP would finance, over the
two-and-half-year life of the Project, the recruitment of local and expatriate personnel, technical assistance,
training for East Timorese staff, as well as equipment, vehicles and operating costs. As indicated above,
the PMU would be headed by a Director and would include in its core staff a procurement specialist, a
financial/disbursement specialist, an operations and monitoring and evaluation specialist and a secretary.
29.  The PMU would be responsible for: (i) preparing, advertising, evaluating tenders and awarding
contracts for the procurement of civil works, goods and services for the various activities of the Project; (ii)
obtaining relevant clearances, including customs and transporting the equipment to the Project sites; (iii)
managing the Project's special account and preparing withdrawal/replenishment applications; (iv) making
payments and keeping Project accounts; (v) having Project account audited annually and submitting audit
reports regularly to IDA; (vi) implementing, following up, supervising, monitoring and evaluating the
implementation of all Project activities including those that have been contracted out or are being
implemented through the Pilot Agriculture Services Centers (PASC) or District Agriculture Offices; and
(vii) consolidating and submitting to IDA Project progress, mid-term review and implementation
completion reports as well as following up and consolidating reports on monitoring and evaluating of
Project actions. The PMU would be based in Dili.
Implementation Arrangements for Component 4.
30.  Project implementation would be the responsibility of the Interim Department of Agriculture and
Rural Development (IDARD) and its PMU. In addition to IDARD regular staff (East Timorese and
expatriate staff) the PMU would recruit short-term consultants to complete specific assignments. The PMU
staff would be recruited by IDARD. The payment salaries for the PMU staff would be funded by
UNTAET. Expatriate technical assistants and consultants would be funded by the TFET Grant. An
amount of about US$1.3 million has been earmarked for this purpose and for the operation of the PMU.
The selected Director and staff of the PMU would have to be acceptable to IDA. The PMU Director would
be nominated by the UNTAET by May 30, 2000 in order to allow for his participation in Project appraisal
and negotiations. The remaining PMU staff will be appointed before Project effectiveness.



Page 36
31.  UNTAET would delegate all Project oversight responsibility (both operational and financial
authority) to its Interim Department of Agriculture and Rural development. The following are the key
functions of Project management that would require delegation from the Head of the UNTAET to the
director of the IDARD/PMU:
Planning.  Technical planning of Project implementation including consultation of affected
communities and other stakeholders.
Procurement. The process by which contracts for works, equipment and consulting services are
made.
Disbursement. The process by which funds are withdrawn from the IDA Grant Account to pay for
contractors, suppliers, consultants and other service providers.
Implementation Management. The technical monitoring of Project's progress, both physical and
financial.
Financial Management. Accounting and reporting of Project expenditures and ensuring that Project
funds are disbursed for the purposes intended. The production of periodic financial reports that would
enable UNTAET and IDA to monitor Project progress and exercise oversight of Project management.
32.  The decentralization of the above functions to the sector offices would be a significant step in the
development of implementation capacity in the country. IJNTAET would monitor performance of the
Project Management Team through the Central Fiscal Authority. The CFA would ensure that decentralized
functions are carried out in accordance with agreed policies and procedures and within approved budgets.
In addition, IDA would require an independent annual audit of the Project financial statements.
IDA Project Supervision.
33.  IDA staff would carry out periodic supervision of Project implementation. This would involve IDA
staff and the Project Management staff working together to review progress in procurement, disbursement
and physical completion of Project activities. IDA would also review compliance with the grant agreement
in procurement of goods and services and disbursement of funds.  IDA's mission findings and
recommendations will be shared with the Project Management and UNTAET.
34.  IDA would provide initial training to Project Management staff in procurement and disbursement
procedures. Assistance would also be available on Project implementation issues from theDili office of
IDA. In addition, IDA may commission technical audits of Project implementation when necessary. These
audits should result in providing training of Project Management staff if needs are identified.



Page 37
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
East Timor: Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Priority Productive asset Restoration                                   2.46          2.46
Irrigation Systems Maintenance and Rehabilitation                       6.72          6.72
Pilot Agriculture Services Centers (including Ag. Grant)                5.21          5.21
Project Management Unit                                                 1.17          1.17
Total Baseline Cost                                                    15.56         15.56
Physical Contingencies                                               1.66           1.66
Price Contingencies                                  1.72           1.72
Total Project Costs                                18.90         18.90
Interest during construction                    NA            NA
UNTAET Financing                         0.70           0.70
Contribution
Total Financing Required                           18.20         18.20
Goods                                                                   6.16          6.16
Works                                                                   6.07          6.07
Services                                                                4.84          4.84
Training                                                                1.01           1.01
Other                                                                   0.86          0.86
Total Project Costs                                18.90         18.90
Interest during construction
UNTAET Financing                         0.70           0.70
Contribution
Total Financing Required                           18.20         18.20



Page 38
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
East Timor: Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Summary of Beneflts and Costs:
A cost benefit analysis was carried out for the Project as a whole. All Project benefits and costs were
considered for this analysis. Costs for the vaccination programs were considered as it would help lower the
mortality rate of the livestock sector; costs towards access road maintenance would help the rural
community in getting produce to markets; costs for research and extension service were included in full
although the benefits were recognized only from the Project area; all PMU costs (staff under the PMU are
expected to be the future Department of Agriculture and Rural Development after the life of the Project)
associated with the development of institutions and institutional capacity have been included in the
analysis. The duration of the analysis is for a period of ten years. Conservative estimates for agriculture
and livestock yields have been provided by the specialists from the sector. Assumptions, analysis and
documentation are provided in the Project files. The results show a rate of return of 23. 1% with an NPV of
about US$5.4 million. With the exception of coffee, the agricultural sector in East Timor does not have any
taxes or subsidies.
Cost-benefit analysis was not carried out for the Grant line of the Project as it is part of the analysis carried
out under the Small Enterprise Project.
Priority Productive Asset Restoration: Quantitative analysis of representative enterprises indicate that
these enterprises are profitable and if managed properly these incomes not only can be sustained but can
also be improved (representative budgets and assumptions are included in the working papers). The cost of
vaccinations and vaccinators has been included in the individual cattle budgets to be paid by the owner of
the livestock. The net present values of the priority investments are positive at 12%.
(i) Hand Tools: Hand tools provided by the Project is expected to provide income during the cultivation
period for irrigation and road maintenance work or for home gardens. The income generated from these
hand tools is expected to be about US$100/year. They are expected to have a life of 3 years. The net
present value for investment for each hand tool package is about US$208 over a three year period.
(ii) Chickens: Chickens are expected to provide income to rural families. The income from chickens is
expected to be about US$52/family/year for each set of five chicks. The net present value of investment for
each set of chickens is expected to be about US$222 over a ten year period.
(iii) Buffalo: Buffalo is used for land preparation. Owners of buffalo generally get income in kind for their
use in rice fields. The income generated from buffalo is expected to be about US$95/year. The net present
value of investment for each buffalo is expected to be about US$269 over a ten year period.
(iv) Bali cattle: Bali cows are multi purpose both for milk and for land preparation. Ihe income from Bali
cow is expected to be about US$ 165/year. The net present value of investments for each Bali cow is
expected to be about US$325 over a ten year period.
This priority productive asset restoration is expected to improve the nutrition and income of beneficiary
rural families. These priority income-generating investments are also expected to create savings and
demand for agricultural services that could be provided by the proposed PASCs.
Irrigation System Rehabilitation:
A cost benefit analysis was carried out on some of the irrigation schemes proposed for rehabilitation to
ascertain the highest costs per hectare that could be incurred for viable rehabilitation. It is expected that the
life of such rehabilitation would be about 10 years. Without the proposed rehabilitation, it is expected that



Page 39
the productive capacity (a combination of decrease in irrigated area and in crop yields) of the schemes will
decrease by two percent annually due to irrigation system inefficiencies (see note from irrigation engineer
in the working papers). Analysis indicate the highest cost that can be incurred for the rehabilitation of
schemes that do not bring about an incremental irrigated area is about US$525. For schemes that have an
incremental irrigated area, the highest cost that could be incurred for their rehabilitation is expected to be
about US$800. These cost levels will help decide the potential financial viability of the proposed schemes.
An overall cost benefit analysis for the small to medium damaged irrigation schemes was also evaluated.
At 12 percent cost of capital, the NPV for these schemes is expected to be about US$1.7 million with an
IRR of about 19%. Assumptions and analysis are included in the working papers.
The costs for redesigning studies of damaged major works were not included in this analysis.
Pilot Agriculture Service Centers: Pro-forma annual income statement for a representative PASC was
established for a ten year period. The PASCs are expected to have a sales margin of about 20% to generate
a positive NPV. Assumptions and income statements are provided in the working papers.
Range of Alternatives Considered in Project Design
While designing the Project, alternatives were considered as follows:
a) The Project could have provided resources as grants. However, only priority investments needed to
jump start the rural economy, such as small implements for house gardens, buffaloes to prepare land for
rice cultivation, cows for milk, and chickens were provided as grants-in-kind. Other resources are
provided on the basis of sound business practices to encourage private sector and sustainability.
b) Strategic sequencing of investments: The Project considered initially providing finances to commercial
banking institutions to provide Grant and financial services. The poor have lost their assets and since
they are the targets of the proposed Project, such a strategy was not deemed efficient as the investments
is first expected to provide urgently needed humanitarian assistance for employment and income
generation. This would then permit individual farms/households to be able to apply for Grant to
financial institutions. (See discussion with Bank's rural Grant experts on these options, provided in
the Project files).
Assessment of Fiscal Impact and Financial Sustainability
The recurrent costs for the Project is about US$729,512. These are expected to be less than 3% of the total
government's recurrent budget. The Project design mandates that the local communities take over the
responsibilities of maintaining the secondary and tertiary irrigation systems and the management of Pilot
Agriculture Service Centers. The government would be responsible for certain research and extension
expenses and maintaining the primary irrigation channels. Also, the economic evaluation suggests that the
Project investments are expected to generate sufficient rural incomes for sustainability. Mechanisms could
be eventually developed to recover costs for such services.
Sensitivity Analysis
Sensitivity analysis was carried out for individual investments. If the yields increased by only 5% instead
of 10% at full development the net present value is reduced to US$4.0 million with an IRR of about 18%.
The cost threshold per hectare for irrigation maintenance would be reduced to US$300 if there are no
additional lands are brought under irrigation and to US$700 for schemes that do.
The livestock investments are sensitive to calving rates. If the productivity of cows and buffalo are reduced
by about 30% the livestock sub-component could become financially unsustainable. The chickens are able
to withstand a fall in productivity for several years longer.



Page 40
The PSACs are sensitive to bad debts and Grants. If the bad debts are more than 25% of total revenue
PSACs will not be profitable.
Risk Analysis
All critical risks mentioned in Section 2 of the PAD were modeled and evaluated. The results and
mitigating measures are indicated below:
Critical Risk 1: Livestock production is not sustained: A ten percent reduction in benefits in each of the
ten years of analysis resulted in the NPV reductions as follows:
Single Enterprise            Baseline NPV                  With   10%   reduction  in
benefits
Poultry                      222                           146
Cow_                         325                           59
Critical Risk 2: Livestock health services are not sustained: This is expected to increase the mortality rates
of the animals and reduce the benefits from the livestock investments. The risk was modeled to show that
elimination of the livestock enterprises in three years would reduce the net present value of the overall
Project from US$ 5.4 million to US$ 0.03 million.
The above two critical risks are expected to be minimized by the Project investments to make vaccination
services sustainable. It is expected that vaccination programs will continue along with access to veterinary
services and affordability of such services from the incomes generated by these livestock enterprises. Costs
for vaccinations have been included in the individual livestock budgets to verify profitability.
Critical Risk 3: hand tools are not used by beneficiaries for productive purposes: This risk was modeled
by eliminating the benefits from the incomes generated by the hand tools. The overall NPV reduced from
US$5.4 million to US$1.3 million. The hand tools that are being provided are those that are suitable for
home gardening and are not expected to cause any serious damage.
Critical Risk 4: Buffalo and cattle calves are not passed on to second generation beneficiaries: It was not
possible to model this risk as it was one of distribution of wealth created by the livestock investments and
subsequent benefits, which is not expected to be affected. However, the Project expects that subsequent
beneficiaries with the help of the community would create sufficient pressure to prevent this from
occurring.
Critical Risk 5: Irrigation water is not available and farmers are not able to irrigate because of lack of
rainfall: This risk was modeled by reducing the benefits by 75% once every three years due to droughts.
The results indicate the overall NPV would reduce from US$ 5.4 to about US$ 0.7. The incidence of
droughts is linked to El Nino. It is expected that the farmers would find methods to develop efficient water
storage and use mechanisms.
Critical Risk 6: PASCs activities are poorly managed or politicized: This risk was modeled by increasing
cost of sales, administrative and staff costs of the PASCs and its profitability by 15%. The net present
value will reduce from US$ 5.4 million to about US$ 0.6 million. It could be expected that some of the
PASCs might fail due to the above factors but they would meet the immediate need of providing urgently
needed inputs to the farmers. The Project has provided resources for competentNGOs to provide technical
and managerial support. Also annual audits are required of PASCs. The above measures will help constant
monitoring of PASC's operations.
Other critical risks could not be modeled and evaluated. But inferences from the earlier risk modeled could
be extrapolated.



Page 41
Sustainability
Under the priority first grant, productive activities will be sustained with the help of investments in a
vaccination program. Sufficient training and technical assistance is provided for the veterinary staff after
the life of the Project. Market forces and family needs would also be factors for the sustainability of
livestock. For example, a large income from livestock will ensure that livestock are well-cared for.
Conservative budget estimates of the livestock component show financial viability at present prices.
Only minor. and medium deferred maintenance and rehabilitation have been planned under the Project. It is
expected that the farmers in the Project schemes will take over subsequent annual maintenance of
secondary and tertiary irrigation canals. Many of the communities had assigned a member for monitoring
the requirements of irrigation maintenance and had an informal method of assigning responsibilities of
annual irrigation maintenance. This has been discontinued in recent years. It is expected that a one-time
investment in deferred maintenance and rehabilitation of these schemes will be sufficient and the
community will then be able to generate contributions for subsequent maintenance. The Project has
provided resources for training irrigation engineers to help the communities in the future.
Establishing PASCs will provide urgently needed inputs and services to the rural communities. To ensure
good management and profitability of PASCs safeguards have been included: technical assistance, training,
organizational structure, annual audits, etc. However, it can be expected that some of thesePASCs will fail.
This should not be seen as a failure of the Project as the component would have provided priority inputs to
jump-start rural growth and entrepreneurship.
All of the above investments will generate rural incomes which will eventually produce tax revenue.
Contribution to Poverty Alleviation
No poverty assessment is yet available for East Timor. However, given that the population of East Timor
is rural and agrarian, poverty is widespread. The Project design seeks the knowledge of the rural
community to provide information on the allocation of chickens and livestock. Measures to improve
incomes and increased agricultural production will improve welfare. It is expected that the priority
investments made in the first year will provide benefits to about 26,000 poor households. It is expected
that about 7,000 tons additional rice would be produced due to the Project. Other investments under the
Project are expected to benefit most of the farmers in the Project area as irrigation efficiency, and farm
inputs and services have been financed under the Project.
Economic Performance Indicators
In the short term, the Project assumes that agricultural yields are stabilized and additional areas can be
brought back into irrigated agriculture. The Project expects household incomes to increase due to
agriculture, use of buffaloes and Bali cows, chickens and family gardens.
The performance of all services can be indirectly gauged by increases in productivity, profitability and
employment generation in agriculture and other rural enterprises (See Annex 1 for performance
parameters). Also performance can be measured by the demand for rural services. If productivity does not
increase then demand for services will not increase.



Page 42
Annex 5: Financial Summary
East Timor: Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
FY Years Ending 2001 to 2003 (during project implementation)
FiscalTYear  F                2001    782002 9     2003 5,
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs       7,807,737   7,635,349   5,265,929
Recurrent Costs          134,902    252,949    341,661
Total Project Costs   7,942,639   7,888,298   5,607,590
Total Financing     7,942,639   7,888,298   5,607,590
Financing
TFET                   7,807,737   7,635,349   5,265,929
UNTAET                   134,902    252,949     341,661
Total ProjectFinancing      7,942,639   7,888,298   5,607,590
FY Years Ending 2001 to 2007 (during project implementation and after closing of grant)
F       Tiscal Year            2001 F     2002      1  2003   1 2004  1 2005   1,2006    1 2007
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs        7,807,737   7,635,349   5,265,929
Recurrent Costs           134,902    252,949    341,661   341,661  341,661  341,661  341,661
Total Project Costs   7,942,639   7,888,298   5,607,590
Total Financing     7,942,639   7,888,298   5,607,590   341,661  341,661  341,661  341,661
Financing
TFET                    7,807,737   7,635,349   5,265,929
UNTEAT                    134,902    252,949    341,661   341,661  341,661  341,661  341,661
Total Project Financing      7,942,639   7,888,298   5,607,590   341,661  341,661  341,661  341,661
Main assumptions:
1. UNTAET will cover all recurrent costs during and after the life of the Project
2. The Trust Fund will finance both the first grant and subsequent funding required to complete the
Project.



Page 43
Annex 5, Table A: Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities
East Timor: Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Forecasted Income Statement for Pilot Agricultural Services Center
Years Ending 2000: 2010 (In Current US$)
Year 1         2        3        4        5       t6       7        8       9       10
Capital from Project           200,000 200,000 200,000 200,000 200,000 200,000 200,000 200,000 200,000 200,000
Capialization from Profits           0   2,520    3,006    3,017    3,017    3,017    3,017    3,017    3,017    3,017
Total Operating Capital        200,000 202,520 203,006 203,017 203,017 203,017 203,017 203,017 203,017 203,017
Sales (margin)            20%
Machinery              10   24,000  48,605  48,721   48,724   48,724   48,724   48,724  48,724   48,724  48,724
Machinery Rental       10%1  2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000
Machinery Repair               2,000    2,000    2,000   2,000    2,000   2,000    2,000   2,000    2,000    2,000
Fertilizer (of sales)  50%A  120,000  121,512  121,804  121,810 121,810  121,810 121,810  121,810 121,810  121,810
Seeds (of sales)       20%   48,000  48,605  48,721   48,724   48,724  48,724   48,724  48,724   48,724   48,724
Pesticides (of sales)  I      24,000  24,302  24,361   24,362  24,362  24,362  24,362  24,362   24,362   24,362
Total Sales                  220,000 247,024 247,607 247,620 247,620 247,620 247,620 247,620 247,620 247,620
Grants & Bad Debts        20%   44,000  49,405  49,521   49,524   49,524   49,524   49,524   49,524   49,524   49,524
Total Revenue                   176,000  197,619  198,086  198,096 198,096  198,096 198,096 198,096 1 98,096  198,096
Beginning Inventory                  0  41,250  46,317   46,426  46,429  46,429  46,429  46,429  46,429  46,429
Cost of Goods                 182,050 163,162  158,578  158,479  158,477  158,477  158,477  158,477  158,477  158,477
Less: Ending Inventory    3 mos.  41,250  46,317   46,426  46,429  46,429  46,429   46,429  46,429   46,429  46,429
Cost of Sales                  140,800  158,095 158,469 158,477  158,477  158,477  158,477  158,477  158,477  158,477
Gross Margin                     35,200  39,524   39,617   39,619   39,619  39,619  39,619 C39,619  39,619  39,619
Gross Margin %                     20%     20%      20%      20%     20%      20%      20%      20%     20%      20%
Salaries & Wages (5 staff)    3%    6,600    7,411   7,428    7,429    7,429    7,429    7,429    7,429    7,429    7,429
General Expenses          104   22,000  24,702   24,761   24,762   24,762   24,762   24,762  24,762   24,762   24,762
Operating Profit                  6,600    7,411    7,428    7,429    7,429    7,429    7,429    7,429    7,429    7,429
Interest                   0%        0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0
Profit after Interest before     6,600    7,411    7,428    7,429    7,429    7,429    7,429    7,429    7,429    7,429
Depreciation
Depreciation          1*0'A   2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400
Profit after Interest and         4,200    5,011    5,028    5,029    5,029    5,029    5,029    5,029    5,029    5,029
Depreciation                _           _
Tax                        0/       0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0
Profit after Tax                 4,200    5,011    6,028    5,029    6,029    5,029    5,029    5,029    5,029    5,029
Cash inflow from                 6,600    7,411    7,428   7,429    7,429    7,429    7,429   7,429    7,429    7,429
{OperationI_                                          __ _L__
Cumulative Cash Inflow            6,600    7,411    7,428    7,429    7,429    7,429   7,429    7,429   7,429    7,429
Distribiitfon of Profits
a. General manager         5%      210      251      251     251      251      251      251     251      251      251
b. Employees               8%      336      401      402     402      402      402      402     402      402      402
c. Board                  77%      294      351      352     352      352      352      352     352      352      352
b. Patron dividends       200o     840    1,002    1,006    1,006    1,006    1,006    1,006    1,006    1,006    1,006
c. Capitalization         60 /   2,520    3,006    3,017    3,017    3,017    3,017    3,0117   3,017    3,017    3,017
Operating Income as a %             4%/s    4%       4%       4%       4%1    4%        4%       4%       4%      4%
of Revenue
Net Income as a % of                2%      3%       3%       3%       3%      3%       3%       3%       3%      3 %
Revenue
Main assumptions:
1. It is expected that 5 PASCs will be established in Year I and three in Year 2 of the Project implementation.
2. The following personnel will be at least be required for PASCs initial operation: General manager; Accountant; Store Keeper; Drivers(2); Mechanics(2); Service
clerks(2).
3. The following will be the initial expenditure for setting up the PASCs: 3 ton trucks - $40,000; Building - $25,000; Pickup - $15,000; Shop tools - $10,000; Generator
- $1,000; Computer - $4,000, Telephones - $1,000, Cash Registers - $2,000,
Office Supplies - $ 2,000.
4. Sales is expected to have a mark-up of 20%.
5. PASCs initial purchase includes machinery -20%, ferilizer -50%, seeds -20%, pesticides -10%.
6. Bad Grants and write off are expected to be 20%/ of total sales.
7. Year end inventory is expected to be worth 3 months of total sales.
8. The profits from the operation will be distributed on the basis of the following: 5% to General manager, 8% to employees, 7% to the Board, 20% for discounts to
patrons, and 60% for capitalization.



Page 44
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
East Timor: Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Procurement Assessment.
The UNTAET has recently established a central procurement office that deals with the UNTAET
Trust Fund financed procurements. This central procurement unit is supported by the United Nations
Operational Services (UJNOPS) to develop a government procurement unit within the administrative
services component. However, to date, no procurement capacity has been established in the sectoral units
that are likely to evolve into departments or ministries in the future. Since these units will need to conduct
their own procurements, and given the technical nature of some of these issues the Agriculture
Rehabilitation Project (ARP) Management Unit (PMU) needs to establish some procurement capacity.
This capacity consisting of a qualified international consultant will assist the Project Director in all steps of
procurement including the preparation of procurement documents, publishing advertisements, preparation
of short lists, evaluation of bids, preparation of contracts and so forth. The consultant will also ensure that
the Bank Guidelines for the procurement under the Project are followed and will prepare reports needed for
the supervision mission. The procurement officer will also work closely with EastTimorese counterparts
who will be identified by the PMU Director. This will facilitate transfer of skills and capacity building
efforts. Moreover, procurement training will be conducted as part of the Project Launch workshops.
Procurement Methods (Table A).
Procurement under the Grant will follow in all aspects of the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under
IBRD Grants and IDA Grants, January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999, for Goods and Works and the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. For procurement of
works, goods and services under the Grant, the Beneficiary will use: The Bank's latest Standard Bidding
Documents for ICB procurements, Standard Requests for Proposals (dated July 1997, revised April 1998
and July 1999), and Standard Bid Evaluation Report Forms.
Project Financing.
Because the East Timor Trust Fund does not have all of the necessary project funding at this stage,
Project financing will be divided in two grants . The first will finance priority activities to be carried out
during the initial 12 months of the Project. The second grant will finance the remaining Project activities
whose implementation may have started during the first grant, but would need to continue until the Project
closing date of December 31, 2002. The implementation of the second grant could start before the end of
the first grant , as soon as funding from the Trust Fund becomes available. The table below shows the
procurement activities required for the implementation of Project activities under the first grant
First Grant Procurement Activities
Goods and Equipment (vehicles)                        4.6
Civil Works                                          0.3
Consultant Services and Studies                        1.5
Training, Workshops & Fellowships                      0.3
PMU Operating costs                                   0.1
Total Project Costs                                    7.8



Page 45
Implementation.
A procurement officer will be recruited to support the PMU Director in the implementation of the
agreed procurement plan. In addition, LJNTAETs' central procurement unit will be used to purchase the
basic office equipment, i.e., printers, computers, furniture, supplies, photocopier, hand tools, radio sets and
short range transmission stations, motorcycles, vehicles and mini buses.
Advertisement.
A General Procurement Notice will be published in the June 30, 2000 issue of Development
Business announcing goods and consultants services to be procured and inviting eligible suppliers,
contractors and consultants to express interest, request expressions of interest/invitation to bid and to
request any complementary information from the PMU (UNTAET - GPA/Agriculture). In addition,
specific procurement notices will be published in newspapers and/or Development Business, depending
upon the value of the individual requirements.
1.   Goods.
International Shopping (IS). Procedures for IS will be used for contracts for equipment to cost less
than US$200,000 (i.e. computers, vehicles and motorcycles, office supplies, equipment and furniture).
These contracts will be awarded after solicitation and evaluation of at least three written price quotations
from suppliers in at least two different countries, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
The total value of IS is estimated to cost no more than US$5.34 million or equivalent.
National Shopping (NS). Because of East Timor's extraordinary destruction, procurement under the
grants anticipates eventual recovery of the internal market. National shopping procedures will be phased in
as local markets develop and goods become available. Sundry items including spare parts, office supplies,
vehicles, motorcycles and many of the inputs to be procured for the PAScs, as well as selected equipment
costing less than US$50,000 per contract may be purchased on the basis of shopping by comparing price
quotations obtained from at least three local suppliers, in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Aggregate
amount of national shopping is estimated to cost less than or equal to US$0.32 million or equivalent.
Procurement from United Nations Agencies. IAPSO will also be used for contracts valued US$
100,000 or equivalent or less with an aggregate value not exceeding US$0.50 equivalent. This will be used
for small-scale procurements that may not be feasible through national shopping due to limited local
markets. This will includes goods like other equipment, vehicles, supplies, consumables, and spare-parts.
2.   Civil Works
Limited International Bidding (LIB). Given the emergency nature of the situation in East Timor, LIB
procedures may be used for two contracts for civil works for the rehabilitation/construction of selected
irrigation systems which are estimated to cost US$2.33 million equivalent or more per contract. Estimated
total value for this procedure will not exceed US$ 4.67 million or equivalent.
Small Works Contracts (SW). SW will involve contracts for less than US$ 100,000 (aggregate not to
exceed US$0.75 million or equivalent) for building and or renovating service centers, road maintenance,
and irrigation scheme restoration and maintenance. Procurement of small scale works will be under lump
sum fixed price contract awarded on the basis of quotations obtained by at least 3 qualified domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation and according to Bank Guidelines. The invitation would
include a detailed description of the works including basic specifications, the required completion date,a
form of agreement acceptable to the Bank and relevant drawings where applicable. The award will be
made to the contractor offering the lowest price quotation for the work and who has the experience and
resources to complete the contract successfully. Moreover, the capacity of local contractors is presently
sufficient to carry out this work and is anticipated to grow further as more foreign companies establish
offices in East Timor. There are a number of local contractors presently engaged in the construction, repair
and renovation of buildings and roads in East Timor.



Page 46
Community Maintenance of Irrigation Schemes and Agriculture Access Roads. Rural communities
around small to medium irrigation schemes and agriculture access roads will be organized to undertake the
maintenance and light rehabilitation of these works. Both the irrigation schemes and about 100 km of
feeder/access roads (not main asphalt roads) would be maintained through labor intensive community work
crews using mostly hand tools and some large machinery and earth moving equipment, which will be
rented locally. The aim of this activity is to bring into production small irrigation schemes whose
maintenance has been neglected and facilitate the transport of agricultural production to main roads
(markets), as well as provide work opportunities for rural people. The estimated value per package may be
as high as US$50,000, but the average is expected to be <US$20,000. It is anticipated that the total
expenditures on this category would be US$0.65 million.
Implementation of the community maintenance of irrigation schemes and the rehabilitation of
agriculture access roads will be undertaken by community groups through the same guidelines established
by the recently approved IDA-financed Community Empowerment Project.  These guidelines are
summarized as follows. The PMU's rural engineer (whose cost in included in the Project) would consult
and enlist the active participation of village, sub-district and district councils, as well as civil society
(churches) in defining the access roads and irrigation schemes that need repair and/or maintenance. He will
use the same process to obtain the nomination of the villagers (priority given to the poor, as defined by the
councils) who will be recruited by the PMU as temporary laborer to repair and maintain the roads and
irrigation canals. The PMU's rural engineer consultant will set the technical guidelines for the maintenance
work and help organize work crews from the laborers chosen by the community councils. The engineer
will designate crew chiefs who will supervise the work and record work progress. It is expected that the
engineer will first make an estimate of the cost of the work to be undertaken by communities and then
contract the work to one or several communities on the basis of a lump sum contract per kilometer of road
rehabilitated or length of canals maintained. Most of the work will be conducted by laborers using simple
hand tools. Work completion will be certified by the engineer prior to making full payment to the
communities.
3.   Consulting Services
The following procurement procedures will be used:
a. Quality- and Cost- Based Selection (QCBS) procedures will be used for the following activities;
estimated to cost >US$100,000 per contract: redesign of major head works and conveyance canals,
land capability and aptitude studies, soil mapping, domestic resource cost analysis and marketing
studies. The total value is estimated not to exceed US$ 1.86 million or equivalent.
b. Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedures will be used for selection of an auditor to carry out audit of the
Project. The value of contracts awarded through LC selection will not exceed US$0.1 million or
equivalent.
c. Single Source Selection. Single source selection will be used for Project activities that need to be
implemented during the next 6 to 8 coming months. For these activities the following firms will be
contracted: (i) a consulting firm to be identified and selected by UNTAET to undertake the pre-
feasibility/screening studies for the selection of irrigation schemes to be rehabilitated, detailed designs
of the viable schemes and supervision of the rehabilitation works, the total cost of this activity is
estimated at about US$0.75 million ; (ii) the A consulting firm to be identified and selected by
UNTAET to provide technical assistance, organization and logistic support to the implementation of
the priority productive assets restoration component. The fees for this implementation have an
estimated cost of US$0.218 million. The consultant will work with local and internationalNGOs and
act on behalf of the Department of Agriculture of lTNTAET in the following areas: the procurement
and distribution to poor households of hand tools, replacement buffalo and replacement chicks,
livestock vaccination and the conduct of farmer information campaigns. The total direct cost of
activities (i) and (ii) described above is estimated to be about US$0.97 million.



Page 47
d. Individual consultants would also be employed for activities estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per
contract with selection on the basis of their qualification, consistent with Section V of the Guidelines.
It is expected that individual consultants will be needed for the following (procurement specialist,
financial management specialist, irrigation and road engineers, monitoring and evaluation specialist,
PMU director and an East Timorese counterpart for each of the above specialist and Project
management TA, as well as management specialists for the Pilot Agriculture Services Centers (PASC).
The total estimated cost of these individual consultants would US$1.92.
4. Support to the Pilot Agriculture Services Centers (PASC).
It is expected that the Project will help in the establishment of up to eight PASC by providing them
'with buildings, farm inputs, supplies, machinery, vehicles and inventory (mainly spare parts). The purpose
of the PASC' is to provide farming communities with agricultural services. The services offered will be
demand-driven and could include the provision of farm inputs, mechanization services, veterinary services,
mechanical r epair services, etc.
Eligible pilot centers would benefit from Project-financed works, goods and services in amounts
commensurate with the business plans they are required to present to the PMU and in relative proportion to
the size of the communities that will own the centers. The estimated value of the works, goods and services
that a PASC can benefit from may not exceed US$0.35 million. The PASCs would not provide financial
services to their members. PASCs would most likely be needed in areas were agriculture practices require
the use illpuits, mechanization services, processing and transport services (particularly for coffee). The Pilot
Agriculture Services Centers would be legal commercial entities (limited liability companies, cooperatives,
farmers or rural associations, etc.) owned by the communities they serve. They would be governed by
board of directors selected in community focus groups from farmers, civil society and NGOs.  A
government representative would sit on the board as an observer. Government employees may not be
members of the PASC boards. The management and bookkeeping of the centers would be audited
regularly by the Government (UNTAET) and annually by a private auditor.
5.   Training, Workshops and Study Tours.
Expenses for staff training will be disbursed with prior approval of the Bank based on annual
training plans. Training costs will cover in-service training for basic Agriculture services as well as local
and external training for extension staff, research sabbaticals and workshops. The total cost of the training
activities will not exceed US$ 1.OM or equivalent.
6.   Operating Costs.
This includes the operating costs of the PMU, which would cover expenditures of a non recurring nature
for transport and per diem for consultants, communications, office consumables, utilities and honorarium of
consultants. These expenditures will be made on the basis of UNTAET procedures, acceptable to the Bank.
The estimated operating costs that will be borne by the Project because of their non-recurrent nature are
estimated to cost about US$0.131million. Staff salaries and other recurrent costs of the PMU are financed
by UNTAET and not by the Trust Fund Grant, their cost is estimated at about US$0.728 million.
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
IDA's prior review of procurement will cover the following:
a) Master lists of equipment, packaging of contracts and updated cost estimates.
b) Goods: the first two packages of IS and NS each year and all procurements through the United Nations
Agencies.
c) Works: all LIB and the first two package of SW; and
d) Consultants: terrns of reference for all consulting assignments; all consulting contracts costing more
than or equal to US$ 100,000 for firms and $50,000 for individuals and all single source contracts.



Page 48
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements4
(in US$million equivalent)
1. Works6(4.67)                                              (1.40)                   (6.07)
2. Goods                                                     (6.16)                   (6.16)
3. Services                                                  (4.84)                   (4.84)
4. Miscellaneous7                                            (1.13)                    (1.13)
5. 0 & M Cost & Salary                                                    0.73         0.73
Total                            (4.67)                 (13.53)        0.73        18.93
Note:      N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel co-
financing procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any
other miscellaneous items).
The procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other" and details of the items
listed as "N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the table or in the text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Grant
4 For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to ODI 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A,
where applicable).
5Other & NBF = includes civil works and goods to be procured through international and national shopping, single
source selected consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical
assistance services, and incremental operating cost related to managing the Project, and lending Project funds to the
local community to build pilot centers.
6 Includes two LIB contracts (US$4.67), SW (US$0.75), community irrigation maintenance and access roads
(respectively US$0.75 and US$0.25).
7 Miscellaneous is training, workshops, study tours and investment operating costs.



Page 49
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million equivalent)
.  QCBS pCQ    Other  N.B.F.
A. Firms                   (.)(1.07)                           (2.87)
B. Individuals                     (1.93)                      (1.93)
Total  (1.8)   (1.93)   (1.07)               (4.80)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the TFET grant.



Page 50
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review8
US $ thousands                               US $ millions
1. Works             >US$100,000                    LIB          All-US$4.6
<US$100,000                SW               First Two Packages
each year US$0.75
<US$20,000            Community                 None
Participation
2. Goods             >US$200,000                   IS                 US$5.34
First Two Packages
Annually
>US$50,000                  NS                   US$.32
First Two Packages
Annually
<US$100,000           UN Agencies           All-US$0.5
3. Services (T.A.)  >US$ 100,000 (Firms)       QCBS              All - US$1.8
>US$50,000 (Firmns)    SS, LCS              All- US$1.07
>US$50,000                 CQ,                 All - 1.92
(Individuals)
4. Miscellaneous
Training                                        Other            All training programs-
US$1.01
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    US$16.24
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Once every 3
month(s) (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
s Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and
contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance



Page 51
Disbursement.
The proposed Agriculture Rehabilitation Project (ARP) is expected to disburse in two grants over a
period of 30 months from date of effectiveness. In addition, disbursement may continue for another four
months past December 31, 2002 (expected closing date) for expenditures covering goods or services
delivered to the Project before the closing date of the Grant. Disbursements will use IDA's standard
disbursement methods, i.e. Special commitments/direct payments and/or Statement of Expenditure
reimbursements.
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOE).
SOEs will be used for:
*  Contracts for goods with a value of less than US$200,000.
*  Contracts for works with a value of less than US$100,000.
*  Contracts with consulting firms with a value of less than US$100,000.
*  Contracts with individual consultants with a value of less than US$50,0000.
*  All community executed activities (contracted by the PMU), including the maintenance of
irrigation schemes and agriculture access roads.
*  Training, workshops and study tours expenditures.
*  Operating costs of the PMU and other components (salaries, travel and other allowances, office
equipment and supplies, vehicle operating and maintenance costs, postage and communications
costs, etc.).
Special Account.
To facilitate timely Project implementation, UNTAET will establish a Special Account denominated
in US$ under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA with a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The
authorized allocation for the Special Account will be US$0.5 million. The replenishment applications
should be submitted by the PMU and/or UNTAET/CFA on a monthly basis or when 20 percent of the SA
has been used, whichever comes first. The Special Account will be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA.
Financial Management Assessment.
The UNTAET Financial Office in Dili is currently responsible for all accounting and reporting
activities. There is a proposal to establish a Central Fiscal Authority (CFA) to assume financial
management responsibilities of UNTAET. The financial management functions of CFA are being
established and the staff is being recruited.  Therefore, the basic institutional framework is present to
establish sound internal control procedures and accounting and reporting arrangements. Most of the
financial management staff of UNTAET needs to be trained on IDA disbursement procedures. Although
senior IDA Disbursement Officer visited Dili at the end of March and conducted a training seminar on IDA
disbursement procedures, further training workshops are needed as a number of new projects (health,
education) become effective and UNTAET/PMU's financial management capacity remains limited.
Subject to the above, it is the assessment of the IDA mission that UNTAET is taking adequate steps to meet
the minimum standards of financial management and accountability as required by IDA. The following
paragraphs describe the financial management arrangements expected to be put in place for accounting,
reporting and auditing of Project expenditures (Ref. Annex 15).
Proposed Financial Management Arrangements.
The objectives of the FM arrangements are summarized below:
(a) to ensure proper planning, budgeting, accounting, reporting and auditing of IDA funded activities
including the Pilot Agriculture Services Centers; and
(b) to ensure proper planning, budgeting, accounting, reporting and auditing of ETA funded
activities.
A financial management action plan, acceptable to IDA, was formulated by UNTAET and is attached
as Annex 14.



Page 52
Accounting Organization and Staffing.
A Project Finance Officer (PFO) with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA will be
appointed in the PMU. Terms of reference for the staff of the PMU have already been made available to
UNTAET's Department of Agriculture. The PFO will report to the PMU Director and be responsible for
all financial management activities of the Project. The PFO will be assisted by an East Timorese
counterpart in carrying out planning, budgeting, accounting and payment of petty cash as well as regular
reporting on the Project's financial aspects.
Funds Flow.
Funds Flow. The funding sources for the Project will come from the IDA-managed Trust Fund for East
Timor (TFET - for investment costs) and UN Trust Fund (for recurrent costs). The PMU will be
responsible for preparing, attaching relevant documentation, obtaining the approval of designated
signatories and sending withdrawal application to IDA. Based on these authorized requests to disburse
funds, IDA will withdraw and pay funds directly to a supplier or transfer funds to the Special Account
managed by the PMU/IUNTAET/CFA under agreed procedures. The disbursement procedures for UN TF
allocated to the Project will be determined by UNTAET/CFA. It is likely that the Project funds will flow
from IDA directly to suppliers and contractors of the Project components subject to Limited International
Bidding procedures, i.e. civil works.
Planning & Budgeting. The fund flow arrangements described above requires careful planning and
budgeting to ensure that financial resources are available for Project implementation. The preparation of
the annual and quarterly budget plans for investment and operating cost components will be the
responsibility of the Project Management Unit under the coordination of the PFO. The budgets will be
prepared for the following categories: (a) investment costs and any operating costs of the PMU to be
financed by IDA; (b) recurrent costs to be financed by UJNTAET form the UN Trust Fund.
Accounting and Reporting. The primary responsibility for maintaining accounting records for the Project
will be with the PMU and particularly its director and PFO. The PFO, with the assistance of his East
Timorese counterpart will establish appropriate accounting and internal control procedures for authorizing
payments, recording of all project related expenditures, periodic financial reporting and preparation of
annual financial statements for external audit. The accounting system should be designed to maintain
separate Project accounts for IDA funded activities in accordance with the Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
The PFO will ensure that quarterly and annual financial reports comparing budgeted and actual
expenditures are prepared for the Project. The draft formats of the reports will be agreed at negotiations.
The financial reports shall be prepared and submitted to IDA no later than 30 days following the end
of the quarter.
Auditing. The UNTAET/CFA will be responsible for carrying out internal auditing of the Project
activities and of the Pilot Agriculture Services Centers established under the Project. The PMU will
prepare annual financial statements for the Project and have them audited by an independent external
auditor acceptable to IDA. The auditor will be required to provide an opinion on the financial statements,
the operations of the Special Account and the withdrawals from the grant based on statements of
expenditures (SOEs). The independent auditor will appointed on terms of reference acceptable to
IDA.
Financial Management Arrangements for PASCs. The PFO will ensure that adequate accounting and
reporting arrangements are established and a suitably qualified accountant is appointed to each PASC to be
established under the grant.  The PFO should certify the adequacy of accounting and reporting
arrangements before any grant funds are disbursed to PASCs. When a PASC is managed by a NGO, the
PFO will also be responsible for assessing the capacity of NGO to manage funds, and suitable accounting
and reporting arrangements agreed before contracting NGO to manage the PASC.



Page 53
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Trust Fund Proceeds
First Grant
Civil Works                            0.30                      100%
Goods (including                        4.30                       100%
transportation)
Training, fellowships,                  0.30                       100%
Workshops & Study tours
PMU Operating costs                     0.16                       100%
Consultant Services and
Studies:
a. Part C.2 of the Project           0.20                       100%
b. Other-                            1.00                       100%
Unallocated                           0.6
Total                            6.8
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Trust Fund Proceeds
Whole Project
Civil Works                             5.5                        100%
Goods (including                        5.6                        100%
transportation)
Training, fellowships,                  1.0                        100%
Workshops & Study tours
PMU Operating costs                     0.1                        100%
Consultant Services and                 4.2                        100%
Studies
Unallocated                             1.8
Total                                  18.2
9No taxes would be levied on works, goods and services financed through the TFET. Should taxes become due, the
financing percentage from the TFET would be reduced proportionately.



Page 54
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
East Timor: Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Time taken to prepare the Project                 01                   01
(months)
First Bank mission (identification)           04/01/2000           04/01/2000
Appraisal mission departure                   05/15/2000           05/13/2000
Negotiations                                  06/07/2000           08/07/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 06/30/2000        .7./1  /200019
Prepared by: UNTAET, East Timorese (CNRT), bilaterals and NGOs (Fundacao Naroman)
Preparation assistance: the IDA-managed Trust Fund for East Timor
IDA staff who worked on the Project included:
Malcolm Bale                         Sector Manager, Strategy and Operations
Shawki Barghouti                     Agriculture Economist
Mohamed Noureddine Benali            Agriculturist - Task Team Leader
Sofia Bettencourt                    Natural Resources Economist
Sarah Cliffe                         Chief of Mission
Evelyn Cowan                         Team Assistant
Cynthia Dharmajaya                   Team Assistant
Peter Dukes                          Procurement Specialist
Abdul Haji                           Financial Management
Hilary Kiel                          Procurement
Srish Kumar                          Agriculture Economist
Maurice Le Blanc                     Procurement
Glenn Morgan                         Environment
Karin Nordlander                     Sr. Counsel
Hung Kim Phung                       Disbursement
Klaus Rohland                        Country Director (EACNI)
Dina Umali-Deininger                 Economist
Wijaya Wickrema                      Financial Management
Mark D. Wilson                       Acting Sector Director (EASRD)



Page 55
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
East Timor: Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
A. Project Implementation Plan
TORs of PMU staff and technical assistants
Manual of implementation (to be completed during Project launch)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Economic/financial assessment working papers
C. Other
Project Cost Tables
Procurement Plan per component
*Including electronic files.



Page 56
Annex 9: Statement of Grants
East Timor: Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Not Applicable for East Timor



Page 57
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
East Timor: Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Not yet available for East Timor.



Page 58
Annex 11: Agriculture Rehabilitation and Development Strategy
East Timor: Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Agriculture in East Timor:
A Strategy for Rehabilitation and Development
May 2000
On August 30, 1999, a majority of the people of East Timor voted for independence from Indonesia. That
decision unleashed widespread violence by anti-independence supporters, and in succeeding weeks many
people were killed, many (perhaps 150,000) were forcibly moved to West Timor, the majority of houses
were burned, and there was widespread looting. The city of Dili and towns of any size were largely
destroyed, and the majority of the population have no jobs. In addition the agricultural sector was brought
to a halt. Livestock for meat and traction were destroyed or driven to West Timor, farm and food-
processing machinery were destroyed, and food stocks and seeds were looted.
The international community reacted by sending a UN peace-keeping force to East Timor and installing a
UN Temporary Administration in East Timor (UNTAET), charged with managing the country and
rebuilding civilian government. The IDA is charged with managing a trust fund for the rehabilitation and
reconstruction of productive assets in East Timor. As part of that work, the IDA fielded a joint-donors
mission to East Timor in April 2000 to formulate a short-term agricultural development strategy for the
country and to identify the best way to rebuild and rehabilitate agriculturel. This note presents the findings
of the mission.
The Economy and Agriculture
East Timor is a small (19,000 km sq.), lightly populated (750,000), mountainous country that occupies
about half of the island of Timor, 300 kms north of Australia at latitude 8-10 degrees south. Per capita
income, before independence was around US$450, and is estimated at approximately half that now. The
economy is predominantly agricultural, with 90% of the population living in rural areas, where they work
as subsistence or small-scale farmers of rice, corn, vegetable gardens, tree crops, and livestock.
Most of East Timor's land is occupied by paddy and rainfed rice (80,000 ha), tree plantations (30,000 ha),
and forests (130,000 ha)"'. Most of the land is not used intensively and there is potential to increase crops,
pastures, and livestock production. There also appears to be considerable potential to diversify crop
production for both local consumption and export. Much of the south coast is flat lowlands, but land
utilization there is limited by the erratic availability of water for irrigation and poor road access to markets.
There is abundant rainwater, but rainfall is seasonal and runs freely to the sea. Constructing water capture
systems is difficult because rain is torrential and watercourses are itinerant. Thus many farmners live in
highland areas, and most of them utilize diversified farming systems to ensure food security: shifting
(swidden) cultivation of rainfed crops, mainly maize; cultivation of rice (in lower, flatter areas); house
gardens of vegetables, cassava, beans, and maize; household chickens, pigs, and perhaps a buffalo; and
harvesting of forest products such as tamarind, candlenut, sandalwood, and yams. Forest coffee plantations
10 Members of the mission were Robert Ferraris, AusAID; Jose Reis Abel, Estaneslau Da Silva,CNRT/UNTAET;
Hiroyki Konuma, Fransisco Dias Chimoco, Keith Chapman, Denis Hoffman, FAO; Edio Da Costa, FUNDAROMAN;
Malcolm Bale, Shawki Barghouti, (Co-Leaders), Mohamed Noureddine Benali, Peter Dukes, IDA; Anthony Marsh,
NCBA/USAID; Fernando Gomes Da Silva, Representative of the Portugese Government; Serge Verniou, Livingstone
Sindayigaya, Zijun Chen, Maria Regina Ismail, UNTAET.
" The numbers are approximate. Data bases on East Timor agriculture are poor.



Page 59
are also found in the highlands, and coconuts are grown in the lowlands. The agricultural production
systems overlap one another, with a single-family being involved in three or more farming activities.
Prior to the 1999 referendum agriculture and its support activities (agroprocessing and agricultural input
industries) employed more than 85 percent of the population, contributed 40 percent of GDP, and
accounted for 90 percent of foreign exchange. Coffee, some sandlewood and (formerly) some live cattle are
exported. Agriculture's key position in the economy has created an imperative for rapidly rebuilding
agricultural capacity for both food security and income-generating reasons.
Table I provides a breakdown of the agricultural sector's contribution to East Timor's GDP, and Table 2
shows production and yield by crop.
The Principles Underlying the Rebuilding Strategy
In formulating an agricultural strategy for East Timor, the team was strongly influenced by certain
characteristics of the country and of the post-conflict situation:
*   Agriculture will continue to be the principle economic activity in East Timor and will be the chief
engine of growth for the economy;
*  East Timor will have very limited public resources to spend on agriculture. Estimates of tax revenue
when reconstruction is completed are around US$30 million. The priorities of schooling and health
will require at least half of this, leaving very little for other sectors, including agriculture. Further, in
the absence of expatriate assistance, institutional capacity to administer and implement public programs
is weak;
*  East Timor is presently receiving substantial amounts of foreign assistance to reconstruct its economy.
In agriculture alone, foreign grants over the two to three year transition period are likely to be
approximately double the amount of annual tax revenues. These foreign grants should be seen as a
one-time event and should be used for capital investment to put in place the framework and
infrastructure for a thriving agriculture. Moreover, there is a pressing need for foreign aid to be
coordinated. The dangers of uncoordinated ad hoc interventions that do not conform to an agreed
agricultural strategy are very real and may already be occurring. Well-intentioned butpoorly-designed
aid interventions may perpetuate an "entitlement" mentality in East Timor.
*  Foreign aid is likely to diminish sharply at the conclusion of the transition period and judging by the
present lack of interest of many bilaterals in agriculture, the sector will not be able to rely on significant
foreign aid;
*  The great advantage possessed by East Timor is that it is starting life with a clean slate. It can design
the enabling framework for its economy -- and for agriculture in particular -- from the ground up. East
Timor can leam from the successes and failures of other countries to put together a policy environment
based on appropriate best-practices from around the world;
*  Even though agriculture has the potential to expand and is being provided with a large injection of
capital, it is unrealistic to expect the sector to grow quickly. Recent agricultural growth rates, helped
by many subsidies, have been about 4 percent annually. In the absence of subsidies and other forms of
government intervention, such as extension, it is likely that growth will approximate past rates. While
aid flows may produce a one-time jump in output, future growth will be limited by the ability of small
farmers to borrow capital, and limits on their farming expertise.
A Strategy for the Short- and Medium-Term Development of Agriculture
The team's vision for agriculture in East Timor is one where agriculture is the engine of growth for the
economy, where farmers can freely choose how to market their crops and animal products, where the
population need not fear food shortages created by civil strife and poor policies, and where government is
the 'enabler' or 'facilitator' of rural development rather than the 'provider' of agricultural services.



Page 60
East Timor will need to be very selective in the number and size of interventions in the sector, and in the
number and size of public programs, since the revenues needed to finance many activities often thought to
be public in nature will not be available. While development aid will help, it typically does not pay for the
recurrent costs of agricultural projects nor a ministry's operating costs. This implies a very small ministry
or department of agriculture and leads to the first set of policy decisions:
* In the spirit of "first-things-first", the interim government needs to make sure that the short-term
reconstruction and development activities recommended in the Joint Assessment Mission report12 and
complemented by this mission (see Table 3) are completed. This means ensuring that donors are
matched with activities and that Projects are completed successfully. These activities will be the
foundation for rebuilding the sector.
*  Agriculture, including agricultural inputs and value-added processing and marketing, should be
regarded as private sector activities where private farmers, business owners, bankers, etc make
decisions about production. In other words, the private sector should finance and manage most
agricultural-related activities.
* Government's role should be to create and implement a policy framework that rewards hard work and
innovation, and that offers employment opportunities for rural people through market-driven growth.
The government's efforts need to be limited to such public activities as agricultural education, simple
adaptive research, limited public aspects of extension, data collection and analysis, and sanitary and
phytosanitary regulation.  The interim  government, in close collaboration with East Timorese
counterparts, should draft statements on the framework and policies for agriculture, livestock, forestry,
fisheries, research, extension, land management, and environment and conservation.
v  When public intervention is appropriate, the principle should be public financing and private delivery
of most of those services. For example, the government may wish to support mass-media or group
extension activities. It can do this by financing those activities and contracting with private extension
agents or NGOs to deliver the services. The government does not need to operate the extension service
nor employ extension agents.
* In order to ensure that Projects and programs undertaken by government best fit the needs of
beneficiaries, interventions should be participatory in design, selection, and implementation, and
should be community owned. Existing organizations and infrastructure, where present, should be
strengthened.
* Wherever possible, the government should utilize regulations and codes of international or other
national sources as its standards, rather than creating a set of regulations and standards for itself.
Further, it would be advisable to recognize the testing and certification process of selected other
countries, such as Australia, so that East Timor does not need to establish the institutions to conduct its
own certification of agricultural products.
*  Because of its severe financial constraint, East Timor needs to make careful decisions as to which
agricultural activities will be in the public domain.  In particular, the government should not own
revenue-generating enterprises, such as meat slaughterhouses, warehouse facilities, grain storage
facilities, tractor pools, or rural service centers. Government participation in these and similar activities
would be costly and would inhibit private entrepreneurship.
*  The general regulatory environment for agriculture should allow private enterprise to make choices that
will develop agriculture in a sustainable way. A "light-handed enabling environment", is part of
modern governance. Such an approach minimizes the demand for government resources and
minimizes opportunities for corruption in the civil service. This approach implies that both internal and
external trade should be free and open (free of tariffs, quotas, and export taxes) in order to allow
producers and consumers to receive price signals based on world prices. This will allow for the most
efficient allocation of resources and the most rapid and sustainable growth in income. This approach
12 "East Timor: Building a Nation. A Framework for Reconstruction and Development". Agricultural Background
Paper, November, 1999.



Page 61
will also minimize the size of a customs service, which is typically very corrupt and collect minimal
13
revenue
*  Similarly, government should adopt a regulatory environment for rural non-farm industries that allows
private entrepreneurs to establish businesses free from unnecessary regulation and controls. Industries
servicing agriculture will arise, and are being provided with an initial start through a component of the
"Agricultural Rehabilitation Project". Such businesses can be expected to proliferate and diversify
over time, creating employment opportunities and income in rural areas for rural residents, including
farm families.
*  East Timor is in that part of the world most affected by the Southern Oscillation, or "ElNino" weather
pattern. Although the food crisis is over and food production will be returning to its long-term trend,
East Timor can expect drought conditions every four to eight years. In addition East Timor is subject
to numerous adverse weather events, such as the recent flooding in Suai, which reduce agricultural
output and may cause long-term damage to irrigation. It is a legitimate function of government to plan
for such contingencies. Although there has been discussion of a policy that would ensure self-
sufficiency in cereals or food, other countries have found this approach to be expensive and difficult to
maintain. A more recent approach has involved replacing physical stocks of food with a buffer fund
with which to purchase rice (say) in times of shortage while ensuring greater food security by creating
the conditions for a vibrant and profitable overall economy. Under these conditions much of the
population will be able to afford food and farmers will receive the right price signals to produce the
right type and quantity of food products. Separately, East Timor may decide to establish a social safety
net program that provides income to poor people so they can purchase food, but the government does
not need to purchase food, store grains, or control cereal prices itself. National income, and growth in
income, is generated most rapidly when actions in the private sector determine the quantity and
combination of agricultural goods that will be produced. Food security, not food self-sufficiency,
should be the orientation of the policy discussion.
*  Because of geographic proximity, product prices in East Timor will approximate those in Indonesia,
and pricing policy in East Timor will, in large part, be set in Jakarta. Arbitraging of prices through
smuggling is a tradition in the region. If East Timor sets the price for any product significantly above
its price in Indonesia, traders will move the product to East Timor, thus lowering the price in East
Timor to the c.i.f. Indonesia price. If the price in East Timor is below that in Indonesia, the product
will be smuggled out of East Timor, thus the price in East Timor will rise to that of Indonesia.
Arbitraging, in short, will effectively restrict pricing discretion.
*  Agricultural education and institutional capacity are starting from a very low base and should be given
high priority in government expenditure. To leverage resources, innovative partnerships with church
groups, overseas donors, and NGOs could be developed. One partner might provide the physical
facilities, another the expert instructor, with the government paying building rental and other variable
costs.
*  Farmer and other similar organizations have historically been weak in East Timor. Government should
support the building of farm and community organizations; such as cooperatives constituted under the
Rochdale principles of one member one vote, equal equity participation, and profit distribution based
on patronage. Other forms of business organization such as limited liability companies, partnerships,
associations, and NGOs should also be encouraged. Supporting women's groups is an effective way of
empowering women entrepreneurship so that women can be part of rural business. The overall
objective is to foster individual and community self-reliance and develop organizations capable of
implementing government programs. Government should solicit technical assistance from donors for a
program that raises awareness and builds capacity of such organizations.
13 Relatedly, generation of public revenue in the aftermath of a civil conflict is a concern. The method usually
adopted is to impose import and export duties. If East Timor finds it necessary to impose such duties, it should limit
the life of the duties to, say, five years. The same criteria applies to current taxes. The mission found the recently
imposed coffee tax to be arbitrary and capricious, its incidence falling directly and solely on poor and illiterate
highland farmers.



Page 62
*  It would be advantageous to construct a ministry that would integrate agriculture, rural development,
livestock, fisheries, forestry, and conservation activities. There would also be some savings through
eliminating overlapping functions.  The IDA  "Agricultural Rehabilitation Project" suggests an
integrated Department of Agriculture and Rural Development.
*  Much of East Timor's farmland is fragile and steep. Soils are subject to degradation and erosion by the
heavy downpours common in the country and some of the land that should remain under forest cover
has been cleared. The government has a responsibility to ensure the conservation of land and to
promote sustainable farming techniques under shifting agriculture. Much of the area under swidden
agriculture is being farmed sustainably but could be improved. Other areas are being degraded because
of population pressure.
*  It is important to note that it would be a mistake to attempt to turnswidden farmers into sedentary
farrners too soon. Many of those involved in shifting agriculture in East Timor use sustainable
methods, and there is evidence that extension workers who do not fully understand shifting agricultural
systems have given such farmers poor advice.
*  Land tenure and ownership is an emerging issue. Most of the rural land in East Timor is held in
customary custodial ownership by clans or communities. There are large areas of unused or under-used
land where the custodian has moved away or has not allocated the land. Because farmers of this land
are subject to expulsion, they only grow annual food crops; they do not grow perennial crops or make
other improvements. East Timor faces the challenge of investigating land tenure issues and initiating a
dialogue to resolve them. This is necessary for both social equity and agricultural efficiency reasons.
A Program of Actions
As of April, 2000, the rebuilding of agriculture was just being planned. The immediate food shortage has
been dealt with by donations and now plans are being assembled to restore and boost agricultural output.
The IDA "East Timor: Agriculture Rehabilitation Project" is one of the first. It provides financing for most
of the immediate actions that need to be undertaken to rebuild agriculture. The Project is designed to
deliver the most urgently required services to the agricultural sector over the next two years. In brief, that
Project has four components:
1. Restoring Productive Assets
a. Conducting national vaccination campaigns to immunize animals;
b. Providing rural families with six-week old chicks to improve household nutrition and income;
c. Replacing up to 1,000 head of buffalo to allow farmers who have lost their animals to regain
d. the ability to prepare their paddy fields for planting rice;
e. Replacing simple hand tools needed by rural people; and
f. Conducting farmer information campaigns so farmers know of the availability of agricultural
services.
2. Providing Irrigation Rehabilitation and Maintenance
a. Identifying feasible improvements and selecting the schemes where rehabilitation would be
most viable; establishing water user associations; and preparing cost-effective designs for
structure rehabilitation;
b. Rehabilitating irrigation infrastructure covering an area of up to 7,000 ha;
c. Undertaking hydrological studies and redesign of major works that have been extensively
damaged; and
d. Repairing and maintaining up to 100 km of feeder/access roads through labor-intensive
community participation.



Page 63
3. Establishing Pilot Agriculture Services Centers
a. Establishing Pilot Agriculture Services Centers (PASC) to provide farming communities with
the agricultural services they require;
b. Training of East Timorese research staff, extension, and PASC managers; and
c. Financing radio sets and short range transmission stations to provide rural dwellers with
information and technical advice.
4. Establishing a Project Management Unit
Establishing a PMU within the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development that would
manage the Project and at the same time strengthen the capability of the department in human skills and
management.
In addition to this Project other bilateral donors are coordinating their efforts to provide agriculture with
priority inputs and infrastructure:
*  Japan, Macau, and Norway have provided tractors and tillers;
*  Japan, over the next three years, will be rehabilitating three major irrigation systems and undertaking
land mapping for planning and land regularization projects;
*  Australia is restoring the meteorological stations, small-scale fishing infrastructure, and undertaking
research on Siam weed control;
*  Portugal planning to restore Dili and village market places, and is interested in assisting with the
PASCs and in developing the coffee industry; and
*  The United States is providing Grant for coffee marketing and is developing an agricultural training
center.
Still, there are many priority activities that remain to be funded by donors. Some involve restoring or
developing infrastructure, such as the holding nursery and seed center, and the construction of abattoir
facilities in Dili and major towns. Yet many others involve providing technical assistance to the
government as it sets the framework for the agricultural sector. Setting up efficient public institutions that
can manage the policy, regulatory, and programmatic aspects of agriculture and natural resource
management is an early priority. Associated with this is the need to train staff for those institutions.
Assistance is also needed to establish sanitary and phytosanitary regulations for the trade of plant and
animal products, to put in place regulations for the sale and use of agrochemicals, to develop a banking
system that provides Grant and savings facilities for rural people, and to undertake studies on production
and marketing of agricultural products to minimize post-harvest losses of existing crops and provide
alternative crop possibilities for farmers. The actions above are first-generation activities needed within the
next two years. Next, assistance is needed to liaise with the CGIAR system so that useful agricultural
research developments can be brought to East Timor. These developments would be tested and adapted
locally before the information or plant material is released to nurseries or farmers. At the same time, work
should begin on management plans for the protection and development of watersheds and land. This is a
large task that will require a multi-year commitment by the government and international donors to finance
and implement, but is needed if East Timor is to develop its agriculture in a sustainable way. It will lead to
the development of larger irrigated areas, crop diversification for local use and possibly export, the
reforestation of eroded or overused sloped areas, and the eventual graduation of subsistence farmers to
small commercial farmers. These activities can be planned by donor technical assistance in two years time
for funding and implementation in three or more years time.
The small states that have succeeded in agriculture have concentrated their attention on one cash
commodity for export. Tonga concentrates on vanilla; Maldives concentrates on tuna. Organic coffee



Page 64
seems to be the special commodity for East Timor. A disproportionately large effort of government should
go into ensuring that the premium that East Timor receives for its coffee is maintained and developed, that
the coffee industry is developed by finding improved cultivars, and that coffee marketing ventures are
allowed to develop. The remainder of government effort should go into lowland development to ensure
food security. This work should start right away and be maintained through time.
The above agenda represents the major activities that will need to be addressed over the next three years.
Other policy and technical issues will undoubtedly arise over that time and can be addressed within the
framework of the strategic principles.
Concluding Comments
Because of the large number of activities to be undertaken during the transition to self-government, it will
be tempting for the authorities to compromise long-tern principles in favor of expediency. In instances
where there is a need for considerable government intervention, such as the monitoring and administration
of capital projects, UNTAET should design a "phase-down" plan so that when it turns over the
administration to a new government, the phase-down has occurred.
The overall strategic objective of the interim administration should be to use the transition time to restore
agriculture with the large capital inflows that donors are providing. This is a one-time opportunity. The
entire basic framework for agriculture should be in place when the transition period ends. In designing its
investments, the transitional government will want to make sure that recurrent costs do not exceed its
financial servicing capability.  This means that recurrent costs should be the responsibility of the
beneficiaries, which has implications for the ownership of those assets. In large part, such assets should be
community-owned, operated, and maintained.  The administration should resist trying to pattern public
support of agriculture after the top-heavy and unnecessary structures in many other countries. This will
mean being innovative and thinking hard about what is public and what is private. Where public action is
justified, the first thought should be of public financing but private delivery. There will be strong pressures
for government intervention and a danger of loosing sight of this objective. Farmers in East Timor have
operated in a culture where the government regulated agriculture, formed so-called "cooperatives", and
provided free or subsidized inputs. Changing farmer's mentality to one of "reward based on effort" will be
a challenge. Maintaining focus on this strategic approach will require the vigilance and advice of key
donors, including the IDA.
Despite the huge capital investment program planned by donors and adoption of the best public policy by
government, there will continue to be considerable rural poverty and a large subsistence agriculture in East
Timor for the foreseeable future. This will not be solved quickly but will need to be addressed
systematically. Reducing rural poverty and generating rural development is a slow, purposeful activity.
East Timor, however, has the natural resource base to expand agricultural output considerably and make
agriculture the engine for growth in the economy. The question is "Can the government take full advantage
of this opportunity"?
Finally, it would be advisable for the IDA, on behalf of the donors, to monitor the agricultural strategy over
the next three to four years to refine the approach, based on what is occurring over the intervening period.



Page 65
Table 1. East Timor: Agriculture's Contribution to Rural GDP, 1990
Subsector                  Share (%)
Food crops                    51.5
Plantations                   25.8
Livestock                     20.5
Forestry                       1.__
Fisheries                      1.0
Total                        100.0
Table 2. East Timor: Agricultural Production, 1997
Food Crops     Production       Yield (tons/ha)
(tons)
Rice                       52,000                2.70
Maize                     106,600                1.80
Peanut                      3,200                1.00
Soybean                     1,200                0.80
Cassava                    66,500                4.00
Sweet Potato               16,200                3.90
Tree Crops
Coffee                      9,700                0.20
Coconut                     9,900                0.20
Candlenut                     690                0.20
Cocoa                          42                0.08
Cloves                         12                0.05
Livestock          Head
Slaughtered
Local Chickens            806,000
Broilers                  449,000
Goats                      37,500
Pigs                       19,700
Cows                        5,500
Buffalo                     1,700
Sea Fish             2,400 (tons)
Pond/ Paddy Fish      350  (tons)
Sources: Central Bureau of Statistics, 1998, Livestock Service of East Timor Province, 1998.



Page 66
Table 3. Reconstruction and Development Budget, FY2001 - 2003
(US$'OOO)
Activity                         FY01         FY02         FY03    Total               Donor
Priority Productive Asset Restoration 7"      2000           79          83                          TFET15
500          300         200         3200            Portugal
Farmner Information Campaign                           140           15          17          173             TFET
Rural Road Program                                     200          100          0          300              TFET
Community Extension Program                            54           42           55                          TFET
3            3           3          160             Others'6
Irrigation System Rehabilitation                      3,220        4,865       3,065                         TFET
3000         3000                    17,150            JICA
Technical Advice and Service Centers  .               3,200        2,865        1,495                        TFET
800         2000         800        10,960           Portugal
Rttral Grant                                          1,000        1,000        500                          TFET
1000         1000         500        4,000            Others
Project Management                                     212          212         214         639              TFET
Agrochemicals                                          150          150          150         450            Bilaterals
Fertilizers                                            300          300         300         900            Bilaterals
Agricultural Documentation Center"                     400          50           50         500              TFET
Land Mapping (recovery)                                             150                      150             JICA
Siam Weed Control                                      100          60           40         200             AusAID
Regulation and Standardization TA'"                    200          200         200         600              Others
Pasture Improvement                                    200          50           50         300              Others
Agro-processing and Post-harvest TA'9                  50                                                    TFET
100          100         100         350              Others
Small-scale fisheries"5                                150          50                      200             AusAID
Village Market Places'                                 50           50           50          150            Portugal
Holding Nursery and Seed Center                                     300          80         380              Others
Watershed and Land Management Plan                                  250         250         500              Others
Restoration of Meteorological Stations                              250          50         300             AusAID
Production and market studies"                                      100          100        200              Others
Liaison with CGIAR system"                                          50           50          100             Others
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit"'                       25           50           50          125             Others
Restoration of Agr EducationL5                        1000          500         500         2000            USAID
Abattoir Reconstruction:"                              500                                  500              Others
Farm mechanization                                    1,600                                 1,600      Macau/Norw/Japan
Coffee development                                    3000         1,500        1,500       6,000           USAID
Total                                                22,992    19,641         10,470       53,103    _______________21
14 Details of line items I to 8 are provided in the Project documentation.
t5 TFET is the Trust Fund for East Timor, administered by the IDA
16 "Others" in donor column denotes that a donor has not been identified.
17 Line items 11-13, 15, 19-21 are provided in the November, 1999 Joint Assessment Mission.
18 This would provide for technical assistance and advice to the Department of Agriculture on policy and regulatory issues.
19 This would provide training and Grant for low technology processing and post-harvest treatment of agricultural products, including coffee.
20 This would provide replacement fishing nets, lines, and rehabilitate or replace icemakers for the artisanal fishing industry.
21 This would provide grants for the reconstruction of municipal market places.
22 This would provide financing for rehabilitation, production, and marketing feasibility studies for existing tree crops (tamarinds,
coconuts, cameri) and high-value horticultural and industrial tree crops.
23 This would finance the part time services of a former CGIAR official to create linkages with relevant research centers in the
CGIAR system (IRRI, CYMMIT, ICRISAT, CFOR) in order to bring relevant recent research development and material to East
Timor for evaluation and an adaptive research program.
2 This would finance the setting up of a monitoring and evaluation unit for the activities undertaken during the
reconstruction/transition period.
25 This would restore agricultural education at the agricultural university and at private agriculture training schools.
26 This would finance the construction of a new abattoir in Dili. The present abattoir was destroyed and is poorly located. The new
abattoir would be in a more appropriate location. It would be owned by the local govemment and leased out to a private operator,
with a time-bound plan for the municipality to sell the facility.



Page 67
Annex 12: Environmental Assessment
East Timor: Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
1.   Restoring productive assets and improving agricultural productivity are high government priorities.
The proposed Agriculture Rehabilitation Project (ARP) would support these priorities by pursuing the
following project objectives: (i) improving food security of selected poor households; (ii) ameliorating the
state of irrigation and other rural infrastructure; and (iii) improving the quality and delivery of agriculture
services. In order to achieve the above objectives, the Project would finance four project components
representing two sets of activities. The first set of activities make up Project component one and would
focus, over the next six to eight months, on restoring productive assets at the farmer level. The second set
of activities make up Project components two and three would focus, over the next 30 months, on
rehabilitating selected agriculture access roads and irrigation schemes, as well as improving farmers' access
to agriculture services and information. Project component four concerns the establishment and operation
of a Project Management Unit (PMU).
Project Component 1 - Priority Productive Asset Restoration
2.   Activities that would be financed under this component would include:
a.  Conducting national vaccination campaigns to immunize cattle, small ruminants and pigs
against infectious diseases and provide emergency clinical services where required.
b.  Providing up to 20,000 rural families with 5 four to six-week old chicks each to improve
household nutrition and income.
c.  Replacing up to 1,000 head of buffalo and 1000 head of Bali cattle to allow farmers who have
lost their animals during the violence to regain the ability to prepare their paddy fields for
planting rice. Replacing simple hand tools needed by rural people to undertake farming,
household and communal work such as agricultural roads or irrigation canal maintenance.
d.  Conducting farmer information campaigns.
3.   The procurement and distribution to poor households of chicks and livestock would not negatively
impact the environment because they would not represent a significant increase of the poultry and livestock
populations in East Timor. The hand tools, also to be distributed by the Project, would be used essentially
for gardening purposes in households and would not adversely impact the environment.
Project Component 2 - Irrigation/Rural Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenance.
4.   Four major activities would be financed under this component:
a. Engineering studies for the purpose of: (i) conducting surveys and profiling of irrigation
schemes for the purpose of identifying feasible improvements and selecting the schemes where
rehabilitation would be most viable; (ii) the establishment and consolidation of Water User
Associations (WUA); and (iii) designing and preparing cost-effective designs and preparing
sketches of canal improvement and structure rehabilitation, as well as the preparation of tender
documents (using IDA standard documents).
b. Rehabilitation/construction and maintenance of irrigation infrastructure to bring selected
irrigation systems to good working condition before turnover to farmer groups for their
operation and maintenance (O&M). The rehabilitation works would include main structures
and canals, as well as secondary and tertiary canals covering an area of up to 7,000 ha.



Page 68
c. Hydrological studies, structural studies, etc. and redesign of major works that have been
extensively damaged mainly because they were either poorly designed or not sufficiently
protected.
d. Repairing and maintaining up to 100 km of feeder/access roads through labor-intensive
community participation. The rehabilitation of these roads by local populations using hand
tools and hand handled materials (Gabions). The aim of this activity is to facilitate the
transport of agricultural production to main roads (markets) and to provide work opportunities
for rural people.
5.   The rehabilitation of irrigation schemes would bring back into irrigation areas that are within
existing irrigation schemes and are presently starved of water. Since irrigation water is generally diverted
from river flows during and immediately after the rainy season, the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes
would not affect ground water supply but would only reduce the amount of runoff water that goes to the
sea.
6.   The rehabilitation of agriculture access roads would be undertaken only on existing roads and would
not enlarge or lengthen them. The impact on the areas served by these roads would be minimal as the
increased traffic would be due to general economic growth and activity rather than due to the maintenance
of the access roads.
Project Component 3 - Pilot Agriculture Services Centers and Line of Grant through SEP/BNU
7.   The ARP would finance four activities under this component. The first activity would be to establish
up to eight Pilot Agriculture Services Centers (PASC). The purpose of the PASCs is to provide farming
communities in the area they cover with the agricultural services they require that are not now provided by
other businesses in the area The pilot PASCs/centers would be legal commercial entities owned and
governed by the villages or villagers the centers serve.
8.   The establishment of the PASCs would make it easier for farmers to have access to farm inputs and
support services.  While it is likely that fertilizer and pesticide use may increase as a result of
intensification of rice production, it is unlikely that this phenomenon would happen in the uplands and
coffee-growing areas. The Project is providing support to research and extension services that will provide
recommendations on appropriate uses of fertilizers and advice and demonstrate the safe use of pesticides by
farmers. Integrated pest management techniques and products will be demonstrated to farmers.
9.   The majority of the PASCs will be located in areas where crop intensification is possible and in the
uplands where coffee and fruit trees are grown. It is expected that the PASCs will encourage organic
coffee growing in the uplands and sustainable rice intensification in the lowlands.
10.  The ARP would finance the procurement of pesticides by the PASCs on the condition that they and
the extension agents stationed at their headquarters promote integrated pest management techniques. Any
and all pesticides to be procured by the PASCs would be done in accordance with Bank policy and
guidelines on pest management.
11.  The second activity to be financed under this component is the short and long-term (maximum of 2
years) training of East Timorese research staff, extension and PASC managers, as well as the exchange of
researchers, twinning arrangements and procurement of experimental equipment and materials to set up
research laboratories and experiment fields and stations for the Faculty of Agriculture of the University of
East Timor. Research staff and extension workers will be trained in good environmental practice and will
help to raise the consciousness of farmers to sustainable environmental practice in their work and
interaction with farmers. The Project would also finance studies on land/soil mapping, and land aptitude



Page 69
surveys which will be used for land use planning purposes. Other studies to be financed under the Project
would also include marketing and domestic resources analysis studies.
12.  Support to Community Radio Extension is the third activity to be financed under this component. In
collaboration with the IDA-financed Community Empowerment Project, the ARP would finance the
procurement of radio sets and short range transmission stations. The radios and transmission stations will
be operated by trained community volunteers for the purpose of providing farmers and other rural dwellers
with information and technical advice, including information on good environmental practice.
13.  The fourth activity is the provision of a line of Grant dedicated to the agricultural sector. Grant
would be disbursed through the on-going Small Enterprise Project and the Banco National Ultramarino.
The line of Grant would be disbursed on the basis of the existing agreed arrangements between IDA and
the BNU. The environmental requirements already specified by the SEP would be adopted for Grants
originating from this line of Grant.
Project Component 4 - The Project Management Unit
14.  To facilitate the implementation of Project activities, the ARP would finance the establishment of a
Project Management Unit (PMU). The PMU would be an integral part of UNTAET's Interim Department
of Agriculture and Rural Development (IDARD The objective of the creation of the PMU and the
recruitment of expatriate staff (UN volunteers) is to build Project management capacity within the IDARD
and enable it to sustain its Project planning, management and monitoring capacity. To build this capacity,
the ARP would finance, over the two-and-half-year life of the Project, the recruitment of local and
expatriate personnel, technical assistance, training for East Timorese staff, as well as other operating costs.
15.  IDARD, as part of its mission, will be responsible for green environmental issues, sustainable
agriculture, and forestry. Staff will be advocates for the environment and for sustainable farming practices.
The Project finances this training. The goal is to help farmers develop integrated cropping and livestock
systems including agroforestry based systems that permit improved nutrient cycling and biological control
of pests and diseases. The Project is designed to help farmers achieve sustainable intensification, which
ensures simultaneous increase in returns to land and labor and the maintenance of soil nutrient balance.
Investment in farm inputs will be provided only to sustain the economic and environmental framework of
the prevailing traditional production system which relies on locally available resources instead of purchased
externally produced inputs.
16.  The PMU would be responsible for all the mechanics of the Project: preparing, advertising,
evaluating tenders and awarding contracts for the procurement of civil works; obtaining clearances,
including customs; managing the Project's special account; making payments and keeping accounts;
implementing, supervising, monitoring and evaluating the implementation of Project activities; and
submitting to IDA Project progress and implementation completion reports
17.  In preparing and evaluating tenders, PMU  staff will be formulating contracts and selecting
contractors based, in part, on environmentally compatible construction methods and least-disturbance
techniques. Part of the monitoring and evaluation will include oversight on environmental matters.
18.  The potential environmental impacts of each of the sub-project components and the remedies
included in the Project are indicated in the matrix below.



Page 70
Potential Environmental Impacts and Remedies of Project Sub- Components
Project Subcomponent        Potential    Environmental Project Remedial Action
Impact
The    procurement    and  Negligible  impact on  the Extension messages would be
distribution   to     poor environment  because  they  delivered  to  farrners  to
households of six-week old  would  not  represent  a encourage the use of manure
chicks and buffalo.         significant increase  of the to increase soil fertility.
poultry    and      buffalo
populations in East Timor.
Distribution of hand tools for No    impact    on   the
gardening.                  environment.
Rehabilitation  of  irrigation No significant impact on the On-farm  water management
schemes would bring back  environment. Irrigation water and conservation techniques
into irrigation areas that are is diverted from river flows would  be  demonstrated  to
within  existing  irrigation  during and immediately after farmers.
schemes and  are presently  the   rainy   season;  the
starved of water.           rehabilitation  of  irrigation
schemes would not affect
ground water resources.
Rehabilitation of agriculture The rehabilitation would be
access roads.               undertaken only on existing
roads and would not enlarge or
lengthen them. The impact on
the areas served by these roads
would be minimal.
The establishment of the Pilot Would make access and use of The Project would procure
Agriculture Services Centers   fertilizers and pesticides easier pesticides according to Bank
and could potentially harm  guidelines. Extension staff of
environment and users.     the PASCs would demonstrate
proper use of fertilizers and
IPM techniques.
Land capability studies to be This would result in guidelines
financed by the Project will be and government actions that
used by the Department of would reduce soil and water
Agriculture  for  land  use erosions  and  protect bio-
planning.                   diversity and sensitive areas.



Page 71
Annex 13: Project Performance/Impact Indicators
East Timor: Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
The following indicators shall be monitored on a semi-annual basis by the Project Management Unit
(PMU). These indicators will be used to follow up on Project implementation progress and to evaluate the
achievement of its development objectives and eventually its impact.
Key Performance Indicators       Source/Process for         Project Calendar Year
Verifying Indicator
2001       2002
Key Project Outcomes:
1. Nutrition of Project beneficiaries   1. Beneficiaries survey at the  Dec. 2001   Nov. 2002
improved (households have more   end of 2001.
eggs, poultry meat & rice).
2. Area under irrigation and access to  2. Beneficiary survey at end  NA.  Jan. 2002
main roads improve in Project area.   of year 2002. In preparation     and
for ICR.                              Nov. 2001
3. Yields of irrigated rice, rainfed  3. Rural surveys in areas
maize and vegetables increase by  covered by PASCs at end of  Dec. 2001   Nov. 2002
10% at full development.         2001 & 2002. In preparation
.         for.ICR.                  _ _for_ICR
4. Off-farm employment           4. Rural surveys in Project
opportunities increase in the Project  areas at end of 2001 and  Dec. 2001   Nov. 2002
areas.                           2002.



Page 72
East Timor
Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Continued
Key Performance        Source/Process           Project Calendar Year              Total
Indicators             for Verifying       2000         2001         2002      Plan   Act.
Indicator                                          _
Plan  Act.  Plan   Act.  Plan   Act.
Key Project Outputs:
1. Cattle, buffalo, small  Random survey      25%   12%          5%            5%
ruminants mortality   in Dec. 2001.
rates decline by half by
end of year two.
2. Area of irrigation  Memorandum of NA             2000          5000         7000
schemes maintained     hand-over of
and rehabilitated in   fully operating
hectares.              schemes to
water users
associations
3. Length of access    Memos of         NA          100           0            100
roads rehabilitated by    Hand-over of
communities in Km. 1 00  completed
roads.
4. Number of Pilot     Number of grant 5            3             0            8
Agriculture Services    requests
Centers established and  accepted and
capitalized.           funded. Project
records &
reports.
5. Number of           Number of        NA          2             3            5
community radio       transmission
stations established.  gears procured.
Project records
& reports.
6. A minimum of        Project records   5           15           5            20
twenty research,       and reports.
extension, PASC staff
trained in country
and/or abroad.



Page 73
Annex 14: Financial Management Action Plan.
East Timor
Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
1. UNTAET will recruit a Director of the Agriculture Project Management Unit (PMU) responsible for
execution of the Project. It is expected that the Director will be in place before Project effectiveness.
2. UNTAET will recruit a Project Financial Officer (PFO) for the Project with qualifications and TORs
acceptable to IDA.
3. Immediately upon his/her appointment, the PFO will familiarize himself with the Project design, IDA
procedures for procurement and disbursements, including operation of Special Account and establish
procedures for flow of funds for various Project components. He would also begin to establish accounting
and internal control procedures to ensure that the funds are utilized for the purposes intended and that these
adequately substantiated and properly recorded in the books of the Project.
4. As the Project operations increase, the PFO will assess the requirements for additional support staff for
financial functions and in agreement with UNTAET recruit the necessary staff to maintain adequate
financial and accounting systems and procedures.
5. The PFO will have the overall responsibility to prepare and submit each quarter to UNTAET and the
IDA, the two financial reports - Sources and Uses of Funds and Uses of Funds by Project Activities.
Note: Format and contents of the financial formns have been briefly explained to UNTAET staff involved in
the Project so far. However, these will need further discussion with the PFO once appointed.
6. The PFO will be responsible for preparation of annual financial statements of the Project soonest after
the end of the fiscal year (presumably, June each year). UJNTAET will recruit independent external firm of
professional auditors, acceptable to IDA, who will audit the Project's annual financial statements. Report
of the auditor will be submitted to UNTAET and the bank not later than six months after the end of the
fiscal year.
Notes:
(i)    Assuming July-June to be the fiscal year of the Project, the first audit report of the Project will be due by
December 31, 2001. For this audit to be completed in time. UNTAET will need to appoint the auditors by June
30, 2001.
(ii)   IDA will assist the Project PFO to formulate audit TORs.
Note: Project indicators could be modified by common agreement of UNTAET/IDA during
project implementation.






IBRD 30626
An ,agr  ;   ,       $,:;h  5 sn                     ~~~~~~~~~~127
-17d                   Wefar sland             Lo                                 Kiso,
i  N   D  O   N   E   S  I A                                                                        Aw                  jStrait    rf  Wetar                                                    Wodwn,s                     ki-d
C                                                              E;;   f7AIR0z/-  X                                               SCerOtjw ;ti !qSdon r  .
c      (                                                                            -d                           n                                                                       iTtuolo
'hkMed                                                                                                                      m                           E      ~        cty Loe ~             ~ ~       Ldn
$ <v ~~~~~~~~~~.-.                                                                          MotE             jil Mtt    , 'Lkte                  *  Loet jt~toO  : JA~                     I r
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILE                                                                                    +/' q  lAbU     ....2SWAniI........    4C    '    o' (  C    '- W   re
Toe   Aileu/                                         oonr
S<>VW~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~tpt -@ *S  .                                RrQ-              Lob;              Loltt    V/KKEI4oolt
|Oecur>~~~~~~~ ~                              H.+         ,1:<.      F Urc4 ,x t, , T, --;D)
,  >tN >?    OtSX   i; 1    <,,~~~~~B NFila ar                      At0oVe                              j;br~  kEL    I   | |IVI
Macassar.                                      __          .'-              I
(Oecusi) *         P                        roto
JCIIN]O               C                                        ANiMi'
EAST TIMOR
.~                                                      <;(  |   rti~<5 T) v imo^&.,;.<n t )ri* Sea           hGMAINROADS
S SitTCTED TOWNS AND VfLLAGES
'- AIRPORTS
/>                                                                                                                    DIESTRS S SLE KS IA'LO;'A-L  [S  '205  J  Q  S  -  f  i>;50S,-;;,WCT SEATS
I Ni               ,tO      A                                                                                                                                          *   ADW4NISTRATIVE CENTER
.,  j,:jj  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
'. -             :               :           >         -                                                                                     ;                                              iEiE, Ao5<7*  (iEi {9 / / INTERNAT4IONAL BOUINDARIES
* ; ; *  lE i 9 >(                                  .5v 77',: ;r .
P                                                                                                                                                                                           0  5 i!  '5   20 25 3SKLOQTTERS
{4~X:  54 $0   ;           !kk - 3  i      r                                   ~                                      <     ;45H   < V  fg   *    g                                  o           5         2O N5 lIMLES
Seme7u, NFt /              :       -      / ' * iP N
tlond 
blanri V Ji _R  -s    ;a  twi $  <   .  .                                                      \   !      > isv;;rrr,             w                        T7ismapwaypdyt5d7y7hehlupDe7ign TEinoproo,-odocdythnilo5lthito orlWdrdIott
-J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17
ojn;  f  s     , r  thorLop dard*s 7o leno tpbynn th nopoolThrnWonldOonkGrooup.2ny
a  _-    _  ,,or7Sh0sU L0ndot
Ho~~~~~~~~~~~2                                          '5                                                                                 tdI5
,-s7r hvOti~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RI20



