Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25582
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-23824)
ONA
GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$6.8 MILLION
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF
TIMOR-LESTE
FOR AN
AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
March 25, 2003
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 2003)
Currency Unit = US Dollar
US $1.00 = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = US $1.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to    June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARP I           -       Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
ARP IT          -       Second Agnculture Rehabilitation Project
ASC             -       Agricultural Service Center
Bank            -       World Bank
ICR             -       Implementation Completion Report
CEP             -       Community Empowerment and Local Governance Project
CESVI           -       Cooperazione e Siviluppo (Cooperation and Development)
CFET            -       Consolidated Fund for East Timor
CGIAR           -       Consultative Group for Intemational Agricultural Research
CIMMYT          -       International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
DAA             -       Division of Agricultural Affairs
DAO             -       District Agncultural Officer
ETADEP          -       Ema Matan Dalam ba Progreso (People Directing Progress)
ETFOG           -       East Timor Forestry Group
ERR             -       Economic Rate of Return
FAT             -       Fundacao de Amizade de Timor (Foundation for the Friendship of Timor)
HOTFLIMA        -       Halibur Oan Timor Fo Liman ba Malu (East Timor People Together and Helping Each Other)
IDA             -       International Development Association
MAFF            -       Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fishenes
M&E             -       Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR             -       Mid-Term Review
NGO             -       Non-Government Organization
NPV             -       Net Present Value
O&M             -       Operations and Maintenance
PAD             -       Project Appraisal Document
PASC            -       Pilot Agricultural Service Center
PMU             -       Project Management Unit
TFET            -       Trust Fund for East Timor
UNTAET-                 United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor
UNV             -       United Nations Volunteer
VLW             -       Village Livestock Worker
WUA             -       Water Users' Association
Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:       Xian Zhu, EACNF
Sector Manager/Director:      Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Sofia Bettencourt, EACNF



TIMOR-LESTE
AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2 Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4 Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              3
5 Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                8
6. Sustainability                                                                   9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 14
9. Partner Comments                                                                15
10. Additional Information                                                        26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               31
Annex 4 Bank Inputs                                                                34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  37
Annex 7 List of Supporting Documents                                               38
Annex 8. Letter from Government                                                    39
Map IBRD 30626R1






Project ID. P070533                                      Project Name: AGRICULTURE
REHABILITATION PROJECT
Team Leader Sofia U. Bettencourt                         TL Unit EASRD
ICR Type Core ICR                                        Report Date: March 24, 2003
1. Project Data
Name. AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT             L/C/TF Number TF-23824
Countrv/Departmenit TIMOR-LESTE                                         Region. East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
(66%); Roads and highways (15%); General
information and communications sector (8%),
Central government administration (6%), Other
social services (5%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   05/03/2000                             Effective: 08/22/2000         08/22/2000
Appraisal- 05/13/2000                                MTR    05/24/2001          05/25/2001
Approval   06/15/2000                              Closing  06/30/2002          09/30/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency. UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL ADMIN. IN EAST TIMOR
(UNTAET)IUNTAET
Other Partners.  N/A
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President.      Jemal-ud-din-Kassum                       Jemal-ud-din-Kassum
Country Munager      Xian Zhu                                  Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:      Mark D. Wilson                            Geoffrey B. Fox
Team Leader at ICR.  Sofia Bettencourt                         Sofia Bettencourt
ICR Primary Author   Michael Saddington and
Chnstopher Davey
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Neghgible)
Outcome S
Sustainabilhty L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Perforniance S
Borrower Peiformance S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry.                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of lDevelopmuent Objective and Design, and of QuaDity at Entry
3.1 Original Objective.
The Project was an emergency recovery operation which aimed at achieving the following objectives: (i)
improving food secunty of selected poor households; and (ii) increasing agricultural production in
selected areas and promoting rural growth.
3.2 Revised Objective
The original objectives of the Project remained unchanged throughout its Project life.
3 3 Original Comnponents-
The Project included the following components:
Component 1. Priority Productive Asset Restoration (US$ 2.05 mfillon). The activities under this
component included:
o   Conduct of national vaccination campaigns for cattle, buffaloes, pigs, and chickens against
infectious diseases;
o   Provision of up to 20,000 rural families with 5 four to six-weeks old chicks and chicken feed to
improve household nutrition and income;
o   Replacement of up to 1,000 buffaloes and 1,000 Bali cattle to allow farmers, who had lost their
animals, to regain the ability to prepare their paddy fields for planting rice;
o   Replacement of simple farm tools needed by rural people to undertake farming, household, and
communal work; and
o   Conduct of farmers' information campaigns.
Component 2. lrrigation and Rural Infrastructure Studies, Rehabilitation and Maintenance (US$
1.05 million). The activities under this component included:
o Carrying out of feasibility and engineering studies for: (i) surveys and profiling of irrigation
schemes where rehabilitation would be most viable; (ii) preparation of sketches for canal
improvement and structural rehabilitation, including tender documents; and (iii) establishment or
consolidation of Water User Associations (WUAs);
o   Community rehabilitation and maintenance of irrigation infrastructure and agricultural access
roads for the purpose of bringing irrigation schemes to good working conditions and improving
movement of agricultural products; and
o   Training of staff and provision of irrigation and road maintenance technical assistance.
Component 3. Pilot Agriculture Service Centers (USS 2.4C0 milion). The activities under this
component included:
o   Establishment of five pilot Agriculture Service Centers (ASCs), through the provision of inputs,
supplies, and inventory, to farming communities;
o   Provision of support to the Faculty of Agriculture of the University of Timor-Leste for the design
of a research laboratory and field research stations;
o   Procurement of radios and establishment of community radio stations to provide information to
farmers and rural dwellers;
o Provision of local and international training, as well as organization of workshops and study tours
for pilot ASCs, research and extension staff, and key famners;
- 2 -



* Provision of technical assistance for agricultural research and management of pilot ASCs; and
* Procurement of equipment, vehicles and motorcycles.
Component 4. Project Management Unit Strengthening (US$ 0.60 million). The activities under this
component included:
*   Recruitment of local Timorese and expatriate (experienced UN volunteers) counterpart staff;
* Provision of technical assistance specialized in procurement, financial management, and enterprise
management to help establish and manage the pilot ASCs, monitoring and evaluation, and for
auditing project accounts;
* Training of Timorese staff; and
* Provision of equipment, vehicles, and operating cost for the Project Management Unit (PMU),
including office and vehicle operations and maintenance as well as travel allowances.
3 4 Revised Components:
The Project components were not revised but Grant allocation for each component was revised through
several Grant amendments. The Government also increased its counterpart funding for the Project from
US$0.10 million to US$0.69 million. The component's final costs were as follows:
Component 1. Priority Productive Asset Restoration (US$ 2.72 million)
Component 2. Irrigation and Rural Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenance (US$ 2.73 million)
Component 3. Pilot Agriculture Service Centers (US$ 0.66 million)
Component 4. Project Management Unit (US$ 1.38 million)
3 5 Quality at Entry.
The Projects' quality at entry was satisfactory. This rating was based on the following:
* Project components supported assessed government and donors' key priorities and strategies for
rehabilitation and development in the rural sector. These included undertaking priority
reconstruction, encouraging community-based activities, improving food security, strengthening the
private sector, furthering agricultural education, and building of agricultural institutions;
* Components were generally well designed, except for parts of the Priority Productive Assets
Restoration component (one part originally designed to distribute buffaloes and Bali cattle to those
villagers who had lost them, thus targeting the better-off section of village communities; and
another part which experienced difficulties in increasing villagers' poultry assets); and parts of the
Irrigation Rehabilitation component, which did not sufficiently include beneficiaries in Project
planning and design; and
* Project implementation, and increased cropping currently resulting from Project activities, did not
adversely affect the environment.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4 1 Outcome/achievement of objective
As the first phase in a program of improving food security, increasing agricultural production, and
promoting rural growth, the Project substantially met its objectives, and was rated satisfactory in
reaching its development outcomes. Its major achievements included commencing the rebuilding and
improving of farmers' livestock and irrigation assets; improving food security; and assisting the
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries' (MAFF) in developing its capabilities. In particular,
the Project's livestock and poultry vaccination programs laid the foundation for regular, national
- 3 -



vaccination programs, which will considerably reduce cattle, buffalo, pig, and chicken deaths from
disease. The Project's distribution of cattle and buffaloes to 2,552 poor farm families increased their
livestock assets, while the distribution of simple agricultural tools to 20,658 farm families improved
their capabilities to grow crops and undertake other farm activities.
The Project's irrigation activities have led to the earlier than planned rehabilitation of four light- to
medium-damaged irrigation systems (about 1,090 hectares), thus improving some 1,000 farm families'
paddy rice and potential other crop production. It has also assisted communities to either fully or
partially rehabilitate 76 small irrigation schemes, benefiting an additional 7,000 farm families and
increasing their irrigated crop production on 7,742 hectares. The Project also assisted communities to
repair 109 kilometers of access roads. Importantly, irrigation and road construction created about
120,000 person days of labor for Project area villagers. This opportunity to earn cash was vital to
many families following the destruction of assets and displacement of people that resulted from the
1999 violence. While MAFF still has limited capabilities, the Project's technical assistance and training
expanded MAFF's expertise, and assisted it to successfully implement the Project.
The Project completed the establishment of three pilot ASCs. While these centers could bring
extensive benefits to farmers in the surrounding areas, the probability of their success can only be
determined after they have operated for several cropping seasons.
The Project's distribution of chickens to poor families was not successful. Besides encountering
problems in procuring the chickens, the Project had an overall distribution mortality rate, either on or
following distribution, of around 30% to 50%. In some individual villages it was considerably higher.
The Project did not distribute crop and vegetable seeds to the Project beneficiaries as another project,
Seeds for Life initiative, was already doing this.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Priority Productive Asset Restoration
National Vaccination Campaigns. This component was highfly satisfactory as it laid the foundations
for national vaccination programs against hemorrhagic septicemia in buffaloes and cattle, hog cholera
in pigs, and Newcastle disease in chickens. Despite early problems concerning the timely notification
of farmers of vaccination program start dates, properly refrigerating vaccines, and training villagers in
chicken vaccination, the Livestock Division staff have now rectified these faults. The programs
vaccinated a large and increasing percentage of livestock and poultry populations, and the follow-on
Second Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (ARP II) supports the continuation of the program.
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) mission interviews in villages suggested that the final
hemorrhagic septicemia campaign of the Project vaccinated a majority of villagers' buffaloes and
cattle. MAFF staff also trained 118 vaccinators for the buffaloes, cattle, and pig campaigns, and a
core group of people in most villages to vaccinate against Newcastle disease.
At project preparation, the project implementing agency was called the Interim Department of Agriculture
and Rural Development. Before implementation commenced, it became the Division of Agricultural Affairs,
and then the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries.
-4-



Procurement and Distribution of Chickens to Farm Families. This component was rated
unsatisfactory as it failed to effectively increase rural families' chicken numbers. While the idea of
distributing chickens to poor rural families had considerable merit, MAFF staff were unable to devise
successful systems with acceptable mortality rates at or after delivery. Surveys suggested that chicken
mortality rates were 30% to 50%. Individual interviews in villages by the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) mission found mortality rates closer to 70%. This component reinforces Bank
experience of the extreme difficulties of successfully procuring and distributing livestock and poultry in
harsh conditions with poor infrastructure.
Procurement and Distribution of Buffalo and Bali Cattle to Farm    Families. Despite large
procurement and distribution problems, the implementation of this component was satisfactory,
successfully distributing buffaloes and Bali cattle to 2,552 poor farm families. The transport and
distribution mortality rate was around 2%, which is lower than for similar components in earlier
Bank-assisted projects. While MAFF staff handled transportation and delivery difficulties well,
component implementation took a long time. Although staff had some problems with beneficiary lists
not always following the required poverty criteria, in most cases the lists were corrected before the
distribution of livestock.
Nevertheless, this component does not appear relevant in an emergency aid project. Distributing three
to six valuable buffaloes or cattle in a village with 200 to 500 families created considerable difficulties
in selecting beneficiaries. Even though the distribution was ultimately done according to a well
scrutinized list of beneficiaries, the original project criteria specified that the animals were to be given
to the poorest amongst those who lost cattle during the 1999 violence. This, however, created initial
difficulties because farmers who previously owned cattle had been amongst the upper quintiles of
income distribution. In Timor-Leste, buffaloes and cattle are used for land preparation, but are also
valuable dowry items and cash assets during difficult times. While the buffaloes and cattle were
certainly a considerable addition to farm families' wealth and were in some cases shared within the
community, they added little, if anything, in draft power to farmers' current methods of land
preparation. Farmers do not use buffaloes or cattle to plough their land, or generally for heavy draft
power. Farmers prepare land for cropping by using buffaloes and cattle to trample or puddle the land.
Considering the above and the inherent difficulties in successfully implementing this type of project
component, the ICR mission considered that this component was an inappropriate choice for the
Project.
Procurement and Distribution of Simple Farm Tools. The implementation of this component was
rated as satisfactory, as the tools distributed (hoes, shovels, sickles, crowbars, and pick-axes) have
assisted farmers in their cropping and other farming activities. Tool distribution benefited 20,658
families, greatly exceeding the original Project target of 4,000 families. While the first batch of tools
procured had quality problems, MAFF staff ensured that subsequent procurements were of good
quality, and met farmers' needs. In some villages the Project distributed tools to a large proportion of
farm families (up to 40%).
Farmer Information Campaigns. This component's implementation was unsatisfactory as the
Project was late in starting the campaign and informing farmers concerning Project activities.
Additionally, on occasions, the information distributed did not fit well with farmers' seasonal activities.
Some printed material was produced overseas, and took too long to arrive in Timor-Leste and to be
distributed. Project staff did, however, conduct some good informational workshops in Project
districts.
-5 -



Component 2: Irrigation and Rural fInfrastructure IRehebiitation and Maintenance
The performance on this component has been rated as satisfactory. The original target for this
component included engineering studies for 5,000 hectares of light- to medium-damaged irrigation
schemes, rehabilitation of 2,000 hectares of community irrigation schemes, and rehabilitation of 100
kilometers of rural roads. All these targets were achieved and exceeded, and revised targets were set to
include construction works to rehabilitate about 1,090 hectares of light-to medium-damaged schemes
and to establish WUAs in four project areas selected for rehabilitation. These additional targets were
also achieved.
Therefore, the measurable outputs from the Project under this component were:
o   completion of feasibility and engineering studies for 6,000 hectares of light- to
medium-damaged irrigation schemes;
o   rehabilitation of 1,090 hectares of light- to medium-damaged irrigation schemes;
o   establishment of four WUAs;
o   rehabilitation of 7,742 hectares of community irrigation schemes; and
o   rehabilitation of 109 kilometers of rural roads.
To achieve and exceed the original targets set under this component was highly commendable,
particularly considering the initial conditions of extremely limited data availability, difficult access to
remote irrigation projects, and a limited period during which construction works could be undertaken to
avoid working through the monsoon rains. Additionally, the works contracts which the Project
awarded to comrnunities to rehabilitate community irrigation schemes, injected much needed cash into
the villages. Nevertheless, MAFF's staff limited capacity to design and operate irrigation schemes
resulted, in some cases, in staff failing to fully identify the reasons why community irrigation schemes
had failed, and in selecting some projects for rehabilitation which were perhaps not sustainable with
farmers' present resources.
Component 3: Pilot Agriculture Service Centers
Establishment of Pilot Agricultural Service Centers. Despite many changes and setbacks in planning
and design, this component's implementation was satisfacdory. Implementation was extremely difficult
because many farmers are subsistence-oriented and generally outside market operations; they are
unused to farmer-run commercial enterprises; Timor-Leste's legal system is only partially developed,
and govemment departments are not ideal institutions to establish commercial enterprises.
Nevertheless, this component is extremely relevant to the Project meeting its outcomes, assisting to
stimulate agriculture market developments in Timor- Leste, and helping to privatize agricultural input
supply and other farmer services. While ARP II will continue implementation of pilot ASCs, more time
is needed to assess the component's success.
Support the Faculty of Agriculture at the University of Timor-Leste for the Design of a Research
Laboratory and Field Research Stadons. The ICR mission rated this component as satisfactory as
the project completed the design of a research laboratory and field stations. Unfortunately, during
implementation there was considerable confusion conceming this component's scope. Up until nearly
project completion, both IDA and PMU staff incorrectly believed that the component included
provision of equipment and establishment of a laboratory, when in fact this was not expected until
Phase II. This confusion most probably emanated from the earlier splitting of the Project into a phased
program and rewriting of the Project Appraisal Document (while the Cost Tables were not adjusted).
- 6 -



Component implementation and IDA support were therefore unsatisfactory, as this confusion caused
staff to spend more time than was necessary on the component.
Establish Community Radio Stations and Procure Radios for Farm Families. This component was
satisfactory. As another government project (Community Empowerment and Local Govemance
Project - CEP) was also establishing community radio stations, MAFF and the IDA mission agreed to
transfer the component's radio station construction to CEP. Since MAFF has no expertise in
constructing radio stations, and CEP had already planned to build nine stations (including a
Community Radio Center to support them) this was an appropriate decision. However, at this late
stage MAFF was unable to transfer any funds to CEP as MAFF had already allocated the remaining
grant funds to other Project activities. ARP II has allocated funds for MAFF to develop agricultural
radio programs. The reduced component successfully distributed 1,000 radios to Project area villagers.
Component 4: Project Management Unit Strengthening
The performance of this component has been rated as satisfactory. The PMU was established under
ARP I to facilitate the implementation of Project activities, and build project management capacity
within the Division of Agricultural Affairs (DAA) - and subsequently MAFF - to enable it to sustain
its project planning, management, and monitoring capacity. The measurable outputs from this
component were:
* Recruitment of 14 local and expatriate personnel working full or part-time on the Project;
*   Technical assistance in procurement, financial management, irrigation and WUA formation;
* Training of 14 Timorese staff in project design, monitoring, procurement and financial
management; and
*   Procurement completed for all the goods and services provided under the project, including
procurement and distribution of (i) livestock and poultry, (ii) vaccinations for livestock and
poultry, and (iii) replacement hand tools for beneficiaries.
In addition, the PMU was responsible for all the mechanics of the Project, including all tendering
procedures, clearances, managing the Project's Special Account, making payments and keeping
accounts, implementing, supervising, monitoring and evaluating the implementation of Project
activities, and submitting project progress and implementation completion reports.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Project's recalculated net present value (NPV) and economic rate of return (ERR) are US$2.2
million and 22% as compared to the Project Appraisal Document's (PAD) estimates of US$5.4 million
and 23%. In making these calculations, the ICR mission used actual implementation costs and impacts
(where possible) as compared to the PAD's estimated costs and benefits. Additionally, the ICR mission
added three more sub-components to the analysis:  national vaccination programs, rural road
rehabilitation, and rehabilitation of community irrigation schemes.
The recalculated NPV decreased because: (i) more accurate data were used; (ii) only four light- to
medium-damaged irrigation schemes were included in the Project as compared to about 22 schemes
included in the PAD analysis; (iii) pilot ASC benefits have yet to commence, but were originally
estimated to flow earlier in the Project's life; and (iv) the early benefits from the vaccination program
have been reduced as compared to the original estimates. The recalculated ERR stayed practically the
same because rehabilitating the community irrigation schemes involved low costs but yielded high
benefits, thus boosting the Project benefit stream to give higher returns on capital invested. Annex 3
- 7 -



discusses the sensitivity of the Project's NPV and ERR to changes in water availability and reductions
in assumed crop yields. The NPV and ERR are quite sensitive to reductions in crop yields, falling to
US$0.7 million and 14%, respectively, for a 25% reduction in crop yields.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4 5 Institutional development impact
The ICR mission rated the institutional development impact as modest. The Project has had a positive
impact on MAFF's ability to make effective use of its human and financial resources. Generally, the
Project has been a large force in assisting MAFF and its predecessors to develop their human
resources. At Project commencement, DAA was staffed by United Nations staff and other consultants,
with a few Timorese counterparts. The Project strengthened DAA's project implementation capabilities
by financing a PMU. Initially, DAA staffed the PMU with mainly short-term consultants and some
local counterparts, who were generally junior and inexperienced, and with little training. The
consultants provided counterpart training in procurement, financial management, and monitoring and
evaluation. Additionally, the Project provided the PMU local staff and MAFF irrigation staff with
overseas training in financial, procurement, management, and technical matters. While MAFF had
integrated the PMU into its mainstream work by project closure, the PMU consultants still provided
most of the essential planning and analytical inputs. MAFF still requires a cadre of highly trained and
experienced local staff at headquarters, and more technical staff in the districts.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5 1 Factors outside the contrcol of government or implementing agency:
The Project commenced in an emergency situation following the September 1999 attack by the
Indonesian army on Timorese civilians. Until May 2002, the United Nations Transitional
Administration in East Timor (UNTAET) administered the country. UNTAET established interim
departments to run government services. At that time, many donors were also active in the country.
This situation, plus the destruction of about 70% of Timor Leste's physical infrastructure, 80% of its
social infrastructure, and displacement of over 75% of its population, made Project implementation
more difficult than normal.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The development of government strategies and establishment of government departments in the
immediate post-conflict period had a direct effect on the implementation and outcome of the Project.
The establishment of UNTAET offices in the districts and the recruitment of District Agricultural
Officers (DAO) with Timorese counterparts created an environment which made it possible to
implement the Project.
5 3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Since MAFF had very limited resources or technical staff, it was surprising that Project
implementation proceeded effectively and on schedule, with only a 3-month extension of the closing
date required to complete two minor activities. MAFF was successful in mobilizing the resources
required for the distribution of assets to selected beneficiaries in the districts, including livestock,
poultry and hand tools. As a result, the desired outcome was achieved.
However, the lack of technical staff within MAFF with experience in the design and operation of
irrigation projects resulted, in some cases, in MAFF staff failing to identify the reasons for failures on
- 8 -



community irrigation schemes, and in selecting some projects for rehabilitation which were perhaps not
sustainable. As a result some schemes may fail without further intervention. In addition, the limited
field presence of DAOs meant that communities were left for extended times without supervision or
assistance during construction. The capacity of communities to construct civil works was also limited
and, in some cases, the communities changed the scope of the works without prior consultation.
For the light- to medium-damaged schemes, MAFF staff did not prepare operation and maintenance
manuals which were specific to each scheme. Although WUAs during construction, they needed more
training in operation and maintenance (O&M). Hands-on O&M training is more effective after
construction when the farmers are starting their irrigation operations. As a result, the communities on
two of the schemes (Halicou and Bilimao) have made little progress in using the completed facilities.
Without experienced technical staff, MAFF was unable to manage and control the studies for the
irrigation projects or oversee the construction process by itself. This was recognized as a severe
problem, and MAFF hired experts to act as the supervisory Engineer dunng construction. However,
MAFF's earlier review and selection process for these projects was not sufficiently critical, and, as a
result, the Uaibati project was constructed although it did not satisfy the selection criteria. In addition,
MAFF staff did not address critical factors for sustainability including involvement of beneficiaries in
the design and establishment of effective WUAs.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Grant Disbursements. The project's Grant from the Trust Fund for East Timor (US$6.8 million) has
been fully disbursed. As of June 25, 2002, total grant expenditures amounted to US$6.7 million, of
which US$6.63 million had been claimed and paid. An additional US$0.17 million were disbursed
during the period of Grant extension (September 30, 2002). Total project expenditures were US$7.49
million, including Government's counterpart funding of US$0.69 million.
Actual Project expenditures on the various components (Annex 2) were different from those estimated
at appraisal because at the mid-term review, the government and IDA staff agreed to reallocate the
Grant funds between the various component categories depending on the success of implementation.
This did not affect the viability of any component, but ensured that the Project utilized Grant funds to
the maximum.
Financial Audit and Follow-up Action on Audit Findings. IDA received the Project Account audit
reports for the periods ending June 30, 2001 and June 30, 2002. The auditor expressed an unqualified
opinion on both audit reports. In April 2002, however, the IDA financial staff reviewed PMU's
financial management of ARP I, and found inadequacies in PMU's financial and budgetary control.
Many of the problems stemmed from: (i) delays in the Project's Financial Adviser's contract and
deployment; (ii) PMU did not receive suitable, detailed Project cost tables; (iii) PMU was unable to
obtain a suitable computer accounting package; and (iv) PMU did not develop a Project financial
manual until ARP II commencement. PMU financial staff have taken actions to correct PMU's
financial management deficiencies, and have trained two Timorese financial officers.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating
Component 1: Priority,Productive Asset Restoration.
Overall, this component's sustainability is highly likely. The Government is committed to maintain
essential national livestock vaccination programs (hemorrhagic septicemia, hog cholera and Newcastle
disease), and ARP II will provide funds to continue them until 2003. From fiscal year 2004/2005, the
-9-



Government has decided to finance these programs. This is a strategic choice given the risks of an
epidemic resulting from farmers unable to pay for vaccinations. Nevertheless, having experienced
large stock losses when the programs were not operating, farmers understand the importance of the
vaccination program. ARP II will also introduce Village Livestock Workers (VLWs) who will provide
simple veterinary services for a fee. As buffaloes and cattle have a high monetary value, farmers who
received them from the Project are certain to take care of the animals. Farmers will use them for land
preparation through puddling or trampling, but not for plowing.
Component 2: Irrigation and Rural Infrastructure Rehabiitation and Maintenance
Rehabilitation of the rural roads is unlikely to be sustainable without a regular maintenance program.
However, the investmnents in the road culverts are iUkely to be sustainable, needing little maintenance,
and will benefit rural dwellers over an extended period of many years since these remove a major
constraint to traffic flow and access during the wet season.
The rehabilitation of the community irrigation schemes has had an immediate impact on the
beneficiaries. In some cases, intervention from the Project was necessary to carry out deferred
maintenance, which had reached a stage beyond the capacity of the beneficiaries to undertake. In other
cases, the works were more technical or required greater input of skills than were available locally. In
all cases, since the areas were rehabilitated, this implied that the areas were cultivated previously and
the beneficiaries would restore their field irrigation systems to take advantage of the restored water
supplies.
Generally, the beneficiaries have an informal WUA and accepted their responsibilities for carrying out
standard maintenance procedures to ensure the system continued in the future. Although the actual
repairs or rehabilitation works are sustainable, the overall sustainability of these projects depends on
the water source. The inlet structures cannot be easily relocated and the cost may be substantial. Where
the community has the capacity to maintain and control the diversion of water into the main canals, the
systems are likely to be sustainable. However, where these community irrigation schemes require
substantial diversion channels to be constructed annually in the wide meandering rivers, the schemes
are unlikely to be sustainable.
Under ARP II, MAFF has revisited all of ARP I community schemes and selected those that required
additional support in order to ensure sustainability. Community schemes in meandering rivers are no
longer supported due to the difficulties with operation and maintenance.
In general, the rehabilitation of the light- to medium-damaged schemes involved larger structures either
at the head works or within the canal system, and the reconstruction of the main canal. In most cases,
there was an expansion of the area now irrigated. The new areas require WUAs to be established and
some training in irrigation, particularly in maintenance procedures. Three out of the four projects
rehabilitated depend on water supplies diverted from wide meandering rivers. Construction of training
banks was included in the rehabilitation. However, these may require annual reconstruction. The
sustainability of these projects is unlikely unless crop production increases so that the community can
afford to engage mechanical equipment to carry out these works annually. Where the projects are
located on smaller or defined rivers, or where a permanent weir is provided across the river, the
sustainability of the projects is iLkely since the beneficiaries generally have the capacity for all other
maintenance requirements.
To improve the possibility of sustainability of all schemes, MAFF should maintain a WUA Unit to
provide regular advice to the organizations established in each of the schemes.
- 10 -



Component 3: Pilot Agriculture Service Centers
It is difficult to rate the sustainability of the pilot ASC establishment as when the ICR mission
reviewed them, none had yet operated through a full cropping season. While villagers/communities own
the pilot ASCs, professional managers operate them. The project financed this management and
provided the ASCs with start-up works, goods, and services. The pilot ASCs are operating in areas
where there are no or few other private suppliers of agricultural services, and are concentrating on
providing transport services and markets for farmers' outputs, rather than specializing in selling farm
inputs. If farmers wish to sell part or all of their production surplus, or make use of pilot ASC
transport services, ASCs could become successful, that is, meet all costs of operation, including
management costs, by end of ARP II. ARP II will continue to support the pilot ASC program until
2004. For these reasons, and providing the pilotfASC's management remains flexible and responsive to
changing market situations (including other small traders entering the market), and have adequate
trading funds, the ICR mission rates the sustainability of the pilot ASCs as likely.
Component 4: Project Management Unit
The objective for establishing the PMU for project management was achieved by the overall
satisfactory implementation of the Project, which in turn has led to capacity strengthening in MAFF.
Some training had been provided within the budget limitations of the Project which will make the
sustainability of the PMU likely withm its expected period of operation. Since the Project activities
have been integrated into MAFF's work by locating the PMU within the Ministry's structure, it has
allowed MAFF staff to acquire technical and managerial skills during the implementation of ARP I
which they will subsequently apply to the requirements of ARP II and MAFF.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Project has been extremely successful in meeting, and in several cases, exceeding its original
output targets.  This was done despite the destruction of physical and social infrastructure,
displacement of people, limited data availability, and difficult access to villages resulting from the
September 1999 attack on East Timorese civilians. The project has rightly concentrated on the amount
of its outputs, on getting things done on the ground.
The ICR mission, however, believes that ARP II and m must now concentrate on the quality of
outputs, and not on the size of outputs. For example, all aspects of irrigation rehabilitation must be
brought into its planning and design; farmers must be fully integrated into this work, and assisted when
they are expected to undertake some of the rehabilitation; WUAs must be strengthened and irrigators
must eventually meet all irrigation O& M costs so that irrigation schemes are sustainable. It is better if
ARP n1 works to ensure the sustainability of agricultural development than concentrating on more large
outputs. From what the ICR mission could observe, ARP II appeared to be moving in this direction.
The ICR mission also observes that MAFF will require technical assistance for a considerable time yet
before it will acquire the necessary capacity to successfully execute development projects.
MAFF has prepared a Transition Arrangement Plan that describes both short-term and long-tern
actions which MAFF will take to ensure that the initiatives introduced by the Project will be integrated
into its regular operations. Lessons learned from ARP I have been incorporated into the design of ARP
II and ARP IH (under preparation).  While ARP II will finance the national livestock vaccination
campaigns through 2003, MAFF has already incorporated the campaigns into its core work program
and will cover their costs fully starting from fiscal year 2004-2005. The cadre of private vaccinators
- 1 1 -



hired under ARP I has continued to carry out the campaigns under ARP II; many are expected to
become Village Livestock Workers. The replacement of assets - needed primarily during the
reconstruction period - has been discontinued in ARP II and replaced by a Pilot Participatory
Development and Natural Resource Management component which aims to promote community
self-resilience. The information program has been institutionalized under a new Research and
Extension Center in MAFF.
The community irrigation schemes were in operation for many years prior to independence. During
that time, the beneficiaries carried out annual maintenance works including de-silting and minor
repairs, but Project funds were required to carry out some repairs which were beyond the technical and
financial capacity of beneficiaries to undertake. After rehabilitation, the beneficiaries are expected to
continue to be responsible for operation and maintenance of the canal system. However, for some
schemes the approach channels to the head works are located within meandering rivers and will require
reconstruction annually after the floods. Although the beneficiaries may have constructed these
diversion works previously, some annual provision may be required to provide mechanical equipment
to construct these works. Without such diversions some schemes may have insufficient water for the
command area.
On the light-to-medium damaged schemes, where efforts have been made to establish WUAs,
responsibility for constructing the approach channel may eventually be given to the community.
However, initial annual provisions may be necessary on schemes relying on diverting flows from rivers.
ARP II has taken these lessons on board, by stressing the need to revisit and assist key community
schemes in need of further rehabilitation, avoiding schemes in meandering rivers where O&M is
intrinsically difficult, and focusing attention on establishing/strengthening WUAs and increasing crop
yields in rehabilitated schemes. ARP m is expected to focus primarily on consolidating WUAs and
community schemes. All major irrigation activities have been institutionalized within MAFF.
The three pilot ASCs established in ARP I have continued to be supported under ARP H. The centers
are focusing their operations primarily in output marketing and transport services, where they have
been most profitable. However, given the increasing normalization of intemal markets in Timor-Leste,
ARP m is only expected to provide training support, without further investment in agriculture centers.
ARP II and the proposed ARP III will continue to support PMU operations. The PMU monitoring and
evaluation unit will continue to monitor and report to MAFF management and staff on the progress of
these programs. MAFF, however, will disband the PMU after the completion of its rehabilitation
program, and absorb the PMU staff into its structure.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending-
The ICR mission rated IDA's performance in the lending process as satisfactory. In a turbulent,
difficult emergency situation, the Association, in a consultative manner, assisted UNTAET and its
Timorese counterparts, as well as other donors, in identifying key project activities. Project objectives
were in agreement with the interim government and donors' priority areas for rehabilitating agriculture,
including: (i) support to vulnerable groups; (ii) restoration of basic agricultural infrastructure; (iii)
restoration of livestock; and (iv) provision of agricultural services.
While allowing for two inappropriately designed Priority Productive Asset Restoration subcomponents,
- 12 -



and not enough emphasis on farmers' involvement in the planning and design of the Irrigation
Rehabilitation subcomponent, the Project's components were appropriate to achieving Project
objectives and outcomes. The Governnent was fully committed to the Project.
7 2 Supervision.
IDA's supervision of the Project was satisfactory. The IDA Task Team supervised the Project four
times, in addition to a launch mission. IDA staff were methodical and comprehensive, identified
priority issues/problems, and agreed with the Government on appropriate action plans to rectify
problems. They were flexible in changing the emphasis on various subcomponents depending on
implementation progress. In particular, to ensure maximum usage of the Project Grant funds, they
moved quickly to assist Government to appropriately reduce or increase Project component size and
reallocate Grant funds between disbursement categories. The ITDA's Dili mission also provided
considerable support to MAFF and Project staff. At times, trying to quicken project implementation,
IDA missions may have caused Project staff more work than they could adequately handle. This
resulted from trying to assist project implementation in a difficult, changing situation. Towards the
Project's end, IDA staff assisted MAFF and Project staff to evaluate ARP I's outputs, outcomes, and
initial impacts in a participatory manner. This exercise helped MAFF and Project staff in rating the
Project's, and their own, performance.
7 3 Overall Bank performance
IDA's overall performance during the Project was satisfactory. IDA has provided considerable support
to the Government and the Project's implementing agency, and has responded in a timely and efficient
manner to solve irnplementation problems. IDA staff have complied with the IDA's policies and
procedures, including its fiduciary responsibilities.
Borrower
7 4 Preparation:
The overall performance of the Government has been rated as satisfactory. The Project was prepared
in the post-conflict period following the intense level of violence, which followed the August 30, 1999
referendum, and resulted in the displacement of about 75% of the population. Agricultural services
were non-existent and UNTAET had recruited minimal staff. The Project was, therefore, an emergency
recovery operation and urgent implementation was required to achieve the Government's priorities of
restoring productive assets and improving agricultural productivity. In hindsight, some refinements
should perhaps have been included to promote sustainability and gender issues.
7 5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of the Government has been rated as satisfactory within the limitations of available
resources. The Project was implemented initially under UJNTAET in the post-conflict period.
Subsequently, changes in the government administration were introduced with the formation of DAA
and finally MAFF. During the transitional period, continuing support was given to the implementation
of the Project.
7 6 ImplementingAgency
Since the implementing agency had taken sufficient actions to allow the Project's completion on
schedule, its performance has been rated as satisfactory, although there is little evidence to suggest
that following project completion, MAFF will have the capacity to implement a similar Project without
further substantial foreign advisors' inputs. MAFF, the implementing agency, is severely
under-resourced and under-staffed, and the availability of experienced or trained Timorese in technical
or managerial skills is extremely limited. There is no possibility that this situation could be addressed
- 13 -



now, unless further recruitment of national or international consultants would be funded under another
project such as ARP 11. However, the implementing agency ensured that it completed its commitments
under the ARP I Grant Agreement so that the Project could be completed on schedule. This included
the identification of beneficiaries to receive productive assets in accordance with the criteria
established, the selection of the irrigation schemes in accordance with the criteria defined in the Grant
Agreement, and the required procedures to allocate land and enter into separate subsidiary agreements
for the pilot ASCs. The limited resources which could be allocated to implementing this Project have
resulted in some relatively minor problems or incomplete activities, which ARP II will need to resolve.
7.7 Overall Borro wer performance:
The overall Grantee's performance has been rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Post-ConflictReconstruction Situations:
o   A phased approach to agricultural rehabilitation is appropriate, provided that there is time between
phases to review and apply the lessons learned. Component design should be flexible at all times, and
implementation periods preferably kept short.
o   In emergency situations, Bank Group and project staff must constantly monitor implementation
progress, revise component size as appropriate, and accordingly reallocate Grant/borrowed funds
between disbursement categories. At the same time, component design must be kept flexible.
o   Even in emergency situations, which called for fast responses, project design must consider gender,
social, and environmental issues.
o   Where it is necessary to create new government departments, the implementing agency should carefully
evaluate staff resources which they have available, delineate overall and individual work objectives and
programs, and clearly indicate individual responsibilities. When hiring local consultants to assist or
staff these departments, government should avoid paying local consultants excessively high
remuneration relative to regular government staff payments.
o   Introducing or restarting national livestock vaccination programs can be a powerful tool to reduce
livestock mortalities from diseases.
o   Procurement and distribution of livestock and poultry, particularly in emergency situations, is a
difficult, and slow operation. Unless there are compelling reasons to do so, IDA/Bank projects should
not contain such components.
Technical/Social lRssues:
o   At the design stage of irrigation works, community participation is essential to avoid problems and
potential disputes concerning construction, and to develop appropriate operation and maintenance
procedures based on farmers' needs and aspirations. Project staff and the community should agree on
construction timing to ensure project works minimally interrupt cropping schedules.
o   Appointment of a "Project Manager with day to day responsibility" at project commencement is
essential to coordinate and define responsibilities and terms of reference of all staff assigned to the
project, and ensure a smooth project start and implementation.
- 14 -



Project-Related Issues:
*   MAFF technical staff should undertake technical and peer review of proposed works and studies to
insure that designs and studies are in line with the Government's objectives.
*   The formation or strengthening of WUAs or Farmers' Organizations on the light- to medium- damaged
schemes should commence in parallel with design and construction activities to ensure that
beneficiaries become "owners" of their schemes, understand the system, and are prepared and able to
take full responsibility for operations and maintenance. MAFF staff or teams who initially review the
community or light- to medium-damaged schemes should be multi-disciplinary, and must contain social
organizers. This team should review all pertinent social, technical, agricultural, and economic issues. If
the scheme meets project criteria, and the comnunity agrees to its development, MAFF and the
community should sign an agreement which states the responsibilities of each group. At the minimum,
the community should be responsible for scheme operation and maintenance costs.
*   For pilot ASCs to be successful, they must operate flexibly as private sector entities, and not be
constrained by government regulations. Initial operations should be kept simple, and should concentrate
on buying farners' produce so farmers have funds to buy inputs; management must be responsive to
changes in market conditions; and ASCs must take their services to farmers, and not wait for farmers
to come to them. To buy farmers' produce, pilot ASCs will require access to adequate funds.
*   While phase I of the program concentrated on a quick response to the emergency situation, phase II and
beyond must take account of Project component quality, and not just quantity. In particular, when
MAFF rehabilitates and or expands irrigation schemes, it must ensure that farrners can efficiently
undertake the tasks assigned to them. For example, if farmers have to construct new canals, MAFF
staff should survey the areas, and with the farmers' input and agreement, design the canals and
structures.
*   To increase rural incomes, Timor-Leste's agricultural rehabilitation program needs to emphasize more
the introduction of better technology, that is, introducing more productive, sustainable, and
remunerative cropping, livestock, and forestry production techniques. This is integral with the
program's repairing of infrastructure; involving local communities in project design and
implementation; education and training to improve human capital; improving natural resource
management and use policies; and strengthening local and governmental institutions so they can
effectively manage natural resources. The introduction of better or more appropriate technology
should use a "bottom-up" process, that is, the techniques of "farming systems/on-farm research" as
pioneered by the Intemational Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT), and other research
centers of the Consultative Group on Intemational Agricultural Research (CGIAR). Better and more
appropriate technology is required in both irrigated and upland areas.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowerhlmplementing agency,
- 15 -



ltlPLEMENTAT1[ON COIMPLETFON REPORT BY THRE
MINISTRY OF AGRICUILTURIE, FORESTRY & IFIISHEIlERIES FOR THlE
AGRECULTU]RAIL REIEHABELITATlON PROJECT -1[
1. Project Data
In June 2000, the Division of Agricultural Affairs (now the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries)
received a grant of US $6.8 million from the Trust Fund for East Timor to implement the first phase of the
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (ARP I). The International Development Association "IDA) was tasked
to administer the grant. ARP I became effective on August 21, 2000. The original closing date was June
30, 2002 but due to factors beyond the control of the implementing agency, the Grant Agreement was
amended to extend the project's closing date to September 30, 2002. The Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) described ARP I as an emergency recovery project.
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unhkely,
HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: Satisfactory
Sustainability: Likely
Institutional Development Impact: Satisfactory
Bank Perforrnance: Satisfactory
Borrower Performance: Satisfactory
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Enty
The objectives, components, and implementation arrangements of ARP I were planned in a consultative
way. A series of workshops in Dili discussed how rehabilitation could be approached, and the resources
available. They were attended by the IDA's Appraisal Mission, United Nations Transitional Administration
in East Timor (UNTAET), Timorese counterparts, the Australian Agency for International Development,
the Portuguese Government, Japanese International Cooperation Agency, the Food and Agriculture
Organisation, and local NGOs.
In addition, the Appraisal Mission and UNTAET conducted two planning and design workshops in Dili
attended by NGOs, representatives of civil society, and staff of the Division of Agricultural Affairs (DAA).
The Appraisal Mission also undertook field visits where on the ground situation was assessed.
ARP I had four components that were designed to achieve the development objectives. They offered
practical support based on self-help:
Component 1. Priority Productive Asset Restoration - to restore livestock, agricultural tools, and ensure
information flow to selected farming households, and conduct vaccination campaigns.
Component 2. Irrigation/Rural Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Maintenance - to rehabilitate
community irrigation schemes and access roads, which had been either maliciously damaged or where
viability was significantly diminished due to previous neglect.
Component 3. Establishment of Pilot Agricultural Service Centers (PASCs) - to establish farmer- owned
service centers that provide inputs and information to members.
- 16 -



Component 4. Set up a Project Management Unit (PMU) - to strengthen the capacity of MAFF staff to
undertake project management.
Rehabilitation was based on the distribution of productive assets to poor rural households and the
re-establishment of rural services. There was an emphasis on farmer empowerment rather than dependence
on government. Operationally, the Project was designed to "benefit the largest number of rural households
at an affordable cost."
The beneficiaries for the productive asset distribution were initially selected by the Conselhos de Suco
(Village Councils - made up of the Chefe de Suco, and representatives from youth groups, the Church, and
women's groups). The majority of the ARP I beneficiaries were subsistence-level farrners and food security
was an urgent issue for more than half of them. Approximately 65,000 people benefited from Component
1, and 25,000 people in the wetland-farming sector benefited from Component 2. Together, this represents
about 12% of an estimated rural population of 750,000.
4. Achievement of Development Objectives and Output
Component 1: Priority Productive Asset Restoration
Overall, this component has been rated Satisfactory. Four recovery items were distributed to poor rural
households - chickens, Bali cattle, buffaloes, and hand tools. Livestock were vaccinated against common
diseases. This component was accomplished satisfactorily although speed of response was traded off
against the need to carefully target the poor and be more fair.
Although most targets were achieved, the quality of the assets procured and efficiency of distribution were
uneven. The involvement of the communities in beneficiary selection and distribution was sometimes
limited. Nevertheless, the involvement of the Suco chiefs, the Church leaders, and women and youth
groups, and the overall faimess of the distribution reduced the potential for conflict that had been feared
(see Support Mission, July 2000). The Qualitative Survey found no indication that the priority assets were
not valued or maintained because they had been distributed free of charge. There were very few reports of
local elites capturing more material benefits from the Project than ordinary beneficiaries.
The MAFF has now absorbed the livestock vaccination campaigns into its core work program and it will be
continued by ARP II through the Sustainable Animal Health Services Component. There has now been
time and resources put in place to re-establish the required infrastructure, including training of 118
vaccinators.
The farmers' information campaign did not continue after March 2002. The respondents in the Qualitative
Survey had little recall of the activity. The impact may have been positive but it was probably localized.
This activity has been built on in ARP II in the component Services to Farmers.
- 17-



Table 1: Summary of Targets and Achievements for Componeunt 1I
Output                    Target                      Achieved
Large livestock        1,460 buffalo & 800 cattle    1,458 buffalo & 1,094 cattle
restoration            procured & distributed        distributed in 12 districts
Chicken distribution   100,000 young chickens        71,065 chickens distributed to
distributed to 20,000 households  14,134 households
Buffalo & cattle       Vaccinate 147,709 bovines     99,076 buffalo & 168,380
vaccination                                          cattle (2 campaigns)
Chicken vaccination    Vaccinate 1.072 m chickens    816,600 chickens vaccinated
Pigs vaccination       Vaccinate 267,815 pigs        233,250 pigs vaccinated
Hand tool replacement  20,154 households             20,658 households
Information campaign   Field days, leaflets, booklets,  No field days held, other
t-shirts & posters            targets achieved
Component 2: l[rrigation and Rural linfrastructuire Studies, Rehhablitatdon and Maintenance
This component was designed to stimulate rice production and the lowland economy and has been rated
Satisfactory. The real measure of success was that the areas were assured of water to grow a crop. This
outcome should be monitored over time. Community involvement, through contracts for the supply of
labour, was a mostly successful and sustainable strategy; however, there were misunderstandings that
created delays, and lessons to learn about understanding the social dynarmics of the communities before
starting work. The MAFF and contractors needed a clear and unambiguous response to disruptions, and the
contracts between the MAFF and contractors needed to be reviewed so that contractors become more
proactive in the face of possible disruptions.
ARP II will follow the various models now established, such as the guidelines used to select candidate
schemes, and community participation as contractors through designating their own contracting entity. The
MAFF has now integrated the irrigation rehabilitation program into its core work.
The community irrigation schemes are technically efficient and function to the satisfaction of the
beneficiaries. Most of the irrigation schemes will stabilize yields and increase cropping intensity 2. However,
an estimated 50% of them provide irrigation only during the wet season due to the rivers effectively drying
Any failures of the WUAs and the O&M schedules will disrupt water distribution and have a negative impact on
food security if communities are solely dependent on irrigated nce.
- 18 -



up in summer. Almost all the rice produced was consumed by the growers and contributed to their greater
food security. Some rice was traded for other food items, and a small amount was sold in local produce
markets. However the apparent preference for imported rice and its relative cheaper price has undermined
the local market and rice farmers grow for themselves. These factors have affected the use of yield
increasing inputs and the payment of irrigation fees for maintaining the schemes.
The Survey found that the daily wages paid for labour have been spent to purchase food items (and oil,
sugar, and salt) and to buy livestock from neighbours. It contributed to restarting the local economies in the
lowlands since there were (and still are) very few sources of cash for most rural people.
Table 2: Summary of Targets and Achievements for Component 2
Output                     Target                     Achieved
Feasibility & design studies  None given             Completed for 18
light-to-medium damaged
schemes, leading to design of
1 Iof them
Community irrigation      2,000 ha to be irrigated  76 community schemes covering
7,742 ha
Light-to-medium damaged   Four light-to-medium       Four schemes completed
schemes                   damaged schemes transferred  covering 1,090 ha, & four
from ARP II                 WUAs formed
Community road            Minimum 100 kilometers     36 grants made for 109
rehabilitation                                       kilometers
Component 3: Pilot Agriculture Service Centers
Despite its initial start-up difficulties, this component has been rated Satisfactory.
Up to mid- 1998 there were government subsidies on fuel, fertilizer, and rice (through a floor price). There
was also a system of centralized planning, a large agricultural bureaucracy, and a corps of middlemen who
vanished in the immediate post-referendum period. This system weakened traditional community
self-reliance and removed the need for farmers to develop business skills. The raison d'etre of the ASCs
was to remedy the impact of this redundant system by strengthening farmer self-reliance, while reducing the
recurrent cost burden on government. The ASCs were to introduce a cooperative-like business approach by
involving farmer-members in agricultural input provision and marketing.
This component was closely linked with the Project's development objective: increasing agricultural
production in selected Project areas and promoting rural growth. It was probably the most difficult of all
the components to implement because it was not specifically related to the social environment nor the
current level of beneficiary capacity. The baseline survey of June 2001 found that about half of the farmers
were unfamiliar with agricultural cooperatives and that most farmers would resist paying for agricultural
services. Farmer-ownership and the responsibility for business decisions were new concepts. The three
ASCs will be consolidated under ARP H, and the MAFF's Crop Production Unit will facilitate the
establishment of an additional two or three centres.
The feasibility of the three ASCs has been quite thoroughly studied, and business plans were developed
between August and December 2001. The centers are now registered under company law since corporate
-19 -



law has yet to be formulated. Their legal status was established under Executive Order, and the
Management Committees signed Subsidiary Agreements in March and April 2002. A series of meetings
were conducted with the three Management Committees to discuss the Executive Orders that establish the
Centres, the articles of association, business plans, registration and the opening of bank accounts.
Membership numbers are: Aileu 3,954, Bobonaro 4,107, and Viqueque 3,500 - a total of 11,561 members.
Information campaign was undertaken to maximize the efficiency of project implementation. A thousand
radios were distributed to the villages in coordination with the CEP (Community Empowerment and Local
Governance Project).
Table 3: Summary of Targets and Achievements for Component 3
Output                     Target                 Acieved
Pilot Agricultural Service  Three ASCs established   Three ASCs established
Centres                                              & Board members
trained
Radios                      Distribution of 1,000    1,000 radios distributed
radios
Component 4: Project Management Unit Strengthening
This component has been rated Satisfactory. A Project Management Unit (PMU) was established to
facilitate the implementation of Project activities. The PMU was located within the MAFF and has now
become integrated into its operations both at national and district levels. Administrative procedures are
workable and robust.
Training has been a major activity and 90 MAFF and district staff, 2 local consultants, and 20 farmers
have been trained in 11 local courses and in seven overseas courses. Training has generally favoured the
production of subject matter specialists and not generalists. Training overseas, although relatively
expensive and sometimes of variable applicability to Timorese farmiing conditions, may have given some
national staff a useful exposure to other systems and standards by which they can compare their own and
adopt improvements as they see fit.
Table 4: Suammry of Targets and Achievements for Component 4
Output                  Target                     Acieved
Establish a PMU to       Recruitment of national  National staffs occupy all key
implement Project        and international staff  positions. International advisers
support management, M&E,
procurement & finance
Train 37 national staff  Over 90 staff and 20 farmers
_trained
Procure equipment       Equipment procured
5. Major Factors Affecting llmplementadon and Outcome
The Project Appraisal Document (June 2000) and Mid-Term Review Report (May 2001) gave the outcome
expectations at the end of ARP I as:
- 20 -



~>     Improved beneficiary nutrition (and food security)
Nutritional status has not been measured and there were no available base line data to analyze this aspect.
The Qualitative Survey found that over 50% of the community groups interviewed grew more crops than
they did two years ago. About 40% grew the same amount of crops, as did the control community. About
60% of the communities reported that they now ate more food than they did two years ago. No community
reported having less food. The control community and 40% of the other communities have reported the
same amount of food to eat.
About 55% of the communities had more animals than they did two years ago, and no community had less.
Only the control comimunity had fewer animals. Observations by the field team and the beneficiaries
indicated that livestock numbers have increased and chickens and pigs were approaching pre-1999 levels.
Cattle and buffalo were not primarily used for cultivation or for milk production, but rather as a traditional
form of savings and wealth accumulation. The majority of the communities (85%) also stated that their
animals had the same health status as they did two years ago. The outcome of the emergency vaccination
campaign was not a reduction in livestock mortality, but the beginning of a regular program to be
conducted by the MAFF, an opportunity for training, and the creation of an expectation or demand from
the livestock owners. An important input toward food security is irrigation, which was used in ARP I
exclusively for rice production and household-consumption in the lowlands. Unless a market develops they
were unlikely to grow a rice surplus.
In spite of eating more food, 90% of the communities also reported suffering from hunger for two to four
months between November and April. The annual reoccurrence of hunger indicated that food security is
still fragile, and that if the communities are indeed growing more crops than before, they are still not
growing enough.
>      Increased off-farm employment oDportunities
There was no apparent increase in off-farm employment opportunities related to ARP I activities, although
it may have occurred locally in relation to the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes and roads. In the
Qualitative Survey, 25% of the community groups reported that they have more money today than they
have two years ago. About half the groups reported having the same amount of money. Households that
grew mostly maize, and the control community, reported having less money than two years ago. Money
was mainly earned from selling surplus maize from the fields or produce from the garden in the local
market'. The commumties that reported having the same amount of money as they did two years ago, or
less money, usually have no easy access to markets in which to sell surplus. A few households earned cash
for road repairs or temporarily labour for NGOs repairing schools.
Higher priced crops like vegetables and fruit, grown near their houses, were sold occasionally by farmers in
small quantities. Most households have livestock, especially chickens and pigs, but they were bred to
increase numbers and not usually sold. Because of the need for money, it was not uncommon to find that
men have left their farms in search of work while the women remained behind and made the farming
decisions and put in additional labour. These women have extra work in addition to their traditional
responsibilities4 .
The role of kitchen gardens in the production of fruit and vegetables that are consumed and sold has not been
examined in ARP 1.
This social issue should be considered in ARP 11. It is likely to have implications for quality of life and food
security. There was also some information given in the household survey about the difficult situation facing
widows and divorced rural women.
-21 -



Increased area under irrigation/lImproved access to roads
Although the area with assured irrigation has not been measured, 76 rehabilitated small community
schemes have the potential to irrigate 7,742 hectares and the four light-medium-damaged schemes 1,090
hectares. These areas were significantly higher than the original PAD target of 2,000 hectares. The
Qualitative Survey Team visited a number of irrigation sites, and the response from the irrigation
beneficiaries was very positive. The outcome was unclear because the first batch of community irrigation
schemes have had about two crops so far, and in half of the schemes the rivers dried up in summer, so these
schemes have supported only one crop of rice. The second batch of community schemes had only one crop
so far; and the four rehabilitated light- to medium-damaged schemes have yet to produce a crop. Through
the road rehabilitation activity, 109 kilometers have been repaired. These roads usually improved the
farmers' access to markets.
>     Farmer access to essential production inputs, mechanisation, and other hiRh-demand services
This is likely to be an outcome of the ASC component when agricultural inputs are sold and extension and
marketing services are provided. The Aileu ASC had started to purchase coffee from its members in June
2002. It sold agricultural inputs, small tools, and vegetable seeds. The Viqueque ASC began to purchase
candle nut in June 2002 and cashew nut in September 2002. The Bobonaro ASC has been functional since
January 2002. It specialized in marketing rice and the sale of agricultural inputs. It has a rice warehouse,
office equipment, and vehicles (trucks). It has purchased 40 tons of certified rice seeds (IR 64) and 180
tons of fertilizer, that it started to sell to members from January 2002. Board members were trained on
business and management skills. ARP I investment included US$15,000 for office and the warehouse
renovation. The initial inputs of fertilizer and seeds, and the payment of salaries for the first year for the
ASC manager and treasurer also came from ARP I.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Evaluation by component
Component 1: Priority Productive Assets Restorstions.
Overall, this component's sustainability is highly likely. The national vaccination programs for cattle,
buffalo, pigs, and chickens were necessary activities to protect the national herds and flocks from major
diseases. The program was continued under ARP II funding until the end of 2003, when funding will be
provided by CFET budget. Villagers who received cattle and buffalo under ARP I took care of them as
significant assets. The distribution of chickens, provided they were looked after, provided a means of
rapidly increasing numbers and contributing to the provision of a high protein food source or means of
obtaining small amounts of money for daily expenditures. The provision of hand tools again was
sustainable as it gave the farmers a means by which to produce food and generate income for their families.
The introduction in ARP II of the village livestock workers will increase the sustainability of animal
production by giving farmers a more responsive system to supply simple veterinary services for their
animals on a fee for service basis. This will remove an obligation from the CFET budget to supply
veterinary medicines.
Component 2: llrrigation/Ruiral linfrastructure Rehabilitation and Ma3 intenannce
There were two main sub-components of this component: the community irrigation rehabilitation and
agricultural access roads rehabilitation.
- 22 -



In general, the community irrigation rehabilitation is likely sustainable provided the water users would
undertake periodic maintenance work on their facilities. In Timor-Leste, the general clean up of irrigation
canals and structures of sediments and tall grasses are done during the period immediately before the
planting season. There is a need though, for revisiting under ARP II some of the schemes rehabilitated by
ARP I to improve on the rehabilitation work.
The agricultural access roads, whose main work were the filling of roadbeds with gravel and cutting of
grasses, are unlikely to be sustainable. The next rainy season would likely bring back the roads to bad
condition. On the other hand, the road projects whose main work were on drainage and erosion control
structures are likely to be sustainable.
Component 3: Pilot Agriculture Service Centre
Overall this component's sustainability is likely. It is currently difficult to rate the sustainability of the
Pilot ASC establishment/operationalization as none have yet operated through a full cropping season.
Added to this is the non-readiness of the ASCs to start full business operation due to lack of trained
personnel (officers and Management Committee), lack of marketing network, late arrival of resources such
as transport, marketing supplies, and equipment (i.e. sacks, weighing scales) and funds to carry out
procurement. However, data showed that the ASC have high potential for success especially along the line
of transport services and procurement and marketing of farmers produce/products, that is, if farmers wish
to sell part or all of their production surplus to their subsistence needs. Selling of agricultural inputs would
become successful only if there will be a strong crop production program of the government and an
acceptable pricing of agricultural produce/products. Since Pilot ASCs are operating in areas where there
were no or few private suppliers of agricultural services, and constraints for financial success are relatively
high. However, if the social impact of the Project will be considered, then, the ASCs are very successful
especially in the candlenuts and coconut areas.
As such, ARP II should continue to support the pilot ASC program until FY2003, provided the pilot
ASC's management remained flexible and responsive to changing market situations, which include other
traders entering the market.
Component 4: Project Management Unit
The sustainability of the PMU is likely for two main reasons: (1) the PMU national counterparts have been
extensively trained in project management and implementation, and (2) the PMU operation has been
integrated into the MAFF regular operations.
6.2 Transition Arrangement Plan
Initially, the technical and management activities were supervised and often carried out by international and
national consultants; the main reason being that in the beginning there were still no government offices and
no civil servants. As the Project progressed, government offices were established and the corresponding
agriculture staffs were hired. To prepare the civil servants for the work of implementing the Project,
capacity-building strategies were implemented with assistance from consultants. These consisted of, among
others, sending the staff to overseas study tours and conducting numerous in-country training courses.
Efforts were also made towards developing the supervision and implementation capability of the Timorese
staff.
- 23 -



The transition arrangement towards ARP II implementation mainly consists of continuing with the strategy
of making the Timor-Leste staff responsible for the implementation of the Project, especially in maling the
important decisions. The advisors and consultants, both international and national, slowly withdrew giving
the Timor-Leste regular staff more room to practice their decision-making and implementation skills.
Some of the ARP I positions for international advisors and consultants were carried over to ARP II as part
of the transition arrangement. These included the Finance Advisor, Procurement Advisor, M&E Advisor,
Irrigation Consultant, PASC Manager, and Livestock Consultant.
7. IDOA and G;rantee Perforrmance
]1DA
7.1 Lending
The MAFF rated the performance of the Bank in the category of lending as Satisfactory. Although the
Project was conceived with a lot of urgency in a largely chaotic environment, the objectives and strategies
worked out in a participatory manner with the then interim government, were largely relevant and timely.
7.2 Supervision
The IDA's performance in supervision was highly satisfactory. The Project was implemented in a very
difficult situation. The IDA's assistance was particularly significant in supervising the fledgling agriculture
office. Its flexibility in making operational and financial adjustments to the different project components as
a reaction to fast changing realities during the implementation stage helped the Project attain most of its
objectives.
7.3 Overall ]DA Performance
Overall, the IDA's performance was rated Saisfactory. With many of the Project implementation staff and
consultants coming and going during the Project implementation, the concern for continuity and consistency
of objectives and strategies was real. To a large extent the IDA's guidance and supervision missions,
though perceived by many Project staff as distractions to their work, actually provided the necessary
direction and push to keep the Project moving forward.
Grantee
7.4 Preparation
The Government's rating in the preparation of the project was Satisfactory. At the time of the project
preparation, the country's govermnent was then barely organized under UNTAET. The government
consisted of different people coming from different countries with different cultural traits and experiences.
Despite this, the Government was still able to come up with a relatively adequate project design with the
assistance of the IDA.
-24 -



7.5 Government implementation performance
The Government's rating here was Satisfactory. The necessary government counterpart staffs were
provided to assist in the Project implementation and necessary funds, although limited, were made
available.
7.6 Implementing agency
The rating here was Satisfactory. In the beginning, the implementing agency was the UNTAET. Later on
the Division of Agricultural Affairs (DAA) was organized under the East Timor Transitional
Administration (ETTA) to handle the agriculture program of the country. The PMU was integrated into the
DAA. The DAA later evolved into the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF).
The Project implementation had a very rough sailing for many reasons: (1) the government institutions were
collectively inexperienced due to the fact that it was still being organized, (2) continuity was difficult due to
the frequent coming and going of short-term intemational consultants, (3) number of available regular
government staff was critically low, (4) national staff had limited relevant education and experience, and
(5) logistics-transportation, communications, office equipments, etc.-were inadequate. Despite these
hurdles, most of the Project targets were met and the objectives were attained.
7.7 Overall Grantee Performance
Despite the odds, the Government was able to plan, design, and irnplement the Project in a Satisfactory
manner.
8. Lessons learned
Capacity building
* The location of the PMU within the MAFF integrated Project activities into the Ministry's work
program, and had a positive imnpact on the technical and managerial skills of Ministry staff.
*   There is a need for greater capacity in contracts management within MAFF. As an organization
responsible for tendering and evaluating submitted proposals and bids, the Directors and senior staff of
MAFF need to receive more training in this area.
* Extensive institutional development of the beneficiary groups, not only of the government and its staff,
was very important to attain the objectives of the Project and to enhance the long-term development of
the country.
Project related
* The close monitoring and noticeable flexibility of ARP I design, which allowed it to remain relevant
during the emergency and in the transition period, needs to be maintained.
* Women should have been more involved in giving a direction to the Project rather than just being
recipients of aid. More women should be consciously targeted to be involved in Project implementation
both in the MAFF and in the beneficiary groups.
*   Until rural infrastructure and services are strengthened, rice monoculture under irrigation will increase
- 25 -



the vulnerability of lowland farmers to drought, pests, and diseases. Where the amount of rainfall
allows, planting a diversity of dry land crops like maize, beans and cassava, along with irrigated rice
would improve lowland food security.
o Problems of soil erosion and reforestation need to be addressed in the uplands by the formulation and
enforcement of environmental policies and the promotion of good practices in agro forestry.
o Livestock vaccination campaigns must be sustained, not one-off activities.
O If livestock are to be distributed, then the purchase of older animals locally should be pursued to
minimize mortality.
O Chickens for distribution should not be too young. If they are about four months old or older, they will
be stronger and have more chances of surviving changes to farmer management.
O To be fully beneficial, the distribution of agricultural hand tools should be in full sets.
O Recipients should be involved in the selection process when they are to receive equipment to ensure
suitability of the donation. Issues of quality need to be considered as well as price.
o To avoid untimely delay in the provision of assets, systems need to be developed that would pernit
streamlined and rapid approval process to operate, especially considering the small amounts involved in
this emergency replacement program compared with the longer term large items like major
infrastructure developments. This may involve delegation of the granting of approval to a lower level.
(b) Cofinanciers
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector).
The following NGOs were involved in project implementation:
o ETADEP - Ema Matan Dalam ba Progreso (People Directing Progress)
o   ETFOG     - East Timor Forestry Group
o   CESVI     - Cooperazione e Siviluppo (Cooperation and Development)
o   FAT       - Fundacao de Amizade de Timor (Foundation for the Friendship of Timor)
o HOTFLIMA - Halibur Oan Timor Fo Liman ba Malu (East Timor People Working Together and
Helping Each Other)
o   TVTL      - National Television
o   National and Community Radios (Los Palos and Maliana)
10. AdditionalR lnformation
A consortium of donors funded the project through the Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET) which the
International Development Association managed.
- 26 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
,Indlcator/Mitrik,  - ,j." *      -  oJtedfIiast3ftR       r,. 'b      . Actual/Latest:Estimate
Increased availability of eggs, poultry, meat,  No of days without food (mix) reduced from  Based on impact study, there was a
and nce at household level.          7 to 5 months at the end of the project to be  reduction of months with limited food mix for
confirmed by baseline study survey and  poor households from 7 to 5 months (May
impact survey at end of project.      2002 survey)
Catte, buffalo, pigs, and chickens mortality  Survey to determine mortality of animals will 68% of farmer respondents from the impact
rates declined by 12%.               be camed in May 2002                  survey (May 2002) indicated that there was
reduced mortality of their animals as a result
of the vaccinabon campaigns.
Poorest farmers' rice yields increased by  Survey to determine the increase in the yield Yield increases could not be measured
about 10% at the end of the Project  of nce to be canied in May 2002       accurately within the life of the project
Service Centers (ASCs) established and  One ASC established in Bobonaro Distnct,  3 ASC have been established by Execubve
operational by end of project.       two other ASCs are 90% completed in   Order, one ACS is now functional and 2
establishment.                        others are expected to be funcional by June
2002.
Off-farm job opportunibes created by end of Jobs were generated for local populabon in  About 120,000 person-days of labor were
projed                                the community inigaton and roads     generated for local populabon in the
rehabilitabon projects.               community imgation and roads rehabilitation
projects; 51% of farmer-respondents from
impact survey indicated that they participated
in the community projects.
Output Indicators:
lndlcato,r,iri,.                                                        Ju ActuaL-atest Estimate
Component 1. Prionty Producbve Asset
Restorabon
No. of cattle, buffalo, and chickens
vaccinated in national campaigns.     No of animals vaccinated to date     No of animals vaccinated:
-Cattle and buffaloes, 221,079 in 1st  -Cattle and buffaloes, 267,456 (2 campaigns)
campaign in January 2001, 2nd campaign  -Pigs, 233,250 (1 campaign)
was ongoing                          -Chicken vaccines distnbuted, 816,600
-Pigs, 233,250 vaccinated in August 2001  doses (1 campaign); 1,072,000 doses
-Chickens, 1,080,000 vaccine doses were  procured
procured, vaccines being distnbuted
Number of cattle, buffaloes, and chickens  1,500 buffaloes and 500 catte were procured No of animals procured and distnbuted:
procured and distributed.             by UNOPS; additional 264 Bali cattle were  -Cattle, 1,094
procured in Oecussi.                 -Buffaloes, 1,458
-Chickens, 71,065
Number of farmers who received catte,  875 buffaloes and 777 Bali catte were  No of farmer-beneficianes:
buffaloes and chickens (5 per set)    distnbuted                           -2,552 farmers received cattle and buffaloes
Original target. 1,000 buffaloes, 1,000 catte, 68,900 chickens (in sets of 5) were  -14,134 families received chickens
100,000 chickens for 20,000 families  distnbuted (69% of target)
No. of farm tools procured and distrbuted.  77,959 farm tools were procured in 2 batches No. of tools procured, 77,959
76,959 farm tools were distributed
No. tools distnbuted, 76,959
20,658 families received farm tools
No of farm families who received tools.  .                                 No. of families who received sets of 3-5 tools,
Original target: 4,000 families will receive                               20,658
tools
Component 2 lmgation and Rural
Infrastructure Studies, Rehablitation and
Maintenance
- 27 -



No. of feasibility and engineering studies for 18 irrigaton schemes were studied (from  18 Irrigabon schemes were studied covenng
light- to medium-damaged schemes carried  original 22 schemes proposed)   6,000 ha
out
Original target 5,000 hectares covered  11 imgation schemes were selected for  11 schemes were selected for rehabilitabon.
rehabilitabon
No of irrigation schemes that were   Packages 1 and 6 to be completed by  4 irrigaton schemes were rehabilitated
rehabilitated/constructed and maintained.  February 2002                  covering 1,090 ha.
MTR revised target. 1,250 hectares covered  Other schemes included under ARP II
No of community inigation schemes that                                    7,742 ha. were rehabilitated by communibes
were rehabilitated by the communities.                                    by the end of the project.
Onginal target: 2,000 hectares covered.
Length of agricultural access roads  100 km. of access roads rehabilitated by  109 km. of access roads have been
rehabilitated by communibes (in kilometers). MTR.                         rehabilitated by communities
Original target: 100 km
Establishment of Water User Associabons  4 WUAs were organized in 4 irrigation  4 WUAs were organized in 4 imgation
(WUA)                                schemes                              schemes.
MTR revised target 4 WUAs
Component 3 Agriculture Service Centers
No pilot Agnculture Services Centers
(ASCs) established                   1 pilot ASCs have been established in  3 pilot ASCs have been established In
Onginal target 5 ASCs                Bobonaro, 2 additional ASCs in process of  Bobonaro, Aileu and Viqueque by Executive
MTR revised target 3 ASCs            establishment in Aileu and Viqueque  Order and registered as business
enterprises; Intenm Board of Directors,
officers, managers, and staff are in place;
Bobonaro ASC is functional.
No. of radios distributed to beneficiaries.  1,000 radios were in the process of  1,000 radios were distributed in 4 districts
No. of radio stabons established.    procurement                          Target was revised to cancel the radio
Onginal target 1,000 radios and 5 radio  5 community radio stabtons were transferred  stations under ARP at MTR.
stations                            to CEP at MTR; grant amendment was
MTR revised target 1,000 radios and  amended.
agnculture radio program produced.
Design of Soil anatysis laboratory at the  Negobations for establishment of soiVplant  Design of laboratory complete.
University of Timor-Leste           tissue analysis laboratory with Directorate of 2 MAFF staff were trained in Indonesia on
MTR revised target. Shared laboratory with  Environment was ongoing (location based on soil/plant bssue analysis procedures.
the Environmental Protection Uni     consultant's recommendation).        Rehab. of laboratory in Komoro and
US$30,000 equipment were funded under
CFET.
Component 4 Project Management Unit
Strengthening
Timorese and expatriate (UNV) counterpart
staff were recruited and trained     8 Timorese MAF staff and 2 local consultants 8 Timorese MAFF staff and 2 local
were recruited/ contracted for the PMU  consultants were recruited/ contracted for the
Timorese staff were trained on project  PMU
management                           Timorese staff were trained on project
management
Management Advisors contracted (financial  8 UNTAET staff and 3 UNVs were assigned
management, procurement, M&E)        to MAF to provide technical support  8 UNTAET staff and 3 UNVs were assigned
3 Management Advisors were contracted  to MAF to provide technical support
(financial, procurement, M&E)        3 Management Advisors were contracted
(financial, procurement, M&E)
Training, workshops, overseas study tour  50 MAF staff have been trained in courses  Over 90 MAFF staff and distnct officers have
completed for MAF staff, distnct officers,  in-country and abroad including overseas  trained in country and abroad including
others                               study tour.                          overseas study tours
Original target- 15 staff trained
End of project
- 28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
AnnraiuIap   Actual/Latest,  Percentage of
Estimnate      Estimate       Appraisal
Component                       US$mrnilfion   US$ million
1. Prnority Productive Asset Restoration               2.85            2.72             95
2. ITrrigation and Rural Infrastructure Studies,        1.05           2.73            260
Rehabilitation and Maintenance
3. Pilot Agricultuiral Service Centers                 2.40            0.66              28
4. Project Management Unit Strengthening               0.60             1.38            230
Total Baseline Cost                                    6.90            7.49
Total Project Costs               6.90            7.49
Total Financing Required                6.90            7.49
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category       ICB           NC-B         Other         N R'F      Total Cost
1. Works                       0.00          0.00         1.70          0.00         1.70
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.70)       (0.00)        (1.70)
2. Goods                       0.00          0.00         2.75          0.33         3.08
(0.00)        (0.00)        (2.75)       (0.00)        (2.75)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00          1.92         0.00          1.92
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.92)       (0.00)        (1 92)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00         0.23          0.00         0.23
(0.00)        (0.00)       ,(0.23)       (0.00)        (0.23)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00         0.20          0.36         0.56
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.20)       (0.00)        (0.20)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       0.00          0.00          6.80         0.69          7.49
(0.00)        (0.00)        (6.80)       (0.00)        (6.80)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 29 -



Project Financing by Component (In US$ million equialent)
1Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate           Actua/zLatest Estimiate
IDA       Govt      CoF.      ffIDA     Govt.     CoF.     IIDA   Govt.   CoF.
Priority Asset Restoration  2.85    0.00                2.53      0.20               88.8    0.0
Irrigation and Rural      1.05      0.00                2.52      0.21              240.0    0.0
Infrastructure Studies,
Rehabilitation and
Maintenance
Pilot Agricultural Service  2.40    0.00                0.50      0.15               20.8    0.0
Centers
Project Management Unit  0.50       0.10                1.25      0.13              250.0   130.0
Strengthening
Total                     6.80      0.10                6.80      0.69               100.0  690 0
-30-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
An economic analysis of the project was carried out in order to:
l. re-assess the original analysis and confum project soundness in light of new data that has become
available since appraisal in June 2000;
2. define possible early impacts of the project; and
3. review critical environmental aspects on which the project outcome are dependent.
The present economic analysis has been widened compared to the original analysis undertaken at appraisal
stage to include the national vaccination campaign, rehabilitation of community irrigation schemes and
roads, and rehabilitation of four light to medium damaged larger irrigation schemes. In this way, a more
accurate assessment of the project was produced.
The original models used financial prices for the economic analysis. This practice is continued in the
present analysis because government taxes, subsidies, exchange rate distortions and producer and consumer
surplus either do not exist at this stage of Timor-Leste's economuc transition, or are minimal and judged not
to affect the present analysis. In addition, data required for Timor-Leste are often not available and
estimates from other countries would probably not be applicable in Timor-Leste's unique circumstances of
transition.
Project files contain a detailed description of data used in the analysis, and a discussion of the additional
data now available. Each component of the project is not reported individually because: (i) the initial
analysis was reported for the entire project; (ii) the level of accuracy of the data would not permit certain
conclusions to be drawn at the component level; and (iii) components are inter-dependent and so a project
net present value (NPV) and economic rate of return (ERR) is more appropriate. The results of the original
appraisal analysis compared to those of the ICR are summarized below.
jAppraisal  ICR-Base Case
NPV (US$ millions)            5.4          2.2
ERR                          23%          22%
The NPV has decreased due to:
1. use of more accurate data which reflect more appropriately the current conditions of the rural
economy;
2. inclusion in the analysis of components not modeled in the original analysis;
3. exclusion of benefits that have not yet accrued, in particular those from the pilot ASCs for which
ARP I has incurred establishment costs; and
4. reduction of the estimated benefits from the first years of the vaccination programs.
The overall ERR has remained practically the same because the community irrigation schemes boost the
project's overall benefits stream to give higher retums on capital compared to the larger irrigation schemes
in the original analysis. This activity has small investments which give high returns because generally only
a small portion of the system is rehabilitated, but benefits flow from the scheme's entire areal
The appraisal analysis did not include any of the community irrigation schemes, but rather included some 22
larger schemes, which had light to medium damage. Only four of those were eventually included in ARP I. Thus
the mix of community schemes and "light to medium" damaged schemes is very different in the appraisal and the
ICR analysis
- 31 -



The investigation of environmental aspects, in particular availability of water, produced predictable results.
The main impact of lower water availability relates to lower yields derived from the irrigated agricultural
areas and to lower availability of forage for livestock, and the additional cost of procuring feed. If water
was to become even more scarce, it is likely that the project NPV and ERR would decrease exponentially
because all the project components would be affected, including the livestock operations and vaccination
campaigns. In addition, rice yields could drop to extremely low levels if insufficient water is available at
critical crop growing times. The data below shows the impact on the overall project condition for an
assumed initial drop in water availability.
Appraisa   IICR-Base Case  less 25% water  less 30% water
NPV (US$ millions)     5.4          2.2            1.7           1.7
ERR                   23%          22%            19%            19%
It is critical therefore that water resources be managed in Timor-Leste to ensure optimum availability. The
continuing pace of deforestation increases water runoff to the sea from the steep mountains, and thus
decreases usable flows for irrigation. In addition, El Ninio events that occur every 4 to 5 years can also
reduce water availability. However, little can be done about this other than putting the appropriate
institutional systems in place to be ready with strong allocation principles to which the communities have
already agreed. ARP 11 is collaborating on a water resources policy study to address such issues.
Other reasons for lower water availability include: (i) communities undertaking insufficient operation and
maintenance (O&M) of their irrigation schemes; (ii) lower sustainability of engineering structures due to
sub-optimum design or construction, causing sections of the irrigation system to break and thus
interrupting water delivery to the paddy fields and lowering yields; (iii) excessive silting of the irrigation
system, which reduces head-works and channel capacity and increases O&M requirements. If these
occurrences should reduce crop yields by 25%, the project's NPV and ERR become US$0.7 million and
14% respectively.
Some of these parameters are within community control, but effects such as climatic variations are not. In
this case, institutional systems should be in place to cope with water allocation strategies to minimize yield
losses. Those parameters such as O&M requirements, design and participatory preparation of schemes are
addressed by component 2 of the project, and play an important role in the ensuring the project's
sustainability.
In addition, ARP I implementation lessons reveal that designs for the light to medium damaged irrigation
schemes include head works and main canals only. While this can be suitable for areas already being
irrigated, it is not for areas to be newly irrigated. Additionally, in Timor-Leste irrigation water is often
trickled from one paddy to another over large areas. This may be acceptable when water is abundant, but
during water shortages the irrigation systems need better control of water flows, and more rigorous and
equitable distribution. ARP 11 thus plans to continue works on the four light to medium damaged schemes,
which ARP I rehabilitated, to: (i) complete necessary surveying and mapping of paddy fields; (ii) design
necessary secondary canals and structure; and (iii) develop formal O&M manuals in a participatory
manner. This is preparatory work for years when efficient water distribution is crucial for social stability
and for continued food security. In other years, more formal water distribution using secondary canals will
improve hydraulic efficiency of the system and ensure higher yields. Both objectives have been confirmed
by the economic analysis to be important in ensuring economically sound returns from the investment.
- 32 -



Social- benefits have not been included in the calculation of the project's NPV and ERR. However, they
cbuld be calculated in the following manner. In addition to benefits to society derived directly from project
activities, daily wages paid to workers on community projects are spent in the local economy. Data derived
from Timor Lorosa'e Household Survey 2001 shows that in the low-income quintiles about 61% of
earnings from project activities would be injected back into the local economy (spending on goods and
services from local suppliers), while for the higher income quintiles (4-5), about 70% of eamings would be
spent in the local economy. Thus, these additional benefits could be included in the analysis by multiplying
tlia, poron of capital,expendituire spent on wages by the percentage expenditure to income averaged for all
qumntles.
The result shows that social benefits derived from the employment effect of the community projects and the
larger scneme'rehabilitation have an important contnbution to make to the overall viability of the project.
Based on'a 10-year analysis, the NPV with the employment effect increases from US$2.2 million to US$
2.91 rmillion and the ERR increases from 22% to 28%.
- 33 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year     Count           Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
04/17/2000                   7    Sector Manager (I); Senior
Research Advisor;
Agriculturist/Principal
Agriculturist (3); Procurement
Specialist; Livestock Specialist
(1).
Appraisal/Negotiation
05/19/2000                   5    Task Team Leader/Principal
Agriculturist (1); Agriculture
Economist (1); Sector
Manager (1); Senior
Research Advisor (1);
Procurement Specialist (1).
Supervision
09/02/2000                    5   Task Team Leader/Principal          S              S
Agriculturist (1); Natural
Resource Economist (1);
Livestock Specialist (I);
Procurement Specialist (1);
Project Management
Specialist (1)
10/14/2000                    6   Task Team Leader/Natural            S             S
Resource Economist (I); Senior
Research Advisor (1); Livestock
Specialist (1); Agribusiness
Specialist (1); Financial
Management/Disbursement
Specialists (part-time) (2).
05/24/2001                    9   Task Team Leader/Natural            S              S
Resource Economist (1); Sr.
Agriculturist (1); Environment
Specialist (1); Irrigation
Engineer (1); Social Assessment
Specialist (1), Water Resources
Economist (1); Operations
Officer (1); Procurement
Specialist (part-time) (1);
Financial Management Specialist
(part-time) (1).
-34 -



11/01/2001                    7   Mission Leader/ Sr.                  S             S
Agriculturist/ (1); Task Team
Leader/Natural Resource
Economist (1); Water Resource
Economist (1); Livestock
Specialist (1); Sr. Procurement
Specialist, part-time (1),
Communication Specialist,
part-time (1), Operations
Assistant (1)
02/26/2002                    7   Mission Leader/ Sr. Agriculturist    S              S
(1); Task Team Leader/Natural
Resource Economist (1); Water
Resource Economist (1), Sr.
Procurement Specialist, part-time
(1); Communication Specialist
(1); Social Assessment Specialist
(1); Operations Assistant (1)
ICR
06/17/2002                    S    Mission Leader/Sr.                  S              S
Agncultural Economist (1);
Irrigation Engineer (1); Sr
Agriculturist (1); Water
Resource Economist (I);
Operations Assistant (1)
Identification/Preparation: includes only IDA staff and consultants. The total Joint Donors Mission
involved 23 people.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                      41.2                        309 6
Supervision                                75.0                        420.6
ICR                                        18.1                         89.1
Total                                     134.3                        819.3
Identification/Preparation/Appraisal/Negotiation figures were combined. No. of staff weeks included
consultant trust funds and FAO/CP. ICR figures are estimates.
- 35 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objecfives/GintDputs of Compomnents
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Oi Macro policies                    O H OSUOM       O)N V CA
O Sector Policies                    O H OSUOM ON         O NA
F Physical                           O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Financial                          O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Institutional Development          O H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Environmental                      O H OSUOM O N O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction            O H OSUOM O N O NA
OGender                        OH OSUOM ON ONA
O Other (Please specify)       O H OSUOM O N O NA
OI Private sector development        0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
OI Public sector management          0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
I Other (Please specify)             OH OSUOM O N O NA
-36-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
 Lending                                           OHS*S        OtU    OHU
F Supervision                                       OHS OS       OLU    OHU
E Overall                                           OHS OS       O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
3 Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U    O HU
* Government implementation performance             O HS OS      0 U    0 HU
? Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       OtU    OHU
[J Overall                                          OHS OS       O U    O HU
- 37 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
A.     ]Bannk Documents:
1.    Analysis of Timor Lorosa'e Household Survey for the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
(Draft), March 2002
2.     Economic Analysis of ARP I Report, June 26, 2002
3.     Grant Agreement for Trust Fund for East Timor, Agriculture Rehabilitation Project, June 21, 2000
4.     Mission Aide Memoire Support Mission, October 2-13, 2000 and November 7-10, 2000
5.     Mission Aide Memoire, Mid-Term Review, May 7-24, 2001
6.     Mission Aide Memoire, Third Supervision, October 2001
7.     Mission Aide Memoire, Fourth Supervision, February 11-26, 2002
8.     Mission Aide Memoire, ICR Mission, June 17-July 02, 2002
9.     Project Appraisal Document, Agriculture Rehabilitation Project, May 23, 2000
10.   Project Implementation Plan
B.     Government Documents:
1.    ARP Information Campaign Project, Final Report, CESVI, March 2002
2.     Final Independent Evaluation, Agriculture Rehabilitation Project Phase I, June 22, 2002
3.    Impact Assessment Study Report, Agriculture Rehabilitation Project, Peter Nang Achuonjei
and Femando dos Santos, June 2002
4.    Infonnation Campaign Survey Report, Agriculture Rehabilitation Project, Peter Nang Achuonjei
and Fernando dos Santos, May 2002.
5.     Participatory Evaluation Tables by Project Component
6.     Quarterly Project Progress Reports, 2000-2002
7.     Technical Audit Report of Investments in Irrigation and Roads, Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Phase 1, June 22, 2002
8.     The Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (ARP I) in East Timor, Report on the Baseline Study,
February 2002
- 38 -



Additional Annex 8. Incoming Letter from Government
Incoming Letter from Government
sND~~~104O
AGRIaYLUIRAL REHA]BLITATION PROJECT
Pmojwet Magwmeu Ulnt
27 Fcbruay 2003
Ms, Sofa BWttncoAMui
St. tistura A"uuewv Ekoomisltf
World Book Ofte, Sydny
Est Aii and tPa1i  lagionx
Dear M. &UencourL
ln  wctiva     wi'1  e    eo ohul   jr,Vx4tiob of the Agricultmal
Rzbhitatlon Prqojct I (AR? 1), we a bereby offilly submnl g the govemwrnt's
Impleonmtfion Cimpletion Report lbr tlw samc-
We Io   tbLt this Muftlcientl sati,fies the requkments of (e JDA/World
Banlc Wc aso tke thh oPtunity tO tbmk ghat or      on flor all thl  .stat8oe
rendctd f the r4Mifiiatmfl mid devckpwbn ofT   -     adi its i1op1e.
f 39 -
- 39 -



c~~~~~
< Mart MRZHILITAI0NY PILOJEC'
Pmjw6t ma40H   Unt
27 I?chA ,u 20
Im VtodX3 "b6
'WegsYa k 0 2y"
s4 A     agd Pancf RAion.
MoUglon Fh*& T (AR.) .w M kWOb Offdd    W60itl Ih 30QG9'G
T9plrWWD CcZVM0 R13O flEIb RMUE SST=
Bwk.                    to tfii dn XE o   fbi d D 6: Emwt
-40-



Dcmretlc Republicofrrimor-iest
Mintry of Agrieulw, Fumstry awdThlte$es
AfftCUaLfl)E kkRARILITATnON flWECr I-
TrANSErnO      ARRAGEMENr J!!AI
Stanln,g on 21 August 2000 when the Agrlcultum  RehabiliEtitn Proj=ct- boccne
cflTtve. up kts ofical clsiW    data on 30 September 2002, the ptoject udnTd ook
rehAbiint    wo$ks h% the aOr umn sector. The moieot conontrated on roring piurky
proiauctl  nsi  to juMp mm agricultul ativhffcs In the villages, rehabititatng rigtion
whqnes to rostrc them to fiunc&onality, rhatlhning avicultal acepsas adu to ticilI
ard hritt down the cos of tanportlng agiwluOml Inputs and powu   setig ur Plol
Aarcultutl Service Centrs tq intrdee cooperatvo-ype tfarm support sysams, and
strengt       instbiutlnal capability of the atcidture Oil= of t  govermet
Tht pmject was mainly org.nstrd as an vmopncy opom 4oft which was the need of
tl tinMO. owovr, the projspt wa aJnQ awaro thDt it had tD ceat; a bridge towards a fi
egrnukw9    csowr govc2hhnt opersOn ut is 1nmre arienmtd towards eontiulung and
aistainul developmea     To attin his go, a Txmition Afrangemenh Plai bau,
thevetm, hlen rnmw1Lted.
ThANHIiON TO AEWIt                      TAItR4TION TPO        1 m
(Short Ten)                       MIISTRY OPERATIWNR
(L%e!w Ter)--        . fl
Compoent 1: Priorlty Produttbt AdS Rtstorafioa
1Cn tnunt=ion of v=cdnatio pcgram fr T I) Vacciadun pzuVm to be rund*d by the
cltcs, bffal1ons                        MA P using regaiar govermmet budge
afw tho proJeL
2) Counnurtion of vcciatlon program br
pigs                                 2) ltng aTnd tneining of regular govement
civil servants to be involvod in promjtn
3) Continuation uf4distrbuiwon of chicken  imptententatLon and who wAll ubitattty
vamicnes                                lake4 or dw t*urkaflt the prjecat.
4) Comnpltioonofchksndiusbution to      3. Continuatin oftraiinns awd proposed
remuning bonelklarics                   edditoral Village Livestock Workers fbr
ARP LIT,
SI RRecrm1Thit Wad *tining or;2O Villge
Livestook Workcs
6) uIMning of men and vAmen fai-ers
-41 -



Cwrn2 n) nwvi    ft2     lur     Unno v          a ri&md  o  of il J1Huan  I
the itmaing gH&- to mMum4arnsad       mos d nt*hi flhflw fly irp IG
xhnLnaa b whibh f-a" ty saud&         f;IGMS2a srtio*oflbe piOjen. Tha
w'mcvaMPtICtO4 iAGO haoenrc)           ntgu1RhiJ3 tfnfrin old flech1nioga Ri?unS)~
waWfi pmgarfu thn fbr tha&eveflrn
2) Ozmiinunton ofrmhuItilwf workdQ        nvoa  nfaD trrininn dvaEnpzne n
cmnumlty lrrIgiWom mkhemsis M1@O       worhe a     c   Mr
lesSes).
3) Conutia  n v9rkiAThit=Ion w4zrkM qof
aricul4rwal amass rvasW t 0 D
ki,man.
C) Conuadoo of inuit6lfuu a pau*
budidig ofdiardl oad Mrla1 a2mff
5) Catiniiution oCutidna ofstnn sod
wunt mnntb of I Cj Water tJaw;Vm
CwD~po~mt 5. FiTool AMu 1iJ ZqwvfCon      (PA=A
I~~ ~ -              _i  .  ,,,jo  . , .oai  1. Talu1iirnfofMAlPs33c R
atJnminc and o'fl1rs ofMIhmiRs. Aica     crulI g2PVs In he mmnma w   of
mnd Viquwnu ABCsC,                       osti  gA5CsA uind pAwmnihg ad
on oflw   w ACs.
2s EsttJitmnsn a4AnE1 two ASV&0
2. ThhufmesDd raat m5;rof8a1X1h *nwt
3.   ghnaW tinIan1   offgQers end &Kyv   AR l=u Sdaaffof C4vp Dv$on
mxiberu of two ncw ASt.                  who' Mia vsvWalfymfe ovs tah
Cs I?n&ft~Q ~nO$cazpncItUiOfl y.am
le. Curdinualiofi oflbintg ffr niiosal and  E. O-Yirb-g c> xzrgnozcci civfl ttrva  nf
dltgrior nffton mqrn:tf a3nd to'bplik5   countroi i0 tbsp iaVrtOlo o4v.in
Xps                            tG~~~~~~~~~~nd cIOassDtuzlppzd iaycd,HDz t~i
lb     ily in poa timpvAth?f to
WI    Th2e& (i       ARP P'7A Dbtoa
4ft
-42 -



IORD 3062601I
6eIe,<,   H:lh.n524,  qDr- - ,   PACIFIC "-  12590:      125530'               12600,' 126-30'                              1 27o00'
SSJAWESI                 =       _ -- -  OCEAN  - - -  -        Alnurn  a                         Strait  of  Wetor
PA P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wn
Vs nnedn  I        _;,   .  | | ,  alO, 151z  -  -1  3XA   Atee-e
Se                     Al,r;,- R LW-)                                                                                          P- --
INDONESIA                                          i e  _                                                                                  AI_,
-      v. (II N _IC)N ,,. PE I                                                              e_
W. ,. _ --I   I ,,  r lt   /-4--  0   2-W   -                                                                      0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   .0C
<'59~~~~~~ ,iM 0. R    - L E^ S              T EAi.                            m o     Se-
W\ 4rj i,r /_ *, , *\r L                                                                                nI        - ;3  '
-,T,-.,  -^   .                          _I -
&35' I~~Z'M2g~N9.e-                                               *,N }  ,, ,-T ,er
120-~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
P-~~bI
2-        AUSTRALIA      -                    ,;*1''          ..  .'                l2.5'0'                1  '     -     /a~.A     100N'  -
.l , ~~~~~~~~~~~~tee,._. 1.. __                                       .    . "' /,  ,         /T- '--' I
0  5  10  IS  20Pd1tES                    MAIN ROADS& J           EEVATOS      \E                                .e    | 
+ AIRFCR344_ 200 h1TE                RS ADo eABOE<\_ H 
9-00,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'0
rhisopwsprducdbyheMpL>ssnuitorbeorldon BENTONAAITAL              100-50EES\..
udsmeme~~ ~~~~ ~  on b                                   14osoi ofN on -elr  ron  noemneo                               r- 
oecepsoeeofsucLou- -n.                   r         AeOIACEO,NAIS050^T
-.      IE
.,  /                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ti,m or  Se a
f IVsNEIo1          ,- 
126000'                230
0  5  ~~~ ~~~~~~~10  15  20  25  30SKILOMETERSTI              O   E TE.                                                      e r
0   5    10  115  20SMI[ES                            MA~IN ROADS             ELEVATIONS:\ 
 AIRPORTS                   2000 METERS AND ABOVE                      H
0   SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES  1500-2000 METERS                                   <
This nep -ee prod-cd by lb. Mep O.,ine  eir ef The Wodd BeAk.  S  NATIONAL CAPITAL  1 1 000S-1500 METERS
ee de cop do en  reply, -f dee per, el The World 1oeS GceeP, nay  -- - - DISTRICT BOUNDARIRS  m   00-1 0SS METERS
tdeeeee   Ir  eglsie   -lny r-en y le , orey eedoe--e  e
oeeleee-elbeede.e                                2    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES     m  0-500 METERS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES



