Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR 
GRANT NUMBER TF-023824
Trust Fund for East Timor
Grant Agreement
(Agriculture Rehabilitation Project)
between
UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION
IN EAST TIMOR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as Trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor
Dated June 21, 2000
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR
GRANT NUMBER TF-023824
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 2000, between the UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL 
ADMINISTRATION IN EAST TIMOR (the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Trustee) acting as trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor.
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to Resolution No. 99-8 of the Executive Directors of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Resolution No. 
IDA 99-5 of the Executive Directors of the International Development Association, as 
amended by Resolutions No. 99-8/1 and No. IDA 99-5/1, the Executive Directors 
established the Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET) to assist in the emergency 
reconstruction and recovery program in East Timor and appointed the International 
Development Association as trustee of the TFET;
(B)
the United Nations Security Council, acting under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations, adopted on October 25, 1999, Resolution 1272 (1999) 
establishing a United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET) for 
an initial period until January 31, 2001, and whereas UNTAET has the objectives and a 
structure as set out in part IV of the Report of the Secretary-General dated October 
4, 1999; 
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the TFET for funding the Project; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to the Trust Fund for East 
Timor Grant Agreements" of the International Development Association, dated May 15, 
2000, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Pilot Agriculture Services Center" means a center to be established 
under Part C.1 of the Project;
(b)
"Project Management Unit" and "PMU" mean the unit responsible for the 
implementation of the Project, including the implementation of the financial 
management and procurement action plans, and mean the Project implementation entity 
for purposes of sub-sections (g), (h), (i) and (j) of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions;
(c)
"Project Performance Indicators" means those indicators designed to 
measure the Recipient’s performance in achieving Project objectives as set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(d)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. (a) The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an 
amount equal to six million eight hundred thousand Dollars ($6,800,000).
(b)
The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purpose pursuant 
to the Resolution referred to in Whereas (A) of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant.
(b) 
The Recipient may, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Trustee, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, agricultural, environmental, and financial practices, and shall 
Page  3
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 8.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Trustee, and 
furnish to the Trustee not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Trustee, a plan 
to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Trustee a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
 (c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
Page  4
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement:
(a)
that the Project Management Unit has been established in accordance with 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(b)
that a model subsidiary agreement, acceptable to the Trustee, has been 
prepared by the Recipient for purposes of paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 5.02. If the Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall not have entered into 
effect ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, the Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall terminate, unless the 
Trustee, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, shall establish a later 
date for the purposes of this Section. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Special Representative of the Secretary General, United 
Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor, is designated as representative of 
the Recipient for the purposes of Section 10.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor
Dili, East Timor
c/o GPA - Office of the DSRSG
P.O. Box 2436
Darwin, NT 0801, Australia
Facsimile:
61-889422198
61-889815157
1212-9632180
For the Trustee:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Dili, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION
  IN EAST TIMOR
By /s/ Sergio Vieira de Mello
Page  5
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
   as Trustee for the Trust Fund in East Timor
By /s/ Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Authorized Representative
IN THE PRESENCE OF:
By /s/ Xanana Gusmão
Member, National Consultative Council of East Timor
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
  Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Civil works
  300,000
100% 
(2) Goods (including 
4,300,000
100%
transportation)
(3) Training, fellowships,   300,000
100%
workshops and study tours
(4) Operating costs
  160,000
100%
(5) Consultants’ services
and studies under:
(a)  Part C.2 of 
  200,000
100%
the Project
(b)  Other
1,000,000
100%
(6) Unallocated
  540,000
     TOTAL
6,800,000
2.
For purposes of this Schedule, "operating costs" means the operating costs of 
the PMU, including travel, per diem, communications, and consumables (but excluding 
salaries), and the cost of the annual audit of Project accounts.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (5) (a) unless the 
faculty of agriculture of the University of East Timor has been established.
Page  6
4.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a) 
civil works costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract;
(b) 
goods costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract;
(c) 
training, fellowships, workshops and study tours;
(d) 
operating costs; and 
(e) 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued at less than 
$100,000 equivalent each and contracts for the employment of individuals valued at 
less than $50,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as the Trustee 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
5.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the 
Trustee for deposit into the Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or 
the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient in: (i) improving food 
security of selected poor households; and (ii) increasing agricultural production in 
selected areas and promoting rural growth.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives.
Part A: Priority Productive Asset Restoration
1.
Carrying out of a national vaccination campaign to immunize livestock against 
infectious diseases and provision of emergency clinical services as required.
2.
Provision of chicks and chicken feed to about 20,000 selected poor rural 
families to improve household nutrition and income.
3.
Provision of about 2,000 head of buffalo and Bali cattle to selected poor 
farmers that have lost their animals.
4.
Provision of simple hand tools to selected rural families for purposes of 
farming, household work and communal work.
5.
Conducting of farmer information campaigns, including farmer field days and 
workshops.
Part B:
Irrigation and Rural Infrastructure Studies, Rehabilitation and 
Maintenance
1.
Carrying out of feasibility and engineering studies, including: (i) surveys and 
profiling of irrigation schemes to identify feasible improvements and select schemes 
for rehabilitation; (ii) sketches of canal improvement and structure rehabilitation, 
and tender documents for the selected rehabilitation works; (iii) establishment or 
consolidation of water user associations.
2.
Carrying out of community rehabilitation and maintenance works of irrigation 
infrastructure and agriculture access roads.
3.
Provision of training in irrigation planning, design, management and supervision 
to the local staff of the irrigation section of the PMU.
4.
Provision of technical assistance to the irrigation section of the PMU in 
irrigation and road maintenance.
Part C: Pilot Agriculture Services Centers
Page  7
1.
Establishment of about five Pilot Agriculture Services Centers, including: (i) 
construction of offices, shops and related facilities; (ii) provision of equipment 
(including vehicles, tools, and related spare parts), and agricultural inputs; and 
(iii) provision of technical assistance.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to the faculty of agriculture of the 
University of East Timor for the design of an agricultural research laboratory and 
field research stations.
3.
Establishment of about five-community radio stations, including provision of 
radios to farmers and rural dwellers, to provide agricultural information.
4.
Provision of local and international training to local staff of the PMU in 
agricultural systems and techniques, including the carrying out of workshops and study 
tours for members of Pilot Agriculture Services Centers, research and extension staff 
and selected farmers. 
Part D: Project Management and Capacity Building
Strengthening the Project Management Unit through the provision of technical 
assistance, training and equipment, including vehicles and motorcycles.
*          *          *          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Credits and IDA Credits" published by 
the Trustee in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding
Works estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more per contract, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Except as provided in paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of this Section, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $320,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Equipment (including vehicles) and related spare parts, supplies and consumables 
may be procured from the United Nations’ Interagency Procurement Services Office in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
5.
Community Participation
Works required for Part B.2 of the Project shall be procured in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
Page  8
6.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $750,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Trustee, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Trustee for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Trustee, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more, and the first two contracts for small works, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods procured from a UN Agency and the 
first two contracts for goods in each year procured under shopping procedures, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of a supplier/execution of a contract under 
shopping procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Trustee a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
and
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Trustee in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for a Project accounts auditor estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  9
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for technical assistance to the PMU for purposes of implementation of 
Part A of the Project, and pre-feasibility and design studies under Part B.1 of the 
Project, may, with the Trustee's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Trustee of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Trustee for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved 
by the Trustee, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Trustee for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
establish and thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, a 
Project Management Unit within the Recipient’s Governance and Public Administration 
Pillar, with competent personnel in adequate numbers, including:
(i)
a Project Management Unit Director;
(ii)
a procurement specialist; and
(iii)
a financial manager; and
(b)
provide the Project Management Unit with adequate office space and 
communication facilities.
2.
In carrying out Part A.2 and A.4 of the Project, the Recipient shall select 
rural families and farmers in accordance with criteria agreed with the Trustee, 
including the following criteria, and shall keep acceptable records of the screening 
process and the selected participants, namely beneficiaries of chickens and hand tools 
shall be selected by the village councils or focus groups from the poorest families 
and farmers in rural areas. Inputs on the beneficiary selection shall be sought from 
civil society (such as a representative of a church, the head of a local 
non-government organization, or a women’s organization).
Page  10
3.
In carrying out Part A.3 of the Project, the Recipient shall select rural 
families and farmers in accordance with criteria agreed with the Trustee, including 
the following criteria, and shall keep acceptable records of the screening process and 
the selected participants: 
(a)
beneficiaries of buffaloes or Bali cattle shall be rural families and 
farmers of the lowest social strata who lost buffaloes or Bali cattle. Each 
beneficiary family shall receive one buffalo or one cow;
(b)
rural families and farmers who have lost buffaloes or Bali cattle but who 
are the second lowest in the social strata shall receive the first calf from a 
beneficiary under sub-paragraph (a) above; and
(c)
the final list of beneficiaries under sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) above 
shall be signed by a representative from the PMU, a member of the community or village 
council or a member of the village focus group, and a member of civil society (such as 
a representative of a church, the head of a local non-government organization, a 
women’s organization, or a village elder).
4.
Beneficiaries under Part
 A.2, A.3 and A.4 of the Project shall receive either 
chickens or a set of hand tools or a buffalo or a head of Bali cattle.
5.
In carrying out Part B of the Project the Recipient shall select irrigation 
schemes in accordance with criteria agreed with the Trustee, including the following:
(a)
the rehabilitation has an economic rate of return of at least 10 percent, 
such rate of return to be estimated through an economic analysis;
(b)
the selected irrigation schemes will benefit the greatest number of poor 
beneficiaries;
(c)
the rehabilitation will have no negative impacts on the environment;
(d)
the selected irrigation schemes have the highest beneficiary 
participation; and
(e)
the selected irrigation schemes have users that are willing to take over 
the responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the irrigation system (with 
the exception of large works) and, therefore, the selected irrigation schemes have the 
least fiscal impact on government budget.
6.
In carrying out Part C.1 of the Project, the Recipient shall enter into a 
subsidiary agreement, acceptable to the Trustee, with each Pilot Agriculture Services 
Center, such agreement to include the conditions for qualifying for works, goods and 
services under the Project, and the requirements for financial management of the Pilot 
Agriculture Services Center.
7.
In carrying out Part C.1 of the Project, the Recipient shall take all measures 
to avoid the acquisition of land or assets of villagers and to avoid the displacement 
of said villagers.
8.
Training under the Project shall be carried out in accordance with a training 
program acceptable to the Trustee.
9.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, and 
furnish to the Trustee, on or about May 31, 2001, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Trustee, by June 30, 2001, or such later date as the 
Trustee shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Page  11
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Trustee’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Project Performance Indicators
PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR PERFORMANCE INDICATORS, FORMAT WILL FIT INTO DOCUMENT
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for deposit into the  Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from the Grant Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
Page  12
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Trustee, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account:
(i) 
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Trustee, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; 
or 
(B) 
deposit into the  Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall 
so request, refund to the Trustee) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Trustee into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
