RESTRICTED
Report No: P-1104
FILE: Caffir
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR AN
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AND A
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
BOTH IN ISTANBUL
June 14, 1972






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRMUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERFNATIONAL DEVELOPINT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY FOR AN
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT AND A
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT BOTH IN ISTANBUL
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation  on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of $2.3 mil-
lion on standard IDA terms to help finance a project for the preparation of
an integrated development program for the Istanbul metropolitan area, and on
a proposed loan to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of $37 million
to help finance a project for the extension and improvement of the water
supply system of the same area. The loan would have a term of 25 years,
including five years of grace, with interest at 7.25 percent per annum. The
proceeds of the loan would be relent on the same terms to the Istanbul Water
Administration (ISI).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Development Prospects of Turkey" (EMA-30a)
dated February 1, 1971, was distributed to the Executive Directors on
February 4, 1971. This was updated by a memorandum entitled "Current
Economic Position and Prospects of Turkey" (EMA-40a) dated July 19, 1971,
which was distributed on July 26, 1971. A Bank economic mission visited
Turkey in April 1972 and a new report will be distributed in the fall of
1972. Preliminary findings of the economic mission are included in the
discussion below. A country data sheet is attached as Annex II.
3.        Following a long period of stability, internal political tensions
have appeared in the last two years. Student disturbances and unrest among
workers occurred in 1970 and early 1971, and the armed forces called in
March 1971 for the resignation of the Demirel cabinet and for the imple-
mentation of the reforms prescribed by the 1961 Constitution. An "above-party
and reformist" government was formed under Prime Minister Erim, and martial
law was introduced. In its eight months in office, the Government largely re-
established law and order, and introduced some administrative changes. It
also raised prices of several State Economic Enterprises (SEE's) and presented
several reform bills to Parliament. However, it was not able to translate
its long-range economic policies into detailed measures and decrees. Growing
opposition from Parliament and the private sector to some administrative
changes and reform proposals brought about the resignation of a large group
of ministers in December 1971, and a new coalition government, headed again
by Prime illinister Erim, was then formed.



4.        The second Erim government took a more positive attitude towiards
the private sector, and by having greater political party representation in
the cabinet, it was more conciliatory to Parliament. However, in its
attempt to push through modified reform measures it again met with opposition
in Parliament. A mining reform bill and a moderate land reform bill have been
introduced in Parliament, but little has been done to further educational
reform, reorganize the State Economic Enterprises (SEE's), or pass the pro-
posed direct tax bills. Prime Minister Erim resigned in mid-April, after
his request for "government by decree", intended to speed up the process of
reforms, was turned doim by the political parties. A new government drawn
from three parties and non-parliamentarians and headed by Prime IMinister
IVielen was formed in l4ay 1972.
5.        While long-term economic policy issues have recently become a major
cause of political tensions, growth in Gross National Product in the last
decade has been rapid and continuous, averaging about 6.6 percent per year
in the period 1962-71. In the same period, gross investment increased sub-
stantially, -with its share in GNP rising from 15 to 20 percent.  Although
total consumption increased considerably, gross national savings increased
at a much faster rate, their share in GNP rising from 11 to 19 percent.
HIowever, since 1968, the growth of savings as well as of investments slowed
down and their shares in GNP have leveled off, dropping slightly in 1971.
6.        The main growfth sectors in the last decade have been industry,
power and construction. This reflected the development strategy during the
first and second five-year plans (1962-67, 1968-72), which gave highest
priority to industrialization. Industrial output grew by about 10 percent
per annum with textiles, machinery and equipment, steel and chemicals pro-
viding the main impetus for growth. But this rapid growth, mainly to meet
domestic demand and replace imports, was strongly insulated from inter-
national competition. Other rapidly growing sectors were transport, trade
and financial services. The impact of large investments in agriculture was
slowi however, and agricultural production increased by about 4 percent per
annum, writh large fluctuations from year to year depending on weather condi-
tions. As a result of the relative growth rates, the share of industry,
trade and services in GDP rose, and that of agriculture dropped. In 1971
GNP increased by 9 percent in real terms, thanks largely to an excellent
harvest, a continued industrial growth and a sharp rise in emigrant worker
remittances, and output in 1972 promises also to be above average.
7.        The balance of payments situation has been characterized in 1967-71
by increasing trade deficits, and a strict system of import controls
leading to delays and shortages of essential imports and, consequently,
to underutilization of production capacity. Finally, the unrealistic
official exchange rate wfas changed in August 1970 (from TL 9 to



-3-
TL 15 per US$, revised to TL 14 in December 1971). This, together with
associated stabilization measures and a rapid rise in workers' remittances
helped to improve the situation rather dramatically. Workers' remittances
increased sharply, from about $140 million in 1969 to $470 million in
1971. Coinodity exports and tourism receipts also increased markedly. The
overall result has been a substantial rise in gross foreign exchange
reserves, which stood at $955 million at the end of March 1972. Net foreign
assets, which were negative in 1966-68, rose to $410 million by the end of
1971, the equivalent of four months' imports. These improvements have led
improved availability of essential imports of investment goods, raw materials
and parts, and to rebuilding of stocks.
8.        The budgetary situation has been dominated in the last decade by
the need to control the rapid growth of public expenditures. Tax revenues
have grown faster than GNP, their share rising from 12.9 percent in 1962 to
17.6 percent of GNP in 1971, but the increases in tax revenues have been
more than offset by the rise in current expenditures and transfers. The
overall budget deficit has grown since 1968 and was particularly large in
1971 when the full impact on current expenditures of public salary increases
under the 1970 Personnel Reform Law was felt. The financial results of the
State Economic Enterprises, though slightly improving, have been consist-
ently less than targeted. With little change in net external financing and
long-term domestic borrowing, the Treasury had to have growing recourse to
the Central Bank for short-term advances and to other short-term borrowing.
The difficulties facing public mobilization of resources have led to public
investanent expenditures falling short of targets, and to an actual decline
in public investment in real terms in 1971. The pressure on public
resources is lilcely to continue in 1972, and the growth of public develop-
ment expenditure will probably suffer as a result.
9.        While available resources increased, a more rapid growth of
expenditures led to inflationary pressures in the economy in the period
1967-70, resulting in an average increase in wholesale prices of about 6
percent per annum. Inflationary pressure was particularly strong in 1971
when wholesale prices rose 16 percent. The pressures came mainly from the
demand side due to substantial increases in public salaries and industrial
wages and larger agricultural incomes in a year of record output. At the
same time controlled prices of public industrial enterprises and support prices
of major agricultural products were also raised, and prices of imported goods
increased sharply as a result of both devaluation and the rise in world export
prices. The pressure on prices is likely to continue in 1972, though at a
lower level than 1971. The effects of the large price adjustments of 1971 have
now been absorbed, and high output and imports should also help to contain



-14-
hiflation in 1972. However, the resumed growth of demand for investment,
both by the private and public sectors will add to the demand pressure.
In these circumstances, better mobilization of resources by the public
sector and a balance between the claims of public and private sectors on
investment funds are needed to avoid excessive pressure on prices.
10.       For the longer term, the continued political uncertainties have
meant that the planned reforms, e.g. administrative, educational and land
reforms, and reorganization of SEE's have not yet been initiated. Adminis-
trative reform of the SEE's and upgrading their executive and labor skills
have still to be achieved. This is particularly important to prepare Turkish
industry for competition that will arise from association with the EEC. In
agriculture, although substantial irrigation investments have been made in
the past and the government rightly gives high priority to completing on-
going projects, several long-term problems remain. The Anatolian plateau
and the eastern part of Turkey are considerably less developed than the
coastal regions and land tenure problems are serious in some regions. Sur-
plus stocks of tobacco, sugar, tea and hazelnuts have accumulated and there
is need to modify price support and other policies to divert resources from
these surplus crops. Some progress has already been made in shifting land
from sugarbeets to sunflower, feedgrains and other crops.
11.       The problem of domestic resource mobilization will remain a major
constraint and will restrain the real growth of public investment in the
Third Plan period (1973-77), especially if the savings strategy continues
to be heavily dependent on public savings. The Third Plan targets (1973-77)
have not yet been approved, but the proposed growth targets imply excessively
high marginal savings rates. If substantial increases in public savings are
to be realized, then planned changes in the tax structure should be imple-
mented at an early stage and the failure of State Economic Enterprises to
generate sufficient surpluses should be a major concern of economic policy.
In addition, it is essential to develop a capital market in Turkey to
supplement the existing sources of long-term domestic borrowing. Proposals
for a capital market bill are now being considered.
12.       The employment situation is also a matter of growing concern. The
policy of industrialization followed in the last ten years has not led to
the absorption of the increasing labor supply. Preliminary estimates based
on the 1970 population census indicate that the labor force has grown by
about 420,000 a year between 1965 and 1970, of whom about 60,000 have emi-
grated, 250,000 have found employment on the domestic market, mostly in
services and industry, leaving about 110,000 more unemployed each year. Total
unemployment is estimated at about 9 percent of the labor supply in 1971,
and there are signs of widespread underemployment in agriculture and services.
Urban unemployment, while not severe at present, seems to be growing at a
high rate.



13.       If the country remains politically stable and if the government
effectively carries out structural reforms in the areas mentioned above and
promotes exports, Turkey may be able to maintain or even exceed a growth
rate of 7 percent per annum. However, in spite of the recently improved
balance of payments and exchange reserve positions, Turkey will continue to
need substantial amounts of external assistance to be able to maintain a
high level of investment as well as meet its financial obligations. The
growth of foreign exchange reserves is unlikely to continue at the same rate,
particularly as short-term debts are repaid (e.g. $79 million repaid to the
IRF in April 1972).  Reserves are also needed to cushion any sudden drop in
workers' remittances which are vulnerable to changes in economic conditions
in the host countries, and to insure continued availability of essential
imports of parts and raw materials and support further import liberalization.
Larger project assistance will also be needed to offset the decline in program
assistance. In these circumstances, it would seem advisable for Turkey to
continue for the time being its restraint in using suppliers' credits.
14.       Total debt outstanding and disbursed is estimated at $2,200 million'
at the end of 1971, of which all but 2 percent is public or publicly guar-
anteed. The average terms have been hardening in recent years and this trend
is expected to continue. Of the total gross official external assistance,
estimated at about $390 million in 1971, the Consortium members provided
about $300 million. Of this $83 million came from the United States, $52 mil-
lion from the European Fund, $30 million from the European Investment Bank,
$28 million from Germany, and $23 million from the World Bank Group. The
USSR disbursed about $38 million. As a result of successive debt resched-
ulings and arrangements for debt relief together with substantially increased
workers' remittances, the debt service ratio has fallen considerably since
1965 and is provisionally estimated at about 14 percent of total foreign
exchange earnings (including workers' remittances) in 1971. Preliminary
estimates indicate little change in the debt service ratio in the next five
years. However, since the improvements in the balance of payments have
occurred relatively recently only and are based to a considerable extent on
factors wqhich depend on external developments, Turkey's borrowing capacity
will need to be kept under review and the Government should continue to seek
a part of future external aid on concessionary terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
15.       The level of Bank Group operations in Turkey in past years has
been largely influenced by the almost chronic balance of payments diffi-
culties and the heavy external debt service burden, the limited IDA resources
which could be made available to Turkey and, to some extent, difficulties in
project preparation. In 1968 the Bank and the Turkish authorities began dis-
cussions to establish a basis for a major increase in the level of lending and
greater continuity in thie flow of operations.  Thnis called for actions that
wTould increase Turkey's capacity to borrow on Bank terms, in particular, iin-
pro-.Fed external debt man.agement, reforms in tile system of trade and payments,



- 6 -
and resources and incentives for export-oriented projects. It also called
for a significant improvement in the Government's capacity to identify and
prepare projects.
16.       By the end of 1970, the Government had set itself the goal of
external viability within a reasonable period and the promotion of exports
as the principal means of achieving it. In August 1970, a stabilization
program was initiated and the Turkish Lira was devalued. Parallel with
these developments, the Bank Group stepped up its assistance in project
preparation, notably with advice on project selection criteria and instit-
ution building. All this made possible Bank/IDA lending in an amount of
$114 million in FY 1971, thus exceeding the total lent in the five preceding
years. If the two projects covered by this Report are approved, lending
will amount in FY 1972 to $173.3 million. For subsequent years, lending is
expected to remain at a high level and it is hoped that Turkey's economic
policies and project management will lead to Bank Group lending at a more
regular pace than in the past.
17.       Bank Group lending to Turkey aims at assisting the country in
three major tasks: (a) improving the foreign exchange position partic-
ularly through export promotion, (b) institution building and reform in key
sectors including improved financial viability of the major State Economic
Enterprises, and (c) the achievement of a better balance in rural and urban
development. Several projects financed by the Bank Group in recent years
or presently under discussion focus on the first task. For instance,
emphasis was placed on export-oriented sub-projects in the last loan (713-TU)
made to the Industrial Development Bank of Turkey (TSKB) and in the loan and
credit (762/257-TU) for the Fruit and Vegetable Export Project. Other
projects for which lending is contemplated in coming years, especially for
livestock, forestry and irrigation, are expected to enhance Turkey's ability
to earn foreign exchange. On the other hand, attempts to assist the
expansion of tourism have not borne fruit, indicating some Government
hesitation as to the importance to be given to tourism in Turkey's develop-
ment strategy; as a result tourism projects suitable for Bank consideration
have not yet been put in shape although an IFC investment in the sector is
likely to be presented soon to the Executive Directors. The objective of
institution building has been pursued chiefly in agriculture (including
agricultural credit), power and transportation. The Bank has been instru-
mental in bringing about a comprehensive reorganization of the power sector
culminating in the establishment of the Turkish power authority (TEK) to
which a loan (763-TU) was made in 1971. The Bank has also acted as
executing agency for UNDP technical assistance studies on transport coordin-
ation and on a railway investment program, and a first railway project has
been appraised. Finally, the two-pronged approach to agricultural develop-
ment of the poorest parts of Central and Eastern Turkey and to urban
development has been started with the Second Livestock Project and with the
proposed projects in Istanbul. Bank agricultural and industrial project
missions recently visited Turkey to identify future projects consonant with
the above objectives.



- 7 -
18.       Bank Group financial assistance in the urban sector will necess-
arily be modest in terms of the order of magnitude of public investments
required. The long term objective, however, is not only to provide
financing but, perhaps more importantly, to assist Turkey to establish
machinery for planning and project preparation which will provide decision
makers with a rational basis for allocating the vast resources required for
urban development, and to set up effective institutions. Prospective
projects combine technical assistance to the planning and project prepar-
ation process with financial assistance for high priority projects which
are themselves a vehicle to achieve the long term institutional objective.
At present, Bank efforts are being centered on Istanbul, but it is expected
that any progress towards the orderly development of Istanbul, because of
its importance and weight in the nation, will soon spread to other areas,
and in particular to the contemplated urban development poles in Eastern
Turkey, such as Samsun and Elazig.
19.       Five Bank/IDA operations were planned for FY 1972.  A $18 million
credit for the Irrigation Rehabilitation and Completion Project was signed
on January 25, 1972; a $76 million loan for the Erdemir Steel Expansion
Project was signed on April 28, 1972; a $16 million credit for the Second
Livestock Development Project (the signing of which is contingent on IDA
replenishment), and a $24 million loan for a Fertilizer Project were
approved on April 4 and Hay 16, 1972, respectively.  Annex I contains a
summary of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of April 31, 1972,
and comments on the execution of ongoing projects. If the Fertilizer and
Second Livestock Projects, approved but not signed, are included, total
Bank/IDA lending in Turkey to date amounts to $338.7 million in loans and
$145.8 million in credits. Projects in preparation for Bank Group londing
in FY 1973 include the Ceyhan-Aslantas multipurpose power and irrigation
project (which was appraised in April 1972), a further loan to TSKB, the
first Bank-financed operation proposed in the transportation sector for a
railway modernization project, and a power distribution project in Istanbul.
20.       IFC has been active in Turkey, having participated in industrial
investments for nylon yarn, pulp and paper, glass, and aluminum. Total
commitments so far amount to about $29 million. IFC is currently investi-
gating new investment opportunities in various sectors including special
steel and tourism.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
21.       The development of the Turkish economy since World War II led to a
dramatic pace of urbanization, which created complex problems. The
structure of the economy changed significantly. While agriculture still
accounts for about two-thirds of the working population and 75 percent of the



value of all exports, its contribution to GNP declined from about 50 per-
cent in the early 1950's to just under 30 percent in 1970. During the same
period, the contribution of manufacturing increased from 11 percent to
about 20 percent. The rapid population growth, the employment pull of fast
developing urban sectors such as manufacturing and construction, the exhaus-
tion of good agricultural land, and the mechanization of agriculture led to
high levels of rural-urban migration. Large public investment programs to
improve intercity transport lines appear to have also contributed to the
high migration rate.
22.       In 1950, some 4 million people lived in urban settlements of
10,000 or more. By 1970, the urban population had grown to more than 12
million, about 35 percent of a total estimated population of 35 million.
Roughly half this growth was due to the rural-to-urban migration, for the
overall natural increase in Turkey (2.6 percent) has declined slightly in
recent years and birth rates in urban areas are generally lower than in rural
areas. In the 1965-1970 period alone, the populations of the Metropolitan
Areas of Istanbul, Ankara, and Izmir grew by 945,000 accounting for 52 per-
cent of the total growth in cities with 50,000 people or more. The Istanbul
Metropolitan Area bore the brunt of this migration with some 500,000 immi-
grants,reaching a population of 2.8 million. Due to this rapid urbanization,
the metropolitan areas now suffer from inadequate infrastructure and
municipal facilities, proliferation of squatter settlements, poor location
of industrial sites, and numerous environmental problems. Problems of
urbanization are likely to be accentuated in the coming years as it is
estimated that towards 1985 about half of total population, or 22 million,
will live in urban areas.
23.       The Government only recently gave explicit recognition to the role
of urbanization in the development process. During the First Plan period
1963-1967, the official policy favored "balanced urbanization", with urban
population growing at the speed of new jobs creation. In the Second Five-
Year Plan 1968-72, the role of urbanization as a factor of growth and modern-
ization was explicitly recognized, with the objectives of (i) treating
urbanization as an inseparable part of the overall development process along
with modernization in agriculture and industry, and (ii) encouraging large-
scale urban development to take advantage of the role of large urban centers
in accelerating economic and social progress. Concentration of efforts and
investment in twelve development centers is foreshadowed.
24.       Agencies at the national level have unusually wide responsibilities
for urban and regional development. Between 1961 and 1971, the Department
of Economic and Social Planning within the State Planning Organization was
effectively responsible for establishing and coordinating regional economic
and social policies.  Since then, this responsibility has been transferred
to the IMinistry of Reconstruction and Resettlement. Within the Ministry,
the Planning and Construction General Directorate is responsible for metro-
politan and city planning.  It is assisted by the Iller Bank, which carries
out infrastructural investment in the municipal areas, by the Property and



- 9 -
Credit Bank, which is one of the main public sources of loans for housing
construction, and by the Land Office, recently established to acquire land
for the Ministry. The municipal governments are mainly responsible for
planning and investment in local roads, water, sewerage and other utility
systems.
25.       The policy reactions of the Government to rapid urbanization left
many problems unsolved. The strategy of rapid industrialization did not
provide enough employment. The public sector and the sector of services had
to take up part of the slack labor supply, the rest emigrating to Europe or
being unemployed. The Government started a program of family planning in
1966, but insufficient efforts have been made to follow up the initial
measures; the present modest program of expenditure (the target for 1972 is
TL 17 million), even if it were more effective, cannot be expected to have
an early effect on population growth. Despite its pervasive responsibilities,
the Central Government machinery had little impact on the pattern of urban
development. The question of responsibility for planning, formulating and
implementing urban investment has not yet been solved satisfactorily. Urban
planning has been focusing excessively on physical planning, and not enough
attention has been given to the problem of magnitude and sources of financial
resources and to the preparation of economic and financial programs and proj-
ects. The planning process is very complex, since decision powers of many
administrations and agencies at the central, provincial and municipal level
have to be coordinated.
26.       The Istanbul metropolitan area, which is the object of the two
projects proposed, has a central role in the process of urbanization, because
of its importance in the Turkish economy. Population growth alone did not
transform Istanbul into a large urban area. Situated at the strategic cross-
roads of historic land routes between Europe and Asia, the capital of the
Ottoman Empire after 1453 remains by far Turkey's most important center of
international trade, accounting for nearly 40-50 percent of all import-export
activity, and nearly 70 percent of the national imports. It is also the most
important single tourist attraction in the country, accounting for 50 percent
of all tourists. More recently, it has become the center of Turkey's indus-
trialization and manufacturing. Between 1960-1965, the industrial sector
grew at an annual rate of 7.4 percent; the city generated nearly 21 percent
of all new jobs in Turkey; about 80 percent of these new jobs were in manu-
facturing and commerce. In 1965, about 15 percent of the total value added
to GDP and 25 percent of the total value added by industry originated in
Istanbul. In 1968, Istanbul's share in Turkey's GNP was estimated at 20 per-
cent and growing at about 11 percent per year.



- 10 -
PART IV - THE PROJECTS
27.       The proposed urban development and water supply projects, presented
here together, respond to two aspects of the same problem: how to provide
for efficient urban growth. Detailed descriptions of the projects are given
in the reports entitled "Appraisal of a Project for the Preparation of an
Integrated Urban Program for Istanbul" (PS-12a) and "Appraisal of the Istan-
bul Water Supply Project" (PU-97), which are being distributed separately.
A Loan, Credit and Projects Summary is attached as Annex III.
28.       The proposed projects were appraised in October/November 1971 and
a mission visited the country again in MIarch 1972 to complete the appraisal
of the water supply project.  During negotiations, in Washington, from May 23
to May 26, 1972, the Government of Turkey was represented by IIr. Ahmet Tufan
GIl, Chief Commercial and Economic Counselor, Mr. Teoman Koprululer, Counselor,
and Mr. Alaeddin Yoruk, Financial Attache, all of the Turkish Embassy in
Washington. The Mginistry of Reconstruction and Resettlement and the Istanbul
Master Plan Bureau were represented by Mr. Dogan, Director for Metropolitan
Planning. ISI was represented by Messrs. Evirgen, Hitat and Isiki, and the
Directorate of State Hydraulic Works (DSI) was represented by its Istanbul
Regional Director, HIr. Taiha Ermis.
General
29.       Metropolitan growrth in Istanbul has been rapid, unplanned, and
uncontrolled. The provision of urban services and amenities has not kept
pace wfith growing demands. Installed water systems lack capacity to meet
present demands and service is intermittent. Only one third of the city is
served by a water-borne waste disposal system. Contamination of surface and
groundwater eventually used for domestic purposes is widespread and was
directly linked to a cholera outbreak in 1970. Storm sewers are lacking and
standing water is a problem in certain parts of the city.  The centuries-old
street sytem is choked by traffic, while public transport patronage is
declining. Squatter settlements (gecekondus) pose a particularly serious
problem. Growing by some 10,000 housing units each year, they now occupy
half of the built-up area of Istanbul and house 35-40 percent of the popula-
tion, most of them in lower income groups.  Two-thirds of the gecekondu
population surveyed in 1966 were without adequate water supply, sewerage,
electric power or surfaced streets.
30.       Wiith the completion in 1974 of the new Bosporus Bridge and periph-
eral highway, linking Europe and Asia, the Anatolian side of Istanbul will
be opened for new development. To date, only skeletal programs have been
prepared to guide residential and industrial development and to provide for



- 11 -
the extension of public services and facilities to the area. In addition,
major arterial improvements to connect the commercial, business and indus-
trial areas on the European side with the Bosporus Bridge and peripheral
hight'Tay have yet to be initiated.
31.       Istanbul' a urban problems are aggravated by the diffusion of
responsibility for local administration among multiple agencies of the central
and local governments and the absence of a single unit with overall metro-
politan authority. The Central Government operates extensively at the
provincial and district levels through the regional and specialized agencies
of its various ministries and directorates; among those, the Greater Istan-
bul Master Plan Bureau, an agency of the I4inistry of Reconstruction and
Resettlement, can provide the nucleus for integrated metropolitan planning.
Moreover, the Metropolitan Area includes 30 municipalities with specific local
government powers and functions wbich further complicate planning and plan
implementation on an area-wide basis. Efforts to deal with the multitude of
problems are further handicapped by lack of financial resources, ineffective'
land use controls, a shortage of technical and administrative personnel, and
inadequate planning which has not yet provided a framewrork for sound invest-
ment decisions. Without a major effort to coordinate the urban projects now
planned and executed on a piecemeal basis, more severe problems can be
expected to develop.
32.       The nature and complexity of Istanbul's problems make it unrealistic
to expect that full comprehensiveness and coordination of policies, plans
and programs can be quickly attained. This is the direction, however, in
which planning must move, accompanied by improvements in decision-making and
executing capabilities of implementing agencies.  The situation therefore
calls for a step-by-step approach, beginning with an examination of existing
plans and leading to the formulation and implementation of a sound metro-
politan development program. Concurrently preparations must be made and
projects carried out in areas where existing needs are critical. The Bank
Group involvement in Istanbul is designed to assist these different require-
ments in parallel.
33.       In response to the Government's request, a Bank/IDA mission visited
Turkey in mid-1970 to investigate the urbanization problems of Istanbul, review
the plan prepared by the Ilaster Plan Bureau, and examine the status of exist,-
ing and proposed studies and projects of the Government. The mission reported
that the Bureau's plan was essentially an indicative physical plan of future
settlement patterns and urban infrastructure required for the city's growth.
The plan's strategy appeared conceptually sound, e.g. to encourage urban
growth on the Anatolian side through development of urban clusters and planned
low-cost/low-income settlements, while attending to the continuing needs of
the already built-up areas on the European side. The plan lacked, however,
the support of certain basic studies, particularly in urban transport and land
use and price controls, a clear definition of Government policies regarding
urban grou-th, and measures and institutions for implementing the plan.



- 12 -
Moreover, the Bureau's staff and resources were limited and it had little
authority to enforce its decisions and coordinate the multiple agencies
responsible for plan implementation.
34.       Consideration of the mission's report led to the conclusion that
Istanbul merited inclusion among the cities in which the Bank/IDA should
concentrate its urbanization program, and that an urban development project
should be prepared that would provide the basis to combine on-going Bank
lending for water supply, wastewater, and power projects with the planning
for urban cluster development, basic infrastructure for squatter and low-cost/
low-income settlements, and urban transport improvements. The mission was
satisfied that the preparation of these projects, as well as the proposal to
relocate Istanbul's wholesale market complex (a major traffic bottleneck in
the central business district), need not be deferred until refinement of the
Bureau's plan, as they would be high priority projects in any case. Two
subsequent missions built upon this basic approach.
35.       The urban development project would lead to new types of inter-
linked urban projects, some of which would be considered for Bank Group
financing.  The project for urban cluster development, for example, which is
at the core of the Bureau's strategy, would be planned in conjunction with
the proposed Istanbul-Izmit Highway, and would involve industrial estates
and all types of urban infrastructure. The preparation of the wholesale
market relocation project would be coordinated with proposed investments in
the port and ground transport system. The Istanbul power distribution project
to be appraised this month is expected to pave the way for a review of the pub-
lic transportation facilities for which the power distribution authority (IEtT
is also responsible. And major urban transport projects, which play a large'
part in determining urban growth patterns, would be prepared with consider-
ation for the urban transport system as a whole and land use decisions which
make up the Bureau's plan. Assistance would also be given through the Master
Plan Bureau to a variety of institutions, particularly those concerned with
urban expansion, including land purchase and controls, basic infrastructure
programming and execution of urban cluster development.
36.       Thus, the approach taken combines project preparation with improve-
ments in the institutions for broad development planning and plan implement-
ation. The approach is expected to provide:
(a) in the short run, projects addressing the most urgent
problems confronting the Istanbul Area and which are
formulated with a clearer understanding of their inter-
linkages; and
(b) in the longer run, a policy framework and improved
planning and implementation capabilities which will
permit a more comprehensive, coordinated and effective
approach to urban development.



- 13 -
Urban Development Project
37.       The Project.  Tne project consists of consultant services to
provide assistance in: (a) the preparation of an integrated urban develop-
ment program for Istanbul; (b) development of institutions and improvement
of regulations and policies to enable the institutions to coordinate and
implement the program; (c) the preparation of high priority investment
projects which aim at alleviating the most pressing needs and could ratio-
nally be carried out before the integrated program is completed; and (d) the
preparation of an urban transport/land use model to provide a basis for
future investment decision making. The projects to be prepared under (c)
will include (i) a project to provide basic infrastructure for existing
squatter settlements and future low cost residential areas, (ii) an urban
cluster to form the nucleus for planned urban expansion along the proposed
Istanbul-Izmit Highway, (iii) a wholesale market relocation project to re-
lieve congestion in the center of the city and to improve the efficiency of
operations in the market, (iv) a wastewater disposal project, and (v) a
traffic engineering and control project to improve at low cost the use of the
existing urban transport system; these projects may eventually be considered
for financing by the Bank Group or other lending or development agencies.
In addition, the project provides for fellowships and seminars to train
Turkish staff in the above fields and the necessary equipment to carry out
the studies.
38.       Execution.  Execution of the project will be the responsibility of
the Ministry of Reconstruction and Resettlement through its various direc-
torates and agencies with the cooperation of other ministries. The work
will be centered in the Istanbul M4aster Plan Bureau where outside consultants
wrill work with the Bureau's staff for the purpose of the project. The con-
sultants wJill provide an experienced Chief Consultant responsible to the
Director of the Bureau and a small group of highly qualified specialists for
the duration of the project. Other specialists will be assigned from the
consulting firm, or by sub-contract with other firms or individuals where
appropriate, as needed from time to time for specific tasks. Further
measures to strengthen the institutional framework for planning and imple-
menting the development of Istanbul metropolitan area are described in paras.
55 to 57 below.
39.       Costs and Financing.  The total cost of the project, including
taxes and duties, is estimated at $3.3 million of which $2.3 million in
foreign exchange. This estimate also includes contingency and price esca-
lation allowances amounting to $0.70 million. A summary analysis of project
costs is given in Annex III.
40.       The proposed credit will finance the foreign exchange cost of the
project. The local currency cost will be met by budgetary allocations.
Alternative sources of funds for this project were explored but without any
positive outcome. UNDP funds, in particular, were already committed or
requested for other high priority projects.



- 14 -
41.       Justification.  The M4aster Plan Bureau for Istanbul has prepared
a list of project investments to be carried out over a four-year period in
the Istanbul lMetropolitan Area. Although only a partial inventory, proposed
investments exceed available resources, and project priorities, as well as
their timing and phasing, are not indicated. Moreover, no feasibility
studies have been undertaken, nor have the means for implementing the projecti
been worked out. The assistance to be provided under this first Urban Devel-
opment Project would help to remedy these deficiencies. It would establish
an overall planning framework, develop investment priorities, prepare a
phased program including institutional measures for project implementation,
and would bring with it, as a result, the benefits attributable to planned
urban development.
Water Supply Project
42.       The Project.  The water supply project is the major part of the
Istanbul water supply expansion program for 1972-76, which is based on the
Water Supply Master Plan recently prepared by consultants under the auspices
of UNDP/WIHO. The project includes expansion of the water treatment, trans-
mission, pumping and distribution systems for the whole metropolitan area.
The project also includes consulting services for design and supervision of
some specialized works (Bosporus pipeline crossing, main transmission pipe-
lines and water treatment plants) as well as consulting services to analyze
the distribution system and to assist in establishing a sound organization
and accounting system in ISI.
43.       Execution.  By law, the Directorate for State Hydraulic Works (DSI)
is responsible for source development and construction of water treatment
plants, pumping stations and transmission facilities up to the distribution
reservoirs and, therefore, would execute the respective project items. Upon
completion of these facilities, most will be transferred to the Istanbul lWater
Administration (ISI), which is responsible for construction of the distribu-
tion system to utilize the treated water, as well as for operation of the
system. The Bank, ISI and DSI would enter into a Project Agreement which
will make provision for proper coordination between ISI and DSI and efficient
execution of the proposed project.
44.       Costs and Financing. Total cost of the project, including taxes
and duties, is estimated at $85.1 million, of which $26.5 million (31 per-
cent) in foreign exchange. These estimates include physical and price con-
tingencies totaling $18.8 million. A summary analysis of project costs, which
shows also the project items to be carried out by DSI and ISI, respectively,
is given in Annex III. Of the $26.5 million foreign exchange component only
$20.5 million will be eligible for financing from the proposed loan, since
some 25 percent of project expenditures (including $6.0 million of foreign
exchange costs) would not be subject to international competitive bidding.
In addition, the Bank loan would finance $5.0 million of interest on the loan
during construction and $11.5 million of local currency costs.



- 15 -
45.       The financial requirements of the water supply program of DSI and
ISI in the period 1972-76, including the project, total $117.0 million. The
proposed Bank loan would provide 32 percent of these requirements, with
Turkish sources providing the balance of $80.0 million equivalent. Internal
cash generation by ISI would provide 17 percent of the required funds, capital
contributions by consumers 3 percent and the remaining 48 percent ($56.2 mil-
lion equivalent) would be provided by Government funds.
46.       The Government's contribution of $56.2 million equivalent is sub-
stantial given its available resources. Reference is made to paras. d and
11 above which point out that despite an overall satisfactory savings per-
formance, public investment growth, and hence investment in some priority
projects, may suffer in the next four years. In view of the high priority
which the Turkish authorities have rightly attached to the project here pro-
posed, the insufficient domestic resources available to the Government, and
the relatively smalL foreign exchange component of this project, I consider
that for the Bank Group to cover part of the local currency expenditures is
fully justified.
47.       Procurement. All goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the loan will be procured after international competitive bidding in
accordance with usual Bank Group procedures. Such procedures have already
been initiated in agreement with the Bank for certain critical items (treat-
ment plants and pumping stations). Retroactive financing is proposed up to
an amount of $150,000 in respect of advance payments made for pumps for which
contracts were signed after the field appraisal and following international
competitive bidding.
48.       For all equipment contracts subject to international competitive
bidding, a margin of preference for local manufacturers of 15 percent or the
actual duty, whichever is lower, is proposed.  Turkey is an associate member
of the European Economic Community (EEC) and would normally grant EEC sup-
pliers reductions of up to 10 percent of the relevant customs duty on the
types of equipment required for the project. However, DSI is exempt from all
customs duties and ISI is exempt from customs duties on pipes, so the question
of preferentail duties would not arise for most imports forthe project. ISI
would pay duty on pumps motors, valves and water meters (approximately 25
percent, 50 percent and 75 percent respectively); EEC suppliers would receive
preferential treatment for any such equipment not supplied oy Turkish firms.
The total value of contracts on which such preference could be applied would
not exceed $1.0 million equivalent.
49.       Relending and Disbursement Arrangements. The proposed loan would
be made to the Government, who would relend the total amount of the loan to
ISI. The relending terms which will be set forth in a subsidiary loan agree-
ment, to be approved by the Bank, would be the same as for the loan to the
Government, i.e. interest at 7-1/4 percent per annum and a 25-year repayment
period including 5 years of grace.



- 16 -
50.       Disbursements will be made against: (a) C.I.F. costs of equipment
and supply-cum-erection contracts won by foreign firms or the ex-factory
costs of such contracts if won by local manufacturers; (b) 50 percent of
civil work contracts; (c) total costs of foreign consultants and 50 percent
of cost of local consultants; (d) foreign exchange costs of training and
(e) interest on the loan during the construction period. Disbursements for
the part of the project to be carried out by DSI will be made through ISI on
receipt of disbursement applications initiated by DSI and submitted to the
Bank by ISI.
51.       The Beneficiary. ISI, the beneficiary of the proposed Bank lending
operation, is a semi-autonomous agency attached to the Istanbul Municipality.
Three of its four Board members, including the General Director, are nominated
by the Mayor of Istanbul. ISI is at present responsible for the distribution
of water within the borders of the municipality only. As the new source
facilities are designed to serve the whole Istanbul region, it has been
agreed that a regional water authority, with ISI as its basis, will be
established during the project period. In the interim, before the creation
of the new authority, specific arrangements will be made by ISI to sell
water on a wholesale basis to outside muniripalities.
52.       ISI has a generally competent staff, but serious organizational
weaknesses have reduced the quality of its performance. Unsatisfactory
distribution of functions and poor coordination among departments, in-
sufficient competence and experience in long-term system planning and a
poor accounting system are the major deficiencies. ISI management is con-
scious of these shortcomings and anxious to improve performance in order to
undertake the major expansion program which lies ahead. As mentioned in
paragraph 42 consulting services to advise on the needed reorganization of
ISI and on the establishment of an effective accounting system are included
in the project.
53.       ISI's financial position is sound. It has been consistently a
profitable organization and is virtually free from debt at present. The
rate of return on net fixed assets was 18 percent in 1968, falling,
despite a tariff increase of about 25 percent in January 1971, to 9.3 percent
in 1971, due to rapidly rising costs. Financial projections for ISI in-
dicate that ISI will be able to pay interest on Bank funds upon completion of
the project and repay the principal of all funds borrowed for the proposed
project; ISI's debt service is covered at least twice by internal cash
generation through the period 1972-1980 and the draft Project Agreement
requires the Bank's approval for any further borrowing which would increase
debt service to a level not covered at least 1.5 times by net revenue.
In order to assure a sound cash generation policy for this and future
expansion programs, it has been agreed that ISI's tariffs should be such
as to yield a rate of return on net fixed assets of at least 7 percent
from 1974. through 1976 and of 8 percent thereafter. The Government and ISI



- 17 -
will review ISIts financial position in September 1973 to determine the
tariff increase required in January 1974 to meet this rate of return test; on
the basis of present projections, it will be of the order of 30 percent.
54.       Justification.  Water supply development is absolutely vital to
the future development of the Istanbul region. Presently, demand for water
greatly exceeds supply. The measurable benefits such as revenues from in-
creased sales and estimates of likely cost savings provide an economic rate
of return estimated at 10.6 percent. Reasonable variations in key assump-
tions for the calculation of this return do not change the results more than
marginally. Waterborne diseases have a high incidence in the area and
contaminated water was responsible for a cholera epidemic in 1970 which
resulted in 52 deaths. The project will also have health and other important
non-quantifiable benefits.
Institutional Development
55.       An important feature of both projects is the impact on the develop-
ment of institutions in the metropolitan area by strengthening the planning
mechanism at the metropolitan level across traditional municipal boundaries,
within which the problems of the present urban agglomeration cannot be
solved.
56.       A significant step towards the improvement of the institutional
framework to deal with metropolitan problems, and a direct result of the
Bank Group involvement in Istanbul, is the establishment by decree on May 9,
1972, of an interministerial committee responsible for the coordination of
planning, investment decisions and implementation measures related to urban
development and to the preservation of natural and man-made assets in Ankara,
Istanbul, Izmir and in other cities which shall be designated as metro-
politan areas in the future. The committee will also prepare legislation
to set out the necessary policies and the institutions in the field of
metropolitan development.
57.       Also, in connection with the proposed projects, the Government has
undertaken to establish regional water and wastewater authorities and to
prepare specific proposals by the end of 1972 for Bank Group review and
comment. These arrangements to resolve specific regional projects are
expected to set precedents which 1ill be of considerable significance for
the Istanbul metropolitan area and other urban areas in Turkey.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMIENTS AND ATJTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Turkey and the Association, the draft Loan Agreement between the Republic
of Turkey and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank, Istan-
bul Water Administration and the State Hydraulic Works, the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section I (d), and in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the Bank,
respectively, and the text of Resolutions approving the proposed Development
Credit and Loan, are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
The relending of the loans to the Istanbul Water Administration under a Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement, to be approved by the Bank, is provided for in
Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement.
59.       The draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for loans or
credits for each type of project except for the link established between the
two projects by the cross - default clauses (Section 7.02 (b) of the draft
Loan Agreement and 7.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement) and the
simultaneous effectiveness provided for in Section 8.01 (a) and 8.02 of the
draft Loan and Development Credit Agreements, respectively. The Executive
Directors' attention is also drawn to: (a) Section 4.05 of the Loan Agree-
ment and Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement which provide for
the coordination of wqater supply and wastewiater facilities in the Istanbul
metropolitan area; (b) Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement which contains pro-
visions relating to the sale of water by ISI to municipalities outside
Istanbul; and (c) to Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement and Schedule 2
thereto which relate to the rates for water charged by ISI.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit and Loan would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the Bank.
PART VI - RECOTIENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit and Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
Attachments                                     President
June 14, 1972



ANNEX I
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY             Page 1 of 2
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as at April 30, 1972)*
Loan or                                                                 US$million
Credit                                                          Amount (less cancellations)
Number   Year Borrower             Purpose                       Bank      IDA  Undisbursed
Seven loans and seven credits fully disbursed                    70.7     80.3        -
568-TU   1968  Republic of Turkey Keban Transmission Lines       25.0        -       6.2
587-TU   1969  Republic of Turkey  Seyhan Irrigation Stage II    12.0        -      11.7
143-TU   1969  Republic of Turkey  Seyhan Irrigation Stage II       -      12.0      2.8
589-TU   1969  T.S.K.B.            Industry                       25.0       -       1.0
623-TU   1969  Republic of Turkey  Third Cukurova Power          11.5        -       4.2
Z13-TU   1970  T.S.K.B.            Industry                      40.0        -      34.1
236-TU   1971  Republic of Turkey  Livestock I                     -       4.5      4.5
748-TU   1971  Republic of Turkey  Education                     13.5        -     13.4
257-TU   1971  Republic of Turkey Fruit and Vegetable              -      15.0     15.0
762-TU   1971  Republic of Turkey  Fruit and Vegetable           10.0       -      10.0
763-TU   1971  T.E.K.              Power Transmission            24.0       -       23.8
775-TU   1971  Republic of Turkey Fourth Cukurova Power           7.0       -        7.0
281-TU   1972  Republic of Turkey  Irrigation Rehabilitation       -      18.0     18.0
817-TU*-* 1972  Republic of Turkey  Steel Mill Expansion         76.0               76.0
Total                                                  314.7    129.8
of which has been repaid                             50.8
Total now outstanding                                  263.9
Amount sold                           1.2
of which has been repaid           0.7                0.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                         263.4    129.8
Total undisbursed                                      187.4     40.3     227.7
*  A $24 million loan for an Ammonia Urea Manufacturing project and a $16 million credit
for a Second Livestock project were approved in May 16, 1972, and April 4, 1972,
respectively, but not yet signed. They are not included in this table.
et Not yet effective.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as at April 30, 1972)
Amount in US$ Millions
Year    Obligor         Type of Business                   Loan     Equity    Total
1963    TSKB            DFC                                   -      0.92      0.92
1966    SIFAS.I         Nylon yarn                          0.90     0.47      1.87
1967    TSKB            DFC                                   -      0.34      0.34
1969    TSKB            DFC                                   -      0.41      0.41
1969    SIFAS II        Nylon yarn                          1.50     0.43       1.93
1969    Viking I        Pulp and paper                       2.50    0.62       3.52
1970    A.C.S.          Glass                              10.00     1.58     11.58
1970    NASAS           Aluminum                             7.00    1.37       8.37
1970    SIFAS III       Nylon yarn                          0.75       -       0.75
1971    Viking II       Pulp and paper                       -       0.05       0.05
1971    SIFAS IV        Nylon yarn                           -       0.52      0.52
1972    TSKB            DFC                                   -      0.42       0.42
Total commitments                                  22.65     7.13      29.78
Less cancellations, sales
terminations and repayments                       5.14     0.37      5.51
Total commitments now held by IFC                  17.51     6.77     24.28
Total Undisbursed                                                     11.29
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Execution of Bank Group-financed projects in Turkey has been generally
satisfactory, but disbursements on some loans and credits have been considerably
behind schedule. This has been due, in certain cases, to delays experienced in
achieving effectiveness, but more generally to the effects on project implementation
caused by the changes in Government since March 1971, and the absence of a body
responsible for coordination and control of project implementation since these
functions were removed in 1971 from the State Planning Organization. A trend
towards more expeditious execution of projects has appeared recently, though, and
except for the loan to Erdemir Steel Company signed on April 28, 1972, all other
loans and credits are now effective and the pace of disbursements is expected to
accelerate.



ANNEX II
COU)NTRY DATA
s`Umflx:  TURKEY                                                            POPIILAflON:      37. eilo      1972)t                              DLTNSITY: 09 pe   .b2
AREA: 780,00 k2                                                        Site of Growth:    2.'6%      ('1965 t1972)                                  59  e   km2 of stabl  land
POPULAION0 CBMI1&ACTEIIIGITICI:
Crude birth rate (pee 1.00)               29.6  (4967)                                                            DISTRI.BLTON OP 1,O1 0WNERS91P: (1963:
Crude death rote  pr100)1. (4                             6)                                                                 ofln    wud by I-fec     5   wnrs        1
leSser mrtItirP rate (per I,0 L,ive births)     ISia   (1967)                                                             % of land -tttd by smler10% o-ner
Istanb,ul     Atss1ys        Cede
INCOME DISRTLMOLTION:                          (1965-66)     (1966-67)    (1966-67)                                       ACCESS TO ELCTIC  ITY: ft of popu.titien)
2 of lIcIrn * loupt   20%                74                         2                                             Urbs.    
hLgh-t   20%               42           42            58                                             NR.,      3    9 . 970)
Aversg, -othly   eoI --  per, h:eucehod (In, TI)  .,230        966           733
ACCESS TO2 POTABLE WATER (1 of( popuot tee)                                                                                iIKAL.!B
""I"u,           --                                                                                                       PopaLatLon Par pbysiutsa:       2,760  (1967)
lr-!             --pop.1talalo                                                                                                       Per- lipit.1 bed:      560  (1967)
NUTN)I03.                                                                   GNU PEN CAPITA:  319 USE S (1971)              EDUCATIO:
talon c:otob./dcp/cspit             2.7kG  (1964-6.6)1                                                                                  -         4n%195
N., 1. Ior ,b.IdvpIr                    9  (196466                                                                    PrImary shobel sclr:.       77.02X (1969)
:,eOsG NATIOUBi. P50013  111)71)                                                            BIINiIAI. NATE 07 ONOIITH 1%. ouneton C erloes)~~~~~~~~~~~ANNUL BTE  F GRWTH -t-   "t
(vIce in JO  hiten)   7.A...                                                             196 2-196~5        1965-1I970         1971
Cross I soenteens          7,~~~    ~      ~~491  20. 2                                                           0.5                                  3.4-
Srn      "I'tocl  .ll ~      2,296              19.3                                                               16.                  .                .
tIepee t BiA, ::  1! ne                l                0.9                                                                  -9Nea
-mPcrvl!ocl,EO1,156                                    :1.6                                                                                  84.7
Gep::rna nO tucle,Sf              965               7.4 
OUTPUT  LABOR  WCRC? AND PR1iODUCTIVITY IN 1971:L.-P..V..Ad.P-WkE
(RD S oI.-u)           %                 llls                               (US9)7.o                   noicl w Ivo
Agrr.I-v-,r                                                    306              27.9                9.            66.2                  316                          40.
I udentey                                      ~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~                       ~~~~        ~       ~~~~2, 710O  23.4  1:.5  101  2,683  343
Seed, C:,                                      ~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~                        ~~~~        ~       ~  ~~~5,797  50.0  3.5  230.7  1,65  21U
intol/Aveevee                              11.~~~    ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~                       ~~~~590  100.0  14.8   0.   9                        f
PIUBLIC FINANCE IN 1971'
Ceece-1 Gevarsete
7. of GDP Ae..ea6e
I. TI. B1ile      2 of GDP        last three year.
Correct Beoripte                          ~~~~~~~36.      21.11.
Corren  E.t,editr l-inciodlng tr.mnelfre                337             191                 59:
Correct S-epi..    2/                                    34              20                 4.0
Cepitel Ecpandltc-e      2                              14,2             1.2                8.6
En t-r-l Aao.e,(ner                                      1,      0        .9ms
yN1CESL AND1 CRE01rP
Wholsoo" Price Imd"c 113IGO)             Bank Creddt tc Pa1blic Sector             Bank Credit 10' PriVate Sector
A-ero9a Venly
k-Ren9  leArn           7 Change,            in Ti,.11miL.     A .ee .OStig Teor1p     in TIL million       A-erp Ve-lo
end of Year         % Cbsge               amd nof year           % cheg
I0k~~~~~~~~~: ~~~~109,4                                                 5,5 19                                  15,396                   1.
9670                                 145.                   191,29 7                                15.4                 40,923                  1.
Nrbr,t    91IhS1.9                                         1.
fbre-ery 197                         195.2                 22.2
BALANCE 0F PAYMETS2I                  Sm Lo 02     )                                                 IECHANISO 070970 (AVERACT OFP 1969-1971):
196919      70      1/I""   Ietllo.iUs9                                                                                                  .1of Total
Puprt eft-de cud Nfl        675,      760       BBS                                            Cuotse                                            140                   24 6
spc    _ d uvI 0ev NPS,    94k    -1 ,13    -1,356                                            Ilseel't'                                          9,3           .     l.5
Becoer.  C.s                    -265      -372      -A4l                                            Tchseoe                                            92                  13.6
T-MtLa                                             Z7                   4.5
in v-r-c Poym-e,t a :4i -.                  468      -47                                            NeiLe5 i22                                                              3.7
Worker  RIttcl .o.c              141       273       471                                            Other'                                            217                  36.1
Other Pooto,Pr-fyete leer)       -37       .31       - i6                                                Total                                        601                 100.0
Balanc  eo  -ereen  Ac...c.t,I  -271      -1:2      - 109                                         EXTERNAL, DERT 09  DCJ.E 35    IUSC
PIreet.. oria:  loets             74        41)       45                                            Nlodiwm ad leng-tet credits, pblIct              2,162
ld:n,,,d 1,       .......L,,c:  164     '1       II                                            Nam-:ueoreterd prlt-   dri39
ae r L-clc,          -TI       -111     -14)0                                           Tet. Outsaumdig sad Dlshbr-d                      2,206
01ll:, Ic) -!vLm.                 41        63       15
O11cr- fp:."'I: ("el         ,    20        14        29DRBT SIINVrCI PAID (i911):                                                                     isle
gncrl,,=-L~~ Olft"..I R,--~~' ~22   lHh  114 11                          LaRD/IDA 1*10090. DECONNINt 3i. 1971:
Ker-- -,n: O.1t-lcc e             0         27       1 Id,-                                                                                                imtllian 04 9
1B000I DIA
Ceo  rc-c,ev                  245       431       772                                            Ost.ta,dtSz end Dieheread                           "81.              102.9
Be:, Prstgn Au-u,,lc             -20        ii       41l                                           D.sdlebh,,smd                                       I1074                899
Outstsadtng tsn.ladig Usdlabeeaad                  189.2              111,0
d-te ,c  I .11 V11..:T. cc, b,:n0n9 he ItaE-i.erprl-ee     g::ood by uAr:--.m
41  lb ..p I., Bo-rehe  1Q71. 14, iha.-a-e                                                                 TL. 1.00-   .0714 BE 9)partesnn. E696A



ANNEX III
page 1 of 5
TURKEY
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I.  Credit and Project Summary
Borrower          Republic of Turkey
Amount            $2.3 million equivalent in various currencies.   The
proposed Credit would cover the foreign exchange
component of the project, estimated at 71 percent of
the project cost.
Terms             Standard
Description       The proposed project would provide assistance in the
preparation of an integrated program designed to meet
the urban development needs of the Istanbul Metro-
politan Area. It would include the preparation of
priority projects: (a) a project to provide basic
urban infrastructure for existing squatter settlements
and future low-cost residential areas, (b) an urban
cluster to form the nucleus for planned urban expansion
along the proposed Istanbul-Izmit Highway, (c) a whole-
sale market relocation project to relieve congestion in
the central city and to improve market efficiency,
(d) a wastewater disposal project, (e) a traffic engi-
neering and control project to improve at low cost the
use of the existing urban transport system, and (f) an
urban transport/land use model to be used by Turkish
authorities in future years as an investment decision-
making tool. The preparation of the proposed project
has been coordinated with a project to alleviate the
existing water supply need of Istanbul.
Execution         The Ministry of Reconstruction and Resettlement will be
responsible for the execution of the project, in coordi-
nation with other Government agencies. Work will be
centered in the Istanbul Master Plan Bureau.



ANNEX III
page 2 of 5
Project Cost      The project cost is estimated at US$3.3 million
equivalent and is summarized as follows:
US$ ?4illion
Local    Foreign    Total
Consultant Advisory Services       0.5      0.31      0.36
Project and Model Preparation      o.43      1.34      1.77
Computer Time and Programming      0.15       -        0.15
Training, Fellowships, Seminars     -        0.08      0.08
Equipment and Vehicles              -        0.07      0.07
Local Support of Consultants       0.14       -        0.11
Contingencies                      0.19      0.51      0.7D
Total                  o.96      2.31      3.27
Procurement       Consultants would be engaged upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Equipment and vehicles
would be procured under procedures consistent with the
Association Guidelines for Procurement.
Estimated
Disbursements                           US$ Million
FY1973          Fn 974          FYi975
0.71            0.99            0.61
Appraisal
Report           Report Number PS-12a, dated June 5, 1972, Special Projects
Department.



ANNEX III
page 3 of 5
ISTANBUL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower              Republic of Turkey
Beneficiary           Istanbul Water Works Administration (ISI)
Amount                $37 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms                 25 years of which 5 years of grace, 7h% per annum
Relending Terms       Same as above
Project Description Treatment, pumping, transmission and distribution
facilities and consultant services for major
expansion of Istanbul water supply system.
Estimated Cost
DSI Component                                       US$ Million
Local    Foreign    Total
Treatment Plants                               5.4       6.4     11.8
Pumping Stations                               1.3       1.3      2.6
Pipelines and Reservoirs                      12.3       6.2     18.5
Land                                           1.8        -       1.8
Project Design, Supervision and Training       2.2       o.4      2.6
Physical and Price Contingencies               8.9       3.8     12.7
Total                          31.9      18.1     50.0



ANNEX III
page 4of 5
ISI Component                                      Us$ Million
Local     Foreign    Total
Distribution Pipelines                      15.1        4.1      19.2
Reservoirs, Pumping and Pressure
Reducing Stations                          1.3        0.3       1.6
Water Meters and Service Connections         3.6        1.6        5.2
Renovations to Transmission Conduits         0.8        0.5       1.3
Operation and Maintenance Equipment          0.1       .0.1       0.2
Engineering Charges, Consultants and
Training                                   1.0        0.5       1.5
Price Contingencies                          4.8        1.3       6.1
ISI Total                                 26.7        8.4      35.1
Total Project Costs                       58.6       26.5      85.1
Financing Plan                  In addition to the above project costs to be
incurred between 1972 and 1976, DSI and ISI
have ongoing expenditures on items begun prior
to 1972 and will commit expenditures for items
to be completed after 1976. The total of ISI/
DSI investment expenditures 1972-76 is estimated
at $117 million, which will be financed as
follows:-
US$ Million
Proposed Bank Loan                 37.0
Government Loan                    56.2
Total Borrowings                93.2
Capital Contributions               3.5
Internal Cash Generation           20.3
Total                          117.0
Estimated Disbursements                       US$ Million
FY 73    FY 74    FY 75    FY 76    FY 77
2.7      6.9      10.9     10.2     6.3



ANNEX III
page 5 of 5
Procurement Arrangements            International competitive bidding for all
contracts to be financed by the Bank.
Consultants                         The project provides for (a) engineering
consultants to assist DSI in the design of
the transmission systems from the Omerli
scheme and in procurement and construction
supervision of treatment plants and the
Bosporus crossing, (b) engineering consul-
tants to assist ISI in the analysis and
future design of the distribution system,
(c) management and accounting consultants
for ISI. Tahal, of Israel, is being engaged
as consultant by DSI for (a) above.
Economic Rate of Return             10.6 percent
Appraisal                           Report Number PU-97, dated June 14, 1972,
Public Utilities Projects Department.
June 14, 1972






MAP
'4
                         15);eAmce,  I  B                / 
S~~~~~~~~~~~
4/  <                             Si  w  j   tKfiA
TUR KEY                                           'R
ISTANBUL PROVINCE                                           4   ,'
ISTANBUL WAIER SUPPLY PROJECT
EXISTING                   PROJECT                                                             uel                         _
________  ttta,st  System  -I
AT   P-otto  tSytotlo       A                                                                       >
fl   Tynete.s, PlantzO 
A r..o   p- lsetl bore-d by  151
Mole ReAstcs5                                                                    
r   Rll. H-d yC                                                         cA     _                     K  O  C   A   E   L   I
PerAt jet 01bu Mtnulr   zt i5O
_  _  _   Peovinclol Boundory                         <                                  L i       2      /~Itrellblen
0       It     20      32'_00                                                                         t 
f l - d   t m   e t I t O t-                    . -                                                                           0
t    v      -  -Y.   O h -h*,
zf ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I t                - -Irt                                                              lyeAn  b/  -  ds5es   _  _.e 0aters  ese.  sty
W                                                                                                         t..  ,d,...s,s
l                                                                                                          AtE   ,0'  a  lo;,,.
t as   Ot                                                                                                                             tes  tat13 Ye_s\gt
7      u I   I  E  I      '/                                                   >    ~      _                         z 
vA~ ~      ~      ~  ~~~ p i ' A  1  Xa _  -dj 
....- - . ..... A .F ; /
zede >*en A@A- IEshNOEg ,/       2?     l                          a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31






MAP 4
TURKEY                                 0                                   obkse lp 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ISTANBUL METROPOLITAN AREA
Settlement Pattern
PiN-1i1oros-   Fut,,re oorsa-        .   r             va o                        Pop 54,000
RETovT  areas y  -e----  oiaos y
W FbP -ones,oor  oOnOy Parysevc \m 
Viog   b-dn-,tFI                              ALImnpsYKOYU
b,log to Monholony Fr-t 
roW  ,"                                      0p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BYO
Atapoloo       ~'\                                  /  E$IRTA$ 5~                  5
Oiohmjlboo  F         I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PM 141 000 -
M.h-lb~~~~~~~~~y  ~AOSMRNPASA  L-                                                vu
Kir-sr
ESENFLER  0 xA
>. 4'Pop 1690000 
8 oo     o      NV
Y.~~~ b.".         ZEYTINBURNU  P.0 392,~~~~~~~~00 1  p300io,~ 
PM 122 000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            04100
STANBUL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ob 
P.p. 278,000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lg 00



