RESTRICTED
Report No. PS- 12a
T11 rPot I for offidcl use ony by the Bnk Group and pe*=afy authoized orpnizations
or pero. It may not be pubihed, quoted or cited without Bank Group authoriation. The
Blnk Group does not accept responsibflity for the accuracy or completaenss of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOOMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A
PROJECT FOR THE PREPARATION OF
AN INTEGRATED URBAN PROGRAM FOR ISTANBUL
TURKEY
June 5, 197Z
Special Projects Department



Current Euivalents
Currency unit = Turkish lira (IL)
Prior to
August 9, 1970  January 1972    From January 1972
US$1                           TL 9            TL 15             TL 14
US$1,000,000                   TL 9,000,000    TL 15,000,000    TL 14,000,000
TL 1                           US$0.11         us$o.oo66         US$0.071
TL 1,000,000                   us$1U1,1l       US$66,666         US$71,420
Weights and Measures
in        meter (1 m = 3.28 feet)
ka         kilometer (1 km = 0.62 miles)
lou2       square kilometer (1 kmu2  100 ha = 0.386 sq. miles)
m3     = cubic meter (1 m3 = 1.31 cAbic yards)
Nn3 -  = million cubic meters (1   . = 810 acre feet)
ha         hectare (1 ha = 10,000       2.47 acres)
Abbreviations
DAMDC  -  Daniel, Mann, Johnson, and Menden Hall/Alvord,
Burdick, and Howson/Motor-Columbus/Checchi and Co.
DSI    -  General Directorate of State 1Wydraulic Wbrks
IET    -  Istanbul Electric Tramway and Tunnel Authority
ISI       Istanbul Water Administration
MPW    - Ministry of Public Works
MRR    - Ministry of Reconstruction and Resettlement
OECD   - Organization for Elonomic Cooperation and Development
SIS    - State Institute of Statistics
SPO    - State Planning Organization
TEK    -  Turkish Electric Authority
TSKB   -  Turkish Industrial Development Bank
TEKB   -  Turkish Property and Credit Bank
Fiscal Year
March 1st to last day of February



TURKEY
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................... .........  i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION        ....................     .... ...   1
II.   BACKGROUND ......................   2
III.  THE PROJECT ..............................   7
A.  Project Description ................. .              7
B.  Main Features ........... ....... . ..............   9
C. Cost Estimates ..............................        10
D.  Financing and Disbursements .....................  11
E. Execution of the Project....        ....................  11
IV.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND COSTS...........                   13
V.    RECOMMENDATIONS**#.*.o..***o..*.o.   14
ANNE XES
1.   Urban Transport
2.   Squatter Settlements
3.   Financing Development
)4.  Planning for Urban Development
5.   Land Policies and Controls
6.   Outline Terms of Reference for Consultants
7.   Cost Estimates
8.  Disbursement Schedule of IDA Credit
9.   Schedule of Consultant Technical Assistance
10.  Borrower's Staff and Consultants by Activity
11.  Project Schedule
T'his report was prepared by Messrs. G. A. McBride, E. R. Rotner, R.
Venkateswaran, Ms. C. Tager (consultant) and Ms. I. Ozusta (consultant),
of the Special Projects Department.



-2-
TABLES
1.  Expenditure on Gross National Product
2.  Growth in Urban Settlements:  1935-1970
3.  The Population of Large and Medium-Sized Cities by Region - 1965-1970
4.  Population Growth in the Greater Istanbul Metropolitan Area
5.  Importance of Istanbul Province Within National Organized Manufacturing
Industry - 1963 and 1967
6.  New Employment Created in Istanbul and Turkey - 1960-1965
7.  Economically Active Population by Major Sectors
8. Value Added by Sector:  1960 and 1965
9.  Population of Provincial Districts of Istanbul Municipality - 1965 and
1970
10. Population of Other Municipalities of the Istanbul Metropolitan Area
CHARTS
1. The Central Government
2.  Organizational Structure of the Ministry of Reconstruction and Resettle-
ment
3.  Organizational Structure of General Directorate of Planning and Con-
struction,Ministry of Reconstruction and Resettlement
4j. Organizational Structure of Greater Istanbul Metropolitan Planning
Bureau
MAPS
1.  Regional, Sub-Regional and Urban Centers, Turkey
2.  Eastern Marmara Regional Settlement Pattern
3.  Istanbul Metropolitan Area - Boundaries
4.  Istanbul Metropolitan Area - Settlement Pattern
5.  Istanbul Metropolitan Area - Arterial System and Traffic Flows



TURKEY
APPRAISAL OF A PROJECT FOR THE PREPARATION OF
AN INTEGRATED URBAN PROGRAM FOR ISTANBUL
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSICOS
i.        Rapid urbanization has accompanied Turkey's efforts to modernize
and industrialize its economy since World War II. From the early 1950's
to 1970, manufacturing's contribution to GNP rose from 11 to 18% while
the traditionally dominant agricultural sector's share declined from 50 to
less than 30%. Due largely to rural-urban migration, the urban population
grew during the same period from 4 to more than 12 million, some 35% of
the national population. In 1965-1970 alone, the Istanbul Metropolitan
Area received 500,000 immigrants, swelling its population to 2.8 million.
ii.       The former capital of the country until 1923, Istanbul has always
been an important center of trade and tourism. Today the city is also a
keystone of industrialization as well as the country's main center for com-
merce, finance and banking, and other services. Between 1960-1965, the city
generated 21% of all new jobs in Turkey, about 80% of these in manufacturing
and commerce. Fifteen percent of total value added to GDP and 25% of value
added by industry originated in Istanbul. In the last two decades, the number
of Istanbul's industries has tripled and the urbanized area has doubled.
iii.      Metropolitan growth has been rapid, unplanned, and uncontrolled.
The provision of urban services and amenities has not kept pace with growing
demands. Installed water systems lack capacity to meet present requirements and
service is intermittent. Only 20% of the population is served by a public
wastewater system. Contamination of surface and groundwater used for drinking
and hygiene is widespread and was directly linked to a cholera outbreak in
1971. Storm sewers are lacking and standing water is a problem in all parts
of the city.  The centuries-old street system is choked by traffic, while
public transport patronage is declining.
iv.       Squatter settlements (gecekondus) pose a particularly serious problem.
Growing by some 10,000 housing units each year, they now occupy half of the
built-up area of Istanbul and house 35-h0% of the population, most of them
in lower income groups. Two-thirds of the gecekondu population surveyed in
1966 were without adequate water supply, sewerage, electric power or stabilized
streets.
v.        Efforts to alleviate these conditions are hampered by the multi-
plicity of local governments and the absence of a unit with metropolitan
authority, inadequate financing, personnel shortages, and ineffective land
use controls and planning. The Government has initiated legislation and
actions to correct some of these factors and has requested Bank/IDA assistance
in developing a new approach to deal with urbanization and in financing projects.



-ii-
vi.       A multi-pronged effort is needed to strengthen institutions,
to formulate and implement a sound metropolitan development program, and
concurrently to prepare and execute projects that meet existing critical
needs. The Bank/IDA has been involved in Istanbul in preparation of water
supply, wastewater disposal and power projects. These activities need
to be integrated with planning and project preparation efforts to produce
a significant impact on overall urban development and quality of living.
vii.      The proposed project, Istanbul Urban Development Project I, was
negotiated together with a water supply project (separate appraisal report),
and is the first in a series of linked urban projects proposed for Istan-
bul. Ihe project appraised in this report will provide for:
(a) assistance in preparation of an integrated urban develop-
ment program for the Istanbul Metropolitan Area, by
providing expertise to fill existing gaps, particularly
within the Master Plan Bureau;
(b) assistance in development of institutions and improvement
of rules, regulations and policies to enable the institu-
tions to coordinate and implement the program in (a) above
and to mobilize and manage their fiscal resources by pro-
viding expertise to fill a few key gaps in concerned
Government agencies;
(c) preparation, with Government counterpart staff, of the
following priority projects:
(i)  a project to provide minimum urban infrastructure in
existing squatter settlements, and site and services
in new areas for low-cost housing;
(ii)  an urban cluster project to form the nucleus for planned
urban expansion along the proposed Istanbul-Izmit Highway;
(iii) a wholesale market relocation project to relieve congestion
in the central city and to improve market efficiency;
(iv) a wastewater disposal project;
(v)  a traffic improvement project to make more efficient use
of existing streets through traffic controls and traffic
engineering;



-iii-
(d) preparation, with Government counterpart staff, of an
urban transport/land use model to assist future invest-
ment decision-making;
(e) training, fellowships, and seminars; and
(f) equipment and vehicles.
viii.     The proposed US$2.3 million IDA credit covers the foreign   _
exchange component of the project, estimated at 71% of the total project
cost of US$3.3 million, and the Government will finance the US$1.0 million
local cost component. Foreign exchange costs are for consultant services,
c.i.f. costs of importing equipment required for the project, which will
be exempt from import duties and taxes, and training, fellowships, and
seminars. The Government has decided not to seek UNDP financing for the
project because of the volume of pending requests already filed to the
UNDP for assistance in other high priority projects.
ix.       The Ministry of Reconstruction and Resettlement will  be responsi-
ble for project execution, working also with the General Directorate of
Highways (Ministry of Public Works) and the Municipality of Istanbul. The
Government has established an Interministerial Coordination Council for
Reconstruction which is responsible for the coordination of planning, im-
plementation, and investment decisions in Turkey's metropolitan areas. The
Government has also established a Planning Council for the Istanbul Metro-
politan Area responsible for making policy decisions and coordinating the
development of the area, and an Advisory Council consisting of technical
experts from the public and private sectors to assist the Master Plan Bureau
in coordinating the work of the agencies responsible for carrying out the
project.
x.        The project involves 326 man-months of effort by consultants
and 564 man-months by Turkish counterparts, over a 30-month period be-
ginning in fall 1972. The prime contract for consultant services will
be with a foreign consulting firm. The credit's disbursements are sub-
ject to the signing of a consultant's contract agreed upon by the Govern-
ment and the Bank/IDA.






TURKEY
APPRAISAL OF A PROJECT FOR THE PREPARATION OF
AN INTEGRATED UR3AN PIRGRAM FOR ISTANBUL
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Turkey has applied to the Bank/IDA for
assistance in financing a project for the preparation of an integrated
program designed to meet the urban development needs of Istanbul, in-
cluding the preparation of projects suitable for subsequent Bank/IDA
financing. This project, Istanbul Urban Development Project I, has
been coordinated with a project to alleviate water supply and distri-
bution problems. Separate appraisal reports for these projects have
been combined in the President's Report. Two lending operations are
involved, consisting of a loan for US$37.0 million and a credit for
US$2.3 million. This would be the first in a series of linked projects
for the Istanbul Metropolitan Area.
1.02      Identification of the proposed project began in mid-1970 when
the Government requested a Bank/IDA mission to visit Turkey to investigate
the urban development problems of Istanbul and explore the possibility for
future Bank/IDA assistance. Subsequent missions visited Turkey in March
and June 1971. The project was appraised in November 1971.
1.03      This will be the first Bank/IDA financed lending operation for
urban development in Turkey and in the Istanbul Metropolitan Area. Past
lending operations in the Area have been primarily for the development of
private industry, financed through the Turkish Industrial Development Bank
(TSKB). Since 1950, the Bank/IDA has helped to finance nine such projects,
totalling about US$128.0 million. It is expected that the project will
prepare urban development projects suitable for future Bank/IDA fi-
nancing.
1.04      The project is estimated to cost about TL 45.8 million (US$3.3
million equivalent) for which IDA financing of US$2.3 million is recommended.
This amount covers the foreign exchange costs, representing about 71%
of the project cost. The Government has decided not to seek UNDP financing
for the project because of the volume of pending requests already filed to
the UNDP for assistance in other high priority projects.
1.05      This appraisal report was prepared by Messra. G. A. McBride, E. R.
Rotner, and R. Venkateswaran and Ms. C. Tager (consultant), and Ms. I. Ozusta
(consultant), based on information, data and studies provided by the Government.



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      Turkey's development policy has emphasized modernization and
rapid industrialization based on extensive public investment. The private
sector, particularly in manufacturing and construction, has also grown
rapidly. After World War II, Turkey made overall economic gains and
achieved noteworthy progress in broadening its economic base and moving
away from an agriculture-dominated economy which was unable to generate
significant new employment for the growing population. During the First
Five-Year Development Plan, 1963-1967, the average annual growth of real
GNP was 6.7%, very close to the Plan target of 7%. In 1970, the GNP
reached TL 99 billion at 1965 prices (Table 1). While agriculture still
accounts for about two-thirds of the working population and 75% of the
value of all etports, its contribution to GNP declined from about 50% in
the early 1950's to just under 30% in 1970. During the same period, the
contribution of manufacturing increased from 11% to 18%.
2.02      Rapid urbanization has accompanied these achievements.  In 1950,
some 4 million people lived in urban settlements of 10,000 or more (Table 2).
By 1970, the urban population had grown to more than 12 million, about 35%
of a total estimated population of 35 million. This growth was largely due
to heavy rural-to-urban migration, for the population growth rate in Turkey
(2.6%) has declined slightly in recent years and birth rates in urban areas
are generally lower than in rural areas. In the 1965-1970 period alone,
the populations of the Metropolitan Areas of Istanbul, Ankara, and Izmir
grew by 945,000, accounting for 52% of the total growth in cities with 50,000
people or more (Table 3). The Istanbul Metropolitan Area bore the brunt
of this migration with some 500,000 immigrants (Table 4) reaching a popu-
lation of 2.8 million.
2.03      Population growth alone did not transform Istanbul into a large
urban area. Situated at the strategic crossroads of historic land routes
between Europe and Asia (Maps 1-3), Istanbul was the capital of Turkey until
1923. The city is by far Turkey's most important center of international
trade, accounting for nearly 40-50% of all import-export activity, and nearly
70% of the national imports. Istanbul is alao the most important single
tourist area in the country, accounting for 50% of all tourists. More
recently, Istanbul has become a keystone of industrialization and manufac-
turing (Table 5). Between 1960-1965, the industrial sector grew at an annual
rate of 7.4%; the city generated nearly 21% of all new jobs in Turkey (Table 6).
About 80% of these new jobs were in manufacturing and commerce. The national
pattern of employment shows about 70% are employed in agriculture (Table 7).
In 1965, about 15% of the total value added to GDP and 25% of the total value
added by industry originated in Istanbul (Table 8). In 1968, Istanbul's
share in Turkey's GNP was estimated at 20% and growing at about 11% per year.
2.04      Istanbul's hilly topography and ancient street plan have contributed
to problems of movement and communication. Astride two continents, interrupted



-3-
by the Bosphorus Straits, Istanbul's geographic location has also
substantially influenced the settlement pattern of the Metropolitan
Area (Maps 4 and 5). The European portion of the city is further
divided by a narrow waterway, the Golden Horn. South of the Golden
Horn lies the Historic Peninsula, bounded on the west by the old city
walls. The old city of Istanbul is semi-circular in shape, surrounding
the Golden Horn. South of the Golden Horn are Eminonu and Fatih, the
most densely settled commercial and residential areas of Istanbul (Tables
9 and 10). Port facilities, important monuments, and tourist attractions
are also located in this area. Istanbul's wholesale market complex is
situated on the main arterial between the Galata and Ataturk Bridges.
The market's waterside location, established decades ago to accommodate
seaborne traffic, is now one of the most serious bottlenecks for road
traffic in Istanbults central business district. Built originally for
one-third of the population it presently serves, the possibility of
physically expanding its operations or improving the road network in its
vicinity has been pre-empted by dense urban development. Dense commercial
and residential areas also extend north of the Golden Horn into Beyoglu,
Sisli, and Besiktas Districts.
2.05      In the absence of a road link across the Bosphorus, roughly 80%
of the employment and 78% of the population have located on the European
side. The population has grown outwards from the old city along three road
axes extending radially from Eminonu District southwest down the Marmara
shore towards Yesilkoy airport, northwest, and northeast. On the Anatolian
side, settlements are concentrated along the rail, sea, and road routes
located in the shoreline between Uskudar and Izmit. The urbanized area of
Istanbul has doubled within the last two decades. And yet, over a third of
Istanbul's population in 1970 still lived within the old city walls, i.e.
Eminonu, Fatih, and Beyoglu Districts (Table 9).
2.06      Between 1950 and 1968, the number of Istanbul's industries tripled
from about 1470 to 1,450 and began to locate outside the central city. In the
absence of a plan for metropolitan growth or effective land use policies and
control, the distribution of these employment centers developed haphazardly,
conditioned primarily by the availability of water, electricity and transport
facilities, and by land costs. On the Anatolian side, industrial development
took place along the Marmara coast, largely because no transport facilities
were available to serve the inland areas. On the European side, industries
with modest space requirements located initially westward in Fatih, Zeytinburnu,
and the upper reaches of the Golden Horn, (Eyup), and more recently, toward the
northwest, in the Bakirkoy and Gaziosmanpasa areas (Map 4). This unplanned,
uncontrolled industrial growth has been accompanied by a proliferation of
large squatter settlements (gecekondu) located near employment opportunities
in Zeytinburnu, Eyup, and Sisli on the European side and more recently, Kartal
on the Anatolian side.
2.07      The planning and implementing agencies responsible for the Metropolitan
Area have been unable to keep pace with the rapid growth and its concomitant



-4-
problems. As a result, the distribution of public services to the
population is, in most instances, far below acceptable standards.
Water supply is one of Istanbul's most acute problems. Installed
water systems lack the capacity to meet present demands regardless
of income level. The 2.8 million population is served by some
300,000 water connections and 1,800 public fountains in the low-income
areas. Water supply throughout the city is intermittent, causing
particularly severe problems in the low-income areas which have no
storage facilities. Only about 20% of the population is served by any sort
of wastewater system, much of which is inadequate. Contamination
of surface and groundwaters subsequently used for drinking and hygienic
purposes is widespread. An outbreak of cholera in 1971 was directly
related to fecal contamination of drinking water supplies. Storm sewers
are also lacking with the result that streets cannot be drained after
rains. Standing water is a problem in all parts of the city. Environ-
mental conditions are further aggravated by the lack of mechanical pickup
and compacting equipment needed to dispose daily of some 4,000 tons of
solid wastes. About 90% of these wastes are handled by landfill located
about 25 miles from the city center. A meager budget of TL 80 million
(US$3.3 million) is inadequate for upgrading the system. While an
estimated TL 500 million per year is required for power network improve-
ments, actual investment amounts to TL 150 million per year with a large
and growing backlog of needed additions and improvements.
2.08      Urban transport services are choked, due to a centuries-old
street pattern unable to handle increased traffic volumos, and a finan-
cially weak public transport authority whose services are rigidly fixed
by antiquated statutes (Annex 1). Vehicular traffic between the commercial
and business centers across the Golden Horn is served by two overworked
bridges, operating at a maximum capacity of 60,000 vehicles daily. Trans-
portation across the Bosphorus is provided by an efficient but undersized
system of vehicle and passenger ferries. The Bosphorus and Marmara ferries
carry on the average over 12,000 vehicles a day, traffic having more than
doubled during the 1960's. Major rail lines begin at Istanbul on either
side of the Bosphorus, running to points in Europe and to the interior of
the country. The railway also provides limited but reliable commuter service
on both sides of the Bosphorus.
2.09      Road transport is clearly the dominant mode in the area and is
characterized by mounting congestion. About 60% of all passenger trips are
by road transport. Mini-buses, taxis, and dolmus (jitney cabs) compete
for passengers with the public bus and trolley system. Inadequate traffic
engineering and controls and ineffective enforcement of traffic regulations
dealing with their operations further add to the problem.
2.10      Mushrooming unauthorized squatter settlements (gecekondu) now
occupy about 50% of the built-up area of Istanbul and house 35-40% of the



-5-
population, most of them in the lower income groups (Annex 2). A 1966
survey showed that about two-thirds of the gecekondu population were with-
out adequate water supply, sewerage, electrical power or surfaced streets.
Efforts were made to provide at least minimum services to these areas,
but these were inadequate. Sufficient funds are not available for their
improvement. Meanwhile, 10,000 additional units are springing up each
year in old and new squatter settlements. The absence of adequate public
services poses a serious public health threat, perpetuating a broad
spectrum of waterborne diseases which plague the city and threaten to
explode into epidemic proportions at any time. Moreover, these sprawling
squatter settlements pose difficult health care delivery problems. Al-
though both central and local governments have health care delivery
systems, they are inadequate in the quality and quantity of the services
they provide.
2.11      Municipalities in Turkey are largely dependent upon the national
budget for their recurrent and capital funds, in that they share from taxes
levied by the Central Government (Annex 3). Almost all investments are made
through Central Government agencies. The Municipality of Istanbul, a high
growth area, does not receive tax revenues in proportion to its rate of
development or contribution to the national economy. Laws fix the Munici-
palities' percentage shares and base each share on the Municipality's pro-
portion of the country's total urban population.  For years, Istanbul has
been running a deficit.
2.12      Istanbul's urban problems are aggravated by the diffusion of
responsibility for local administration among multiple agencies of the
central and local governments. The Central Government operates extensively
at the provincial and district levels through the regional and specialized
agencies of its various ministries and directorates (Chart 1). Moreover,
the Metropolitan Area includes 30 municipalities with specific local govern-
ment powers and functions which further complicate planning and plan imple-
mentation on an area-wide basis.
2.13      Efforts to deal with present problems are handicapped by a com-
bination of factors: the multiplicity of local governmental units and the
absence of any single unit with metropolitan authority, inadequate financing,
ineffective land use controls, a shortage of technical and administrative
personnel, and planning which has not yet provided a framework for sound
investment decisions. Without a major effort to coordinate urban projects
now planned and executed on a piecemeal basis, more severe problems may
develop in the long run. Projects are presently prepared by various central
and local agencies without benefit of a strong integrated institutional frame-
work upon which to base sound growth policies.
2.14      With the completion in 1974 of the new Bosphorus Bridge and
peripheral highway, providing the first continuous road link between Europe



-6-
and Asia, the Anatolian side will be opened for new development. To
date, only skeletal programs have been prepared to guide residential
and industrial development and to provide for the extension of public
services and facilities to the area. In addition, major arterial im-
provements to connect the commercial, business and industrial areas
on the European side with the Bosphorus Bridge and peripheral highway
have yet to be initiated. These improvements fall within the juris-
diction of the Istanbul Municipality. The Municipality, however, does
not have the resources to bear the high costs of expropriating land
and buildings on the right-of-way, nor the costs of constructing the
road and associated wastewater lines.
2.15      The Master Plan Bureau, within the Ministry of Reconstruction
and Resettlement, has been charged since 1968 with planning for the
Metropolitan Area (Annex 4). Its emphasis is largely on physical plan-
ning. No comprehensive plan relating to urban transport and land use
has been prepared for the Metropolitan Area, nor have priorities been
established among investment proposals. Fhrthermore, plan implementation
does not fall under the Bureau's jurisdiction. As a result, substantial
additional work is needed to translate the Bureau's present concept plans
into a well-formulated development program.
2.16      The Government has passed or has pending several pieces of
legislation to deal with the Area's urban problems (Annex 5). Among the
most important are: the Property Tax Law, the Property Capital Gains Tax,
the Municipal Incomes Law and the Construction Law. Recognizing the in-
adequacies of present efforts and the shortage of skilled manpower, the
Government has requested Bank/IDA assistance in developing a new approach
and in financing projects.
2.17      The nature and complexity of Istanbul's problems make it unreal-
istic to expect that full comprehensiveness and coordination of policies,
plans and programs can be quickly or easily attained. This direction, how-
ever, is clearly the one in which planning must move, accompanied by im-
provements in decision-making and executing capabilities of implementing
agencies.
2.18      The situation calls for a step-by-step approach, beginning with an
examination of the Bureau's proposed plan and growth strategy and leading to
the formulation and implementation of a sound metropolitan development program.
Concurrently, preparations must be made and projects carried out in areas
where existing needs are critical.
2.19      The Bank/IDA involvement in Istanbul in recent years is adaptable
to this approach. Project feasibility and preparation work is already under-
way in several key problem areas: water supply, wastewater disposal, and power.
The need in to supplement these with parallel efforts in other interlinking
fields and activities which have significant impact on development and on the
quality of urban living.



-7-
2.20      Areas in which there are opportunities and needs for early
investments which can be effectively linked with public utilities and
services and with overall metropolitan development are urban transport,
squatter settlements, wholesale marketing, wastewater disposal and
development of new areas for urban expansion. Tfherefore, an approach
has been formulated which gears project preparation in these areas with
improvements in the institutions and procedures for broader development
planning, implementation and control. This first urban project links
future institution-building with the preparation of projects for im-
mediate investment by the Bank/IDA, and with a project to alleviate
water supply and distribution problems. The project is the first in
a series of such projects proposed for the Metropolitan Area.
2.21      The approach taken in this project is expected to provide:
(a)  in the short run, projects addressing the most urgent
problems confronting the Istanbul Metropolitan Area
and which are formulated with a clearer understanding of
their interlinkages; and
(b)  in the longer run, a policy framework and improved plan-
ning and implementation capabilities which will permit
a more comprehensive, coordinated and effective approach
to urban development.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
3.01      Ehe project provides for:
(a) assistance in the preparation of an integrated urban
development program for the Istanbul Metropolitan Area
which is designed:
(i) to provide for a planned development and expansion
of the Metropolitan Area;
(ii)  to meet in a systematic way the short and long-term
needs of the growing population for employment,
basic urban infrastructure and services, housing,
education, health and other amenities; and
(iii)  to serve as a framework for detailed planning and
investment decisions.



-8-
(b)  assistance in the development and integration of the
existing institutions and improvement of the admini-
strative, legal and fiscal rules, regulations and
policies to enable the institutions to plan, coordinate
and implement efficiently the program in (a) above
and to effectively mobilize and manage their fiscal
resources.
(c)  preparation, working with Government counterpart staff,
of the following priority projects suitable for financing
which will alleviate present problems of the Metropolitan
Area and which will have a significant impact on future
development:
(i)  development of a new site and services project
to settle the low-income population now crowding
in the existing squatter settlements and to
accommodate expected new migrants and natural in-
ereases in the low-income population; also, develop-
ment of a project to improve the living conditions
in existing squatter settlements by providing minimum
basic urban infrastructure;
(ii)  development of a new urban cluster along the proposed
Istanbul-Izmit Highway to serve as a nucleus for
planned urban expansion;
(iii)  relocation of the existing wholesale market in the
congested inner city to a point outside the old city
walls to improve traffic flows in the central business
district and to provide for more efficient operations
of the marketing facilities;
(iv) updating the existing feasibility study of the waste-
water disposal project prepared by DAMOC consultants
and preparing a project to the level necessary for
appraisal and financing; and
(v)  preparation of a traffic engineering and control project
in order to improve at low cost the use of the existing
street network.
(d)  preparation, working with Government counterpart staff, of
an urban transport/land use model to be used by Turkish
authorities in future years as an investment decision-making
tool;
(e)  training, fellowships, and seminars; and
(f)  equipment and vehicles.



-9-
The wholesale market relocation, wastewater disposal and traffic
engineering and control projects would alleviate existing service
deficiencies and permit more efficient functioning of the present
central city. Work can commence on the preparation of these projects
concurrently with the review of the Bureau's Plan and means for its
implementation. Projects for gecekondu improvement and prevention
and urban cluster development need to be formulated in the context
of the development strategy and operational objectives which will
evolve from this review. Project preparation in these areas is
phased so that this framework can first be established and that the
proposed sites and means for project implementation can then be re-
viewed as provided in the draft outline Terms of Reference (Annex 6).
The phasing of all project preparation work ia provided in Annex 11.
B. Main Features
3.02      The project will be carried out jointly by Government officials
and consultants, and emphasizes the training of Turkish counterparts.
Towards this end, the consultants will work jointly with the Istanbul
Master Plan Bureau and other Government agencies to prepare an integrated
urban development program for the Metropolitan Area and priority projects
suitable for Bank/IDA financing. Draft outline Terms of Reference for
this work are given in Annex 6. About 90% of the total effort is devoted
to the preparation of the projects and the urban transport/land use model
listed in para. 3.01.
3.03      The consultants will. assist in the preparation of the integrated
urban development program by providing expertise geared to fill existing
gaps within the Government in the following areas:
(a) urban data analysis and forecasting;
(b) urban transport/land use investment decision-making;
(c) project analysis and preparation; and
(d) institutions for large-scale urban development.
The shortage of expertise in the above areas is acknowledged by the Governrent,
particularly the Bureau. A key weakness, for example, is that the Bureau has
not had the personnel or authority to translate plan strategies into effective
programs. Its investment program, therefore,.lis essentially a listing of needs,
lacking priorities, timing and phasing, and feasibility studies based on ac-
cepted project evaluation methodologies. Moreover, the Bureau's plan is an
indicative land use plan, prepared without the benefit of a comprehensive urban
transport study. Finally, greater coordination is needed between the Bureau
and other planning and plan implementation agencioe working in the Metropolitan
Area, and the Government's land policies and controls and other institutional
means for implementing largep-cale urb*n development projects need to be
strengthened (Chart 4).



-10-
C. Cost Estimates
3.04      The estimated cost of the project, including contingencies, is
about TL 45.8 million (US$3.3 million equivalent). The foreign exchange
component in estimated at nearly TL 32.4 million (US$2.3 million equivalent),or
71% of the project cost. Detailed cost estimates are given in Annex 7.
Major cost categories are summarized below.
Item                        (TL million)           (US$ million)      % Foreign
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total   Exchange
Consultant Advisory Services
a) Review of Plan, Means for
Implementation, and In-
vestment Programs            0.42   2.48   2.90    0.03   0.18   0.21        86
b) Program Review               0.30   1.76   2.06    0.02   0.13   0.15        86
Project Preparation             4.28  12.58  16.86    0.30   0.90   1.20        75
Urban Transport/Land Use
Model                         1.78   6.22   8.00    0.13   0.44   0.57        78
Computer Time & Programuing    2.10    -      2.10    0.15    -      0.15        0
Training, Fellowships and
Seminars                       -     1.12   1.12      -     0.08   0.08      100
Local Support of Consul-
tants                         1.96    -     1.96    0.14    -      0.14        0
Equipment and Vehicles           -     0.98   0.98      -     0.07   0.07      100
Contingencies                   2.57   7.24   9,81    0.19   0.51   0.70        74
Total Project Cost          13.41  32.38  45.79    0.96   2.31   3.27        71
3.05      The cost estimates are based on discussions which the appraisal
mission (November 1971) had with the Govermuent, and on Bank experience
with previous foreign consultants' work in Turkey. The estimates are also
based on the understanding that Turkish counterparts and public organizations
will provide a large part of the effort and exportise required.  The
project is expected to involve a total of 326 man-months of effort by con-
sultants and 564 man-months by Turkish counterparts, carried out over a period
of 30 months beginning in fall 1972. This is considered the minimum con-
sultant assistance and local contribution neceosary to develop projects



-11-
of the size and complexity required by the situation in Istanbul, as
foreseen in the project. A 15% contingency allowance has been included
to account for possible increases in wages and salaries. Moreover, a
15% contingency allowance is included for unforeseen increases in con-
sultant and counterpart man-month requirements.
D. Financing and Disbursements
3.06      The proposed credit will be to the Government of Turkey and
will finance the foreign exchange cost of consultantst services, training,
fellowships, and seminars, and the c.i.f. costs of imported equipment re-
quired for the project amounting to US$2.3 million.  The Government will
finance the local cost component estimated at TL 13.4 million (US$1.0
million equivalent) and, in addition, will mseet the full budgeted cost
of the Istanbul Master Plan Bureau and other agencies relating to the
execution of the project. The Government, following its normal pro-
cedure for work undertaken by foreign consultants, will exempt equip-
ment used for the project from import taxes, duties and similar levies,
and permit the export of this equipment.
3.07      The disbursement schedule is given in Annex 8.  The disbursement
schedule is based on the Schedule of Consultant Technical Assistance given
in Annex 9.  The credit's disbursements are subject to the signing
of consultants' contracts agreed upon by the Government and the Bank/IDA.
Any surplus funds remaining in the credit account on completion of the
project will be cancelled.
E. Execution of the Project
3.08      The Government has assigned to the Ministry of Reconstruction
and Resettlement the overall responsibility for the project, including
coordination of the work of other ministries related to the project.
Within the Ministry, the Bureau has direct responsibility for the prepar-
ation of the integrated urban development program including formulation
of proposals for improvement of the administrative, legal and fiscal rules,
regulations and policies for effective planning, coordination and imple-
mentation of the program. The consultants, working with Government counter-
part staff, will prepare the priority projects. Many of the Government
counterparts will be provided by other ministries and agencies, and will
conduct their work under the guidance and supervision of the Bureau. For
example, the consultants, with the assistance of technical and other staff
from the Istanbul Municipality, will prepare the wholesale market relocation
project. Also, the consultants, with staff from the Bureau, General Direc-
torate of Highways, Istanbul Municipality, and IETT, will prepare the urban
transport/land use model.



-12-
3.09      The consultanta will provide an experienced Chief Consultant
and a group of highly qualified specialists in the fields listed in
para. 3.03 for the duration of the project. Other specialists are to
be assigned from the consulting firm, or by sub-contract with other
firms or individuals where appropriate, as needed on a task basis.
The Chief Consultant will be responsible to the Director of the Bureau
for the execution of the project. Consultants and Government counter-
part staff by activity are given in Annex 10, and Annex 11 shows the
project schedule. The prime contract will be carried out by a foreign
consulting firm. To carry out the proposed project, the Bureau's
capabilities will have to be strengthened. Primarily a land use
planning organization, it has little expertise in transport planning,
economic and financial analyses and other specialities required for
plan impleenwtation. The Government will provide counterparts in
sufficient numbers and experience to benefit fully from this work. The
Government will also provide supporting staff, services and equipment,
and work space.  During negotiations, the Government confirmed that all
the staff and other support required for the successful execution of the
project will be provided.
3.10      The Government has established an Interministerial Coordination
Council for Reconstruction which is responsible for the coordination of
planning, implementation, and investment decisions in Turkey's metro-
politan areas. The Minister of Reconstruction and Resettlement serves
as the Board's Chairman, and the Office of the Ministry's Under Secretary
serves Ps its Secretariat. The Government has also established a Planning
Council for the Istanbul Metropolitan Area responsible for making policy
decisions and coordinating the development of the area. Among the members
of the Council are the Governor of Istanbul Province, Mayor of Istanbul
Municipality, and repreaentatives from the Ministry of Reconstruction and
Resettlement, State Planning Organization, and General Directorate for
Highways.  The Council's permanent Chairman is the Director of the Master
Plan Bureau. At the working level, an Advisory Council, consisting of
technical experts from the public and private sectors, has been set up
to assist the Bureau in coordinating the work of the agencies responsible
for carrying out the project.
3.11      A major concern of the project is the acquisition of the proposed
site for the relocation of the wholesale market complex. The new site,
outside the old city walls, is well located in relation to existing and
proposed highway and street networks, and commercial and residential areas.
However, this site is presently endangered by the encroachment of squatter
settlements, making imperative its immediate acquisition by the Government.
During negotiations, assurances were received from the Government that measures
are being taken to acquire the proposed site by the end of 1972.
3.12      Another concern is that the Personnel Law, which went into effect
in early 1971, would make it difficult for the Government to fulfill its
commitment to provide adequate counterpart staff. This law altered the



-13-
Government's wage and salary scales so that technical personnel are
now paid on the basis of years in service, and not necessarily in
accordance with ability or performance. Combined with devaluation
and rising living costs, the effect of the law has been to force
young capable technicians to seek employment outside of Government.
Ihe General Directorate for Highways, for example, has recently lost
three important technicians who were working in preparation for the
urban transport/land use model for Istanbul. The Government is well
aware of this problem, and has assured the Bank/IDA that measures are
underway to ensure that this project will not be adversely affected.
3.13      A third concern is the adequacy of existing and proposed land
policies and laws for implementing large-scale urban expansion. The
appraisal mission requested that the Government prepare an analytical
land policy paper dealing with the means for locally financing the land
purchase and basic infrastructure required, controlling the uses and
prices of land within and surrounding urban clusters, and modifying
or creating institutions for executing the urban cluster program.
During negotiations, the Government agreed to have the consultants and
counterpart staff complete the preparation of this paper.
3.l1      And finally, an obstacle to solving the wastewater disposal
problem is the lack of regional institutional arrangements to enable the
preparation and implementation of a wastewater project on an area-wide
basis. During negotiations, the Government agreed to provide the Bank/IDA
with specific proposals by the end of 1972 for the establishment of a
regional wastewater authority. Until the authority is created, the
Government will make interim arrangements satisfactory to the Bank/IDA
to enable a suitable wastewater project to be prepared. Furthermore,
the Government agreed to engage consultants to assist in the project's
preparation.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND COSTS
4.01      The Bureau has prepared a list of project investments to be
carried out over a four-year period for the Istanbul Metropolitan Area.
Alth-,±  n'l-y a partial inventory, proposed investments exceed available
resources,and project priorlties,as well as their timing and phasing, are
not indicated. Moreover, no feasibility studies have been undertaken, nor
have the means for implementing the projects been worked out.
4.02      The assistance to be provided under this first Urban Development
ProJect would establish an overall planning framework, develop investment
priorities and prepare a phased program for project implementation. In-
dividual projects on the Bureau's list, to be prepared under the proposed
project suitable for Bank/IDA financing, are estimated to cost US$300 million.
Preliminary analyses suggest that each of these projects would have sufficiently
high returns to warrant detailed feasibility studies and that identifiable
linkages among them require an integrated planning approach. Thus, a prima



-1A4-
facie case exists for financing this first Urban Development Project
so hat Istanbul can benefit from savings attributable to planned
urban development.
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.0l      During negotiations, the Government agreed to:
(a) provide counterpart and supporting staff, services
and equipment and accommodations required for the
successful execution of the project, and augment
the staff of the Master Plan Bureau (para. 3.09);
(b) take measures to acquire the proposed site by the
end of 1972 for the relocation of the Istanbul whole-
sale market complex (para. 3.11);
(c) engage consultants and counterpart staff provided
under the project to complete the preparation of the
land policy paper (para. 3.13); and
(d) make specific proposals by the end of 1972 to establish
a regional wastewater authority, and until the authority
is created, make interim arrangements acceptable to the
Bank/IDA to enable a suitable wastewater project to be
prepared (para. 3.14).
5 .02     Disbursements out of the proceeds of the credit will be sub-
ject to the signing of consultants' contracts agreed upon by the Govern-
ment and the Bank/IDA (para. 3.07).
5.03      The project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
US$2.3 million equivalent, to be repaid over a 50-year period, including
a grace period of ten years.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
TURKEY
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
URBAN TRANSPORT
Streets and Highways
1.        Istanbul's ancient street plan developed in accordance with a
need for a defensive perimeter with access routes from suitable water-
landing points. Streets wind through the comiercial oenters on
both sides of the Golden Horn towards the limited number of gates which
once served as military bastions. The present-day street pattern suffers
from the inherited plans of centuries -- streets are mainly narow,
wind up and down the hills on which IBtanbul in built, and are inadequate
to satisfy the demands made on them by an-' increasing number of vehicles.
Failure to regulate land use and coordinate it with urban transport in-
vestment further aggravates the problem. While a few urban streets have
been improved in recent years, the clutter of side streets sakes it only
more difficult for the network to handle the increased traffic volumes and
emphasizes the need for unified transport solutions rather than isolated
road itprovements.
2.        The highway mode clearly dominates transport in Istanbul.  The
main traffic axes converge on the vehicular ferries on the European side
of the Bosphorus and strike eastwards towards the interior of the country
along the Istanbul-Izmit corridor. This corridor is consequently heavily
trafficked with daily average volumes reaching 8,000-12,000. Nearly 73%
of all goods and passenger traffic from Istanbul to the east go by the
highway. Within the Metropolitan Area, minibuses, taxis sad dolJus ("jitney
cabs") compete for passengers with the public bus and trolley system run
by the Istanbul Electric Tramway and Tunnel Authority (IETT).  The IETT,
however, lags behind the more numerous and aggressive taxis, dolmus and
minibus systems.
3.        Vehicular traffic between the commercial and business centers
across the Golden Horn is serred by two overworked bridges (Map 5). Most
of Istanbul's daily traffic problems begin and end with the need to cross
these bridges, presently operating at a maximum capacity of 60,000 vehicles
daily. Both banks of the Golden Horn are densely settled with homes, industry
and commerce. At present, the central wholesale markets are on the south bank,
between the two bridges. Truck and passenger ferries and the train diagorge
at Sirkeci at the mouth of the Golden Horn. Other passenger and car ferries
empty at Kabatas on the Bosphorua, several miles north. The resulting traffic
pattern resembles a half wheel with its hbb on the bridges and its spokes
extending generally north and west (Map 5).



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        The Bosphorus Bridge and peripheral highway, the single most
important transport project under execution, will provide the first
continuous road link between Europe and Asia. A third bridge across the
Golden Horn, located on the peripheral highway and route to the Bosphorus
Bridge, is scheduled for completion by 1974. This new bridge, however,
will cross the Golden Horn well north of the central city, making it
questionable the extent to which the connection will relieve traffic
pressures on the existing bridge.
5.        Major arterial improvements within the city area to connect
the commercial, business and industrial areas with the Bosphorus Bridge
and peripheral highway have yet to be initiated. The bridge project,
nevertheless, includes the construction of 13 interchanges to connect
with arterial streets. Preliminary estimates proposed by the consultants
on the bridge feasibility study (De Leuw Cather International) amount to
60 km of new and improved arterials at a total cost of TL 1.1 billion.
These improvements fall within the jurisdiction of the Istanbul Munici-
pality. It cannot, however, bear the high costs of expropriating land
and buildings on the right-of-way nor the costs of constructing the road
and associated wastewater lines.
Vehicle Registrations
6.        Istanbul experienced a fivefold increase in vehicle registrations
within 15 years, from some 21,000 vehicles in 1955 to over 105,000 in
mid-1970 (Annex 1, Table 1). The actual number of vehicles on the streets
has been estimated to be over 140,000 on any day, including vehicles from
other areas of Turkey.
Bus Transport
7.        The IETT is an autonomous public corporation owned entirely by
the Istanbul Municipality, operating buses both within and outside the
municipal boundaries. The IETT fleet consists of over 900 buses, of which
about 600 are in service, and about 100 trolley buses (70 in service).
In 1969, IETT carried an average of some 578,000 revenue passengers a day
and provided nearly 45 million bus and trolley bus kilometers of service.
8.        The transport operations of IETT have lost money over the last
nine years, at an average of about TL 50 million a year. Profits from the
company's electrical power operations have been used to compensate partly
for these losses. The IETT claims that an inadequate tariff system
regulated by the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources and the Manicipality
is the cause of transport losses.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
9.        Other reasons behind the steady decline of IETT patronage
are organizational and managerial. The settlement pattern of the
Yatropolitan Area has altered considerably over the last 40 years,
yet IETT services are rigidly fixed by antiquated statutes. This poor
organization of bus and trolley bus services results in wastage of
personnel on unprofitable routes in direct competition with more
efficiently organized and more flexible taxi-dolmus and minibus
services. Managerially, the IETT needs reform. The organisation is
top-heavy with a proliferation of managers. There has been a steady
increase in the number of personnel employed per bus in service. At
the same time, financial woes have prevented IETT from modernizing
its fleet and obtaining the needed inventory of spare parts to ensure
adequate fleet maintenance.
Dolmus-Taxis
10.       The 16,000 strong dolmus and taxi system, as well as minibus
services possibly account for as many, if not more, passenger trips than
the IETT system. At the same time, the dolmus-taxi system is a major con-
tributor to Istanbul's traffic chaos, particularly in the congested Golden
Horn area. The nuisance value of the dolmus-taxi stems from inadequate
traffic controls and ineffective enforcement of traffic rules and regu-
lations. Contrary to police regulations, dolmus and taxis pick up and
discharge passengers anywhere along the main thoroughfares and deviate
from assigned routes. These operations add particular frustrations and
delays to the IETT services, thereby re4psifg their competing abilities.
Other Transport
11.       Rail - Major rail lines begin at Istanbul on either side of the
Bosphorus and run to points in Europe and to the interior of the country.
The railway also provides limited but reliable comuter service on both
sides of the Bosphorus. These commuter services are of minor importance
in total passenger trips, but the possibilities for a greater future role
deserve careful consideration.
12.       Ferry - Transport across the Bowphoruas is provided by an
efficient but undersized system of vehicular and passenger ferrioe.
Ferry services also operate between Istanbul and Yalova on the eastern
Marmara shore, and between the City and the Princes Islands. The
Bosphorus and Marmara ferries carry on the average over 12,000 vehicles
a day, traffic having more than doubled during the 1960's. Passenger
traffic on the Bosphorus and Marmara ferry services (Annex 1, Table 2)
has grown comparatively slowly, at about 4% a year over the past 20 years
and accounts for approximately 15% of the total passenger trips to the
Metropolitan Area. The vehicular ferries across the Bosphorus have been
profitable, earning some TL 22 million a year. Losses on the passenger
lines have, however, absorbed these profits. With average losses of
about TL 43 million a year, the net ferry operations show annual average
losses of TL 21 million.






ANNEX 1
Page 4
TURKEY                             TABLE 
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Vehicle Registration Trends
Istanbul Province lf
(in 1,000 vehicles)
Light                         Total Autos
Motor-              Heavy    Trucks and                         Trucks
Year   cycles   Autos_/   Trucks   Mini-buses   Buses   Tractors   and Buses
- ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
1955     1.2     12.9       4.7          2.6       0.6        0.5       20.7
1956     1.2     14.9       5.0          2.0       0.8        0.7       22.6
1957     1.3      15.6      5.6          2.1       0.9        o.6       24.1
1958     1.3      14.8      6.3         3.8        0.9        0.7       25.8
1959     1.6     15.7       7.1         4.7        1.1        0.7       28.6
1960     1.8     18.8       7.9          7.0       1.1        n.a.      34.8
1961     2.2     22.0       8.6         7.5        1.3       n.a.       39.3
1962     2.5     25.0       9.3         9.0        1.3       0.2        44.6
1963     2.9     29.0      10.0         11.5       1.4        0.3       51.8
1964     3.3     32.5      10.5         11.5       1.4        0.3       55.8
1965     3.6     34.7      10.8         12.3       1.6        0.4       63.4
1966     4.3      39.6     11.5         12.5       1.8        0.5       70.2
1967     4.9     48.7      12.5         16.3       2.0        o.6       85.1
1968     5.7     53.9      13.9         17.4       2.2        0.7       93.9
1969     6.3     57.2      15.5         17.6       2.8        0.8      100.2
1970     6.6     59.5      16.4        19.3        2.9        0.9      105.7
(July)
1/ The Istanbul Master Plan Bureau questions the reliability of the
above information. Investigations of traffic volumes and flows in-
dicate that the number of autos, light trucks and mini-buses is
much higher than shown in the table.
2/ Includes private cars, taxis, dolmus, Jeeps, station wagons, official
cars.
Source: Istanbul Municipal Traffic Safety Division.
April 3, 1972



ANNEX 1
Page 5
TABLE 2
TURKEY
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVOLPMiNT PROJECT
tfotal Passenger Trips by Various Modes "
(in millions)
Bosphorus
& Marmara           IETT           Private 2
Year       Ferries            Sy_tem         Vehicles_/       Raiiroads
1957         65.0            193.6              350.-4
1958         67.5             206.0             391.2             1.53/
1959         64.4            176.8              352.6             1.4
1960         65.2            189.8              397.8             1.2
1961         67.8            180.3              395.7             1.2
1962         71.7            166.1              380.4             1.1
1963         66.5             163.6             365.9             1.7
1964         66.7            156.7              353.3            16.3
1965         68.9             157.h             358.1            17.,
1966         71.0            163.5              365.6            19.1
1967          86.8            189.9             389.1            20.9
1/ The Istanbul Master Plan Bureau questions the reliability of the above
information. Investigations of traffic volumes and flows indicate
that the total number of passenger trips by private vehicles is much
higher than shown in the table.
2/ Includes private autos, taxis, dolmus and mini-buses.
3/ Includes passengers at only one terminal (Maydarpasa on the Asiatic
side), until 1964.
Source: Istanbul Tramway and Tunnel Authority, 1968.
April 3, 1972



ANNEX 2
Page 1
TURKEY
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SQUATTER SETTLEMENTS
1.         Istanbul's housing problem became critical during  the heavy
rural-urban migrations of the 1950's. In the absence of viable public or
private housing alternatives, squatter settlements, called gecekondu
(literally, "built at night"), mushroomed on the outskirts of the M?nici-
pality on Gbvernment-owned land and around the industrial areas. These
settlements now occupy about 50% of the built-up area of Istanbul., and
accommodate the poorer 40% of the working population.
2.         There are now about 200,000 gecekondu units in the Metropolitan
Area, located largely in Zeytinburnu, Gaziosmanpasa, Eyup, and Sisli
districts (Map 4). In general, gecekondu areas are laid out and built up
by private developers or contractors who establish their "rights" by self-
decree. At first, core units are built, consisting of concrete block walls,
red corrugated tile roofs, and earth floors. These are usually single-
family units, with 2-3 rooms and a total floor space of 50-70 in2. As family
means permit, the occupants gradually improve their homes, and usually a
close social organization develops. This "village-liket" development takes
place even though the occupants have located illegally and are without title
to the land.
3.         Gecekondu dwellers, especially in the older areas, are not
desperate or desolate people. Very often two or more members of the family
are engaged in some income-producing activity. With time and local maneuver-
ing, the more established areas are eventually able to obtain limited funds
from the government for basic urban infrastructure. Sometimes, the community
will raise "seed" money and participate in the financing. In general, how-
ever, gecekondu areas are characterized by low environmental quality, lacking
adequate water supply, sewerage, electrical power and surfaced streets.  Two-
thirds of Istanbul's gecekondu population surveyed in 1966 were without these
basic facilities and services.
4.         The Ministry of Reconstruction and Resettlement, through its
Directorate of Housing, and in accordance with the 1966 Squatter Housing
Law, is attempting to correct these deficiencies with three types of
settlement programs: (a) controlled settlement whereby certain areas, called
"prevention areas," are designated for, squatter housing, lots with basic
infrastructure are provided, and credit is furnished; (b) improved settlement,
whereby infrastructure improvements are made to settlements which have already
reached a certain level of development, and assistance is provided in obtain-
ing land titles; and (c) cleared aettlement, whereby poorly located settlements



AT,NEX 2
Page 2
are cleared and the settlers are relocated in designated areas. The Law
also provides credits in small amounts to occupants willing to improve
their housing standards.  At the local level, the Municipality of Istrnbii
has an administrative unit for dealing with the gecekondu problem and
encouraging community action.  However, investment by either the Ministry
or the Municipality is severely constrained by the lack of funds. Moreover,
technical aspects of the program and methodologies for fonmuilatinf, and
evaluating specific project proposals need to be improved.
5.        The Ministry and municipalities within the Metropolitan Area
have designated 12 prevention areas (Map 4), totalling more than ),h00
hectares (Table 1). During 1966-1969, however, only TL 35 million was
invested in basic infrastructure, primarily in Osmaniye, Ornekmahalle, an(i
Gulsuyu. In the same period, about TL 100 million was invested in
infrastructure for improvement areas. Investment in improvement and
prevention areas continued at the same level in the period 1969-1971
(Table 2), although the facilities fell short of normal city standards.
Public fountains were located too far apart, severe voltage drops exist
at peak hours, and the local streets were only minimally improved.
Moreover, no sewerage facilities were provided. It is estimated that
only about TL 250 per capita was spent cdring this period for infra-
structure improvements in existing gecekondu areas, compared to about
TL 3,500-50,000 per capita required to provide facilities meeting normal
city standards.
6.        According to the Ministry, the demand for low-cost housing rose
by roughly 80,000 units between 1966 and 1969. Housing and infrastrncture,
however, were provided for only about 6,000 families, and credit for an
additional few thousand families was made available under the Ministry's
programs.



TURKEY
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gecekondu Prevention Areas
Of the Ministry of Reconstruction & Resettlement &
Istanbul City Municipaity
Name of         Date of    Purchase             Acquisition       Ownership of Land
Area          Purchase     Cost      Area         Cost         Treasury    Private
(TL/me)   (hcts   (TL millions)
European
Ministry of Reconstruction                                             413        21.0
and Resettlement
Osmaniye         1963        1.0         63          6.0           20
Kucukkoy         1968        2.5        100          2.5           25
Kemerburgaz     1968         5.0        250         12.5            -           100
Istanbul City Municipality                                             350        n.a.            n.a.
Kucukkoy         n.a.        n.a.        50         n.a.           n.a.
Alibeykoy        n.a.        n.a.       300         n.a.           n.a.
Sub-Total                                                              763
Anatolian
Ministry of Reconstruction                                             670        12.0
and Resettlement
Kanlica          1968        5.0         20          1.0            -           100
Ornekmahalle     1965        4.0        200          8.0           15
Serifali         1968        1.0        100          1.0            -           100
Basibuyuk        1967        1.5        100          1.5           60
Gulsuyu          1967        0.2        250          0.5           95
Istanbul City Municipality                                             100
Kucukyali        n,a.        n.a.         80        n.a.           n.a.         n.a.
Kartal           n.a.        n.a.         20        n.a.           n.a.         n.a.
Sub-Total                                                              770
Grand Total                                                          1,533
Source: Based on information collected from Ministry of Reconstruction and Resettlement, Istanbul Provincial
Reconstruction Directorate.
April 17, 1972



ANNEX 2
TURKEY                               Isage t
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Infrastructure Investment
In Gecekondu Areas
In Turkey and Istanbu]2/
( in TL millions)
Type of Area
Improvement   Prevention       Total
Number of Projects
1970
Turkey                            39            77            116
Istanbul                         77              5             82
1971
T2rkew                            29             40             69
Istanbul                         13               7            20
Total Program Costs
1970
Turkey                           126.9         326.2          453.1
Istanbul                           5.6          43.5           49.1
1971
Turkey                           187.8          271.2          459.o
Istanbul                         36.3           29.1           65. .
Total Investment
1969
Turkey                            35.2          105.7          14o.9
Istanbul                           3.1           19.0          22.1
1970
Turkey                            75.            95.1          170.1
Istanbul                           6.           IL.1           20.6
1971
Turkey                            58.3           76.b)        135.1
Istanbul                          2b.)            ,.3           33.3
1969-1971
Turkey                           16D.5          2i77.         Y146.i
Istanbul                          37.6           36.h           76.0
1/ Istanbul Province only.
2/ Programmed investment.
Source: State Planning Organization.
March 27, 1972



ANNEX 3
Page 1
TURKEY
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCING DEVELOPMENT
1.        Private investment in Istanbul amounted to TL 2 billion in 1970
and was almost entirely concentrated in manufacturing industry and housing.
This was 59% of the total of TL 3.5 billion investment in the area, and 16%
of all private investment in Turkey (Tables 1 and 2). The Turkish
Industrial Developuent Bank (TSKB) whose foreign exchange resources are
mainly provided by the Bank, finances about 21% of all industrial invest-
ment in the Istanbul Area.
2.        Public investment in manufacturing, industry and housing, in com-
parison to private investment in the same sectors, is deliberately kept
small. It is concentrated instead on the provision of infrastructure and
services in the Metropolitan Area, amounting to TL 1.5 billion in 1970 by
central, provincial, village, and municipal authorities, or 11% of all
public investment in Turkey. However, the 1970 level was abnormally high
because of the expenditures being made on the Bosphorus and Golden Horn
bridges and the peripheral road. In 1968, by comparison, public investment
in Istanbul was TL 529 million.
3.        The Central Governmsent's share of direct public investment in the
area in 1970 was 79%, mainly for construction of power generation and trans-
mission facilities, main roads, bridges, dams, water supply and distribution.
About 23% of investment by the Central Goverxumnt was in the social sectors
of housing, education, and health, supplying most of the social services in
the area. The Central Government invests small amounts in housing through
the Gecekondu prevention program of the Ministry of Reconstruction and
Resettlement and the housing credits which it provides. It has also made
large investments within Istanbul for major roads and provided funds for
expropriating property within the Municipal Area, although in principle
these are a municipal responsibility. Through the Gecekondu improvement
program, the Central Government also invests in local roads, water, electri-
city, and sewage services in Istanbul and neighboring municipal areas,
amounting to TL 25 million in 1971. In addition, the Central Government
exerts a strong influence over the allocation and use of a substantial share
of municipal government's investments in local services through the Bank of
Provinces project loans.
4.        The exact amount of provincial local government investment in
Istanbul is not known. As total provincial local government investment in
Turkey in 1967 was only TL 90 million and 1970 investment is estimated at
TL 138 million, the Istanbul provincial local investmnt was probably about
TL 140-80 million in 1970.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.         Municipalities have experienced an extended financial crisis;
expenditures have regularly been larger than their revenues (Table 4).
The central government has made up the deficits by grants from the general
budget. It is also financing and carrying out an increasing share of local
government infrastructure investment.
6.         By law, the municipalities are obligated to provide and operate
local roads, water, electricity, wastewater and waste disposal systems. In
reality, the direct investments and operations of the municipalities are
mainly confined to local roads and sewer construction and maintenance. The
semi-autonomous organizations IETT and ISI, attached to the municipality,
undertake most of the investment in electricity, gas, transport, and water
supply. Total direct investment by Istanbul and other municipalities in
the metropolitan area is estimated at TL 107 million in 1970.
7.         In the Istanbul Municipality and probably in the other neighbor-
ing municipalities, most of current expenditure pays the wages and social
benefits of workers. The level of wage and salary payments is a matter
which is largely beyond the control of the municipalities.   The Central
Government Personnel Law applies to municipal as well as Central Government
employees; the personnel structure of the municipalities is determined by
the State Council with the approval of the Council of Ministers, and the
technical personnel employed in the municipalities are appointed by related
organizations. The municipalities are left to pay the salaries and wages
for such employees, and these rose by 11.4% per annum from 1966-1970.
8.         The new Personnel Law No. 1327 increased the total wages and
salaries bill by about 100%, so that in Istanbul municipality it rose to
98% of municipal revenues for 1971. The Central Goverrment provided an
extra TL 45 million in the municipality budget, enough to maintain municipal
investment at the level of the previous years.
9.         Tax revenues of the municipalities are determined mainly by the
Municipal Revenues Law No. 5237. They are: (a) the municipalities' legal
shares from Central Government taxes and other revenues, (b) taxes the
municipalities are authorized to collect themselves, (c) concessionary
shares from electricity and gas, production within municipal boundaries,
tickets on railways, boats and buses, and tariffs and fees for telephone
installation and calls, and (d) investments and operations of the munici-
pality itself.
10.        The Central Government taxes which the municipalities share are
assessed on sectors of the econoir which are growing rapidly.  The shares
(Table 5) are determined by law and distributed among the municipalities in
proportion to their populations at the last census. The municipalities,
therefore, have at least one source of tax revenue which is relatively
elastic in relation to the growth in GNP and municipal population growth.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
The share of all municipalities grew at the rate of 15% per annum between
1964 and 1969 to reach TL 740 million.  However, the municipal portion is
small making annual income increments small in relation to the incremental
demand for investment created by population growth. For example, Istanbul
had TL 77 million in 1968 from Central Government tax sources. A 15%
increase would add about TL 12 million to revenues from this source.
However, extra annual investment required for local roads and sewers alone,
as a result of population growth, would be at least TL 20 million per annum.
11.        In contrast to neighboring municipalities, the taxes which the
Istanbul Municipality collects itself and revenues from municipal investments
provide the largest proportion of all municipal revenues (72%) (Table 6).
But the 7% per annum growth in income from these taxes, combined with rel-
atively low tax rates, also yields too little incremental revenue to cope
both with new investment demands and increases in payments to municipal
employees.
12.        Fbr years, the municipalities have been receiving declining
proportions of their legal shares. The budget allocations in 1968 (the
last year for which detailed information is available) were 79% of the legal
entitlement. Instanbul Municipality in 1968 received TL 5 million less than
its legal entitlement. However, what the Central Government fails to pay
the municipalities as their legal shares it makes up through direct assistance
from the Treasury by using funds whose original purpose has become extinct.
For example, Istanbul Municipality received TL 23 million in 1968 from the
World War II Venterans' Fund for water supply investment and a total of TL 36
million, or 9% of its total revenue, as State aid. Istanbul Municipality,
therefore, appears to have received Central Government assistance amounting
to somewhat more than the money withheld from its legal share of the central
government taxes.
13.        The Municipal Revenues Law sets aside 20% of the annual legal
shares in the revenues from specified Central Government taxes in a special
find for small municipalities (less than 50,000 population). This fund of
about TL 150-200 miUion per annum is deposited with the Bank of the Prov-
inces and its use is controlled by the Ministry of Reconstruction and Re-
settlement. On application of a municipality, and with the permission of
the Ministry, the Bank of the Provinces may lend from this fund for 20-year
periods, to be repaid in equal annual installments with no interest. A
settlement of over 2,000 population, by becoming a municipality, therefore
not only qualifies for a share of State revenues, but may also get a loan
from the Small Municipalities Fund. The law, as it now stands, encourages
increases in the number of municipalities and does not appear to respond to
the real needs of municipalities. Thus both Sagmalcilar and Kagithane
gecekondu areas, which grew rapidly at the rate of 12.5% and 13.8% per annum
from 1965-1970, would not qualify for funds from the Small Municipality Fund



ANNEX 3
Page 4
because both were larger than 50,000 population at the time of the 1965
census.
14.        The Bank of the Provinces is the chief source of credit and project
executing capacity for local government infrastructure activities. It also is
the channel through which the municipal share of central government revenues
and project grants flow. As the financial positions of municipalities
worsened under the impact of urbanization and the obsolescent Municipal
Finance Law, they defaulted on repayments of loans from the Bank of the Prov-
inces. Their outstanding unpaid debt was TL 675.3 million in 1966, wThich
almost exhaucted the paid up capital of the Bank. From the beginning of 1)66,
the central government assumed the bad debts of the municipalities and started
paying the principle and interest on them to the Bank of the Provinces from
the Treasury in annual installments over 20 years.
15.        A new Property Tax was passed in 1970, to go into effect in 1972,
and is estimated to yield about TL 200 million in new revenue for Istanbul
municipality. Fbr the municipalities in general, the new Property Tax is
estimated to increase their revenue 12 times. Whereas all municipalities
realized TL 38.7 million in 1967 from property tax, under the new law they
would have realized TL 455 million. The provincial local governments and th
central government will also increase their revenues from property tax by 1
and 1.7 times each.
16.        Proposals were also made in 1965 to reform the Municipal Incomes
Iaw, but agreement has not yet been reached on the draft legislation. In
any case, the Ministry of Finance estimates that the additional TL 100 million
which the law would produce for Istanbul Municipality would just about cover
the increase in municipal wage and salary payments resulting from the new
Personnel Law, so that even after the debt consolidation of 1966 the munici-
palities are still unable to repay their installments on loans from the Bank
of the Provinces. The result is that the unpaid municipal debts to the Bank
of the Provinces are paid by the Treasury each year. In effect, most municipal
investment is being financed from the Central Gbvernment budget through the
Bank of the Provinces.
17.        When the Central Government assists the municipal government
through funds deposited with the Bank of the Provinces, as in the case of
ordinary loans from the Bank of the Provinces, it is in a position to super-
vise and control the investments which are made from them. In the case of
water supply in the Istanbul Area, this enables the Central Government to
coordinate the investment programs for regional and local water supply. This
form of management appears to be functionally correct,for the construction of
systems. Whether the needs of the different municipalities are dealt with
equitably under such a system, whether municipalities operate utilities and
services efficiently in such circumstances, and whether such an extensive
central control of local investments is advisable remains to be assessed.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
The Central Goverrnent authorities maintain that it is necessary to give
more responsibility for local services to municipal governments but actual
practice is to the contrary. The Central Government, through the regional
branches of ministries and Central aoverument functional organisations,
undertakes most of the investment in the infrastructure and social services
of neighboring municipalities of Istanbul and in increaaing share of the
same investment in Istanbul Mumicipality itself.






ANNEK 3
Page 6
TABLE 
.'UR,'KEY
IS'1IABU, UJF BAN jEVELOPMETT PROJECT
i;mpstmLmnts in Istanbul Province by Sector - 197)
(in TL millions)
Public
Municipalities
Crntral         and Local
Government    Authorities           Private    I'otal
i1 sY ric .Jl tU a - F,           13.) 
7Th:nuJW;:ct.uring lnaulsLry     l>8.7              -              9:)D.)      l,.))-.7
f)To}  c                         231.7
'L-rr n,no rt,!tion4  3t51.9
iJiic( xition                    1 G2 .-
-Ic  'Ltoh                                          -                -           -.
IItifl s ng cI (jthfEr
C onstrniction                 )46.2 '            -            IL,1DJ. )    1,1l,',.
'lourisrll                        7~.h -54
7- irsr                          1;6. O            _                   _
'i'otc-                1,157.2           300.(           2,000.)      3,Y57.?
j,olcf:   !linistrv of h'Fconstruction snd 2esettlement.






ANNX 3
Page 7
TURKEY
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
InvestTent in the Istanbul M4etropolitan Area
1964 - 1970
(in TL millions)
Manufacturing    Social & Physical
Housing      Industry         Infra-structure    Total
1964
Public        -            52.50               997.50      1,050.00
Private     735.00        315.00                  -        1,050.00
Total       735.00        367.50               997.50      2,100.00
196 S
Public         -           58.75               528.75        587.50
Private     765.00      1,147.50                  -        1,912.50
Total       765.00      1,206.25               528.75      2,500.00
1970
Public       46.16        108.70             1,002.31      1,157.17
Private   1,100.00        900.00                  -        2,000.00
Total     1,146.16      1,008.70             1,002.31      3,157.17
Source: Ministry of Reconstruction and Resettlement.
March 27, 1972



TURE
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Municipality of Istanbul
Finance 1960-1970 - Actual vs Budgeted
(in TL RillMons)
E x    e n d i  t u  r e  8
Fiscal       Revenues            Current             Capital            Transfer l/         Total
Year    Bidet   Actual    B et   Actual   Budget  AcctuaI    Budget   Actual Budet   Actual   Deficit
1960     565.5    279.8    144.9    119.4    188.3         57.6    232.3    129.9    565.5    306.9         27.1
1961     347.0    246.1    150.6    128.6        60.7      25.8    135.8    107.6    347.0    262.1         16.0
1962     393.8    320.0    152.7    129.1        45.9      14.2    195.2    177.8    393.8    321.1          1.1
1963     332.1    268.1    186.1    156.0        26.5       7.3    119.5       87.9    332.1    251.1         -
1964     432.5    286.7    165.2    139.0    134.3         67.0    132.9       90.8    432.5    296.7       10.0
1965     460.9    292.7    236.3    191.1    103.4         42.4    121.2       73.5    460.9    306.9         -
1966     423.7    343.6    261.0    222.1        76.9      39.9      85.8      70.6    423.7    332.6         -
1967     620.8    337.9       34.2    243.2    170.0       49.0    129.6      90.5    620.8    382.7        44.8
1968     642.4    407.5    331.5    267.6    168.7         52.6    142.1    105.7    642.4    425.9         18.4
1969W/      -      1427.0       -      294.7       -       72.4        -      117.5       -      484.5      57.5
1970     825.4    440.0    384.8    345.1    250.7         67.6    189.8       98.1    825.4    510.8       70.8
1/ Includes debt repayments.
i/ 1969 budget figures not available.
Source: Manicipality of Istanbul
March 28, 1972



ANNE 3
Page 9~
TA=L 4
TURXEY
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Municipal Shares in C0-ntral Government Tax'Revenues
Municipal
Type_of Tax                       Share (%)      Law No.      Article
1.  Income & Corporation Tax             5          5237           1
2.  Customs Duty                        15          5237           2
3. Monopoly's Revenue                    2          5237           3
4. ProLerty 'aex                        25          5237           4
5.  wi1rl Production 'fax                h          6802          66
6.  Motor Vehicle & Traffic Fines       11           197          17
7.  Brokerage Commissions                           5237          25
on buildings to 100.,000 'T'L     1
on buildings over 100,000 TL      0.01
'.  Common Traffic Fund                 _            157          17
Source: Ministry of Finance
April 3, 1972



ANNEX 3
Page 10
TABLE 5
TURKEY
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Istanbul Minicipality Incoms (FY68)
% of
Source                                               Revenue          Total
(in !r-a-Milloas)
A. HIticipal Shares of Central
Governmnt Tax Revenues
1)  Income and Corporation                        30.7              8
2)  Property                                      17.4              4
3)  Motor Vehicles                                 0.5             neg.
4) Fuel Production                                 1.6             neg.
5)  Customs Duties                                22.5              6
6)  Monopolies Production                          5.2              1
Sub-Total                                     78.0             19
B. Municipal Taxes and Incomes
1) Permits, taxes on services for                139.0             34
imovable property, wholesale
food operations, amusements,
advertising and others
2)  Revenues from municipal                       25.2              6
operations (the fruit and
vegetable, meat markets,
racetrack, ete.)
3)  Revenues from municipal                       20.6              5
properties (sales)
4)  Various revenues                              25.0              6
Sub-Total                                    203.8             51
C.  Municipal Shares of Operations of                 83.7             21
Organizat=ons Inido Hhnicipal lorders,,
such as I9TT, PTT, the State Maritime
Bank and Railways
D.  Central Government Assistance
1)  Grants                                         1.0             neg.
2)  Traffic Fund                                  11.3              3
3)  Veterans Fund                                 23.7              6
Siub-Total                                    36.0             9
Grand Total                                      407.5            100
March 28, 1972



ANNEX 4
Page 1
TURKEY
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PFiOJECT
PLANNING FOR URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Urban and Regional Planning at the National Level
1.        Traditionally, Turkey's approach to planning and investment
decision-making has been largely sectoral; planning for urban areas or
regions is a relatively new concept. In the early 1960's, the Ministry
of Reconstruction and Resettlement,assisted by the OECD and the U.N.,
made one foray into the field of planning on a metropolitan regional scale.
An Istanbul Regional Planning Directorate was established in 1961 to
develop an East Marmara Plan. Although the Plan focused attention on
the Istanbul Metropolitan Area and the surrounding East Marmara Sub-region,
few attempts were made to implement the recommended strategy or projects.
2.        In the Second Five-Year Development Plan, 1968-1972, urban and
regional planning were given explicit recognition. In keeping with Turkey's
highly centralized system of government, agencies at the national level
were given unusually strong roles in urban and regional development (Chart 1).
The Ministry of Reconstruction and Resettlement is responsible for approving
and implementing physical plans and for the regional distribution of invest-
ments (Chart 2). Within the Ministry there is the General Directorate of
Planning and Construction which contains the Regional, Metropolitan and
City Planning Departments (Chart 3).
3.        For purposes of regional planning, the Ministry has divided Turkey
into eight main regions (Map 1) and nineteen sub-regions. The Department
of Regional Planning is charged with integrating physical and sectoral
planning concepts and coordinating investments on a regional basis. The
Department of Metropolitan Planning supervises the work of the Metropolitan
Master Plan Bureaus that have been set up in Istanbul, Izmir, and Ankara, in
conjunction with the various municipalities within the three metropolitan areas.
4.        Several organizations attached to the Ministry are important for
the execution of projects in urban areas. The Bank of Provinces finances and
prepares physical plans and infrastructure projects endorsed by the Ministry
for municipalities and villages. The Property and Credit Bank builds houses
and provides loans for the construction and purchase of housing. The Provincial
Construction Directorate carries out infrastructure projects in squatter settle-
ment areas. The recently-created LAnd Office was set up principally to acquire
land for public purposes.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Istanbul Master Plan
5.        The Greater Istanbul Master Plan Bureau (The Bureau) was
established in 1968, reflecting a renewed interest in the development
problems of Istanbul. The Master Plan prepared by the Bureau incor-
porates many of the ideas of the East Marmara Plan, updated to current
conditions.
6.        The main strategy proposed by the Bureau is:
(a) to encourage development of the Anatolian side of the
Metropolitan Area;
(b) to direct this development into planned high density
urban expansion areas in the interior of the coastal
plain, in order' to relieve the excessive settlement
pressure along the shore;
(c)  to preserve and restore historic areas of Old Istanbul
and a variety of social, cultural and leiaure-time
amenities, including those related to health and
envirornment.
7.        According to the Bureau's urban expansion development strategy,
manufacturing activities are to be concentrated in 3 or 4 organized in-
dustrial districts located along a six-lane, divided highway with limited
access, running from the eastern end of the Bosphorus Bridge to Gebze
(Map 3). Beyond Gebze, the existing highway is to be improved and will
continue to Izmit. Infrastructure is to be provided for the manufacturing
activities, and for housing areas planned in conjunction with the districts.
To serve the projected population of approximately 200,000 in each of these
urban areas, infrastructure costs for roads, water, wastewater and electricity
distribution networks are estimated at TL 700 million (US$47 million equivalent).
8.        The Istanbul-Izmit Expressway proposal is crucial to the Plan, pro-
viding the first opportunity for industry to break away from the transport
and utility services which bind them to the south coast of the Izmit peninsula
and to expand into the hinterland. This road has been studied by the Italian
consulting firm, SAUTI, which prepared the initial feasibility studies in
August 1969. The total expressway cost would be over TL 1.0 billion (US$70
million), including right-of-way costs of TL 63 million, (US$4.2 million).
Detailed engineering for the Gebze-Izmit section was expected to be completed
by March 1971, together with the preliminary engineering for the Camlica-
Gebze section (Map 3). The proposal, consistent with the Bureau's strategy,
contains provisions for the preservation of the Marmara coastline. As the



ANIEX 4
Page 3
proposa1 now stands, highway plans are being developed separate from
other aspects of tile Bureauts urban expansion development strategy.
In order to avoid the possibility of uncontrolled growth alreacdy
experienced on the European side, this highway construction ought
now to be phased with the development of industrial and housing
infrastructure in planned settlements.
9.        The Bureau has projected a metropolitan population of 5.5
million by 1985.  However, the land use and settlement patterns are
designed to accommodate a reduced population of 4.5 million. This
projected population reduction is based on the assumed growth of
other metropolitan centers in the Eastern Marnara Sub-region (Bursa,
Iznit and Adapazari) and in other regions in the country, attracting
immigrants who would otherwise go to Istanbul. The population fore-
casts also include the effect of the Bosphorus Bridge in accelerating
growth on the Anatolian side.
10.       While on the Anatolian side, the problem is largely one
of developing rural land for urban uses; on the European side
the problem is to regulate the further development of the built-up
areas of the inner city and unsettled areas on the periphery, parti-
cularly to the west in Bakirkoy District and to the north in the
Alibeykoy-KaculdnoyKwathane direction. The Bureau's population proJections
suggest that growth in the Anatolian settlements will result from
immigration into the area, while population growth in European Istanbul
will arise from the established population. The proportion of the
metropolitan population settled on the Anatolian side is expected
to rise from 22% in 1970 to some 40% by 1985. These projections
suggest higher rates of population and industrial growth on the Ana-
tolian side than on the European side. Yet, in the next decade,
the absolute ponulation increase of 860,000 on the European side
is still greater than the 530,000 projected for the Anatolian side.
However, there does not appear to be a coherent development policy
to deal with this anticipated population. Moreover, existing locational
forces which attract industry, commerce and other activities to the
European side will not only persist, but may increase as services are
improved there. These problems coupled with a large demand for low-
income housing and the threat of gecekondu settlement will require
increased emphasis on development programs directed towards the European
side.
11.       tecently, the Bureau prepared a substantial document des-
cribing the basis of the plan and its objectives. Yet, the physical plan,
showing land uses to 1990, fails to indicate the process and stages
of physical development.  The Master Plan Bureau conducted its own
surveys and studies and prepared projections for population, employment
and economic growth. The Bureau also made certain assumptions regar-
ding the future location of employment centers, housing, and major
public investments affecting land use. It established objectives such



ANNEX 4
Page 4
as the minimization of public cost for infrastructure and services
and the preservation of open spaces, valuable coastline and historic
areas.  Some broad calculations of medium-term investment requirements
in the region were also made by the Bureau. However, the Bureau's
plan is largely a physical planning exercise. Relatively little
attention has been paid to investment, legal and organizational aspects
vital to the successful implementation of the program. A number
of attached organizations of the Ministry of Reconstruction and Re-
settlement deal with matters concerning public acquisition, develop-
ment and disposal of property in the urban area. Their activities,
however, are on too small a scale to make a significant impact on
the development of Istanbul. There is some coordination of the
planning and investment activities of these organizations, central
government organizations operating in the area (such as the Highways
Department, TEK, and DSI), and local semi-autonomous organizations
(such as ISI and IETT), but it is not effective.
12.       The coordination of public investment alone cannot achieve
development objectives for the area. Programs and policies for in-
dustrial and settlement areas largely financed by the private sector
must be defined and integrated into implementation programs. Certainly,
a better industrial location policy needs to be evolved.  In this
regard, the TSKB and the Istanbul Chamber of Industry and Commerce
may play an important role on the lines already tried out in the
industrial district in Bursa and those about to begin in Eskisehir.
The Government also has at its disposal a number of other indirect
instruments for influencing industrial location, once its objectives
in the Istanbul area are clarified.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
TURKEY
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LAND POLICIES AND CONTROLS
1.        Present land policies and controls are inadequate to implement
the integrated urban program involving large scale investments anticipated
by the Government. Without effective means for acquiring large land areas,
controlling the uses and prices of land, and modifying or creating existing
institutions, unplanned urban development and land price escalation will
continue unabated, making program implementation extremely costly.
2.        The Government has some powers to plan and control land use, but
in practice they are limited essentially to the old city of Istanbul, i.e.
within the ancient walls on the peninsula. This area, some areas along the
northern side of the Golden Horn, and the districts of Uskudar and Kadikoy
across the Bosphorus are covered by the Master Plan and building height
restrictions adopted by the City Council in 1939-40. Proposed land use
changes or building improvements are still considered in light of the
provisions in these documents. 4lthough outdated and based upon traditional
physical planning tenets, their enforcement has helped preserve the ancient
character of the city center. The practices of reassessing properties only
when improvements or changes in ownership take place has also tended to
minimize changes within the old boundaries of the city. Areas outside these
boundaries are either covered by plans approved at various times over the
years for city blocks, subdivisions or other small areas or are not covered
at all. As a result, industries and squatter settlements have located
virtually without control.
3.        All municipalities are required to prepare a physical plan for
the approval of the Ministry of Reconstruction and Resettlement. The
Ministry, through its associated agency, the Bank of Provinces, provides
technical and financial assistance for their preparation. Although these
plans vary considerably in scope and quality, they generally prescribe den-
sities, building heights, floor-to-area ratios, setbacks, occupancies, street
widths, etc. on a block-by-block basis. All applications for building ad-
ditiona and other changes not in accordance with these plans are submitted
to the Municipality and then to the Ministry. Since the Ministry is often
not familiar enough with the local situation, applications are frequently
referred back to the Bureau. The Bureau muat then investigate each case
and prepare a report recommending appropriate action by the Ministry, a time-
consuming process frequently subject to p*litical pressures.
4.        The Government has powers to expropriate land for a broad range
of public purposes and in accordance with an approved plan. In disputed cases,
however, Turkish courts are very lenient in determining market values for com-
pensation. Public authorities are often required to pay two to three times



ANNEX 5
Page 2
their estimates, and thus are reluctant to exercise their land ex-
propriation powers.
5.        Aware of these and other problems, the Government has
attempted to formulate a coherent set of land policies and controls
in its Second Five-Year Period (1968-1972) and in subsequent annual
plans. Several pieces of legislation affecting metropolitan planning
and plan implementation are in various stages of preparation or appli-
cation.
6.        Construction laws in Turkey set forth means by which the Centrai
Government can assist municipalities in the construction of public facil-
ities, housing, etc. A new construction law has been drafted and presented
to the Grand National Assembly. An essential feature of the proposed law
is that the procedures for approving plans would be streamlined by granting
the Ministry the right to approve metropolitan plans, while the municipali-
ties would retain the right to prepare and approve detailed plans. Under
the present law, plans are approved on a piecemeal basis, with each munici-
pality approving the part within its jurisdiction.
7.        Property taxes, based on 1939 assessed valuations, and the taxati )i.
of capital gains associated with property sales, are too low and poorly
administered to be effective in helping to control land use and price
escalation. The new Property Tax Law will be based on current market
valuation as declared by individual landowners and is expected to increase
the tax on high-valued properties. Moreover, the new Capital Gains Tax
Law, designed to complement the Property Tax Law, will apply progressive
tax rates to the difference between the current market and declared
property values at the time of sale. Thus, by increasing the holding
costs of property and by allowing the Government to recover development
values generated by public investment, the two laws are expected to be
more effective as land use and price controls.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
ISTANBUL METROPOLITAN AREA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANTS
A. General
1.        The Istanbul Metropolitan Area has experienced great industrial
growth in recent years, accompanied by rapid urbanization. Moreover, the
physical division of Istanbul by the Bosphorus Straits and Golden Horn
has long conditioned the development of the city and complicated the
efforts of planners. By early 1974, when the Bosphorus Bridge and periph-
eral highway are completed, tremendous growth is expected, particularly
on the Anatolian side.
2.        The Istanbul Master Plan Bureau has prepared a long-range land
use plan for the metropolitan area. The Bureau's strategy is to encourage
urban cluster development on the Anatolian side, while, at the same time,
attending to the continuing needs of the already built-up areas on the
European side. The plan, which is the product of years of work, incorporates
a large body of knowledge and experience in the problems of the developing
Istanbul area, and is a useful basis from which the implementation of
programs and projects can begin. However, as is the case with all long-
run planningeefforts, it is necessary to translate plans into shorter-run
programs and projects for implementation. Thus, important operational
objectives, assumptions, and projects, apart from those already in progress
or on which Government decisions have already been taken, underlying the
Bureau's plan need to be developed and documented. Moreover, measures for
the implementation of the plan need further consideration.
3.        To this end, consultants' services are required to work with
counterpart staff and assist the Istanbul Master Plan Bureau and other
Government agencies in preparing (a) the measures for implementing the
plan in a form suitable for the Government's approval and action, and
(b) priority projects suitable for Bank/IDA financing.
h.        The consultants will assist by providing expertise geared to fill
existing gaps within the Government in the following areas:
(a) Urban data analysis and forecasting;
(b) Urban transport/land use investment decision-making;
(c) Project analysis and preparation; and
(d) Institutional planning for large-scale urban development.
5.        The consultants will  provide an experienced Chief Consultant
and a group of highly qualified specialists in the above fields for the
whole duration of the project. Other specialists will be assigned from
the consulting firm, or by sub-contract with other firms or individuals
where appropriate, as needed on a task basis.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
6.        All aspects of the project will be carried out jointly by the
consultants and Government counterpart staff with emphasis on training of
Turkish counterparts. The Government will provide counterparts in sufficient
number and experience to benefit fully from this work. The Government will
also provide supporting staff, services and equipment, and space.
7.        The Chief Consultant will advise the Director of the Bureau in
the execution of the project, and will. be responsible to him. Work will
be centered in the Bureau so that the Chief Consultant can coordinate the
consultants, and assist the Bureau and counterpart staff.
B. Consultants' Advisory Services
8.        The consultants will provide advisory services carefully geared
to the Government's need for particular types of expertise it lacks. These
services, are crucial in improving the investment decision-making
framework within which priority projects are prepared. In conjunction with
the Turkish counterpart staff, the consultants will specifically:
(a) Review the basic objectives, assumptions and planned invest-
ments underlying the Bureau's plan, particularly its urban
cluster strategy, with a view to achieving (i) a clear
understanding of the bases upon which the plan is
founded, (ii) consistency with existing trends and
forecasts, and (iii) a preliminary list of operational
objectives or targets to be achieved during the course
of the plan period, including their relative priorities
and phasing.
(b) Review the adequacy of the data base for the specific
purpose of preparing the projects and urban transport/land
use model included in the Project, assist in establishing
a system of sub-district data summary areas so that the
data can be aggregated and disaggregated as required, and
review trends and forecasts which significantly bear on
the development of the metropolitan area, along with the
implications of the forecasts in terms of the future dis-
tribution of population, economic activities and employ-
ment, public and private investments that will be needed,
and land requirements for various land use types.
(c) Advise the Bureau on the inter-linkages between urban trans-
port and land use planning, and the implications of proposed
investments in urban transport on its land use plan, and
vice versa.
(d) Advise the Bureau on the use of benefit-cost and other
project evaluation methodologies along lines to be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association, and
assist in the formulation of a preliminary investment
program including project priorities, and their se-
quencing, timing and phasing.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
(e) Review the responsibilities and resources of the various
central and local government agencies working in the
metropolitan area, as well as their plans, programs, and
projects, with a view to improving coordination and con-
sistency and to recommending any institutional changes
required for implementing the projects and model to be
prepared under the Project. Particular attention should
be given to the Government's land policies and controls
which will be required for implementing large-scale projects
such as urban cluster development.
C. Project Preparation
9.        In order to deal with the serious lack of urban infrastructure
in existing squatter settlements (gecekondu), and to prevent further un-
planned development of low-cost areas, the consultants and government
staff, will prepare a project suitable for Bank IDA financing which will
provide basic public facilities and services for such areas. In particular,
the project will:
(a) review the gecekondu programs under the Ministry of
Reconstruction and Resettlement and the Municipality
of Istanbul, with recommendations for their improvement;
(b) review the proposed sites established by the Bureau for
gecekondu improvement and prevention. taking into account
the Bureau's plan, land costs and ownership, off-site
urban infrastructure required, physical features of sites,
and other locational criteria;
(c) prepare detailed plans showing the layout of individual
lots, basic public facilities and services, and related
land uses, along with documentation of the amounts of various
kinds of infrastructure, design standards, unit costs,
and other appropriate information and data; and
(d)  establish an investment and financial plan showing the
amounts of funds required by year, local vs. foreign
exchange components, source of financing, and user charges.
Urban Cluster Development
10.       In order to help bring about more orderly and less costly urban
growth in the Metropolitan Area, particularly on the Anatolian side, the
consultants and government staff, will prepare an urban cluster project
in conjunction with the proposed Istanbul-Izmit Highway. Specifically,
the project will:



ANNEX 6
Page 4
(a) review the proposed sites established by the Bureau
for the location of urban clusters, taking into account
land costs and ownership, the possibility of using
forestry lands, requirements for the provision of basic
public facilities and services, physical features of the
sites, and other locational criteria;
(b)  prepare a detailed plan for one or more selected sites
showing land uses and the layout of basic public facilities
and services, including industrial zones, along with the
areas allocated for each land use, amounts of the various
kinds of infrastructure, design standards, unit costs,
and other appropriate information and data;
(c) establish an investment plan outlining the investments
required along with their timing and phasing, and
investment schedules showing the amounts of funds
required  by year, sector, location within the metro-
politan area, local vs. foreign exchange components,
and source of financing;
(d) provide a detailed economic evaluation of the project
using an accepted benefit-cost methodology;
(e) provide a detailed financial plan of the project showing
the sources and yearly flows of investment monies, the
funds required for the operation, maintenance, and re-
placement of public facilities and services, and user
charges, and financial return on the investments;
(f) review the land policies and controls for implementing
urban cluster development,including planning powers, ex-
propriation laws, construction laws, laws for the taxation
of property ana capital gains from property sales, laws
regulating the provision of public facilities and services,
building codes, regulations and permits, and similar
controls; and
(g) review and make recovendations concerning the institutional
means for executing urban cluster developments.
Wholesale Market Relocation
11.       The consultants and Governoent staff, will  prepare a project
suitable for Bank/IDA financing which will relocate Istanbul's central
wholesale market complex to a site outside the historic walls. In so
doing, the project will remove a major traffic bottleneck in the central
business district, provide for the physical expansion of the market's
operations in line with current population trends, and permit the re-use
of the existing site in accordance with its high commercial and historic
value. The relocation will also situate the market closer to employees'
homes, enhance working conditions, and increase competition and municipal
revenues. In particular, the project will:



ANNEX 6
Page 5
(a) review the Government's plan to purchase or otherwise
pre-empt the proposed site and to improve the transport
network required to service it;
(b) complete the operations research initiated during the
appraisal mission in November 1971 regarding the inflow
and outflow of produce and the structure of wholesale and
retail trade, ancillary trades and services, and
associated labor forces;
(c) apply the results of this operations research to the
new market's conditions and requirements so as to
determine the number and type of trading units required,
as well as their marketing, office, handling, cold
storage, and circulation needs;
(d) prepare a detailed site plan, taking into account not
only the market itself, but the communal needs as well
(i.e. facilities for truck movements, parking, servicing
for trucks and drivers, warehousing, storage for re-
turnable containers, etc.);
(e) provide an investment plan showing the amounts of funds
required by year, local vs. foreign exchange components,
and source of financing;
(f) prepare a financial plan showing the sources and yearly
flows of funds, requirements for the operation, maintenance
and replacement of the market, user charges, and financial
return on the investment; and
(g) review the Government's plan for the re-use of the existing
market site within the context of the Bureau's plan and urban
infrastructure needs, and provide order-of-magnitude economic
and financial benefits and costs.
Wastewater Disposal
12.       In conjunction with water supply project presently being prepared
for the Bank/IDA's consideration (Public Utilities Department), a wastewater
project and the establishment of adequate institutional arrangements
for wastewater disposal on a regional basis offer the best hope for
the prevention of a broad spectrum of waterborne diseases which plague
the area. An amount is included in the urban project to finance
consultants to prepare such a project in accordance with regional institutional
arrangements to be established Py the Turkish authorities.  The project will
be based upon the comprehensive account of the problems and the recommendations
prepared by DAMOC, a consortium oI' consultants.  In particular, the consultants
will assist the Government:



ANNEX 6
Page 6
(a) update and reflne the plan and recommendations presented
in the DAMOC study;
(b) establish investment priorities and prepare preliminary
engineering sufficient for estimating costs within a 20%
accuracy range;
(c) initiate detailed engineering and prepare a construction
schedule; and
(d)  prepare the project for Bank/IDA appraisal.
Traffic Engineering and Control
13.     The preparation of a traffic engineering and control project is
required in order to improve the use of the existing street network without
substantial costs and to provide a traffic system whicz can be operated by
Turkish authorities. The project will specifically include:
(a) review, and supplement where necessary, basic traffic
data by road stretches, particularly with regard to
physical characteristics, traffic volume and composition,
existing traffic control devices and regulations, speed/
density relationships, journey times, etc.;
(b)  review, and supplement where necessary, trip data included
in the Governnent's origin and destination survey, par-
ticularly mode and route characteristics, trip purpose,
peak traffic characteristics, and freight traffic;
(c) identify bottlenecks where traffic flow could be improved
at low cost by one-way street systems, turning restrictions,
traffic light and sign development, and minor constrnction,
such as intersection improvements, pedestrian over/under
passes, and stopping places;
(d) investigate the possibility of introducing licensing
and pricing policies and restriction syFtems, particularl-
within the Historic Peninsula, and for buses and dolmus;
and
(e) investigate the administrative, organizational, and financial
problems associated with the public transport system, par-
ticularly within the ETT, and prepare recommendations for the
improvement or creation of a new traffic authority.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
D. Urban Transport/Land Use Model
1h.       The aim of the urban transport/land use modelling effort will
be to develop an investment decision-making tool which is easily adapt-
able to the changing circumstances in Istanbul. The model will permit
Turkish authorities to continuously explore alternative transport/land
use interrelationships and to test the effects of future changes in the
transport and land use system. This methodology deviates fron the usual
approach of producing an urban transport plan based on fixed traffic and
land use forecasts. The approach requires a substantial effort by con-
sultants who will prepare the model together with the Government counter-
part staff. The main principles guiding the model's formulation will be:
(a) the output should be a working model, capable of
responding to questions quickly and at relatively
low cost;
(b) a minimum of resources should be spent on additional
data collection and on theoretical perfection;
(c) given various basic assumptions and forecasts, the
model should be able to reveal future traffic bottle-
necks so that major urban transport and land use in-
vestments can be programmed and presented to investment
decision-makers; and
(d) the model should be able to be taken over and operated by
Turkish counterparts trained under the project. The
ultimate objective will be to achieve a permanent im-
provement in urban transport/land use investment decision-
making for Istanbul.






ANMEX 7
TURXEY
ISTANBUI, URBAN DEVELOP16ENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates *
M4an-Months               (in T1 1,000)                (in US$1,000)             % Foreign
Staff Consultant    boa    Foreign   Total          Local   Foreign   Total         Exchange
1.  Consultant Advisory Services
a) Review of Plan, Means for Implementation          35        35          420     2,478Y/ 2,898         30       177      207            D6
and Tnvestment Programs
b) Progran  Review                                   25        25          300     1,764   2,o64         21       126       147           86
2. Project Preparaticn
Advisory ?}roup: Coordination and Project            63        63          756     4,452   5,208          54      318       372            85
Preparat ion
a) Gecekcndu Inprovement and Prevention              60        24          720     1,694   2,414         51       121       172           70
b) Urban Cluster Development                        122        58        1,464      4,102   5,566        105      293       398           74
c) Whclesale Market Relocation                       12        12          144       854      998        10        61        71           36
d) Wastewater Disposal                               21        21          252     1,484   1,736          18      io6       i12           43
e) Trgfftc Engineering and Control                   78         -          936       -        936         67       -         67            o
3.  U-rbar *rarspcrt/Land Use Model                     148        88        1,776      6,216   7,992        127      444       571            78
4.  Comrputer TiLne and Programming                        -        -        2,100           -   2,100       150         -       150            0
5.  Training, Fellowships and Seminars                     -        -             -     1,120   1,120          -       80        80           100
6.  Local Supporo of Consultants/                          -         -       1,956           -   1,956       140         -       140+           0
7.  Equipment and Vehicles                                 -         -            -       980      960         -       70        70           100
Stub-Tctal                                      564        326      10,824    25,144   35,968        773    1,796    2,56,9            7C
a. Contingencies
a) Man-Monthsj/                                      80        49          960     3,464   4,424          69      247       316           7c
b) Price-Increase_5/                                  -         -        1,623      3,771   5,394        116      269       385           70
Sub-Total                                         80        49       2,583      7,235   9,818        185       516      701            74
Grand Total Cost                                644       375       13,407    32,379  45,786         958    2,32        3,270          71
* Missior estimates.
UOTS: Basis for Calculation
TL 12,000/month to cover the salary and local support costs of flll-time high level cournterparts to foreign consultants on a 1:1
matching basis. Local costs do not include the part-time inputs of Turkish experts in government agencies connected with program
and elan implementation, nor do they include the costs of manpower required for surveys, traffic-counting, etc.
2/  Consultant costs are assumed throughout to be US$5,050/man-monih = TL70,700/man-month, including salary, overseas transport and
oIffice overheads of managing consulting firm.
3/ Equal to the local support costs of a high level Turkish counter-cart; includes local transport, supplies, office spaces, etc.
-   15%e addition to foreign man-month requirements of all pioject elements.
5/ 15% increase, over 30-month requirements of all project elements.
June 2, 1972






ANNEX 8
TURKEY
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule of IDA Credit
(in US$1,000)
Fiscal Year                      IDA Disbursement
&  Quarters         Actual         Cumulative        %
1 9 7 3
1st9
2nd              162             162             7
3rd              249             411            18
4th              295              706           31
1 9 7 4
-    -lst        295           1,001            43
2nd              259           1,260            54
3rd              224           1,484            64
4th              219            1,703           74
1 9 7 5
lst              196           1,899            82
2nd              189           2,088            90
3rd              174           2,262            98
4th               50            2,312          100
June 2, 1972






TURKEY
ISTANlBUL URBAN DEVEr.FMENJT PROJECT
Schedule of' Consultant Technical Assistance-l/
(in equivalent men in the field)
Consultant Advisory Services
Review of Plan,                                              P r o j e c t    P r e p a r a t i o n
Means of                             (a)              (b)                (c)             (d)                             (e)
Implementation                  Coordination    Gecekondu                            Wholesale                      Traffic         Urban                   Total
Fiscal Year   & Investment         Program    & Project         Improvement       Urban Cluster    Market          Wastewater    Engineering    Transport/Land Use    Quarterly           Man-Month        Grand
&  Quarters   Program              Review      Preparation      & Prevention    Development         Relocationi   Disposal         & CDntrol       Modei                   Assistance    Contingency    Total
197 3
1st               -
2nd               4                                                 _                                 2 -               - 2
3rd               3                -             -                  _                                    
3  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ -2                                       - 
4th                                                                                                                                               F3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4th               3                5             -                  1                3                -              2               -                                      1                _            _
2
Sub-Total      10§                5                               1                 3               4              6                                    51               35
197 4
1st               1                33            3                  1                3                -              1               -                    4                16 
2nd               -                -             3                  1                 3               -                                                                       3 _  4  11
3rd               -                -             3                  1                                                                                     4                1c
4th               -                -             3                  1                2                -              -               -                    4                10 3                           _
Sub-Total       1                              12                 4                1-                              1                                   16                4723
197 5
1st               -                -              3                 1                 2               -              _               _                    3                 9
2nd               -                -              3                 1                 2               -              -               -                    3                 9
3rd               -                -             3                  1                 2               -              -               _                    2                 8
4th               -                -             -                  _                 _               _              _               _                    _                 _
Sub-Total                                       9                 3                 6                                                                   8                26
Grand Total
(a) In Equivalent  1                                                                     19              4              7               -                     1
17               8            21                  8               1                 4              7                                                    l08e
Men
(b) In 14an-Month   35               25            63                 24               58               12             21                                   88               326                49          375
Equivalent
i/ Mission estimates.
>c
June 2,> 1972o



.ST'ANIK1L U'EEAM/           PEIJE,-.l i Zrctw.
9 urrowor etoStaf toe oo sulrt - by Activity
Ustientry3 Son-ttontve
Activity                                            Co-olotxts                                           CD cu> or>t          uS                   utoef co  brstsb ton terparts
1. ConsntutcneeAdv1tenryter viees
n) Review of PIe-, Mstep  for Impleentation            1. Chief Co-sltsnt                                                6               6             1. Aretor of    -
.nd I-n-tment Programs                              2. Senior Urbsp DAtt Pa-lyst                                                       6 '. Chief Expt
3. Senitr ProJect Prep-pntioo E-oAio t                             6              6              3. Proect  oenoict
4. Setitr Tr-eport/Lyd Usee Psnoer1                                        3                     4. Clinf,  lighto,y  Deporotet Plening Oroup
5. Urba  L-nd line - egoatoIon ti-  perp-t)                        5               5             5. Leg1 A1rise
6. Urbe  Land Use Planner                                          6               6             6. PysiclP r
7. Lcal Governent FiPioneer Epert                                  3              J              7  Munitipal and Central Aoverreet Financien  Pelntions Expert
25     35
b) Progra   Roito                                      1, Chief Coint,ltnt                                                 3              3             1. Dir-ect  of B
2. Senior Urbam Datn  Ahelyst                                      3               3             2. Chief  nper-t
3. Seior ProJect Prep-ntion EiCODaint                              3              3              3. Projet Econonist
4. Senior TrPsxpnrt/Lnscd Use Planer                               2               2             4. Chief, Highny a   ep-rt-ent Planoing Uroup
5. Uirin Land UOe Reguletions Pepert                               7               7             5. Lgl Adisor
6. Urban LAnn  Use Placaer                                         2               2             6.Physi l Plannr
7. Loal Go.er eneat Fivanee  Epert                                 5              5              7. Municipsl and Ceotrei GorerDpent FiPneciai Ueletione Expert
25             25
P. ProJ ect Preveedntion
Adeisory  rrop:  CoordinatipD  and ProJect             1. Chief Cons,lta-t                                               21              21             1. Diretor  f BE-
Prepeanipa                                            2P  Senior Urban Data Anlynt                                      2P               21             2. Chief EPer°t
3. Snior Pr-eJct Praparatix  Eiconint                             Ph             P1              3. PrJt  eoxipt
a) G-cekeido Imrprve=ent and reention                   . ProJect Prepernoton and Oaipsis E-onossst                      24 h4P                         1. Adinistrator, Lon-Coat H-nning Credit Program, Istab1
2  ~    ~      --                                                           iS             S. Hoax ing Ecooist
3,                  --                                                                           3. Pblic Utilitien Etginecr-/
b) Uban Clxster Deose- onant                           1. Pr,ejet Prep-ation E-aeixt                                      i,              h             1. Proect E-ist
2. Cappr.henshec Site Developseot  pd Fi -ance expert             24              24             S. EJen      COaat
3                    -                                             -              22             3. Iadontrial Economist
4.-                                                                              PP              h, mir-Ionno...iat
5. Urban Ltsd Use PIs- er                                         10              10             5. Lad AcUqiaiti2q  -nd DSc-clp-ent Advisor
6                    -                                             -              10             6. Civil Esgiac   '
7                    -                                                            15             7. Aseictant Engineer
W) Wholesele MarMkt Relocation                         1. Wholesale Fld Marketing   pert                                  4               4             1. EngInr
2  Prejeet Preparatio   _onist                                     4               4             P  Econoist
3. Ubei  Admciihst and P1'e2 3A  Acite
4.  roperty Develap-nxt and Finance Expert                        U2                             4. vM.icipl1 Pina.i. il Advi.s.r
d) Wa-teenter DiUp.oa1                                 1. S..xe and Sanitnry Wrmk  Engineer                              12              12             1. To bh  dsigated 
S. testitathoanl. and Pmanatail aopert                            23               P                 ° p.     ln 
e) Traffic Engineering  -nd Control                    1.                   -                                             -              7              1. Stotn  Dire-torxte of fligheyc, TITT, =d IstaDbul MPDicipslity
31 Urine Uransport/Land Use Model
1. Senior T-rpAs-rt/Lesd line Planner                             25            i48              1. State Direotor.te of HighwWys, IETE, ad Itoabil  tsaicipality
2. Transport/Lend Use Model Bailde-                               27
3, Dperations Oe_ eneet Specilist                                 24
4T Trasp-rt Economist                                             12
SPAND TOTAL                                                                                                             326             564
bl Paulo  erganlenoicox anich are Alrswy invoIred io vie t        eesh- odo ITproomei --  d  Pr- ve-tion Progrem, such  d  hle TUt-vh,lt P       il Cstr                  t          iProviocial Bavk nd the Tprkith Reat1 EUtte
sAd Credit Ba-k, will previde the tech-i-nl persoani1 o-eded for the detailed prepnenoien of the project.
P/ public Orgaie-tios- already ivvolved in infr-xtr-t-oe   -sstetction it the vetr polit-T tre,sech at the UIE, USA, IETT cd Boch  f tlie Proviorex  oll yr,ide the terteicAl persootel re-qired for the
detniled preperation of the prolect.
y   TCie IAcaibel Muit ipality  will PrIrido tic  erhlitol pyrorc l reqired Por thc doetiloti rpor  iet  t'f tne tr-Jej
V/  The orgmin-ti-a denignted by the                     - -veranea  to renponible for the regionel plneonig, o u-tttzuui,                                    1 tA- opornifon  t v tOe'"tt  0--t,    -l; ott  A,- tuttry  toy 3c cilbd p-epar--i-
of the project.
J-ne 2, 197P



TURKEY
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Schedule_/
C al1e nd ar    Y ea r   a nd   Q uar te r
1973                      1974                     197T5h
C at  e2nd  3rd  Yt  e5 a        2an d  3r   ut a s    2n 3t etr
1. Consultant Advisory Services                     lst   2nd   3rd   4th    lst   2nd -          4th  lst   297T
a. Review of Plan, MAans for                             - - - - - - -
Implementation and Invest-
ment Program
b. Program Review and Direc-
tion of Consultants in
Project Preparation
2. Project Preparation
a. G.cekondu Improvement and
Prevention
b. Urban Cluster Development
c. 'Wholesale Market Relocation
d. Wastewater Disposal
e. Traffic Engineering and Control
3. Urban Transport/Land Use Hbdel
2/ Dashed line indicates that the activities of 1(a) are being directed towards the production of inputs for
activities l(b)-3.  The beginning dates shown in the schedule correspond to the latest date by which project
elements are to begin, as specified in the Development Credit Agreement.  It is intended to begin elements
l(a) and 2(c), (d), (e) in Fall 1972.
J-,
June 2,, 1972






TABLE 1
TURKE;Y
ISTA1NBUL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EXPENDITURE ON GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT
(in TL Billions)
1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970*
(Current Prices)
Consumptio1/                         67.2    77.5    85.2    93.3   103.7   120.2
Private                           55.9    65.3    72.9    79.8    88.9   102.8
Public                            11.3    12.2    12.3    13.5    14.o    17.4
Fixed investment                     11.7    15.1    17.2    20.8    23.4    26.3
By vector:
Private                          5.3     7.2      8.2     9.6    10.3    12.3
Public                           6.4     7.9      9.0    11.2    13.1    14.0
;R asset:
Building &- construction         8.4    10.4    11.9    14.4    16.7
Machinery & equipment           3.3      4.7      5.3     6.4      6.7
Net exports of goods & services    -1.1    -2.2    -.4    -2.4    -2.5    -4.3
axports                            4.8     5.1      5.7     5.7      6.2      8.6
Imports                            5.9     7.3      7.1      8.1     8.7    12.9
GDP at market prices                 77.8    90.4   101.0   111.7   124.6   142.2
Net factor income from abroad    0.2       o.6      0.3     0.3      0.5      2.3
GNP at market prices                 78.0    91.0   101.3   112.0   325.1   144.5
Net indirect taxes                 7.5     9.0    10.9    12.3    13.9    16.8
GN? at factor cost                   70.5    82.0    90.4    99.7   111.2   127.7
Gross national saving                10.8    13.5    16.1    18.7    21.4    24.3
(Constant 1965 Prices)
Consumptioni/                        67.2    73.3    77.9    82.2    87.0    91.9
Private                           55.9    61.8    66.o    70.3    74.8    77.9
Public                            11.3    11.5    11.1    11.9    12.2    14.0
Fixed investment                     11.7    14.5w   15.5    18.7    20.2    21.5
3y sector:
Private                          5.3     6.7      7.4     d.7      9.2    10.0
Public                           6.4     7.7      8.1    10.0    11.0    11.5
By asset:
Building &3 construction         8       9.7    10.1    11.9    13.1
Machinery & equipment           3.3      4.7      5.4     6.8      7.1
Net exports of goods & servict;s    -1.1    -2.4    -1.9    -3.2    -3.3    -4.2
Fxports                            4.8     5.2      5.6     5.7      6.0      6.0
Imports                            5.9     7.6      7.5     8.9      9.3    10.2
GDP at market prices                 77.8    o5.3    91.5    97.7   103.9   109.2
Net factor income from abroad    0.2        o.6     0.3      0.3     0.~   1.0
GNjP at market prices                75.0    85.9    91.5    98.0   1D5.3   110.2
Net indirect taxes                  .5     o.l      8.o     9.3    10.2    1.10
GNP at factor cost                   70.5    77.6    53.0    80.7    94.1    99.2
Gross national saving                10.8    12.6    13.9    15.5    17.3    18.3
a- Provisional.
1/ Includes change in stocks.
Source: State Institute of Statistics, adjusted by IBSND to take account of revisions
in the production estimates for agriculture.



TABLE 2
TURKEY
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GROWTH IN URBAN SETTLEMENTS: 1935-19701/
Census       Total        Total Urban       Annual Growth Rate
Year     Population     Poulaion(%    for 5-Year Periods    Number of Settlements
(in millions)            (7i0OOO+ Population)              (50,000+ Population)
1935        16.16            16.27                -                        7
1940        17.82            18.10               3.8                       9
1945        18.79            18.57               1.8                      10
1950        20.95            18.73               2.3                      11
1955        24.06            22.54               6.7                      17
1960        27.75            26.20               6.1                      28
1965        31.39            29.77               5.3                      30
1970        35.67            35.09               6.1                      40
1/   1970 Preliminary Census Returns.
Source:  State Institute of Statistics
April 17, 1972



TABLE 3
TUR_
ISTA:IBIJ ULRAN DEVt&DFKCT PIO&JCT
The Ponfld  ton of L         Mead   iudim Sized CitLes By Re   19o5-1970
(in '00 of persons)
19D0        1970       Growth B
larmara
A. f(juz,;MO 0
IstonitL                       1,71s..9    2,247.o           5-2
Bursa                            211.6       275.9           5.5
Irl5it                            89.5       123.0           C.j
Adapazari                         86.1       1l.c.
Lo. ou,uJou-130,000
Batikesir                         69.,        Cs.0           3.o
3di rn c                          466.1       546 .3
Totai                              2,244.6     2,668.0
Centras OnatQxw
905.7     1,2ub.o           5.9
aksidqebir                      171.9       2-.,            4.
':se ri                          1o.7        iG.i7           5.7
a;O' I                           157.2       20(.            Li. 7
Six 5             lOo.i       1n2 .t7        ~~~~~4. L
B. ju,ROOu-100,uOO
.66-;  ll,.0  51.7         3. 
Corma                              Il.o       >( .j
efirikk !u                        57.7        91.7           9 7
KucK,ra                        4_,3         _    I           4o*
Tot a-L                            l,'s.       2,1S.9
Lego an
A . -700, uOO +
Izmi.r                           4ll.o       520.7           4.,;
B. 50,000-100,000
Aydin                             43.3        50.o           3.0
Deniz.i                           64. 3         .6           5.4
MZcoisa                           6 9.7       70.0           0 0
Tctal                                589.1        724.9          4.2
lnta4- a
-. . 5>0UU-130,000
Arotal4a                          71.1        95.2           5.8
Tararta                           42.9        51.1
Tot.aL                               114.7       116.3           5.0
Cukurova
A-. lOO,uO0 t
Adanz                            289.9       351.7           4,0
Mersin                            86.7      1JL.3            5.7
B. 50,000-iO&,000
Ceyhan                            41.1        50.3           1.04
Halty                             57.9        66.4           2.8
ITkenduraun                       69.4        81G.to
Tarsus                            57.7        78.0           6,2
Total                                602.7       742.3           4.2
West black Sea
B.  50,000-100,000
Tarabuk                           47.b        t4.8           6.
Zongu-LcaaC                       59.4        72.7           3.8
Total                                107.0       137.5           5.1
East Black Sea
A.  100,000+
Sam3son                          lL2.5       134.3
B. 50,000-100,000
Trabzon                           65.5       b8.36 5
Total                                178.0       215.8           3 9
Eastern Anatolia
A.  100,000'
Diyarbakir                       103.3       138.7           C.0
Elazig                            78.6       108.            '.5
Erzurum                          lO5.;10     134.7           5.0
Gaziantep                        160.2       225.9           7.1
Malatya                          104.4       130.3           4.5
Maras                             63.3       105.2          1047
Urfa                              73.5       100.2           6.4
L.  50,000-100,000
Erzincan                          45.2        58.1           5.2
Kars                              41.9        53.5           5.0
Total                                775.7      1,054.9          6.8
GRA,N  TOTAL                        6,278.1     8,097.6           5.2
Source: State Institute ox Statistics
"larch 28, 1972



TABLE 4
TURKEY
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
POPULATION GROWTH IN THE GREATER ISTANBUL METROPOLITAN AREA
(in Millions of Persons)
1950      195       1960       l965      1970
Total Population                1.003     1.321      1.675     2.103      2.793
Net 5-year Growth                 -       0.318      0.354     0.b28      0.690
Total Due to Immigration          -       0.235      0.221     0.277     0.501
Total Due to Existing
Residents                         -       0.083      0.133     0.151      0.189
Source: Mission estimates and the Greater Istanbul Master Plan Bureau.
March 27, 1972



TABLE 5
TURKEY
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPME1IT PROJECT
IMPORTANCE OF ISTANBUL PROVINCE WITHIN
NATIONAL ORGANIZED MANUFACTURING INDUSTRY - 1963 and 1967
(as % of National Total)
No. of                      Electri-
Work     No. of              city       Value
Places   Workers   Wages   Consump.   Added
Food                                  28.67      17.50   20.74    18.69*    15.61*
Beverage                              33.30      50.62   49.83    64.11      49.13
Tobacco                               10.68*    13.54*  19.67*   23.16*    35.06
Textile                               37.68     35.35   38.38    29.69       40.50
Clothing                              77.50      90.61   95.15    94.85      94.23
Forest i Products                     27.32      27.63   29.49    50.00      46.07
Furniture                             43.49      57'44   71.97    51.'70      76.27
Paper °,; Products                     5.72      29.07*-  23.05*    1.63*    26.53*
Publishing & Printing                 55.29      65.32   72.04    80.90       80.78
Leather & Fur                         82.16      77.96   52.47    56.73       60.74
Rubber                                54!.34     60.72   47.94    36.17*    24.15*
Chemical & Products                   57.80      56.27   62.60      6.02*    72.o5
Petroleum & Products                  33.34      17.83*  10.01*    0.52*       1.17*
Non-Metallic Min. Prod.               21.22      32-65   37.35    23.45       20.oO
Basic Metal Industry                  44.59      10.60*,  9.11*   10.92*       9.82*
Metal Products                        71.83      50.30   55.78    52.O0       64645
Machinery                             42.34      b5.19   69.63    73.04       77.65
Electr. Mach. ~:z Appl.               86.05      93.71   92.16    50.07       91.68
Transport Equinment                   52.93      40.51   45.17    32.80      45.19
Others                                86.21      88.55   91.59    89.43    91.36
General                               43.48      36-42   39.43    21.20       33.27
*  Istanbul's share of the national total is the largest, except in the pleces
marked.
Source: State Planning Organization
March 27, 1972



TABLE 6
TURXEY
ISTA!qBUL UMAN4 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NEW EMPLOYMENT CREATED IN ISTANBUL AND TURKEY - 1960 -1965
(in '000 workers)
Istanbul                 Turkey           % Istanbul/Turkey
Settlements            Settlements             Settlements
Sector                 10,000+      All        10,000+      All        10,000+     AlM
Agriculture              2.6         2.o        62.9        12.8          -
Mining                  -0.2        -0.6         2.1         9.3          -          -
Manufacturing           79.0        78.4L      148.7        76.3        53.0      100
Construction            19.5        19.3z       49.b        61.0        32.6        31.o
Elcctricity -Water
-Gas                   2.t         2.6        1c.9        10.5       15.3        2o. c
Commerce                 4.7         46          2.8       -11.7      100.0       100
Transportation           8.2         7.5        30.2        39.8        27.1        10.b
Services                1L4.0       lb.1       111.5       159.0        13.0        10.1
Other                  -11.3        -9.        113.1       207.2
Total                119.7       120.1       539.1       5b4.o        22.o       21.' 2
Source:   iinistry of cReconstruction and Resettlement
MAarch 28, 1972



TuRKY
ISTAiBUL URBAr1 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONO1ICALIY ACTIVE PQPULATION BY MAJOR SECTORS
in settlements of 10,000 or more)
________   _______   ~1960  __ _ _ _ _ _ _      _ _ _ _1965
Efastern                                                Eastern
Istanbul          Marmara            Turkey            Istanbul           Marmara          Turkey
NO.    r   jNo.                       o.                   _ No.        No.                No.
Agriculture           3.5  21,947      5.2    40,459     10.7  270,175       3.3   45,480      4.7   43,149      10.9  333,143
Mtining               0.2   l,653     0.2     1,886      1.b   39,974       0.2    1,460      0.2    1,707      1.4   42,130
Manufacturing        26.7  1C7,0951    27.6   212,899    23.1  584,214      33.0  246,109     32.9  301,836      24.0  732.917
Construction          5.7  `5,G30      c      h 47,059    7.2  181,305       7.)4  55,091      7.5   68,571       7.6  230,855
hlectricity -
Water - Gas          0.5    3,b30     0.5     3,919      O.    11,701       o.8    5,003      0.7    6,908       0.6   20,277
Commerce            >I'.0  87,072    13.)+  102,599       11.6  294,329     12.3   91,979     11.6  106,787       9.7  297,120
Transportation        7.9   49,617     7.5   57,942       6.7  169,393       7.7   57,795      7.5   67,880       6.5 199,618
Services             20.7  129,465    19.5  150,952      17.7  440,099      19.3  144,096     18.6  170,860      18.3  559.604
Other                20.8  129,3&4    20.0  154,957 20.9                    16.0  118,637     16.3  1i49,322     21.0  64,203
Total             100.0  625,779  100.0   712,672    100.0  2 ,27,337  100.0  745,460    100.0  917,020    100.0  3,056,867
Source:  Ministry of Resettlement & Reconstruction
March 20, 1972



TURKEY
iSTANBUL URBAN DAVELOPMENT PROJECT
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR:  1960 AND 1965
(in TL millions)
(1961 prices)
1   9   6 0                                                 1   9   6   5
Istanbul       -    E.Marmara            Turkey             Istanbul             E.Marmara            Turkey
¶6     Amount       _      Amounnt              Amount      ¶%      Amount               Amount              Amount
Agriculture            6.2       345.6    17.6    1,553.0    43.8   22,007.9        2.3      238.1       9.3    1,338.5    33.5   22,252.1
Mining                 0.4        21.5     0.4        34.5      1.7       857.4     0.1        b.1       0.1        13.1      1.8    1,165.2
Manufacturing         43.4    2,453.2    36.8    3,232.3    18.9    9,513.1    34.6   3,526.5           33.4    4,822.5    21.0   13,918.6
Construction           5.6       317.3     5.7       506.1      5.0    2,501.7      9.8      991.0       9.1    1,307.5      6.4    4,255.5
Electricity, 'dater,   1.4        79.3     0.9        83.2      o.6      289.8      1.1      115.4       0.9       133.2     0.7       481.5
and Gas
Commerce               9.5       535.0      9.3      819.1      8.6    4,334.4    13.6   1,389.9        12.4    1,783.1       8.5    5,627.8
Banking & Insurance   4.6        269.3     3.7       325.5      2.3    1,177.3      6.8      693.8       5.5       789.8      3.5    2,191.9
Transport              3.5       490.1     8.4       742.9      6.5    3,278.4       8.9     907.1       9.3    1,339.9       9.1    6,091.8
Private Services      13.6       766.5    10.0       872.9      4.2    2,092.9
22.8   2,314.7      20.0    2,900.2    15.7   10,440.4
Government Services   6.6        373.1      7.2      622.9      8.4    4,243.7
Total                10(.0    5,649.9   100.00   8,792.4   100.0   50,301.5   100.0  10,084.6    100.0   14,427.8   100.0   66,445.8
Workers                    0.7        1         1.4                13.0                0.7                  1.5                 13.1
Value Added/Worker       o,060               6,160                3,871            13,038                 9,613                5,055
(TL)
Source: Ministry of Reconstruction and *esettlement.



TABLE 9
TURKEY
ISTANBUL URBAN DVELVOPMENT PROJECT
POPULATION OF PROVINC11L DISTRICTS OF ISTANBUL MUNICIPALITY - 1965 and 1970
~ Cin '000 persons)
Population
Districu                                 1965 t7T9-1 
1.  Princess Islands                          15.2        15.2
2.  bakirk5y2'                                32.1       143.9
3.  Begiktag                                107.4        133.4
4. Beykoz                                     51.7        61.5
5.  Beyo,lu                                  219.0       225.7
6.  EDniAonui                                137 .3      136.0
7. '2-vu"Y~~~~~                   77.1         78.1
t. Fatih                                     344.6       417.2
9. Gaziosmanpasa/                             69.6        84.1
10.  Kncdikoy5/                               164.        238.8
11.  Saziyer                                   46.7        59.6
12.       6'                                  208.1       253.0
13.  fsiudar7/                                11-,.3      143.9
14.  .-_>ytinburnu                            102.9       117.2
Total                                 1,741.o      2,109.6
1/  1970 Preliminary Census Returns.
T/  Only Bakirk6y Central-District and Yegilkley Sub-District are included.
3/  Only  riip Central-District and Rami Sub-Districts are included.
/  Only Gaziosmanpasa Central-District is included.
;/  The Sub-District of Kusiuikbakkal is not included.
J/  The Sub-District of Kagithane is not included.
7/  The Sub-District of Umraniye is not included.
Source: State Institute of Statistics
March 27, 1972



TABLE 10
TURKEY
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPENT PROJECT
POPULATION OF OTHER MUNICIPALITIES OF THE ISTANBUL METROPOLITAN AREA
(in '000 persons)
Minicipal
Municipality      1 9 6 5     1 9 7 Ci/   District       -Union
Sagmacilar        69.1         124.1      EyUp-
A1ibeykUy          15.2         22 2         "       
Kagithane          56.2        107.3       Sisli
KUcUkkUy          14.6          30.3       G.O. Pasa
B. Yekm$qez-      n.a.           3.4       Catalca
Catalca- 4n.a.                   6.8
KUcUkcekmece      22.8          40.1       Bakirkloy
HadimkUy           n.a.          1.8         "               -
Avcilar             3.9          9.9
GungOren          19.2          20.8         "          Mammutbey
Safrakoy          10.3          25.4 
Kocasinan         11.3          26.6         if             it
Esenler           10.7          31.4         ,,             it
8 Villaye,sz/     13.0          26.7
Silivri/_          n.a.          7.5       Silivri      Silivri
Degirmenkoy       n.a.           3.2                         it
Celaliye-Kamilobea n.a.          2.4         i           (to join)
Thn'a,e            114.6        23.1       UskUdar
Sile_/            n.a.           3.3       Sile
Kucukyali         12.9          15.3       Kartal       Kartal
Maltepe           16.6          32.2         "               "
Kartal            20.1          29.8
Pendik             19.2         23.9         "
Yakacik             4.7         10.5
Tuzla               7.4          7.0         II             ,,
Darica              5.0          6.5       Gebze             U
Soganlik            5.0          7.2       Kartal        (to join)
joIayova            3.0         13.2                     (to join)
Gebze             10.0          18.6       Gebze
Selimpasa          n.a.          2.2
Total4/           363.0        683.1
1/ Preliminary 1970 Census Returns
2/ The Bureau has not given any estimates or 1965 figures for Silivri,
Sile and Catalca districts.
31 Populations for the sub-districts of Mammutbey, Bafilar, Yena Bosna,
~Ialkali are given from Bureau's report as a total and for the 1970 returns,
the figures collected during the field trip are used.
4 The discrepancy between the totals is due to explanation given in item (3).
Source: Istanbul Metropolitan Planning Bureau and State Institute of
Statistics.
march 27, 1972



DWt-9 ~~~~~~~~~ XW - - -    ----       
9   i    X             X     ~~~~~~---------- ------lLu
3 3                 -  .-- ----------------
m 2
z
Zm2
' X k . e Z °~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                           '
-   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ -   
t   E 9   s W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
ES,  X           9~~3  0                          "3 ¢,a  ^o
33 0"  L0                   I
IASX 
-        3" 
H    H    H------- B----4 Sf~~~~~~~~~~~m . 
t   S          X          i:  X            kE XS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
w~~~~~~~~~~3             3                               30 H
!~~~~~~~~:803                        03






TURKEY
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE MINISTRY OF RECONSTRUCTION AND RESETTLEMENT
Minister
_                  __                                        Se~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cretariat
PlanningUnesceayDrcoPes
Consultation                                                                                                                                    isor
Committee                 _                                                                                        Directso
.................                  Deputy           Depu ty          Deputy   T        Deputy
LUnclersecr.2avt Undersecretary |Undersecretary   Undersecretary
Related General Directorates
-                                                                                                                                                         El                        IIl 
Banks of              Planning &            Municipalities                                                                                      Research
ttt.    Provinces              Construction             Services                                          i!J erials             Director              Committee                   Ministerial
General                General                 General                                   -ral                              of                 Directorate                  Advisors
Directorate             Directorate            Directorate                                                               Disasters
i Turkish Propertv y
t9§ & Credit Bank                                                                                                                               Committee                    Defense
DiGeceral                                                                                                                                      Directorate                 Secretariat
D irectoratel
Land                                                                                                                                                                      h,Planninr
- office                                                                                                                                    Advisors on      |     F| Research PlanniA s
* ttG   General                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~& Coordination
General                                                                       Legal Affairs              Directorate
Directoratel
Earthquake             Substantial           Administrative                                    Fund  Accounts                                 Organizion
Research                Worksorks                                       Publcations             Department              Education            and Methods                  Accounting
Directorate            Directorate             Directorate                Directorate            Direpatme              Directorate            Directorate                 Directorate
| Provincial Construction      |
|    Directorates                                                                                                                          1
World Bank-6596 (2R)






TURKEY
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF
GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION
MINISTRY OF RECONSTRUCTION AND RESETTLEMENT
Assistant  Assistant  Assistant                   Committee
Gattial  Geanmot  Getnotr;______
DiiOtliori,ewto-   D i......
Ad.-,o
|Plotn Committee                                                                                          Plan Comtnitloee                         Plan Committee 
Chi.f E.p.rt    _                                                                              |       Chlef Engineer                             Chl1t Eapeit
_  Expt  Ceo w r  _                _                               j Expert _ aconomist                         Expert  Geclogist~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tittI  enigi
A;m                           l talntl Meopo |
W,sild Bt-k6595 (3R)






CHART 4
TURKEY
ISTANBUL URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE ISTANBUL METROPOLITAN PLANNING BUREAU
DIRECTORATE Or THE ISTANBUL
METROPOLITAN PLANNING BUREAU
_               ~~~~SECRETAR7Y   
DI RECYOR AND PLAN SECRETARIATl
PLAN COMMITTEE
mm......m.~~~~m mummfumm..mum.u   ii
Director of the Metrop. Pig. Bureau..                                                                                     AN  ACCUNTING SECTION
Chief Expett of the Metrop. Pig. Bureau
Gen. Dor. of Plg., Min. of Rec. & Re-.
Dep. Ger. Dir. of Pig., M-t. of Ret. & Res.
Director of Mettop. Pig. Dept., M-t. of Rec. & Res.
Director ol Regional Plg Dept., Mi of Re". & Re..                                _                                                 E        _RC
Social Pig. Dept., State Pg. OrgAN  CLEANING SECTION
Social Pig. Dept., Stelte Rig. Org.
Economic PIg. Dept.- State Pig. Org.
Highwavs Dept., Min. of Construction
Istanbul Technical Uri-ersity
Director of Pig., Instan-bl C.ty Municipality
|   CHIEF EXPERT          l
PHYSICAL~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ |PDCIIONCOMISIN
PHYSICAL PLANNING                _          _                                    | ~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT EVALUATION SECTION
MAPPING, PHOTO, ARCHIVE,
SUPPLIES COPY, DUPLICATING
SERVICES SECTION
I
DESIGN AND MODEL
SECTION
World Bank-6598 (3R)






MAP I
4,47,00                                                                                                                                  
|~~~~~ -  I' -                        A    C     Sff4X5\   
V~~~~8 AC    -   iS     EA~;    St
,'    '                       300,000                                       308,000 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'s,ooo~~~440
2,103,000  ISTANBUL  0          537        ZONGULDAK                         12586,1
TRABZON
DA   JZARNA           438s,000                                         *---                   IRAQ40000
>                0   40   80        150  - 2O    0560                                                                          -------5 ess fppuHK  ilre  oxepn
/WEDl~~~~~~v2,4                 BURSAN                                       ANKSA  lfTRA  o           mtolie r UXiOS-- nrI b dr etn*MhvA
6670040  10                                     80                                                            1W 120 t40 J / charytELI  - b i 9      \.
ESKISEHO'/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~108,320                        SVA 
6                      - - - - - -                                              M~~~~~~~~~~~ALATyA 78,605  ELAZIG---- L-                  Nj9Oo            *
6l80~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~1126,653~   KASRn                                                                                        ~ j¶DYRAI
IZMIR5               r                                {103,26
MAY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I. .                                                                                                                                            BR1322
K ~~~~~-/   IRAQ
1  0,0      GAZIANTEP
71,833    ANTALY                         8662-                                              ..--               EINL   U-REGIONAL
57,85TKY                                            ANDL URBAN CENTERS
Regiorvof boundory     nih.   metropolitanrea
-        --Sb-regional boundary  .f.   Developing Cte
Mff~~~~IT~~'RANEAN   SEA  40  80  150  - 200              Ul1~~~~~~~~l ~~9~&5 C  Cf"                      ---------g ,tpo~d  nterritiona 6oundorY  -1  Citiet fo be develoepd
KIL,OMETERS             1'                                                          i       G,ee,                   mm5pp,Ito   C.M,wkeilh
0  20  40 0    500    2  4                                                                             Sd~co.ctrdbgce
L                                      ~ ~~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~MILES                                                                                                                             IR         82
MAY  1972                                                                                                                                                                                              IR   82






Map 2
t6                                                                                                                         Bl k7             ;2  <gq/   A5ee / \
0 -      NOUL Area shown ..n .Op
42'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
-    ;      - X             F~~~/a c                                                  .f  
2 , fJ 7< .H-i. . ~~~~~~~~sea ;+< k
~~~~~~~~DRE                               KIRKLARELI \t.i
9   \   \-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TJX    TEY  ,
- - 0 i  / EASTERN MARMARA
o' 8 j < ~~~~~REGIONAL SETTLEMENT PATTERN
'  C""''"   C., f.j  y                 X                                  m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rginl harbor                        ' 
. 4. -|/Internaa beTANOUt
<-- - j / ~~~~~~TEKIRDAG 6    -
A                                             29~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-. SA                -      .To M>- X -                 .       -                    J                            4ANDIR
C/ t (/gtANAKKALE         9        >       t                g               o        4       E      C       I       K             g     l      R
.    /  {                                           \           m    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1985 Urbon populohon -ie  -            /O°-
/                SecondrxrM-   ot-p-.t  r/ut.
.  | .  ./   V                B     A LI>                                Interme~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.d.,yt rotes   5/          /A
*    _        (J ZTo ~~~IZMIR                                                  A Rginp.hrt or 
/LJ  -  > \ 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Itt ....t                                     enoio border                                                N
t & _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Reg....l b-ud-y                                                           0             AID           80 Km 
262 -\   > l ) t     ) ~27-                               28°                               29-                              30-
.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALT... AT MANISA                                                  I  8D 8 






0  ~~~~~~~~  & ~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~ 
a            0~~~~~~~~~  a0                                                                      
I~~~~~I
Ii~~~~~~~........   






MAP 4
TURKEY                                                                woo6-  -                                                                       63.060,  M:yA
ISTANBUL METROPOLITAN AREA                                                         Z,
Settlement Pattern
=  ,00E6,obilsheo boill-op woros  -   ,3,ghooys  iP, Futsoe 3oo3,ood                                                    3                                           O W >ED   \e  \       /                     i/         >ARIYER
H Now 302g3ler oreos            -Futurt 0xPrYFr4! '   ' Indusiriol 'st930386si                                                                            ffi ffi    g r,j  \          '1 . PNp 54,000  ,i
loorcoyteronio 0300_----wn,, oueeloo 'owls       odostrlol dpAdonsIros 000   "9                           '  tooo                                                  Popj=  04 ?  U o,000 1-                          
titt ETTcoobeoslonrwbo,nd3,y  --;--FPooywrlo            y'4_     _5>tsJ                                                                -. i
pbo..d-io,                                                                               ALIBEYKOYU 
_    rq co ,on0 ol_ 0 6  03  (BBO8!0 Iro,c 300kOro                t3 0~                                                                                 ~4 800.
0 Monoobe ufle                                 '-t4        -                                                     K                                   N                              t4               68,000
_____________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                                                                                   P., 888,
________                                                                                                                  Ii;0'S;                                 08l                                                                       __
4.~~~~~~~~~~~~-4.3'.2
F iE    E/ R-3:                               /---(M--'
='                                                                                                                   M  I  A 08$  KTA    4 3  43  ¼   'i ,?
t ; i~~~~~~~~~~,O20:=f:7 9L'                                                       S WXL                                                                                            'XSjg.: D{        :: i .   A               _ .~    ¶/   a S<' C'4  S   7\
,            /W                                                  .P1 9, 0
ASt}00000 0~~~~~~ A                                                                                                                                           $8t;S, E0   '        S    f   - '  -K nld
Y-b-.~< Z;YTINt 7N+&de, if,1 1 s          3 a0)
o~BvoPbo  123               1  4           j 
idAY If 72                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBbUBAKIR OYR
Pp. 278,000 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 8008    ~".                         /             ~ w''
K, 3661,~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  7,0
.Ay~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   o 2     I3Pp3298                                                                             3                                                                              (qrookRDMo824






MAP 5
To Ka6itho.e               ~oYoluSAC                                                                                     t
TURKEY                                                                                                                Ese                                                                                 AA
Esrn kuyu                                                                     MA   E 
ISTANBUL METROPOLITAN AREA                                                                                                                                                                                                    U RIwy
#HH  *444-LAW                                                                        -- ~~~~~~~~~~~I
Arterial System   and  Traffic  Flows                                                                                              ...PLSC    ~1 
A1EVtTeCSRA1VAN SA        ~     ~     A 
To BoaazYolu
TO Mohmutbey 
ZEYTtNBURNU  j      .......---Fstsre  expressway                                 K~~~~Hrem                                                                                 J
Port                                                                                                               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
Co- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~LtOEPS2                                         T~adxi                        a\T 
______________________________    Hyder,ph-   sdav St   -y      b                                                           Ct           z
M1,8 rfic lowV,d~,k~4ioftO
MAY 1972                                                                                                                                                                                                           IBRD-3499R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ cwdt apo.  5,0



