CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 324 TU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Istanbul Urban Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 30, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 324 TU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Istanbul Urban Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 30, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1972, between the REPUBLIC OF
TURKEY      (hereinafter  called  the  Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has established an Interministerial Coordination Council
for Reconstruction under Decree No. 7/4345 dated May 9, 1972, which is
responsible for the coordination of planning, implementation and investment
decisions and measures related thereto in metropolitan urban areas in the territories
of the Borrower;
(C)   The Borrower has established a Planning Council for the greater
Istanbul area which is responsible for making policy decisions and coordinating
the development of that area, the members of which include the Governor of
Istanbul Province, the Mayor of Istanbul City, representatives of the Ministry of
Reconstruction and Resettlement, the State Planning Organization and the Highway
Department;
(D)   The Borrower has also established an Advisory Panel consisting of
technical experts from the public and private sectors to assist the Master Plan Bureau
defined in Section 1.02 (c) of this Agreement in coordinating the work of the
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project; and
(E)   The Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the


﻿4
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the Istanbul Water Supply
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank, dated January 31, 1969, as made applicable to such agreement, all
agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan
Agreement;
(b)   "Consultants" means the consultants appointed by the Borrower to
assist in carrying out the Project pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and
(c)   "Master Plan Bureau" means the Greater Istanbul Master Plan Bureau
of the Borrower's Ministry of Reconstruction and Resettlement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to two million three hundred thousand
dollars ($2,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures


﻿5
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank
in April 1972.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1977 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on ApF! I and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 1982 and ending April 1, 2022, each installment to and including the
installment payable on April 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the counterpart staff, funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.


﻿6
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.04. For the purpose of coordinating the work undertaken in
carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, by March 1, 1973 or such other date
as shall be agreed with the Association augment the staff of its Master Plan Bureau
in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or inake adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to oe used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans and reports of the Consultants in respect of the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to see
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1972 or such other date
as shall be agreed with the Association, take, or cause to be taken, all such action


﻿7
as shall be necessary to acquire all land and rights over land which are required
for the relocation of the Istanbul wholesale market complex.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, prior to the completion of the Project
and after an exchange of views with the Association, initiate institutional, financial
and organizational arrangements to ensure coordination in the planning,
implementation and operation of the water supply and wastewater facilities in the
Istanbul metropolitan area, and shall furnish specific proposals to the Association
for such arrangements by December 31, 1972.
ARTICLE V
Consultation and Information
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
-           Agreement, the administration and operations of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform     each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.


﻿8
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
Section 6.04. Any import or other licenses reouired for the importation of
goods or the supply of services for the Project shall be issued by the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Seclion 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, (herein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, tha -i default shall have occurred
in the performance of any obligation on the part of the Borrower under the Loan
Agreement.


﻿9
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in
Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the execution and
delivery of the Loan Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly
authorized or ratified by all i.-cessary administrative and governmental action.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the
Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date October 5, 1972 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall termina ce or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement,
the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿10
For the Borrower:
Maliye Bakanligi
Hazine Genel Mudurlugu ve
Milletlerarasi Iktisadi
Isbirligi Teskilati Genel Sekreterligi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:
Maliye
Hazine
Ankara
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H1 Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through       their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
7iates of Ameuica, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s / Ahmet Tufan Gul
Authorized Representanve
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the Credit
to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                          Dollar Equivalent)
I.    Consultants' Services                                1,650,000
and project and model
preparation
II.   Training, fellowships                                   80,000
and seminars
III.  Equipment and vehicles                                  70,000
for Master Plan Bureau
IV.   Unallocated                                            500,000
TOTAL              2,300,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, as for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof.


﻿12
3.    (a)  Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth
in the second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(i)         if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall
decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to such
Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by
the Association by increasing correspondingly the unallocated
amount of the Credit; and
(ii)       if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall
increase, a corresponding amount will be allocated by the
Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Category
from the unallocated amount of the Credit, subject, however,
to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(b)   If the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the preparation, in a form suitable for Government's
approval and implementation, of an integrated program of action to meet the long
term urban needs of the Istanbul Metropolitan Area, an urban transport/land use
model, and high priority projects designed to alleviate existing problems in such
area.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1976.


