Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12773-PB
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
MAY 10, 1994
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 31, 1993)
Currency Unit      =  Peso
i 1                =  US$0.035
US$1               =  P 28.4
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
ha      hectare
km      kilometer
m       meter
m2      square meter
m3      cubic meter
MGD   million gallons per day
MW      megawatt
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           -        Asian Development Bank
ASEAN         -        Association of South East Asian Nations
BCDA          -        Bases Conversion and Development Authority
BOT           -        Build-Operate-Transfer
CDA           -        Comprehensive Development Area
CIF           -        Cost, Insurance and Freight
COA           -        Commission on Audit
DBM           -        Department of Budget and Management
DENR          -        Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DFI           -        Direct Foreign Investrnent
DOJ           -        Department of Justice
EPZ           -        Export Processing Zone
GEF           -        Global Environment Facility
GOCC          -        Government Owned and Controlled Corporation
GOP           -        Government of Philippines
IRR           -        Implementing Rules and Regulations
JV            -        Joint Venture
MOA           -        Memorandum of Agreement
NPC           -        National Power Corporation
PWC           -        Public Works Center
SBF           -        Subic Bay Freeport
SBMA          -        Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority
SEZ           -        Special Economic Zone
US            -        United States
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary ............................
I.      BACKGROUND: THE BASE CONVERSION PROCESS ...........                             1
A.   The Freeport Concept .............................                        2
B.   The Conversion Planning Process ......................                    2
II.     THE SUBIC BAY FREEPORT ............................                             5
A.   Endowments and Existing Facilities .....................                  5
B.   The SBF's Competitiveness and Development Prospects                       7
C. The Conversion Strategy.                                                    9
D.   Status of SBF Development and Privatization .12
E.   Off-SBF Development Program and Priorities .14
F.   Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement .14
G. Rationale for Bank Involvement .15
III. THE PROJECT .16
A. Objective .16
B. Description .16
C. Cost and Financing .18
D. Implementation .19
E. Environmental Aspects .22
IV. THE BORROWER .23
A. Background .23
B. Organizational Structure .24
C.  Financial Management and Control .25
D. Environmental Management .26
E.   Training and Technical Assistance Needs .28
This project was prepared by Messrs./Mme. Shilpa Patel (Task Manager), John Arnold (Transport
Economist-Consultant), Aldo Baietti (Financial Analyst), Jack Fritz (Environmental Specialist), Kishore
Rao (Institutional Consultant) and Leonard Schiffman (Transport Engineer). Mrs. Merle Mendis-Dennis
processed the report. Peer reviewers were Messrs. Peter Long and Hoon Mok Chung. The project was
cleared by Mr. Vineet Nayyar, Chief, EAIIE and Mr. Callisto E. Madavo, Director, EAI.
This document has a rctricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.l



Page No.
V.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS ..................................                                   29
A.  Overview of Past and Current Performance ...................                      29
B.  Investment Program and Financing Plan .....................                       31
C.  Future Financial Performance ...........................                          32
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS  ............                 ..     ............           34
A.  Benefits .........................................                                34
B.  Risks  ..........................................                                 35
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION   .                                .36
A. Agreements .36
B. Recommendation .37
ANNEXES
Annex 1   Description of Infrastructure Components ....................                     38
Annex 2   Indicative Timetable of TA Activities ......................                      40
Annex 3   Merchandise Control System ............................                           41
Annex 4   Zoning Regulations and Design Code  ......................                        44
Annex 5   Automated Financial Management and Accounting System             .........        46
Annex 6   Privatizations Transactions Assistance ......................                     48
Annex 7   Enhancing SBMA's Institutional Capabilities ..................                    50
Annex 8   Facilities Management Support ..........................                          55
Annex 9   Environmental Baseline Survey  ..........................                         57
Annex 10  Institutional Support to the Ecology Center .64
Annex 11 Environmental Management Plan (EMP) .66
Annex 12 Total Project Cost .72
Annex 13 Disbursement Schedule .74
Annex 14 Project Supervision Plan .75
Annex 15 Implementation Schedule .76
Annex 16 SBMA's Financial Statements .78
Annex 17 Assumptions for Financial Projections .81
Annex 18 Economic Analysis .92
Annex 19  Selected Documents Available in the Project File .94
Organization Chart
Map:       IBRD No. 25499 and 25500R



PHILIPPINES
SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          The Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA)
Guarantor:         Republic of Philippines
Amount:            US$40 million equivalent
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.
Proiect Objectives: The objective of the project is to attract private investors to the Subic Bay
Freeport (SBF). This will be achieved by: (a) improving existing infrastructure;
(b) improving access to the area for industrial, commercial and passenger traffic;
(c) maintaining the SBF asset base, including protection of the environment; and
(d) strengthening the capacity of the SBMA to manage and administer the
facility.
Project Description:
The project consists of three components. The first is site improvement, which
includes improvement of land access (road, bridge and entry gates); airport
improvements (runway repair, strengthening of aprons and taxiway, airport
communications and navigation equipment, and conversion of an existing
building into a passenger terminal); port repairs; a pilot standard factory
building development (6 buildings); and the provision of miscellaneous
equipment for security and maintenance purposes. The second component is
technical assistance and training to strengthen the institutional capacity of the
SBMA and to provide appropriate systems for the implementation of freeport
policies. The third is environmental protection, which includes the carrying out
of an environmental baseline survey, the provision of monitoring equipment and
institutional support to establish a sound environmental infrastructure at the SBF.
Benefits and Risks: The major project benefits are: (a) economic benefits arising from increased
economic activity and employment in the region, estimated to reach US$750
million over the next decade; (b) environmental benefits arising from increased
protection of the forest lands and the bay; and (c) financial benefits to the
SBMA arising from increased rental and other income from the SBF. In
addition, institutional strengthening at the SBMA will result in significant human
capital development.
The major risks are political in nature. A policy reversal regarding the SBF's
freeport status would nullify its competitive advantages, and inflows of foreign
investment would likely diminish. To mitigate this risk, assurances were
obtained that the SBF's freeport status will be maintained, and appropriate
remedies against a potential policy reversal are be included in the proposed loan.
Another risk relates to the relative lack of experience in freeport management at



the SBMA. To address this concern, the project will provide long-termn
technical assistance to provide the expertise required while training SBMA
personnel on-the-job so that they gain the necessary experience. The risk of
delays in project implementation has been minimized through intensive project
preparation activity. The project itself is not expected to have adverse
environmental impacts. There is a risk of future environmental degradation if
satisfactory maintenance practices are not followed. The project will address
this concern.
Project Cost:
Local       Foreign       Total
------------------ US$ million
Site Improvement                                9.3         26.9         36.2
Institutional Support                           0.2          4.8          4.9
Environmental Protection                        0.0          1.0           1.0
Taxes and Duties                                1.0          0.0           1.0
Total Cost                                     10.5         32.6         43.1
Physical Contingencies                          1.5          4.6          6.0
Price Contingencies                             1.0          1.9          2.9
Total Cost with Contingencies                  12.9         39.1         52.0
Interest During Construction                    0.6          1.5          2.1
Total Financing Required                       13.5         40.6         54.1
FSinancng Plan:
Local       Foreign       Total
--------US$ million -------
IBRD                                             0.9         39.1         40.0
SBMA's Internal Cash                            12.6          1.5         14.1
TOTAL                                13.5         40.6         54.1
Estimated Disbursement:
IBRD Fiscal Year                        1995   1996  1997  1998  1999
--------------------US$ million-------------
Annual                                  7.2   17.6   11.2   2.4   1.6
Cumulative                              7.2   24.8   36.0  38.4  40.0
Economic Rate
of Return:    12% to 37% depending on project component.
Map:          IBRD 25499 and 25500R.



I. BACKGROUND: THE BASE CONVERSION PROCESS
1.1           The Subic Naval Base was the largest U.S. military facility operating outside the United
States. Located 80 km northwest of Manila (see Map IBRD 25499), the baselands covered 15,130 ha,
within the territorial jurisdiction of the City of Olongapo, the town of Subic in Zanbales, and the towns
of Moron and Hermosa in Bataan. Approximately 6,700 ha housed the area formerly leased by the U.S.
Navy. Given its strategic location, and its role as the primary support for the U.S. Seventh Fleet
operating in the Westem Pacific and Indian Ocean, the U.S. had invested heavily in the Base. Estimates
of the replacement value of the facilities range from US$8-10 billion.
1.2           The earliest predecessor to the base was an unfinished Spanish Naval Station, acquired
by the U.S. in 1898 following the Spanish American War. Following World War II and the achievement
of Philippines independence, a decision was made to establish a U.S. Naval Base at Subic. Much of the
area occupied by the U.S. was previously occupied by the City of Olongapo. The control of the
baselands was governed by the 1947 Military Bases Agreement between the Philippines and the United
States. Following the expiration of that agreement and the failure to negotiate a longer withdrawal
schedule, a 1 -year termination notice was served on the U.S. Navy to evacuate the premises by December
31, 1992. The Navy evacuated the premises in two phases, turning over the central base area and related
facilities on September 30, 1992, and the remaining facilities on November 24, 1992. During the
transition period, most of the moveable assets were removed by the Navy.
1.3           The major concern of the Government was the economic dislocation that would ensue
upon the Navy's withdrawal. The Subic Base directly employed over 37,000 Filipinos, and the nearby
communities were almost exclusively dependent on the Base for their economic livelihood. The
Presidential Task Force for the Bases Conversion Program was set up in January 1992 to implement a
base conversion and redevelopment program. The creation of a freeport at Subic was an idea originally
espoused by the local leadership and citizens of Olongapo City as far back as 1971. The idea was
concretized through the introduction of three articles in the Bases Conversion and Development Act
(Republic Act 7227), signed in March, 1992; these articles established the Subic Special Economic and
Freeport Zone, and created the Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA) to operate, administer and
manage it.
1.4          In early 1992, the Government requested assistance from the World Bank to help develop
a strategy for the conversion of the baselands to civilian use. This assistance was provided in two phases.
An initial Bank mission, fielded in March 1992, confirmed the basic feasibility of the redevelopment of
the site as a mixed-use industrial, commercial and tourism facility under the favorable economic
incentives accorded to it as a freeport. It also identified a number of areas where technical assistance
(TA) was required to implement the freeport regime, including formulating the implementing rules and
regulations for the SBMA; physical planning and formulation of a land and facilities use plan; and
transportation facilities planning. This TA was provided over the August 1992-January 1993 period.'
The Government subsequently requested Bank assistance in financing the critical infrastructure and
equipment needs, as well as further TA for institutional strengthening and environmental protection, to
jump-start the freeport and attract private investors. This assistance is described in the present report.
The TA was financed by a grant from the PHRD Fund (Japan), and approximately 80 person-months of assistance was
provided to the SBMA. A report entitled Philippines: Strategv for Conversion of the Subic Naval Base into a Special
Economic Zone and Freeport, January 1993, contains the various analyses and studies undertaken as part of this TA.



-2-
The remainder of this chapter discusses the general principles guiding the conversion, followed by a
description of the facilities and proposed conversion strategy for the area in Chapter II. The proposed
project is described in Chapter III. Chapters IV and V present an assessment of the borrower from both
an organizational and financial viewpoint. Chapter VI analyzes the benefits and risks associated with the
proposed project, and Chapter VII contains a summary of actions to be agreed between the borrower and
the Bank in connection with the proposed project.
A. The Freeport Concept
1.5            The International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonization of Customs
Procedures of 1979 (Kyoto Convention) defines free zones as being "part of the territory of a State where
any goods introduced are generally regarded, insofar as import duties and taxes are concerned, as being
outside the Customs territory and are not subject to the usual Customs control. " Export Processing Zones
(EPZ) and Special Economic Zones (SEZ) are recent variants of the traditional freeport or free zone
concept, the earliest example of which was Gibraltar (1704). Free zones were established to encourage
trade between harbors among international trade routes and can play an important role in attracting
foreign investment. All free zones share certain basic elements. First, they are limited to a physically
defined area, which in the case of an EPZ is usually an industrial estate, and in the case of a freeport,
could be ports, cities, islands (Bataam Indonesia or Labuan, Malaysia) or even entire countries (Hong
Kong or Singapore). Second, they are considered to be extra-territorial, physically or administratively
located outside the national customs territory. Third, merchandise may be freely stored indefinitely
within the zones, re-exported or imported into the host country's customs territory upon payment of
applicable taxes and duties. However, free zones differ in the extent of the area covered by the zone;
the activities and processes that are allowed to take place; and the end-user markets where free zone
products may be sold.
1.6           Freeports differ in several regards from EPZs. First, they tend to cover larger areas, and
therefore offer greater flexibility to firms in terms of the location of their plants. Second, the range of
permissible activities in a freeport tends to be broader than in an export processing zone (EPZ): firms
can undertake any legal activity, and individuals can reside within it. Third, registered enterprises and
residents can freely import all types of merchandise and are not restricted to those used directly in the
manufacturing process, as in an EPZ. Fourth, duty- and tax-free merchandise can be sold at the
wholesale or retail level and/or consumed freely within the freeport area, unlike in an EPZ where retail
sales or on-site consumption of duty- and tax-free products are not allowed. Finally, freeport enterprises
are not required to export a certain percentage of their production, and are free to sell to the local market
upon payment of any applicable duties and taxes by the importing party.
B. The Conversion Planning Process
1.7           In contrast to a traditional physical facilities development, where facilities are designed
to meet the desired use, an infrastructure conversion process changes the use of existing space based on
an analysis of the highest use of the space. Military bases are examples of infrastructure that has been
developed to meet the highly specialized requirements of military applications, and whose unique
characteristics pose several challenges to the process of conversion. They are generally located in remote
areas, away from major population centers and transportation hubs. However, these disadvantages are
often offset by the fact that base complexes tend to be self-contained, with most components of support
infrastructure already on-site. They generally contain special purpose buildings and structures which are
more difficult to adapt to new uses. Older bases have often not observed the highest standards of
environmental practices, and clean-up efforts are an important consideration. They are usually highly



-3-
secured facilities, with limited points for entry and exit. Furthermore, since bases are not configured for
use by individual companies, their layout may not be conducive to immediate civilian use.
1.8             Freeport Regime Requirements. Converting the former U.S. Naval Base into a freeport
has several implications on physical planning. A freeport needs to be highly secure in order to prevent
the leakage of duty-free goods into the national economy. This translates into the need to separate traffic
for industry from traffic related to residents and visitors; provide additional entry/exit points to ease
traffic flow; and allow for additional security inspection procedures required for effective control. The
existing road network and transportation facilities need to be enhanced to permit rapid processing of
import and export shipments. The layout of the complex needs to be flexible enough to accommodate
diverse activities as they locate in the freeport.
1.9             Community Goals. Community goals and objectives are an important consideration in
the base conversion strategy. Studies of successful military base conversion in the United States have
clearly indicated the fundamental and critical role played by the local community in determining base
reuse plans. The issues of most concern to community and regional leaders in the Subic area were: (i)
replacing jobs lost by the Filipino base workers, as well as the indirect jobs in activities providing goods
and support services to base employees; (ii) utilizing the conversion process as a catalyst for the economic
diversification and re-development of the region; (iii) integrating the base with Olongapo City to reduce
the disparities between base and off-base facilities and infrastructure; (iv) protecting the unique natural
environment and resources of the base; (v) operating the freeport as a self-sustaining, profitable entity,
without the need for continuing support from the national Government; and (vi) maximizing the role of
the private sector in operating and managing the freeport's facilities, without giving any one private
company disproportionate control over freeport operations.
1.10            Tarzet Industries. A clear understanding of industry sectors likely to locate within the
freeport is equally important for planning the conversion. The potential market response to the Subic
freeport was developed through an overall assessment of the competitiveness of various industries in the
Philippines relative to its ASEAN neighbors, an evaluation of the competitiveness of the freeport concept
relative to competing export processing zones, special economic zones and freeports elsewhere in East
Asia, and an assessment of investment patterns in the Philippines.2' This analysis indicated that a diverse
group of industrial and service activities would be potentially attracted to the freeport (see para. 2.13).
The needs of the target market would, in turn, dictate the physical, administrative and promotion planning
process.
1.11            Physical Facility and Infrastructure. A survey of the existing facilities to determine their
condition, quality and reuse potential was then undertaken. This evaluation indicated that: (i) the base's
general-purpose buildings are suitable for use by light manufacturing, non-polluting operations, or for
storage and warehousing purposes; (ii) special-use facilities are less suitable for immediate conversion,
and may require more extensive renovation and modification; (iii) most of the officers' quarters are
adaptable for use as a hotel/motel or office space with minor modifications; (iv) raw land parcels are
suitable for the development of industrial estates; (v) electricity and water supply are sufficient for the
short-term, but will need to be augmented as demand increases; individual meters will have to be installed
to each building for appropriate billing; (vi) sewage treatment facilities are inadequate and additional
This analysis was undertaken as part of the Bank's initial mission (Philippines: Subic's Industrial and Tourism Conversion
Strateey and Action Proeram, May 1992, Informal Bank Report), and followed up through the subsequent technical
assistance provided to the authorities. The tight timeframe of the U.S. withdrawal meant that a very short transition
period was available to the authorities to define and implement the conversion strategy. The resulting time pressure
precluded the carrying out of a detailed market survey to identify the potential market response to the SBF.



-4-
liquid and solid waste disposal facilities are needed; (vii) the airport facilities need to be upgraded; port
facilities need some repair but do not need to be developed in the near-term; and (viii) existing roads
connecting Subic to Manila are sufficient up to volumes of a few thousand tons per day, but critical
portions of the road need to be improved to accommodate container trailer and tourist vehicular traffic.
1.12          Alternative Development Scenarios. There are a number of trade-offs and potential
conflicts between the various objectives and possibilities of the conversion. For example, limiting the
freeport area to a small, secured area to reduce the potential leakage of duty-free goods into the national
customs territory goes against one of the major stated interests of commnunity leaders, which is to
integrate the freeport with the adjoining community and ensure maximum access to freeport benefits.
A set of redevelopment principles against which to assess alternative conversion strategies was then
developed, based on the various findings, objectives and requirements discussed above.  Three
development concepts were evaluated and ranked according to how well they fulfilled these redevelopment
objectives:
*      maritime industry. This is the most obvious reuse concept given the site's former use
as a naval facility. The advantage of this approach would be the utilization of existing
buildings and facilities immediately, with minor modifications. The skilled workforce
previously employed in the former U.S. Naval Base's ship repair and maritime-related
activities would be absorbed by like industries. However, this approach would not
maximize the long-term potential of the complex, and would not meet the objective of
diversification of activity. The potential adverse environmental impact would be a threat.
-      tourism  and recreational complex.  This concept capitalizes on Subic's attractive
location and scenic beauty. The advantage would be the high employment generation
potential of tourism, and the revitalization of Olongapo's entertainment industry. The
disadvantage would be the potentially limited impact of tourism as a means to upgrade
the capabilities and long-term potential of the workforce; in addition, this concept would
not meet the objective of economic diversification. Tourism demand would also be an
issue, given the attractiveness of other sites in the Philippines. Finally, existing facilities
would require considerable upgrading in this scenario.
3      multi-sectoral growth pole. This concept meets the requirements for economic diversity
and flexibility, and maximum use of existing structures. This approach would target
compatible, non-polluting industries with a capacity to generate high levels of
employment, as well as warehousing and logistics, tourism, recreation and convention
center activities, and offshore financial services.  The drawback would be the
administrative complexity of promoting, regulating and securing the complex.
1.13          Selected Approach. Clearly, no one approach is likely to meet all the objectives and goals
of different interest groups. The redevelopment approach selected was that of a multi-sectoral growth
pole, since this concept best met the various redevelopment objectives retained.  Recognizing the
administrative complexity of applying the freeport regime over the large physical area of the freeport (as
allowed for in R.A. 7227), a phased implementation is foreseen. At present, the freeport regime is to
be implemented in the former base area, and the conversion strategy accordingly targets this area. The
focus of the TA activities to date has been on defining a physical facilities and infrastructure plan which
meets the requirements of target industries and which represents the best and highest use of existing
assets, and a comprehensive policy and institutional framework for streamlined implementation of the
freeport regime.



-5-
H. THE SUBIC BAY FREEPORT
A. Endowments and Existing Facilides
2.1           Physical Characteristics.  The Subic Bay Special Economic and Freeport Zone, as
established by R.A. 7227 (former U.S. Naval Base and surrounding municipalities) covers an estimated
total land area of 60,000 ha, and water area of 9,525 ha. However, in the initial phase, the freeport
concept is limited to the area occupied by the former U.S. base (referred to as the Subic Bay Freeport -
SBF). The SBF covers an area of around 15,000 ha, of which 6,658 ha house the former Naval Base,
and is situated in the northwestern corner of Bataan Peninsula, sandwiched between the area's two major
natural features: the Zambales Mountain Range and Subic Bay. The mountain range separates the SBF
from the Central Luzon Plain, and protects the base from the monsoons and trade winds from the
northeast. Subic Bay provides an excellent, well-protected harbor which opens up to the South China
Sea. The terrain around the SBF is mountainous, with relatively steep slopes extending almost to the
water's edge. The developed areas have been carved out of hills or created by filling in low areas.
2.2           The broad-leafed evergreen rain forest in the SBF (3,500 ha) represents the only relatively
large area of undisturbed forest in Central Luzon. This type of forest, identified as Diptocarp, is the
most commercially valuable of the forests in the Philippines. The most common species is the Lauan
family, which includes the famous Philippine mahogany, although U.S. Navy records indicate that there
are many representatives of the more than 3,000 varieties of trees that have been identified in the
Philippines. There are also mangrove swamps along low-lying waterfront areas. Many of the more than
10,000 species of flowering plants and ferns that have been identified in the Philippines are also said to
be found in the SBF area. The areas off-base are generally coarse wild grasslands, mostly the result of
slash-and-burn agriculture. There are about 760 different species of birds in the Philippines; rodents are
numerous, including over 50 known species of rats. Several varieties of poisonous snakes exist.
Saltwater fish are abundant, and mollusks occur in large numbers. However, an inventory of the flora
and fauna found in the Subic forest is not available. Threatened or endangered species in the Subic area
include the green sea turtle and the hawksbill turtle.  In addition to its international ecological
significance, the forest is also the lifeblood of the SBF in terms of water availability, since it covers five
water catchment areas.
2.3           Historical Sites. Few pre-World War II structures remain in the SBF. The Spanish Gate,
located in the Central Area, once guarded the western approaches to the old Spanish Naval Station, and
dates from the 19th Century. A museum/memorial in a 19th Century Philippine-Spanish theme is housed
in a restored Spanish storage facility. Remnants of the earliest American construction are a coaling
station and bunkers that housed an anti-aircraft battery prior to World War II. The Chapel in the Central
Area was originally known as the St. Roques Parish Church of Olongapo, and occupies a site that has
been used for religious purposes since 1885. No sites of archaeological significance have been discovered
despite intensive construction efforts in areas most likely to support human settlements.
2.4           Existing Buildings and Structures. The facilities at the former Subic Naval Base complex
were developed and operated to meet the unique needs of the military: the storage of large volumes of
petroleum products and ammunition; specialized facilities for the needs of a largely transient population;
and tightly secured and limited access to adjoining Olongapo City. The Base had nearly 2,000 buildings
with a total covered area of around 970,000 m2. These buildings include industrial structures for
workshops and storage, commercial-type buildings for office and retail activities, special areas/buildings
for the airport, ammunition and fuel storage, residential areas for family housing and bachelor
accommodation, as well as community facilities for education, health care and recreation. The vast
majority of the buildings in the complex are less than 50 years old, and were designed and maintained
in accordance with U.S. Navy standards. Many of the buildings and structures require a high level of
maintenance, and with the exception of certain special buildings such as hangars, warehouses and recently



-6-
built housing units, the projected remaining life of the structures is 10-15 years. Table 2.1 presents a
summary of the existing facilities in the complex.
Table 2.1: Inventory of Eidsting facilities and Previous Use
Activity      No. of    Gross      Land                  Previous Uses
Bldgs.    Floor      Area
Area      (ha)
(m2)
Naval Station        473    213,760       326  administration, housing, commercial,
recreation, temporary camps
Ship Repair           68      92,940       27  drydocks, ship repair and conversion
Facility
Naval Supply          72    102,230       224  petroleum, oil, lubricant storage facility,
Depot                                          warehouses
Public Works         900    343,866    1,161  administrative, housing
Center
Naval Air            261     167,300      800  2.744 km runway, 260,000 ml apron
Station                                        parking
Naval Magazine       116      37,175    3,300  193 magazines and 50,186 m2 of open pads
Naval Hospital        29      13,940      322  90 hospital beds
Grande Island           -          -       47  integrated hotel and recreational facility
Other                   -          -      451  recreational facilities, miscellaneous
Total               1,919    971,211    6,658
2.5          Utilities. Electrical power for the SBF is purchased from the National Power Corporation
(NPC). A private company operates the existing on-base generation plant (26 MW) which it has leased
from the SBMA. The same private operator is constructing another, larger plant (108 MW) on a BOT
basis, expected to be commissioned in early 1994. The main supply of potable water is from the
Binictican, Boton, Malawaan, Triboa and Binanga rivers, filtered and chemically treated in an on-base
water treatment plant, with a capacity of 12 million gallons per day (MGD). The water distribution
system is comprised of antiquated clearwell pumps with a maximum capacity of 10 MGD, and several
inter-connected sub-systems located throughout the complex. The sewage collection and disposal for the
complex consists of four separate systems, of which three provide primary and limited secondary
treatment prior to discharge in rivers or the bay. The former U.S. Naval base produced some 23 to 27
million liters of domestic effluent per day, of which around 20 million liters were discharged as untreated
sewage directly into the bay. Sewage from adjoining Olongapo City is also discharged without treatment
into Subic Bay. These practices are unsatisfactory, and are currently under review by the SBMA with
a view to defining adequate solutions for the future. Solid waste was disposed off in a landfill on-base;
however, this landfill was closed in 1992 and the SBF's present solid waste is disposed off in Olongapo
City's landfill, which is reportedly adequate for the next 10-15 years. Nonetheless, the SBMA intends
to review solid waste management practices and future needs in light of the anticipated economic activity



-7-
in the SBF. The former Naval base had a sophisticated network of telecommunications facilities for
international and domestic voice and data communications. The complex's local area network of fiber
optic and copper cable provided a total subscriber line capacity of over 13,000 lines. However, most of
the telecommunications equipment was removed by the U.S. Navy upon evacuation. The two remaining
PABXs have a total capacity of 1,400 lines, which is adequate for the SBF's very limited needs at
present. Capacity will, however, have to be increased to keep pace with SBF development.
2.6          TransRort Infrastructure. The SBF port facilities are configured to handle a mix of
container and breakbulk cargo. The layout of the facilities dates from the early 1960s and does not lend
itself to modern cargo handling operations. In addition, repairs are required at several wharves. The
airport has a single runway and requires weight limits on wide-bodied planes both landing and taking off;
the runway, taxiway and aprons require strengthening in view of the anticipated activity. Passenger
terminal facilities are inadequate: the present terminal building can accommodate only 79 passengers,
based on the gross floor area per passenger used in the Civil Aviation Master Plan of the Philippines.
The most convenient route from Manila to the SBF is via the North Luzon Expressway to San Fernando
(57 kIn, 4-lane, good surface condition); from San Fernando to the Layac junction in Dinalupihan (48
Ian, 2-lane, fair surface condition); and, finally, the Bataan-Zambales national road (24 Iam, of which 12
km is a zig-zag portion with a maximum grade of 6%, 3-lane sections on critical curves, good surface
condition). The Mabayo-Tala-Mabiga-Naparing road is an alternative road, currently under construction,
starting near the Layac junction in Dinalupihan and ending near the southern gate of the SBF. Traffic
forecasts indicate that an additional road connecting the SBF to Metro Manila will be required in the next
10-15 years.
2.7          There are three main vehicular entry routes to the SBF. The first is through the Main
Gate and Magsaysay Bridge, connecting the SBF to Olongapo City. The second is through the Kalaklan
Gate, which connects with the national road to the left of Olongapo City. The third is the Kalayaan Gate,
connecting the SBF to the national road at the outskirts of Olongapo City. These access points are
inadequate for the increased traffic flows into the SBF, and even with the limited activity taking place
in the SBF at present, cause traffic back-ups during rush hour and on weekends. Within the SBF, there
are 92 road sections with a total length of 79.6 kmn. All the roads are in good condition with the
exception of the perimeter road going to Kalayaan Gate, and are not likely to require major investment
for the next 5 years. There are 66 parking lots, all in good condition, distributed throughout the SBF;
aggregate parking areas are capable of handling 11,300 cars, which is adequate for the anticipated activity
over the next 5-10 years.
B. The SBFs Competiiveness and Development Prospects
2.8          Over the last decade, the Philippines has captured a very small part of the boom in direct
foreign investment (DFI) compared to its ASEAN neighbors: around 5 % in 1990 and 1991. DFI has also
accounted for a very small percentage of total private investment in the country. In contrast to the
marked export orientation of DFI in most other ASEAN countries, about 75 % of DFI in the Filipino
manufacturing sector is in domestic market oriented industries. A noteworthy aspect of DFI is the
increasing importance assumed by Newly Industrializing Countries of Asia as a source of foreign
investment. The share of foreign investment from Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea and Singapore have
been rising, particularly in the last few years.
2.9          The low private investor response to the reformed incentive structure in the Philippines
can be traced to the negative investor perception regarding sustainability of reform efforts and, more
recently, poor conditions of infrastructural services. Although the accumulated impact of reforms taken
so far (relating, inter alia, to the financial sector, trade policy, the tax system and investment incentives)
has been significant, slow and piecemeal implementation, at times aggravated by the judiciary, has created
a persistent perception among potential investors that reforms in the Philippines might not have been
owned by the GOP and thus could not be effectively implemented and might even be reversed. Foreign



-8-
investor confidence has been further eroded by recent short-falls in electricity supply, crumbling
transportation and telecommunications infrastructure, and continuing concerns over the personal security
of foreign executives. Many of these problems are well on their way to resolution. Nonetheless, the
Philippines faces strong competition in the region. In the Asian region, lower-end import-dependent
operations, reliant on attractive and stable policies, and productive and stable workforces, are increasingly
locating in emerging investment locations such as China, Indonesia and now Viet Nam. Higher-end
activities, requiring critical basic infrastructure and support services, educated workforce and competitive
intermediate goods industries, are choosing Malaysia, Thailand and Singapore.
2.10          The SBF Incentives Regime. The freeport concept holds the potential to offset many of
the competitive disadvantages of manufacturing in the Philippines. It can offer world class infrastructure
in a secure and self-contained environment. The SBF also provides a number of attractive incentives for
business:
*      no restriction on foreign or local ownership of enterprises;
*      duty-free imports and exports of raw materials, intermediate and finished goods;
*      ability to import, store, process, manipulate, consume or re-export merchandise duty- and
tax-free;
*      no foreign exchange controls, and free markets for gold, securities and futures;
i      unlimited sales to the domestic economy, subject to payment of applicable import duties
and other charges;
*      no taxes except for a 5 % corporate tax on gross income; and
*      ability for the SBMA to issue work permits, with permanent resident visa provided for
a minimum investment of US$250,000.
2.11          The SBF's Competitive Position. The market potential of the SBF depends on its ability
to successfully compete for international investment with the large and increasing number of SEZs, EPZs
and freeports in the East Asian region. There are currently 62 operational EPZs or industrial estates and
another 40 under various stages of development in the region. Within the highly successful SEZ
development in China, export-oriented, high technology bonded industrial parks and commercial free
trade zones are being established along the coast and in Hainan island. In addition to the long-established
freeports of Hong Kong and Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia have designated a number of islands as
freeports. The SBF will directly compete with these locations as well as the large number of free zones
in Mexico and Latin America in attracting private investment. In addition, the liberalization of Viet Nam
poses a strong and immediate competitive threat.
2.12          The SBF offers several potential advantages over EPZs, and its incentives regime is
comparable to that of the many freeport and commercial free zone projects under development. The
advantage of the SBF lies less in its incentives framework, and more in the ready availability of world
class infrastructure, facilities and other amenities. Unlike freeports that are being developed from
scratch, the SBF requires limited financing and time for commercialization. The primary advantage to
the prospective manufacturer of locating in the SBF is that operations can begin almost immediately. The
SBF can also offer financial advantages, derived from the fact that the carrying cost of the facilities is
very low: the fixed assets turned over to the SBMA at virtually zero cost create a huge capital base with
minimal corresponding outlays of either equity or borrowed funds. Offsetting these strategic advantages
are certain constraining factors, such as the present lack of commercialized airport and port facilities.
_  ----  ----_ ---



-9-
However, the SBMA is in a sound position to contract debt for facilities improvements and many of the
constraining factors can be alleviated.
2.13         Potential Investors. In light of the SBF's incentives framework, and the benefits and
constraints of location in the SBF, several industrial and service activities were identified as potential
locators in the SBF. These are:
*     light manufacturing/assembly, including apparel, footwear, toys, textiles, jewelry,
leather products, sporting goods, electronic components, electrical appliances and
equipment, electro-mechanical devices.  The SBF's comparative advantage is the
availability of unskilled labor and under-roof space at competitive prices.
*     light engineering, such as industrial and analytical instruments, industrial equipment and
general components. The SBF's comparative advantage is the good (but diminishing)
technical and industrial skill availability and several specialized buildings that would be
suitable with minor modifications.
*     information services, including data entry, image processing, voice center operations,
multi-media and software development. The SBF's comparative advantage is the
availability of basic literacy and keyboarding skills, telecommunications potential, and
suitable buildings, including the availability of good housing.
-     warehousing and distribution. The SBF's basic transportation facilities are well suited
for cargo operations; significant warehouse space is available as-is; and
telecommunications potential exists.
*     tourism  and recreation, including accommodation, duty-free shopping, retirement
housing, business conventions and marina and other recreation. The SBF's major
advantage is the natural beauty and clean environment of the site. Several recreational
facilities exist and are easily upgradeable.
3     fimancial services, such as offshore banking and other services, as well as offshore
corporate registry. These activities are expected to develop in the medium-term, once
manufacturing activity picks up in the SBF, and as the telecommunications potential is
developed.
2.14         In terms of the source and nationality of investment, the largest number of initial
investments in the SBF is likely to come from Filipino firms, investing primarily in light manufacturing
or tourism and retail trade projects of small size. Foreign investment will tend to concentrate on larger
projects. Investment from the East Asian NICs is expected to increase. In particular, the SBF is likely
to attract significant investment from Taiwan (Taiwanese investors are reportedly seeking to diversify
their holdings away from China), once SBMA finalizes its negotiations with a Taiwanese company to
develop and manage an industrial estate within the SBF. The Export-Import Bank of Taiwan has already
provided a loan on soft terms for site and services improvements for this green field site.
C. The Conversn Strtegy
2.15          The strategy for the conversion of the Subic Bay Naval Base complex, and development
of the SBF, is based upon careful consideration of various factors (described in Chapter I). The strategy
is predicated on the maximum utilization of existing buildings and structures by private locators
immediately, and the development of new buildings and facilities by predominantly private developers
in the medium-term. This approach was chosen because it capitalized on the SBF's fundamental cost
advantages: since buildings and facilities were turned over to the SBMA at no cost, the SBMA has the



-10-
unique advantage of being able to under-cut the competition in terms of lease rates for buildings and
facilities, thereby achieving rapid occupancy. The role of the SBMA is seen to be that of a facilitating,
promotional, and regulatory authority, with limited involvement in the development and operation of
facilities. This notwithstanding, it is recognized that the SBMA may have to operate certain facilities and
undertake the renovation and construction of certain buildings to catalyze private sector interest and
participation; however, this is viewed as an interim arrangement to be turned over to private operators
as soon as possible. The privatization approach distinguishes between the SBF's "core productive assets"
(assets such as land and existing buildings for use by private locators directly, thereby generating income
for the SBMA), and "support facilities" (facilities such as the port and airport, demand for which is
derived from users of core assets). The privatization strategy also differentiates between areas for the
development of private "business complexes" and other areas reserved for the development of individual
buildings by individual locators. In order of priority, the privatization of core assets would precede
privatization of support facilities, which would require a certain mass of economic activity to be in place
prior to privatization.
2.16          Land Use Plan. The focus of SBMA's land use plan is a multi-use complex at a central
location on the waterfront (see Map IBRD 25500). The revitalized Central Area will house commercial,
trading, tourism-related and light industrial activities, while ensuring the conservation of important
monuments and historic landmarks. An allocation of 284 ha of land has been made for light and medium
industry development in several pockets, including larger land parcels for the development of integrated
industrial estates.  Housing occupies 358 ha, encompassing existing areas and densification or
redevelopment of selected pockets for a planned increase of approximately 6,000 dwelling units. Around
2,000 ha of the Naval Magazine area is reserved as a Nature Park; however, detailed, environmentally-
friendly land use proposals could be developed for this area. The conversion of the military airport into
a civilian international airport requires 285 ha. An area of 29 ha is reserved for the future development
of a cargo port in the former Naval Supply Depot. An allocation of 263 ha has been made for
community facilities. Special areas, such as the tank farm and areas reserved for the Philippines Armed
Forces, occupy 193 ha. Some 146 ha are designated as green buffers, while the remainder are Land
Reserves to provide flexibility in time and space. The 3,500 ha of intact tropical forest are scheduled
for inclusion in the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Conservation of Priority Protected Areas project,
negotiated recently (see para. 4.22). The publication of SBMA's land use plan is a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed project. Agreements were reached at negotiations that this land use plan
will be implemented.
2.17          Privatization. The SBF conversion strategy foresees an important role for the private
sector in the future development and operation of the SBF. The outright lease of the entire facility to a
private operator was rejected as a privatization mechanism by the authorities at the very outset.3' The
privatization approach distinguishes between different categories of assets. Existing assets can basically
be classified into two basic categories: core productive assets and facilities which will generate income
for the SBMA, and support facilities, which will provide services to support the income generating
activities. In addition, a differentiation must be made between areas zoned for general industrial,
commercial or tourism use, and areas specifically designated as Comprehensive Development Areas
(CDA). Existing buildings within a CDA are expected to be levelled or significantly modified in the
medium-term, to allow for the development of the CDA. This implies that they can only be leased on
a short-term, non-renewable basis.
2.18          Several privatization mechanisms are available to the SBMA. These range from outright
divestiture; simple or capital leases for land and buildings; joint ventures for the operation of utilities or
in the form of property development companies; build-operate-transfer (BOT) arrangements (whereby a
private entity would develop a project, operate it for a fixed period and then transfer the asset to SBMA);
This would have amounted to replacing one dominant controlling presence with another, which would have been
politically unacceptable.



-11-
management contracting (where a private company is hired by the SBMA to operate certain facilities for
a fee); and public or private offering of shares. Given the diversity of SBF assets, a single privatization
approach is not feasible. Thus, different mechanisms have been developed for each major category of
asset, as summarized in Table 2.2. In most cases, with the exception of standardized building leases, the
assistance of privatization and financial advisors would be required.
Table 2.2: SBMA's Privatization Approach
Type of Property                    Privatization Mode                     Procedures
Comprehensive Development Areas
General Use Buildings                    short-term, fixed  lease with   fixed lease term on first-come, first-served
limited renewal                 basis
Business Complexes                       long-term lease, JV or revenue    bidding process
sharing
Non-Comprehensive Development Areas
Raw Land                                 long-term   lease   or  JV      bidding process
development
Developed Land                           long-term  lease; lessee must   fixed lease term on first-come, first-served
construct building to SBMA      basis
standards
General Use Buildings                    long-term lease                 fixed lease term on first-come, first-served
basis
Special Use Buildings                    long-term  lease with technical    bidding procedure
provisions
Support and Specialized Facilities
Airport                                  operating agreement             negotiate with local or foreign operators
Port                                     management agreement            bid and negotiation with local or foreign
operators
Power                                    long-term  lease, management    negotiation with NPC or private company
agreement or JV
Water/Sewerage                           BOT,  JV   or  operating    bidding process or negotiation with private
agreement                       operator
Telecommunications                       iV                              bidding process
Specialized Facilities                   long-term lease, JV or revenue    financial advisor on a commission basis
sharing



-12-
2.19          Institutional Aspects.   The SBF's conversion strategy has significant institutional
implications. The freeport regime is administratively complex to implement; this complexity is compounded
by the fact that the legislative base of the freeport is contained in only three articles of R.A. 7227, in
contrast to the detailed and comprehensive legislation typically associated with freeport regimes. As a result,
the SBMA has had and continues to expend much effort in clarifying some of the ambiguities of the
legislation. Appropriate systems are required to implement the freeport regime, including adequate customs
procedures and monitoring of SBF purchases and sales for Treasury revenue purposes. The SBMA is a very
young organization whose focus and work program are evolving. In the early days of the U.S. withdrawal,
its primary preoccupation was the orderly transition from U.S. Navy to civilian use. Having secured the
premises, it has begun to implement the broad conversion strategy outlined above. However, it will need
more experienced staff in freeport management to undertake many of the tasks it has set for itself. The
SBMA will continue to require multi-disciplinary technical assistance to refine its conversion strategy,
implement its privatization agenda, and develop its own institutional capabilities.
2.20          The conversion strategy also has significant implications on the SBMA's environmental
management function. One of the major objectives of the SBMA is the protection of the environment. This
implies that future industrial, commercial and tourism activity must be carefully vetted to ensure that it is
environmentally benign. The presently good environmental conditions of the SBF must be preserved; this
implies that a baseline of information has to be developed on existing conditions, appropriate standards have
to be established, and compliance on the part of SBF locators monitored on a regular basis. The SBMA will
need to urgently build up a sound environmental management infrastructure within its institution. Here, too,
technical assistance and other institutional support is required.
D. Status of SBF Development and Privatization
2.21          Getting the SBF off the ground will involve efforts in three broad areas. The first is to
operationalize the freeport regime. This involves defining the SBF policy regime and regulatory procedures
and implementing an appropriate institutional framework to administer the SBF. These aspects are discussed
in Chapter IV. The second is to implement the physical conversion strategy. In addition to privatization,
this involves identifying critical areas for continued SBMA investment and management. The third is to
undertake strategic planning for future SBF growth. This translates into the definition of a multi-year
development program, including regular fine-tuning of the conversion strategy. As can be expected,
effecting the SBF conversion will take time, and must be viewed as an on-going process. Quite apart from
the time required to structure SBF development and privatization deals, the SBMA itself is in a start-up
phase. Nonetheless, much progress has been achieved in these areas in the one year that the SBMA has
been operational, as described in the paragraphs below.
2.22          As of November, 1993, the SBMA had received over 500 expressions of interest from
prospective investors. Of these, 32 proposals had been accepted and are presently being implemented. Of
the remainder, 16 proposals are under contract negotiations and 42 are under active review. In terms of
sectoral breakdown, commercial activities (including retailing and banking) take the lead at 50%, followed
by 22% for manufacturing, 12% for hotels and restaurants, with the balance for support services and
infrastructure, such as telecommunications and power. As expected, the vast majority of these initial
investors are Filipino (over 75%). However, the number of foreign investors is expected to increase as the
industrial estate (para. 2.23) is developed. Total employment created as of November, 1993, is 5,195
employees. The projected investment of these 32 firms at full development (in most cases, over the next
1-2 years) is over US$350 million; employment projections stand at 12,800. In terms of value, over 90%
of the investment commitments are from foreign investors. The projected investment of the 58 proposals
currently being negotiated or actively reviewed is around US$125 million, whereas the projected employment
is close to 4,000. Here, too, the vast majority of interested investors is Filipino (or Filipino subsidiaries
of foreign firms). A significant event has been the recent agreement between the SBMA and a major air
freight and courier service to establish a regional hub at the Subic International Airport. A large, world



-13-
class tenant such as this one provides an anchor for promotional activity, and holds the potential to attract
higher-value, air freight-dependent activities to the SBF.
2.23          Industrial Development. The areas slated for industrial development in the land use plan
cover both green field sites and existing developed sites. For the former, the SBMA has been in active
discussion with a Taiwanese company as well as the Taiwanese Government. A 262 ha site will be
developed in three phases. The Export-Import Bank of Taiwan has provided a loan on concessional terms
to finance the site development costs of the first phase. The SBMA expects to enter into an agreement with
a private Taiwanese company to develop, manage and promote the estate, and some 75 firms have reportedly
expressed an interest in locating in the estate in the first phase. The first phase development (approximately
120 ha) is expected to be completed in 1997. For the latter, the SBMA has entered into leases on existing
buildings with 8 firms (as of November, 1993). The problem now is that the SBF is rapidly running out
of buildings that would be suitable for small-scale industrial activities. The buildings available require
extensive reconfiguration and conversion; alternatively, new buildings need to be constructed in the
designated industrial areas of the land use plan. The SBMA's experience is that small investors, who are
mainly local Filipino firms, are interested in immediate occupancy and are unwilling, or unable financially,
to undertake the necessary renovations or construction.
2.24          Commercial Development. The commercial development to date has concerned the leasing
of existing buildings to operators providing support services to SBF residents and tourists. Amongst such
services are banks and shops. Other activities include gas trading, message handling services and a
laboratory. Warehousing and transhipment services are also taking place.
2.25         Tourism Development. Hotel development, including one casino resort, has been quite
spectacular in the SBF, attesting to the high interest in the site on the part of tourists. There has also been
substantial interest in restaurant and retail trade activities. Local tourism tends to be concentrated on week-
ends, whereas foreign tourists (mainly from Taiwan) seem to be mainly of the package tour variety.
Considering that the SBF has not actively promoted the site to the tourism industry, the growth in tourism
(some 440,000 visitors since January 1993) is remarkable. In addition to these private-sector financed
activities, the SBMA has been involved in the provision of tourism-related services (operating some of the
recreational facilities, for example) pending their privatization. These services have been provided primarily
through ex-Base employees in a volunteer capacity. Facilities slated for privatization in the 1994-95 period
include the golf course and the marina.
2.26          Svecial Use Areas. One of the early and notable successes of the SBMA has concerned the
privatization of the petroleum, oil and lubricant facility, a 181 ha complex of underground storage tanks and
dedicated pier. This facility has been leased to a U.S. company on a 25-year, renewable lease. The
privatization arrangement was undertaken with the help of financial advisors.
2.27          Utilities. The existing 26 MW power plant has been leased to a private operator, who
operates the plant under an arrangement with the National Power Company (NPC). The same operator is
also constructing a 108 MW plant on a BOT basis on land that has been leased by the NPC from the SBMA.
SBMA purchases power from NPC and is responsible for power distribution within the SBF; however,
power distribution is high on the list of SBMA's privatization priorities. SBMA's agreement with NPC
provides for satisfaction of SBF power needs from these plants in priority over provision of power to the
national grid.
2.28          A Memorandum of Agreement with the National Telecommunications Commission provides
the SBMA with a great deal of flexibility to issue telecommunications franchises within the SBF. More
significantly, the SBMA can enter into arrangements with any local or foreign entity, and is not restricted
to dealing with existing franchise owners. With the assistance of privatization advisors, the SBMA is
currently in the process of evaluating bids for the creation of a joint venture for the provision of
telecommunications services within the SBF. SBMA's stake in the joint venture would be between 20% and



-14-
30%, subscribed to through the provision of existing telecommunications equipment and the franchise. In
the initial phase, 2,000 new lines will be added to the SBF by mid-1994.
2.29          Transport Infrastructure. At present, the airport is being operated by SBMA employees with
assistance from staff seconded from the Air Transportation Office. SBMA's strategy is to retain ownership
and control of the airport in the short- to medium-term, but to enter into a management contract with a
qualified operator.  Several improvements to the airport are required in terms of terminal facilities,
navigational aids and air traffic control equipment, as well as repairs to the runway, taxiway and aprons.
These improvements are needed urgently, in view of a recent agreement between the SBMA and an air
freight service that intends to establish a regional hub at the Subic International Airport.  General
maintenance of the port facilities is undertaken by SBMA staff, who also operate the facilities on an
occasional, as-needed basis. Full privatization of the port is not foreseen in the near-term, but the SBMA
intends to enter into a management contract for port operations. In order to maintain the extensive port
infrastructure, several repairs to the wharves and piers are required. The road network in the SBF is in
good condition, and no major rehabilitation is required at this stage.
2.30          Residential. Although there has been substantial interest on the part of investors in some
of the housing units in the SBF, no units have yet been leased on a long-term basis. The SBMA is currently
in the process of devising a housing privatization strategy. The basic approach is to package the housing
units in lots, which would be offered to real estate management companies for management and individual
leasing. It is expected that the first lots will be bid out by mid-1994.
E. Off-SBF Development Program and Priorities
2.31          The conversion strategy to date has focussed on redevelopment of the former U.S. Naval
Base, which represents the first phase of freeport implementation. The Zone, however, is considerably
larger (see para. 2.1) and encompasses surrounding municipalities. The SBF will not remain a restricted
enclave in the long-term, and indeed, should not be viewed as such for planning purposes. It is linked to
Olongapo City and is an integral part of the sub-region. An urban master planning exercise for the
surrounding municipalities is currently underway, financed by a TA grant from the Asian Development bank
(ADB). This study is expected to provide: (i) an urban development strategy for the area; (ii) infrastructural
development plans for transportation, water supply, power and telecommunications, drainage and sanitation,
and housing; and (iii) prefeasibility studies for critical infrastructural development projects required to
support SBF development in the next five years. One such priority would be the improvement of the
highway infrastructure connecting the SBF to Metro Manila.
2.32          The long-term vision for the development of the Central Luzon (one of the objectives of
R.A. 7227) is the establishment of 50-100 ha industrial estates along highways in the Central Luzon
provinces, and shipping the manufactured goods through the SBF port. This strategy is guided by the fact
that the land available for industrial development is limited in the SBF, whereas it possesses a good, natural
harbor where port operations can be developed. The development of the Central Luzon provinces will
provide livelihood for lahar-devastated areas (as a result of the Mt. Pinatubo eruption) and ease the
demographic and industrial congestion in Manila. This strategy is also consistent with the development of
the Clark Air Field as a SEZ (per R.A. 7227). The infrastructural requirements of translating this vision
into reality are many: the existing road network in the region will have to be improved in order to facilitate
the trucking of goods into the SBF; industrial estates will have to be developed off-base; and the SBF port
will have to be improved to handle modern cargo operations.
F. Lesons from Previous Bank Involvement
2.33          The Bank has played a major role in the Philippines through a lending program involving
some 140 operations, but has no direct experience in freeport or EPZ development in the country.



-15-
Experience from Bank involvement in similar activities in other countries4' indicates that EPZs are most
successful when they are part of a coherent incentives and trade policy regime; further, that key factors for
success include appropriate location, the availability of suitable physical trade infrastructure, site
development consistent with investor demand, and a policy environment that fosters private sector
development. The country's trade, investment and foreign exchange regimes are now at par with those of
its more dynamic East Asian neighbors; furthermore, the SBF's incentives package is comparable to that
offered by its competitors in the region. The SBF's proposed regulatory framework, its location and
physical infrastructure are consistent with the success factors commonly cited for EPZs.  Project
interventions are designed to fill in the gaps in the regulatory framework, particularly with respect to the
environment, and to ensure a phased development of the SBF.
G. Rationai for Bank Involvement
2.34          As described in the Country Assistance Strategy, discussed by the Bank's Board on
February 3, 1994, the Philippines is at a critical juncture in its economic history, and needs to seize the
opportunity to break out of its low economic growth cycle. Foreign direct investment will be very important
if the Philippines is to catch up with its more affluent neighbors. The SBF has the potential to kick-start
this process. Improving the business environment for private enterprises is a key element of the GOP
development agenda. The SBF provides a model base for the implementation of concerted and sound
business-friendly policies. The SBF has already attracted considerable investor interest; however, certain
institutional and infrastructural bottlenecks prevent the SBMA from realizing the full potential of the SBF's
considerable asset base. In a competitive environment such as that facing the SBF, rapid accommodation
of interested investors is essential: a lack of adequate facilities or administrative delays can create negative
perceptions, dampen investor confidence, and generally undermine the SBF development strategy. At the
same time, the SBMA must avoid a haphazard development of the SBF, guided by short-term financial
considerations rather than the long-term maximization of economic, financial and environmental benefits,
if it is to effectively act as the custodian of this important asset.
2.35          The Bank can play a catalytic role in helping the GOP and the SBMA effect an orderly
conversion of the facility, and its presence provides a measure of comfort to private investors. The proposed
project touches on a multiplicity of sectors. The Bank has considerable experience in and is well-equipped
to deal with the issues related to all these sectors.  The bulk of the proposed financing concerns
infrastructure, for which the terms of Bank funds are more appropriate than the shorter maturity finance that
would be available commercially. The overall financial needs of the SBF are large, and the available
commercial funding would be more effectively channeled if it supports commercial ventures. Finally, the
Bank has already been involved in the provision of technical assistance to the SBMA to help strengthen the
policy, regulatory and institutional framework and define a conversion strategy for the baselands. The
Bank's continued involvement will help implement this conversion strategy, and, in particular, ensure that
the emphasis on environmental protection and institutional strengthening is maintained.
Export Processing Zones, Policy and Research Series 20. As discussed in Chapter I, a freeport can be considered an EPZ
with free trade and other equal footing export policies.






-16-
m. THE PROJECT
A. Objecive
3.1          The objective of the project is to attract private investors to the Subic Bay Freeport (SBF).
This will be achieved by: (a) improving infrastructure and access to the area for industrial, commercial and
passenger traffic; (b) maintaining the SBF asset base, including protection of the environment; and
(c) strengthening the capacity of the SBMA to manage and administer the facility.
B. Description
3.2          The project consists of three components:
(a)    Site Improvement. Several infrastructural improvements are required at the SBF, consisting
of new construction, conversion of existing facilities for civilian use, selected repairs to
existing facilities, and replacement of critical equipment that was removed by the U.S. Navy
upon evacuation. Detailed engineering studies and construction supervision for these
components will also be included. A detailed description of the improvements is contained
in Annex 1.
Land access to the SBF will be improved through: (i) the construction of a 4 Iam, two-lane
access road from Kalalake Bridge to Kalayaan Gate (see Map IBRD 25499). This road will
link the main industrial area of the SBF (presently being developed) to the outskirts of
Olongapo City and the national highway, thereby diverting heavy traffic away from the
tourism and commercial areas of the SBF as well as the narrow streets of Olongapo City;
(ii) the construction of an 82 m, two-lane bridge with pedestrian walkway linking Rizal
Avenue in Olongapo to the SBF. This bridge will be used for incoming traffic to the SBF;
outgoing traffic will pass through the existing Magsaysay Bridge. This system will improve
traffic flows in Olongapo City as well as in the SBF; and (iii) construction of security plazas
at the Main Gate Complex (Rizal and Magsaysay Bridges) as well as at Kalayaan Gate to
process incoming and outgoing traffic.
Air traffic access to the SBF will be improved through: (i) strengthening of the runway in
order to accommodate the size of aircraft which are forecast for the next 10 years. The
study and mitigation of a subsidence problem at the northeast end of the runway are also
included; (ii) the reconstruction of the southeast taxiway, including its strengthening and
widening, in order to accommodate aircraft expected to be used by the freight hubbing
operation; (iii) apron strengthening at both the passenger and freight operations areas to
accommodate the forecast aircraft sizes; (iv) providing adequate airport communications
equipment and air traffic control equipment suitable to provide a minimum Category 1
control; and (v) converting one of the existing hangars into a passenger terminal to create
adequate passenger handling capacity. An existing building will also be converted to a
freight warehouse for freight carried on passenger aircraft.
In order to prevent further rapid deterioration of the underdeck structure at the Alava,
Rivera and Bravo Wharves and at Pier 1010 (see Map IBRD 25499), and to ensure their
continued availability for operations or commercial activities, existing cracks and damage
to the concrete piles and deck structure will be repaired and sealed. A cathodic protection
system will be installed to protect the steel components at Pier 1010 and Bravo Wharf.
A pilot standard factory building development will be undertaken on a 10 ha site in the
former PWC area (see Map IBRD 25499). Site development will include the basic
infrastructure (roadways, water, electrical and sewer line connections). The initial phase
will cover an approximate land area of 6 ha for 20,000 m2 of covered floor area. Three



-17-
basic configurations, providing multiples of 1,000 m2 space, have been designed. Six
buildings will be constructed in total.
Miscellaneous equipment will be provided for security and maintenance purposes.
Communications equipment and vehicles will be provided for security services. Electricity
and water meters will be installed in existing buildings to permit appropriate billing for
utilities to the tenants. Emergency equipment (generators, emergency pumps, etc.) will also
be provided.
(b)    Institutional Support. Several actions are foreseen to strengthen the institutional capacity of
the SBMA and to provide the appropriate systems for the implementation of freeport
policies. Agreements were reached at negotiations that for all the technical assistance
activities, the SBMA will retain consultants according to terms of reference and a selection
procedure acceptable to the Bank. It was also agreed that the timeframe for the carrying out
of the studies and the implementation of the agreed recommendations would follow the
timetable shown in Annex 2.
In order to monitor duty-free purchases such that the appropriate taxes can be collected,5'
a merchandise control system will be designed and implemented. This computerized system
will link each duty-free retail outlet to a central database. SBF visitors will be issued a pass
card in which purchases will be recorded. Any purchases above the prescribed limit will
be assessed the appropriate duties. The project will finance the design and implementation
of the system, including hardware, software and training to SBMA staff in its use. Terms
of reference are contained in Annex 3.
Technical assistance will be provided to define appropriate zoning regulations and a building
design code for the SBF. This will ensure a coherent future development, consistent with
the agreed land use plan. Terms of reference are contained in Annex 4.
The SBMA's present billing system is largely manual. In the future, with increased activity,
an automated system will be required in order to accurately track SBMA revenues and
ensure that billing takes place on a timely basis. The project will finance the design and
implementation of this system. Terms of reference are contained in Annex 5.
Several SBMA facilities are slated to be privatized within the next 2-3 years. The project
will include a privatization assistance fund for the provision of specialized advice on specific
transactions. Among the major items foreseen at present are water and sewerage services
and solid waste management. In the case of water and sewerage services, a technical
consultant has already been hired to define the basic technical parameters, and project
interventions will concern assistance in the actual bidding process and negotiation with the
chosen supplier. For solid waste management, terms of reference for the necessary services
are being prepared by the SBMA. A tentative description of the services required is in
Annex 6. Agreements were reached at negotiations that an action plan and timetable for the
adequate provision of water and sewerage and solid waste management in the SBF would
be provided to the Bank by December 31, 1994.
In order to strengthen the SBMA's institutional capabilities and improve SBF administration,
a team of 3 senior advisors will be provided under the project. The role of this team will
be two-fold: first, to provide the necessary technical skills and experience currently missing
from SBMA staff and second, to provide on-the-job training to SBMA counterparts. The
Executive Order 97A, issued subsequent to R.A. 7227, sets duty-free purchase limits for Filipinos residing outside the
SBF. Any purchases beyond the prescribed limits are subject to applicable taxes and duties.



-18-
areas to be covered include planning and property development, customs and taxation policy
and investment promotion. Terms of reference are contained in Annex 7.
Short-Term Training: The project will provide short-term consultancies as required for
training and workshops in freeport-related topics. Terms of reference for this assistance are
contained in Annex 7.
Given the sheer size of the SBF and the various facilities contained in it, and in light of the
SBMA's key role as custodian of these assets, the facilities management function needs to
be strengthened. The project will provide critical equipment required to operate and
maintain utilities and other services until such time as they are privatized. It will also
provide institutional support to adequately organize and structure the facilities management
function at the SBMA. Terms of reference for this support are in Annex 8.
(c)    Environmental Protection.  An Environmental Baseline Survey will be carried out to
establish the basic environmental conditions within the SBF and develop a baseline of
information on the forest lands and the bay. Terms of reference are in Annex 9. The
project will also provide environmental monitoring equipment for the newly-established
Ecology Center in the SBF, as well as institutional support to assist in establishing a sound
environmental management infrastructure in the SBF (Annex 10 contains terms of
reference). An Environmental Management Plan covering the organization and work plan
for the SBMA's Ecology Center (terms of reference are in Annex 11) has been submitted
to the Bank for review. The adoption of an agreed Plan by the SBMA's Board and its
publication is a condition of effectiveness.
C. Cost and Financing
Projet Cost
3.3          The base project cost is P 1,207 million (US$43.1 million equivalent), and total project cost
including contingencies is P 1,596 million (US$52.0 million), with a foreign exchange component of about
75%, or US$39.1 million. Physical contingencies represent around 14% of the base cost, while price
contingencies represent 18%. Table 3.1 sunumarizes the cost estimates; details are presented in Annex 12.
Base costs are in December 1993 prices, and are derived from the most recent equipment, material and labor
cost data available. A relatively higher level of physical contingency has been included to allow for possible
cost overruns on certain items for which detailed engineering has yet to be finalized. Price contingencies
are estimated on the basis of escalation factors of 7% for local costs and 2.5% for foreign costs.
Flnancing Plan
3.4          Table 3.2 summarizes the proposed financing plan for the project. Bank financing will
account for about 74% of the total requirements of US$54.1 million, including interest during construction.
The proposed Bank loan of US$40 will finance 100% of the estimated foreign exchange cost and will be at
the standard variable interest rate for a 20-year term, including a five-year grace period. The SBMA will
bear the foreign exchange and interest risks for the loan. The loan will be guaranteed by the GOP.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that the GOP will provide this guarantee.



-19-
Table 3.1: Summary of Project Costs
-Million Pesos---                      -Million USS---
Component                                           % of                                   %
Local   Foreign    Total    Base Cost   Local   Foreign    Total    Foreign
Site Improvement                  259        753     1012         84    9.3      26.9     36.2          74
lnsniutonal Support                 5        133      138         12    0.2       4.8      4.9          97
Environiental Protecdon             0         28      28           2    0.0       1.0      1.0         100
Taxes and Duties                   29         0        29          2    1.0       0.0      1.0           0
Total Cost                        293        914    1,207        100   10.5      32.6     43.1          76
Physical Condngencies              41        128      169         14    1.5       4.6      6.0         76
Price Condngencies                 66        154     220          18    1.0       1.9      2.9         70
Total Cost with Contingencies     400      1,196    1,596        132   12.9      39.1     52.0          75
Tomls may not Add up due to rounding.
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
(US$ million)
% of
1994       1995       1996       1997       Total        Total
Tobi Project Cost              11.8       27.0        8.5        4.8         52.0        96.1
Interest During                 0.3        1.2        0.5        0.1          2.1         3.9
Construction
12.1      28.2         9.0        4.9        54.1        100.0
Toatl to be Ibm_cod
FUmd  1W:
4.7       23.3        7.6        4.4        40.0         73.9
World Bank                    7.5         4.9        1.4        0.5        14.1         26.1
SBMA's Internal Cash
12.1      28.2         9.0        4.9        54.1        100.0
Total Ybhaancg
totals may not add up due to rounding.
D. Imple an
Projed    aggement
3.5             SBMA is fully responsible for implementing the project.  The Deputy Administrator for
Administration has been appointed as the project manager for SBMA; he is assisted by a team of SBMA staff
drawn from the engineering, finance and corporate planning departments. This team has participated in
project preparation and is therefore fully cognizant of detailed project content. The team of resident, long-
tenn advisors will also be available to assist the project management team as appropriate.
3.6             SBMA has currently hired consultants who have assisted with the preparation of the physical
components of the proposed project. To avoid implementation delays, the same consultants will continue
to assist with final designs and procurement. Agreements were reached at negotiations that appropriately
qualified consultants would be hired for the supervision of civil works. The SBMA's engineering staff
would handle the procurement of goods and equipment; however, specialized assistance for the finalization
of technical specifications for the communications equipment would be provided by appropriate
consultants.' These proposed arrangements are acceptable to the Bank.
Such assistance is foreseen in the existing grant from the PHRD Fund (Japan).



-20-
3.7             Procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in Table 3.3. The cost of each
item includes its pro rata share of physical and price contingencies. The portion of the project not financed
by the Bank loan (NBF) would follow SBMA's procurement procedures. These follow COA rules and
guidelines, and are satisfactory to the Bank.
Table 3.3: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Component                --------------------------Procurement Method----------------------
ICB         LCB         Other         NBF         Total
Works
Land Access                           4.6          1.7                      0.4          6.7
(4.0)       (1.5)                     (0.0)        (5.5)
Airport Improvements                 14.4                                               14.4
(12.4)                                             (12.4)
Port Repairs                          2.3                                   0.1          2.4
(2.0)                                 (0.0)        (2.0)
Standard Factory Buildings            7.0                                   0.4          7.4
(6.0)                                 (0.0)        (6.0)
Goods
Airport Navigational Aids                                                   6.5          6.5
(0.0)       (0-0)
Communications Equipment              2.5                                                2.5
(2.5)                                              (2.5)
Vehicles                              0.7                                                0.7
(0.7)                                              (0.7)
Miscellaneous                         2.9                      0.5          0.1          3.5
(2.9)                    (0.3)        (0.0)        (3.2)
Consultants
Advisors                                                       2.8                       2.8
(2.8)                    (2.8)
Studies                                                        4.9          0.1          5.0
(4.9)       (0.0)        (4.9)
Total                                34.4          1.7         8.2          7.6         52.0
(30.5)       (1.5)        (8.0)        (0.0)       (40.0)
Figures in parentheses represent amounts financed by the Bank loan.
NBF: Not Bank Financed includes taxes and duties.
Other: local and international shopping; consultant services.



-21-
3.8          About US$34 million equivalent of goods and works to be financed by the Bank under the
proposed project would be suitable for procurement through international competitive bidding (ICB)
according to the Bank's procurement guidelines and using the Bank's standard bidding documents. Contracts
for goods valued at US$200,000 equivalent or more, amounting to US$6.1 million in the aggregate, would
be procured on the basis of ICB. A margin of preference equal to 15% of the CIF bid price of imported
goods, or the actual customs duty, whichever is lower, will be allowed for domestic manufacturers. Off-the-
shelf, readily available goods, having a per item value of no more than US$200,000, would be eligible for
procurement through local and international shopping with a minimum of three quotations, in an aggregate
amount not to exceed US$500,000. Civil works contracts valued at US$2 million equivalent or more,
amounting to US$28.3 million, would be procured on the basis of ICB. Minor civil works contracts valued
at less than US$2 million equivalent, amounting to US$1.7 million in the aggregate, would be procured
through local competitive bidding following procedures acceptable to the Bank. While it is unlikely that
foreign contractors would be interested in such small contracts, there will be no restriction on their bidding
on these contracts. Consulting services, amounting to US$7.7 million, will be awarded according to Bank
guidelines. It is expected that some 350 person-months of consulting services will be required for the
various activities of the project. Prior review of procurement documents will be required for consulting
services which will result in contracts with an estimated value of US$100,000 or more for the engagement
of firms and US$50,000 or more for the engagement of individuals. Prior review of bid documents and
approval of contract awards will be mandatory for all contracts expected to cost the equivalent of
US$200,000 or more, which will cover 90% of total contract value.
Disbursement
3.9          The estimated disbursement of the Bank loan is shown in Annex 13 and summarized in
Table 3.4. This assumes that the loan will become effective by July, 1994. The project is expected to be
completed by June 30, 1998. A loan closing date of June 30, 1999 has been established to allow for late
payments. The scheduled disbursement follows the Bank's standard profile for industrial development
projects in the Philippines. Retroactive financing not exceeding US$4 million equivalent of the proposed
loan is recommended for eligible payments made prior to the date of loan signing, but after December 6,
1993.  These expenditures would concern primarily consultant services for detailed engineering and
institutional support.
Table 3.4: Estimated Loan Disbursement
(US$ Millions)
-------------------------------Bank Fiscal Year-------------------------------
1995        1996        1997        1998        1999
Annual            7.2         17.6         11.2        2.4         1.6
Cumulative        7.2         24.8         36.0       38.4        40.0
3.10         The Bank loan will be disbursed against: (i) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported
equipment and materials; (ii) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured items;
(iii) 90% of civil works; (iv) 70% of other locally procured goods and services; and (v) 100% of total
expenditures for consulting services.



-22-
3.11         Disbursements for all expenditures would be based on full documentation, except for:
(i) contracts for works and equipment that cost less than US$200,000 equivalent; and (ii) contracts for
consulting services for US$100,000 equivalent for firms and US$50,000 equivalent for individuals.
Supporting documents for disbursements based on statements of expenditure (SOEs) would be kept by SBMA
for review by external auditors and Bank supervision missions. SBMA will open a US$ Special Account
in a commercial bank and an initial deposit of US$1 million (representing an average of about two months'
small disbursements) would be made to facilitate payments for eligible expenditures.
Monitoring, Reporting and Supervision
3.12         The Bank will monitor the physical progress of the proposed project as well as the
borrower's financial and institutional performance. For this purpose, an average of two supervision missions
will be fielded per year during the active project phase. The missions will review implementation of the
project in addition to the more general freeport conversion strategy. SBMA's institutional development and
financial situation will also be an important part of such reviews. To measure the success of the conversion
strategy, and SBMA/SBF performance, the following monitoring indicators would be used: (i) number and
amounts of private investment proposals pending approval; (ii) number and amounts of investment proposals
being implemented; and (iii) total employment created. The project manager in SBMA will serve as the key
liaison between the Bank and the borrower, and will provide periodic progress reports on project
implementation, to include the monitoring indicators. SBMA will also provide the Bank with its annual
financial and auditor's reports.
3.13         Project supervision by the Bank will follow the supervision plan presented in Annex 14.
Bank supervision will require an estimated 60 staffweeks over the life of the project, of which around 15
weeks will be at headquarters (to review, inter alia, procurement actions and progress reports) and 45 weeks
in the field. Supervision would be carried out by Bank staff and consultants with expertise in infrastructure
development (road engineer, port specialist), privatization support (privatization of utilities), institutional
issues, and environmental management. SBMA will supervise the project on an on-going basis through the
project manager, assisted by technical and financial staff within the institution as required. The planned
implementation schedule of the project is shown in Annex 15.
E. Enviromnmetal Aspects
3.14         An environmental analysis has been carried out for the proposed project, and the
corresponding report is currently being reviewed by the Bank. No resettlement of persons is required in
order to implement the project. There are no land acquisition issues since all improvements will take place
within the SBF, except for the Olongapo City approach to the Rizal Avenue bridge, which has been certified
by the Office of the City Mayor to be government property and free from all claims of any private entity.
The project is unlikely to cause an adverse impact on the environment. Potential impacts related to
construction activities (such as sediment runoffs) have been identified and mitigating measures described.
The report also discusses environmental concerns associated with future SBF operations and SBMA's
environmental management functions. An Environmental Management Plan has been developed (see para.
3.2) to address the broader issues of environmental management in the SBF.






-23-
IV. THE BORROWER
A. Background
4.1          The Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA) will be the borrower of the proposed loan
and will have overall responsibility for the implementation of the project. The SBMA was established as
a wholly-owned Government corporation through Republic Act 7227 (the Bases Conversion and
Development Act), enacted by the Congress of the Philippines in February 1992, and signed by the President
of the country in March 1992 to accelerate the conversion of military reservations into other productive uses.
This Act created the Bases Conversion and Development Authority (BCDA) and defined its functions and
powers; it established the Subic Special Economic and Freeport Zone (Zone); it created the SBMA as an
operating and implementing arm of the BCDA, charged with developing the Zone into a self-sustaining
industrial, commercial, financial and investment center; and provided funds for these purposes. In practice,
the BCDA's involvement in the development of the SBF consists of an oversight function, which it exercises
through membership in the SBMA's Board. Agreement was reached at negotiations with the GOP that it
would take, or cause to be taken, all action required to enable the SBMA to carry out the proposed project.
4.2          In contrast to the detailed and comprehensive legislation underlying other freeport regimes,
the entire legislative base for the Zone regime is contained in only three articles in the Act (Sections 12, 13
and 14). Freeports typically have one or a series of laws clearly delineating the nature of the economic
regime, the tax and trade regime, the financial regime, the application (or non-application) of relevant
national legislation, and the nature of transactions with the domestic economy. In the case of the Zone,
these issues were not carefully worked out in the process of developing the legislation. Presidential
Proclamation No. 50 subsequently clarified the powers of the SBMA in terms of ownership and privatization
of assets. The scope of SBMA activities and benefits of freeport status were significantly enhanced through
the promulgation of Implementing Rules and Regulations (R&R) by the SBMA in March, 1993. These R&R
had been extensively discussed and negotiated with the relevant GOP bodies, notably the Bureaus of Internal
Revenue, Customs, Immigration and Deportation, and Boards of Quarantine and Investments, among others.
More recently, Executive Order 97A has modified the freeport regime by subjecting duty- and tax-free
importation privileges of SBF residents and enterprises to certain limitations and conditions. In effect, duty-
and tax-free importation privileges are restricted to the former U.S. Naval Base, which is but one part of
the larger Zone (see para. 2.1); the role of Customs is significantly enhanced; and duty-free limits have been
established for Filipinos residing outside the base. Executive Order 140, issued in December, 1993, places
a moratorium on the establishment of new duty-free shops pending a national review of duty-free shops.
4.3          The R&R are supplemented by detailed regulations and procedures in the form of internal
operating procedures manuals. For example, a manual has been drafted for Customs Procedures. SBMA
has entered into Memoranda of Agreement (MOA) with certain GOP entities, including the Department of
Environment and Natural Resources (DENR); Customs (through a Customs Administrative Order); the
National Telecommunications Commission; and the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical
Services Administration. The DENR MOA is being revised to better reflect the SBMA's responsibilities
in environmental management as provided for in R.A. 7227. Similarly, several other MOA are pending and
under discussion. Nonetheless, there are very likely additional areas of ambiguity that have not yet come
to light and which will require resolution if and when the occasion arises. For example, although the SBMA
has made efforts to establish adequate relationships with local government units, these have been mostly ad
hoc and infornal, and issues of jurisdiction in the provision of local and municipal services may well need
to be addressed in the future.
4.4          The SBMA is a wholly-owned and controlled corporation (GOCC) of the GOP, with an
authorized capital of P 20 billion, paid up in part through transferred assets and in part through budgetary
transfers. The SBMA is provided considerable flexibility and autonomy to manage and operate the facilities
within its geographic boundaries, and can, inter alia: (i) exercise administrative powers, rule making and
disbursement of funds over the Zone; (ii) undertake and regulate the operation of utilities, shipping and other
services and concessions; (iii) contract, lease, sell or otherwise dispose properties; (iv) raise, borrow funds



-24-
and secure debts by pledging assets; (v) accept investments subject to its rules and regulations; and (vi) adopt
and implement environmental regulations.
B. Organ izaon  Structure
4.5          SBMA management is vested in its Board of Directors, which decides on all important
matters related to SBF development and administration. The 15 members of the Board, including the
Chairman, are appointed by the President. The Board consists of representatives of the former Base workers
(5 members), the GOP (2 members, one of whom is a BCDA representative), the four municipalities
contained in the Zone (4 members), the business sector (3 members) and the Chairman. All Board members
are appointed for a term of 6 years. The Chairman may also serve as the chief executive officer, referred
to as the Administrator. The Administrator is responsible for the overall performance of the SBMA. Under
the Administrator is a Senior Deputy Administrator, and 5 Deputy Administrators, responsible for
Administration; Finance; Tourism, Trade and Business; Public Works; and Port Operations.
4.6          The SBMA reports to the Office of the President, according to the provisions of the
Administrative Code of 1987 (EO 292, dated July 25, 1987). Although designated in R.A. 7227 as the
operating and implementing arm of the BCDA, the precise hierarchical relationship between the two entities
is ill-defined: both are adjuncts of the Office of the President, and enjoy a parallel reporting relationship to
this office. To date, the BCDA has maintained an arms-length relationship to the SBMA, and has
preoccupied itself with the development of the other military bases under its command (particularly Clark
Air Field).
4.7          As a GOCC, the SBMA is subject to controls placed by the Department of Budget and
Management (DBM), the Commission on Audit (COA), and the Civil Service Commission. Principal
responsibilities of the DBM over the SBMA include approval of annual SBMA appropriation from GOP,
approval of plantilla (civil service) positions (including number, job description and salary grade), and
approval of the annual budget submitted by the SBMA. COA undertakes a general audit of SBMA financial
statements and ensures that receipts and expenditures are made according to GOP procedures (para. 4.12).
4.8          SBMA is organized along functional lines and its organizational chart recognizes the SBMA's
goal of privatizing the operation of facilities rapidly (see organizational chart). In its budgetary approval
of 1994, the DBM approved 1,976 plantilla positions, and 2,100 contractual positions. Most of the
contractual employees work in areas that are slated for privatization, such as recreational facilities operators.
With the exception of the Chief Operating Officer (Senior Deputy Administrator), most senior management
positions have been filled, albeit with relatively inexperienced and junior managers. In practice, most of
the important investment promotion tasks are handled personally by the Chairman and his senior managers.
Agreements were reached at negotiations that a suitably qualified Chief Operating Officer will be appointed
by June 30, 1995.
4.9          An unusual feature at the SBMA is the large number of volunteers who are active primarily
in grounds and facilities maintenance. The presence of these volunteers, many of whom are displaced ex-
Naval Base employees, is indicative of the broad support for the SBF conversion program and the SBMA.
However, while the volunteers filled a critical gap in the SBMA's staffing in the early days of SBF
operation, their continued presence is neither feasible nor desirable. Recognizing this, the SBMA is
encouraging the professionalization of the volunteer workforce by assisting them to form companies or
cooperatives which can provide services on a contractual basis to the SBMA. In addition, the 1994 budget
has considerably increased the number of plantilla and contractual positions, which has enabled the SBMA
to absorb many of these volunteers.
4.10         In general, the SBMA's organizational structure is well-suited to the range of activities
involved in running the SBF. Staff are motivated, hard-working and infused with enthusiasm. Top
management is dynamic, and has been able to create and foster a sense of commitment to the SBF concept
amongst the staff. The SBMA is, furthermore, a young organization, both in terms of its recent creation
-- --- -----



-25-
and the relative youth of its staff. This presents certain definite advantages: there is no established
"corporate mind-set" to hinder innovative initiatives. The challenge for the SBMA is to harness this
enthusiasm and temper it with experience. Senior professionals could provide the necessary skills and
experience currently lacking in the SBMA, while providing on-the-job training to selected counterparts to
develop these skills in-house. In terms of organizational development, the SBMA's main task will be to
set up a management structure in which sound freeport administration can be institutionalized. Agreements
were reached at negotiations on a joint review of the SBMA's policy and organizational effectiveness, to take
place by July 31, 1995, and to include an assessment of: (i) the full impact of the various policies and rules
affecting the core policies of the freeport regime; and (ii) the operating autonomy of the SBMA, particularly
with regard to staffing, compensation and procurement.
C. Financial Management and Control
FEmda Polce
4.11          Accounting Systems. The SBMA is required to adopt standard Government procedures for
accounting, budgeting, procurement and personnel management. Accounting systems, procedures and chart
of accounts are approved by COA. The SBMA's system of accounts is fully operational on a manual basis,
and plans are underway for its automation during early 1995 (see para. 3.2). Financial statements have been
prepared and reconciled for the start-up 1992 operations, and a full set of financial statements have been
prepared on a monthly basis during 1993. A good attempt has been made to accurately reflect the financial
condition of the enterprise. Income categories are subdivided by major revenue sources such as rentals,
utilities billed and revenues generated from the provision of services and concessions.
4.12         Audits. As with other GOCCs, COA performs annual financial and performance audits.
In addition, 6 COA staff are stationed permanently on SBMA premises and act partially as the SBMA's
internal auditors. Because COA may object to certain expenditures, which then become the personal liability
of the concerned official, pre-audits are common. Audited financial statements are to be issued within six
months of the close of the fiscal year. The audit report for 1992 was found to be satisfactory. Agreement
was reached at negotiations that the SBMA will provide, within six months of the close of its fiscal year (i.e.
by June 30 of each year), an audited report of its annual financial statements, and the Statement of
Expenditures for the project, prepared by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. Provisional
financial statements will be provided one month after the close of the fiscal year.
4.13          Taxes. The SBMA is subject to a 35% corporate income tax rate. It is exempt from
customs duties and taxes on all goods and services consumed within the SBF. Purchases from domestic
venders are zero-rated for value-added tax (VAT) purposes, but VAT-registered venders have to specifically
apply for the effective zero-rating of their sales to the SBMA and SBF enterprises.
Financial Mt
4.14          Booking of Assets. The major issue involving the proper accounting of SBMA's financial
condition is the booking of the various assets which have been turned over to the SBMA at little or no cost.
The SBMA has an authorized capital of P 20 billion, paid up in part through transferred assets and in part
through budgetary transfers of iR 300 million per year for three years. The imputed value of transferred
assets is thus P 19.1 billion. This amount has been allocated to the various categories of fixed assets such
as land, buildings and facilities, with adjustments to be made as and when facilities are actually appraised.
The adjustment entry would be booked to the specific fixed asset with the difference charged as either an
extraordinary gain or loss to the profit and loss account. Under this approach, the SBMA would reflect an
indicative value for the properties, and conduct appraisals only if and when they are deemed necessary. In
addition, the SBMA can begin to depreciate these assets based on their remaining useful lives. Agreement
was reached during negotiations that SBMA will complete the revaluation of its assets in a manner acceptable
to the Bank by December 31, 1995.



-26-
4.15          Financial Planning. The SBMA assembles an annual operating and capital expenditure
budget, as mandated by DBM. It has recently begun to develop a fully integrated long-term financial and
investment plan based on its development strategy. Given the rapidly evolving environment facing the SBF,
any planning exercise must, by necessity, be flexible, so as to permit the SBMA to be responsive to market
signals in a timely fashion. The Corporate Planning department is responsible for planning, and while a
good start has been made to formalize the SBMA's development strategy through a rolling, five-year plan,
much more work is required to fine-tune the process and fully involve all SBMA operating departments.
To this end, the project will provide technical assistance in the form of a long-term, resident expert (see
para. 3.2 (b)). Agreements were be reached at negotiations to carry out a joint review of SBMA's rolling,
five-year investment plan on an annual basis no later than March 31 of each fiscal year until the project is
completed; further, that SBMA will carry out this plan.
4.16          Internal Control. The SBMA's internal control office is attached to the Office of the
Administrator. Present internal control mechanisms are adequate for the limited activity that the SBMA has
engaged in to date. However, increased activity in the SBF will lead to a corresponding increase in the
number and complexity of SBMA interventions, calling for added attention to internal control mechanisms.
In this, as in other key aspects of institutional strengthening, the project will finance technical assistance to
help the SBMA implement appropriate mechanisms (see para. 3.2 (b)).
4.17          Management Information Systems. Although the SBMA does not have a formal management
information system that is fully computerized and integrated, the information needs of management and staff
are met through a variety of mechanisms. Financial reports are produced by the Accounting and Finance
department on a monthly basis. Special databases are maintained in certain SBMA operating departments.
Chief amongst these is the investor tracking system, in which data on the proposed activity, details of the
investment proposal and status of the investment application of potential investors are entered. These
databases constitute a functioning management information system which is frequently accessed by senior
management for internal control purposes. This system is satisfactory.
4.18          The SBMA intends to develop a smart-card security system for the purposes of implementing
the freeport regime, particularly with regard to movement of duty-free merchandise to the Philippines
economy. This system would track purchases of duty- and tax-free goods in the SBF, and ensure that full
taxes are paid on excess purchases beyond the prescribed free limits. An indirect benefit of the system is
to provide the SBMA (and SBF enterprises) with useful marketing information on the characteristics and
purchasing patterns of SBF tourists and visitors. This is an area that holds promise for future development
as a self-supporting information service industry.
4.19          Insurance.  The SBMA does not presently carry insurance for the facilities under its
jurisdiction. However, investors are required to provide adequate insurance for all leased facilities. Part
of the problem in insuring all SBF assets is the sheer magnitude of coverage that would be required. An
assessment of insurance needs and requirements of the SBF, identification of possible service providers and
evaluation of available alternatives will be carried out during project timeframe. Agreements were reached
at negotiations that the SBMA will provide appropriate insurance coverage or adequate reserves for, and
otherwise properly maintain, all its facilities.
D. Environmental Mnagnt
4.20          Recognizing the importance of sound environmental management for a site such as the SBF
with its significant ecological endowments, R.A. 7227 calls for the establishment of an Ecology Center at



-27-
the SBF to undertake all aspects of environmental management for the site.!' The main environmental
protection functions that the Ecology Center is responsible for are:
*      monitoring of parameters indicative of the state of environmental quality throughout the
SBMA jurisdiction, as well as the measurement of the performance of the operators of
environmental infrastructure and services (such as waste water treatment). With regard to
individual facilities and industries located within the SBF, the Ecology Center would receive
regular monitoring reports from the concerned operators, and carry out periodic inspections
to verify these reports. While the bulk of the laboratory analyses will be undertaken by
outside laboratories, a minimal in-house analytical capability is required for routine sampling
and analysis.
*      enforcement of the environmental quality goals and standards established by the SBMA is
an essential function of the Ecology Center. To effectively conduct enforcement, it will be
necessary to develop and adopt criteria by which the compliance status of facilities can be
determined; to monitor compliance on a periodic basis; and to exhibit the political will to
implement the recommended actions, including closure of the facilities if necessary.
*      issuance of permits is another key function of the Ecology Center. The types of permits
include Environmental Compliance Certificates, Authority to Construct, and Permit to
Operate. In order to eliminate the confusion and bottlenecks that have developed in the
administration of the permitting system at the national level, each SBF applicant will be
assigned a "case officer" who will work with the applicant to ensure the timely processing
of permit applications. This will provide applicants with a "one-stop" approach for the
necessary paper-work.
*      environmental standards, policies and regulations will be the responsibility of the Center.
An Environmental Procedures Manual has been prepared as part of the extensive TA
provided to the SBMA, and has been adopted. Agreements were reached at negotiations that
these procedures will be implemented.
*      emergency response and remediation is another functional responsibility of the Ecology
Center. This requires the development of emergency and contingency plans that anticipate
the nature of such events. The proposed technical assistance (see para. 3.2) will help to
develop this capability.
*      administration of protected areas is coordinated by the Ecology Center, although the
actual patrolling and surveillance activities are the responsibility of the SBMA's security
forces.
*      education in the area of the environment also falls within the domain of the Ecology Center.
This function involves investor advisory services with regard to compliance with
environmental rules and regulations, and also commnunity education with regard to
environmental protection.
4.21           The Ecology Center has effectively started operations only in late 1993, and at present
consists of some 20 staff. Building up an adequate environmental management capability at the SBMA will
take time. A detailed organizational development plan has been produced as part of a comprehensive
Environmental Management Plan defined by the SBMA (see terms of reference in Annex 1.1). This plan
Article 13 (b) (10). whereby the SBMA has the powers and functions 'to adopt and implement measures and standards
for environmental pollution control of all areas within its territory. including, but not limited to all bodies of water and
to enforce the same. For which purpose the Subic Authority shall create an Ecology Center." The SBMA is currently
revising its MOA with DENR to make explicit these responsibilities.



-28-
provides a blueprint for the implementation of sound environmental management practices at the SBMA.
The adoption by SBMA's Board of an agreed plan and its publication is a condition of effectiveness of the
project. Agreement was reached at negotiations that this plan will be implemented.
4.22          One early activity of the Ecology Center will be to oversee the carrying out of the
Environmental Baseline Survey. This survey will establish the environmental conditions of the site, describe
the basic ecology and identify any contaminated areas, given the site's former military use. Little published
information is currently available on base conditions, and the Baseline Survey will establish a database on
the forest lands and the bay. If any contaminated sites are identified, the Survey will indicate the types of
follow-up studies and analyses that will be required to clean-up those areas. This survey is a key priority
of the SBMA; terms of reference for the Survey are in Annex 9. Aside from the above functions, the
Ecology Center will serve as the center for management of the SBF forest (para. 2.16), together with the
intact parts of the adjacent Bataan National Park. These forests are scheduled for inclusion in the GEF
Conservation of Priority Protected Areas project, and the existing MOA between SBMA and DENR provides
for SBMA management of this area. The Subic-Bataan forests are particularly suitable to eco-tourism and
this is likely to be one of the few uses to which protected forests can be put. The Ecology Center will also
serve as a nationwide training center in park management.
E. Training and Technical Assistance Needs
4.23          Despite the many achievements of the SBMA in administering the SBF, there are some areas
where technical assistance and training are needed. One area of priority is to rationalize and strengthen key
organizational functions. The planning capability at the SBMA requires improvement. The SBF's
privatization and development plan needs to be refined and reassessed on an on-going basis. Organizational
support is required in investment promotion, evaluation and registration procedures to guard against potential
darnpening of investor interest due to a lack of experience on the part of SBMA's staff. The SBMA's
organizational expertise in the implementation of the freeport regime also needs strengthening, as does the
facilities management function. And, urgent expertise is required in the area of environmental management
and enforcement. As described in paragraph 3.2, the proposed project aims to assist the SBMA in filling
these gaps and strengthening its institutional capacities.
4.24          At present, the SBMA has no in-house training capacity. Training workshops on a variety
of subjects are required to upgrade the skills of its staff, and have been included in the project. Examples
of the type of activities to be undertaken include training workshops on freeport customs policy and
administration; SBMA merchandise inspection procedures; investment promotion strategy and approaches
for targeted sectors; and workshops on environmental management and enforcement approaches. In
addition, staff will be trained in the use of new systems (merchandise control and accounting and billing)
to be financed under the project.



-29-
V. FNANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Overview of Past and Current Performance
5.1          The SBMA commenced financial operations during June 1992 or about 5 months before the
base was officially turned over to the Philippine Government. The SBMA was established with an initial
capital base of P 20 billion, paid up through the transfer of all the land and facilities of the former Naval
Base as well three additional annual cash contributions of P 300 million each which would be made by the
GOP during SBMA's first three years of operation. The SBMA received its first equity contribution totaling
P 210 million soon after its establishment, P 123 million of which was immediately applied for purchasing
selected equipment from the departing US Navy. The remaining amount was retained for working capital
in order to cover start-up expenses.
5.2          SBMA's actual financial performance for the first 6 months of operation during 1992 and
preliminary year-end figures for 1993 are presented in Annex 16 and summarized in Table 5.1 below.
Table 5.1: SBMA Financial Performance, 1992-93
(in Thousand US$)
1992                  1993
6-Months Actual        Preliminary
Total Revenues                      209                   8,143
Operating Expenses                  893                   6,940
Net Income                          821                    756
Cash from Operations               -685                   1,256
Operating Ratio                   428%                     85%
Accts. Receivable/days               12                     62
Current Ratio                      9.55                    4.84
Debt/Equity Ratio                 0.0%                    0.0%
Return on Assets                  -12%                    0.0%
Return Equity                     -12%                    0.0%
5.3          Given its recent establishment, a financial analysis of SBMA's past performance is not very
meaningful. During the initial months of operations, the SBMA performed many extraordinary activities
related to the transfer of ownership and management of the facilities. Much of its revenues during this
period were realized through non-core activities such as the lease of the power plant and the operation of
tourism, sport and hotel facilities. Revenues from privatized assets and leases comprised only a minority
share of total revenues earned; and while steps have been taken to privatize many of the non-core facilities
and to build up the lease base, this transition will take several years to complete. Until then, SBMA's
financial performance indicators will continue to reflect an evolving condition.
5.4           For the first six months of operations in 1992, the SBMA incurred a net loss of
approximately P 23 million (US$821,000). Preliminary figures for 1993 indicate that the SBMA will
realize a small profit for the 12 month period. This has been possible in part because the properties were



-30-
turned over to the SBMA at no cost and without any debt obligations. Also, the early profit performance
is overstated because the SBMA has been utilizing a large number of unpaid volunteers for maintaining and
securing much of the base facilities, the alternative cost of which has not been noted into the profit and loss
accounts. The use of unpaid volunteers is diminishing as they are either absorbed into the SBMA or
organized into companies to provide services (para. 4.9). Accordingly, the cost of such services will have
to be borne by the SBMA and incorporated in its financial statements. In addition, the SBMA has not yet
begun a comprehensive maintenance and repair program, the implications of which would also tend to
understate its operating expenses during the early start-up period.
5.5          Despite these caveats, SBMA's early profit performance is impressive, and significant
achievements have been made in establishing a revenue base of investor tenants and tourists during the later
part of 1993 (paras. 2.22-2.25). Estimates for end-1993 indicate that the SBMA will realize close to R 150
million or over 60% of total revenues from leases of industrial and commercial space.
5.6          Highlights of the SBMA's financial condition estimated as of end- 1993 are shown in
Table 5.2 below.
Table 5.2: SBMA Financial Condition, 1992-93
(in US$ Thousand )
1992             1993
6-Month        Preliminary
Actual
Assets
Gross Fixed Assets                         4,391        686,839
Less: Acc. Deprec.                           136            579
Net Fixed Assets                           4,254        686,259
Net Working Capital                        2,406          12,761
Debt & Equity
Paid-in Capital                            7,552        698,924
Retained =ings                              -821             97
Long-termn Debt                                0              0
5.7          The initial budgetary appropriations provided the essential capital base for launching the
SBMA on a sound financial footing during the start-up period. The equity provided by the state has enabled
the SBMA to finance the acquisition of equipment made available by the departing U.S. Navy, as well as
sufficient working capital for operations. This has also meant that the SBMA has not had to borrow to
finance any of the initial capital requirements. The SBMA has, through its own internal generation of funds,
been able to realize a positive net earning position for the 18-month period. Given the delays experienced
in receiving the additional appropriated contributions, the SBMA will have to rely more on its own resources
for maintaining a sound position in the future.
5.8          As indicated in Chapter IV, SBMA's balance sheet does not reflect fully the immense value
of the total properties and facilities which have been transferred to it through R.A. 7227 and more
importantly, the need to allocate funds for the replacement of essential assets. While steps have been taken
to begin an appraisal process of selected fixed assets, the true financial position of the organization will also
be an evolutionary process until all the properties can be accurately accounted and valued. As an interim
measure, the SBMA has booked the i 19.1 billion which is authorized under R.A. 7227 in order to have
a better reflection of the total value of the properties and to begin a depreciation program for the replacement



-31-
of essential assets. This will also enable a more accurate analysis of financial performance, although many
facilities have little alternate commercial use besides the original military purpose for which they were built.
B. Investmet Progr  and Financng Plan
5.9          Table 5.3 below summarizes SBMA's investment program and financing plan for the 1994-
98 period.
Table 5.3: SBMA's Financing Plan (1994-1998)
Peso            US$                 %
Million         Million
Financing Requirements
Investment Program                          4,356             156                99
Increase in Working Capital                   153               5                 3
Increase in Cash                            (128)              (5)              (3)
Total                                       4,381             156               100
Sources of Funds
Cash Generation                             2,036              73                46
Capital Increase                              565              20                13
Proposed IBRD Loan                          1,120              40                26
Other Borrowings                             660               24                15
Total                                       4,381             156               100
5.10         The SBMA has commenced an investment program to upgrade the facilities of the SBF and
prepare them for occupancy by potential investors and tourists. Altogether, the SBMA is contemplating an
investment program totaling around US$156 million equivalent over the five year period between 1994 and
1998. Among the main components of this program are: (i) the proposed project as described in Chapter
III totaling US$52 million; (ii) site development of approximately 120 hectares of an industrial estate area
amounting to an approximate investment of US$23.5 million; (iii) water and sewerage upgrading and
expansion, inclusive of dredging of waterways for an estimated US$31 million; and (iv) minor facilities
improvements, and the purchase of various equipment and vehicles. These investment figures exclude
investments that will be made by private investors in manufacturing and commercial facilities, commitments
for which stood at US$350 million as of end-1993.
5.11         Of the total SBMA investments, approximately 46% will be financed through internally
generated funds and the remaining 54% will be financed through debt and the additional equity contributions
anticipated by Government. The proposed loan will amount to 26% of the total financing for the 1994-98
investment program.



-32-
C. Future Flancial Performance
5.12            Financial projections for the period 1994-2003 are presented in Annex 17 along with a
description of the underlying assumptions and input variables. A summary of projected performance is
shown in Table 5.4 below.
Table 5.4: SBMA's Projected Key Financial Indicators, 1994-2003
(US$ Million)
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Income
Total Revenues                19.1    34.3    46.6    56.1    59.0    90.0   95.1   111.5   120.8   143.5
Operating Expenses            16.1    22.8   24.5    28.6    31.0    45.9    49.5    53.5    57.0    61.0
Net Income                   (10.7)   (3.2)    2.7    4.4    3.1    12.9   13.5    21.4    25.3    37.6
Total Asses                  714.3   748.6   773.9   787.9   791.9   812.2   824.4   844.1   867.3   905.1
Primary Ratios
Current Ratio                  1.8    1.7    1.2    1.3    1.7    2.0         3.0    4.1      5.2     6.2
Debt/Equity Ratio (%)          2.0    6.0    8.0    9.0    9.0    8.0         8.0    7.0    6.0       6.0
Debt Service Coverage (times)  125.4    10.6    6.5    6.6    6.6    8.6    5.9    6.7    6.7    8.3
Operating Ratio (%)           84.0    67.0    53.0    51.0    53.0    51.0    52.0    48.0    47.0    43.0
Return on Assets (%)          -1.5    -0.4    0.4    0.6    0.4       1.7    1.8    2.9    3.6    5.5
5.13            While many of the performance indicators show a very favorable future financial picture,
the return on asset indicator becomes respectable only after the year 2000.  Moreover, the profit
performance is initially affected by the significant charges to depreciation expense resulting from the booking
up of assets (para. 4.14). The financial internal rate of return is significantly affected by the large asset base
representing this initial capital imputation. Based on actual capital outlays to date, a 34 % return is achieved,
versus 12 % with the larger capital base. Considering that a significant portion of the large capital base does
not generate revenue (the SBF forest is one example; the Naval Magazine area is another), the financial rate
of return is very satisfactory. It should also be noted that this rate of return is estimated on the basis of
direct revenues expected to accrue to the SBMA. The multiplier effect of key investments (such as the
regional air freight hubbing operation), which has not been estimated, would tend to further reinforce
SBMA's financial strength.
5.14            Revenues over the next 10 years are projected to increase from  l2 535.6 million pesos
(US$19 million) during 1994 to more than P 4 billion (US$144 million) in 2003. While building and land
leases are expected to contribute a sizable share of this revenue, more than half of the revenue will be
derived from revenues of privatized services, mostly in joint ventures with private operators. Expenses are
projected to increase from an estimated P 451 million (US$16 million) during 1994 to more than P 1.7
billion (US$61 million) in 2003. Salaries and benefits, being by far the largest expense category in 1994,
are expected to drop relative to the other expense categories as the SBMA privatizes more and more of its
facilities. Expenses for the provision of power, water and sewerage will increase as usage by tenants in the
SBF also increases. Since much of the future investments will continue to be largely financed through
internally generated funds, interest expense will remain a relatively small expense category throughout the
projection period. As shown, the debt to equity ratio above will reach a maximum of only 9% during the
ten year period.
5.15            While not a manufacturing enterprise, the SBMA requirements for working capital will still
be significant, largely due to the fact that all security deposits of industrial and commercial tenants must be
placed in trust accounts. The current ratio is expected to remain 1.2 or higher over the 10 year period. To



-33-
ensure that measures are taken to maintain a strong financial condition and satisfactory liquidity, agreements
were reached at negotiation that the SBMA will maintain; (i) a debt/equity ratio of no more than 70:30; (ii)
a current ratio of at least 1.2; and (iii) a debt service coverage of at least 1.5 from 1994 onwards. These
targets will provide for the financial health of the SBMA, and are judged to be appropriate for the SBMA's
particular situation.






-34-
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1           The development of the SBF will yield significant economic benefits. Increased economic
activity in the SBF will have spill-over effects to the surrounding municipalities, and will replace the jobs
lost as a result of the U.S. Navy evacuation. Furthermore, the job base will now be more diversified, thus
less susceptible to downturns in any one sector. The previous job base was almost entirely dominated by
the entertainment service industry. The new job base, even for tourism-related activities, targets a different
audience. Job creation will clearly depend on the pace of SBF development. Over the next ten years, it
is conservatively estimated that the SBF will provide over 80,000 jobs, allocated between industry (80%);
tourism-related services (7%); commerce (8%); and administration (4%). Based on experience of similar
developments in the region, export revenues of US$11,600 per annum per industrial employee can be
expected, which would amount to total export revenues of US$750 million for the SBF by 2003, and US$1.4
billion by 2008. Value-added ratios for the type of light industrial activity likely to take place in the SBF
are typically between 35 % and 45 %, which would translate to net foreign exchange earnings of over US$500
million by 2008. It should be noted that these estimates do not include earnings resulting from non-
industrial activities, such as tourism and commerce.
6.2           Also expected are significant spill-over effects to other parts of Central Luzon. As the SBF
port develops, it will hold the potential to become a hub for the shipment of goods from the Central Luzon,
thereby decongesting Manila harbor and reducing transport delays. The SBF also holds the potential to serve
as the commercial and financial hub for the industrial development of the Central Luzon. The GOP
recognizes the importance of the SBF for the "image" of the country vis-a-vis foreign investors. If the SBF
succeeds, it will demonstrate to the country itself, not to mention the rest of the world, that an investor-
friendly, non-bureaucratic environment can exist in the Philippines. The economic value of such a
perception should not be discounted.
6.3           The proposed project is designed to contribute to the general development of the SBF. It
constitutes a small, but critical, portion of total expected investment in the SBF. The demand for
infrastructure and other related investments, and thus, the economic viability of the proposed project,
depends on the economic activity that will take place in the SBF. In order to gauge the economic feasibility
of the major project-financed items, three scenarios of demand were constructed for major project
components, with the exception of port repair, for which project actions are designed to prevent serious
deterioration of the structures over the next ten years. The expected scenario assumes a moderate growth
in industrial and tourism activity; the optimistic scenario assumes a rapid growth, whereas the pessimistic
scenario assumes slow growth and dwindling interest on the part of investors. The resulting economic rates
of return are shown in Table 6.1 (see Annex 18 for details). As can be seen, the rates of return on all
project components are satisfactory in both the expected and optimistic scenarios.  Even under the
assumption of slow growth, most project components are economically viable.
6.4           There are significant environmental benefits that have not been quantified. Project-financed
actions will have a positive impact on the environment. The Baseline Survey will provide basic data against
which future air, water and soil quality can be monitored. The implementation of sound environmental
management procedures, assisted in part by project-financed technical assistance, will ensure that all SBF
investment is adequately screened for its potential impact on the environment, and that mitigative action
plans are developed for any negative impacts. The establishment of monitoring mechanisms, also largely
financed by the project, will enable the SBMA to take quick, corrective action in the event that SBF
enterprises are not in compliance with the mandated environmental standards.



-35-
Table 6.1: Economic Rate of Return of Major Project Components (%)
Demand Scenario                            Expected         Optimistic       Pessimistic
Land Access
- bridge & main entry complex                    37               43                27
- access road a/                                 15               19                 6
Airport
- passenger terminal b/                          19               42                19
- pavement improvements c/                       15               21                 9
Port
- wharf repair                                   13                n.a.              n.a.
- cathodic protection d/                         12                n.a.              n.a.
Standard Factory Buildings                       20               26                13
a/ Includes Kalayaan Security Plaza.
b/ Includes related cargo terminal, passenger apron and commnunications equipment.
c/ Includes freight apron, taxiway strengthening and air traffic control equipment.
d/ Average for Pier 1010 and Bravo Wharf.
B. Risks
6.5           While the benefits of the proposed project are many, there are certain risks associated that
should not be minimized. Interviews with potential foreign investors indicate that the major perceived risk
has to do with the political situation in the Philippines. A policy reversal regarding the freeport status of
the SBF would nullify its competitive advantages, and inflows of foreign investment would likely diminish.
Agreements were reached with the GOP on a prior consultation process between the GOP and the Bank on
any policy modification with regard to the SBF's freeport regime. Appropriate remedies against a potential
policy reversal regarding the freeport status of the SBF have been included in the proposed loan. Another
risk relates to the relative lack of experience in freeport management at the SBMA, as a result of which
decisions may not be made in a timely and optimal fashion. To address this concern, the project will finance
long-term technical assistance, whose role will be to provide the experience and expertise in the short-term,
while training SBMA personnel on-the-job so that they gain the necessary experience under the guidance of
seasoned professionals. The risk of delays in project implementation has been minimized through intensive
project preparation activity. Another potential risk is a delay in investor activity and occupancy of the SBF.
This risk is minimized by the nature of the incentive regime and the ready availability of world class
infrastructure, as evidenced by the actual investment and expressions of interest received to date.
6.6           The project itself is not expected to have adverse environmental impacts. However, there
is a risk of future environmental degradation if satisfactory maintenance practices are not followed. With
respect to future investment activity in the SBF, the environmental management mechanisms and procedures
that have already been instituted or that will be instituted in accordance with the agreed action plan (see para.
4.21), will ensure that any negative environmental impacts are satisfactorily dealt with prior to investment
approval. The environmental risks and the corresponding mitigation plans are discussed in detail in the EA
report.



-36-
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agrements
7.1          The following actions will be required prior to effectiveness:
(a)   the publication of SBMA's land use plan to guide future SBF development (para. 2.16); and
(b)   the adoption by the SBMA's Board of an agreed Environmental Management Plan and its
publication (paras. 3.2, 4.21).
7.2          Agreements were reached at negotiations with GOP on the following:
(a)   the provision of a guarantee on the proposed loan (para. 3.4);
(b)   the GOP will take, or cause to be taken, all action required to enable the SBMA to carry
out the proposed project (para. 4.1); and
(c)    a prior consultation process with the Bank on any policy modifications with regard to the
SBF's freeport regime (para. 6.5).
7.3          Agreements were reached at negotiations with SBMA on the following:
(a)   the implementation of the adopted land use plan (para. 2.16), the implementation of the
Environment Procedures Manual (para. 4.20) and the implementation of the Environmental
Management Plan (para. 4.21);
(b)   for all TA activities financed by the proposed loan, the SBMA will retain consultants
according to terms of reference and a selection procedure acceptable to the Bank, and an
action plan and timetable for the carrying out of these studies and the implementation of the
agreed recommendations (para. 3.2);
(c)    an action plan and timetable for the adequate provision of water and sewerage and solid
waste management services in the SBF would be provided by December 31, 1994 (para.
3.2);
(d)   the retaining of appropriately qualified consultants for the supervision of civil works
financed by the proposed loan (para. 3.6);
(e)   the appointment of a suitably qualified Chief Operating Officer by June 30, 1995 (para.
4.8);
(f)    a joint review of the SBMA's policy and organizational effectiveness to take place by July
31, 1995, and to include an assessment of: (i) the full impact of EOs and other rules
affecting the core policies of the freeport regime; and (ii) the operating autonomy of the
SBMA, particularly with regard to staffing, compensation and procurement (para. 4.10);
(g)   the annual provision of audited financial statements to the Bank no later than six months
after the close of SBMA's fiscal year, prepared by auditors satisfactory to the Bank; and the
provision of provisional financial statements one month after the close of the fiscal year
(para. 4.12);



-37-
(h)   the revaluation of SBMA assets in a manner acceptable to the Bank by December 31, 1995
(para. 4.14);
(i)    a joint review of SBMA's rolling, five-year investment plan on an annual basis no later than
March 31 of each fiscal year, and its implementation, over the life of the project (para.
4.15);
(j)    provision of appropriate insurance coverage, or adequate reserves for, and proper
maintenance of SBMA facilities (para. 4.19); and
(k)    maintenance of a debt:equity ratio of no more than 70:30; of a current ratio of at least 1.2
and a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 from 1994 onwards (para. 5.15).
B. Remdation
7.4           Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project would be suitable for
a Bank loan of US$40 million equivalent, for a period of 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The borrower will be the Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority with
the guarantee of the Republic of the Philippines.



- 38 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Description of Infrastructure Components
1.           Access Road: This 4 km, two-lane road connecting Kalayaan Gate to Kalalake Bridge is
designed to avoid traffic congestion in Olongapo City and provide access to the SBF for heavy traffic.
The road provides a shorter and more direct route to the major industrial development area of the SBF
and a faster route to retail/commercial areas. It will also provide a shorter route for commuters travelling
to the SBF from residential areas located to the east of Kalayaan Gate. The road consists of 2 km
through low area (a 200 m concrete viaduct over swampy area would be included) and 2 km through
mountainous terrain (a climbing lane will be provided at locations with a steep grade). The road
pavement will be asphalt, except for steep grade locations where PCC will be used.
2.           Kalayaan Security Gate: This will be the control point at the end of the Access Road for
the checking of trucks and tourist buses by the SBMA security at entrance and by Customs at exit. The
1 ha plaza will contain four booths serving a total of eight lanes, a Customs and Security Building, and
parking bays for articulated trucks prior to entry.
3.           Rizal Avenue Bridge and Main Entrance Complex: The construction of the Rizal Bridge
and Main Entry Complex will increase the capacity for local traffic entering and leaving the SBF. The
Rizal Bridge will permit the establishment of a one-way circulation pattern which proceeds southwest on
Rizal Avenue, crosses over the Rizal Bridge, enters the SBF and then exits the SBF by crossing the
existing Magsaysay Bridge. The Main Entry Complex will allow the bridges to operate at capacity
without significant queuing delays by providing sufficient parallel channels for the security checks at the
entrance and customs checks at the exit. The complex will provide a circulation pattern for the urban
public transport (buses and jeepneys) which bypasses both the security and customs checks while allowing
for an efficient transfer to the internal transportation system. Rizal Bridge is an 82 m, two-lane
reinforced concrete deck girder bridge with a 3 m sidewalk on one side. The bridge consists of 5 spans
(14-18-18-18-14) with a removable central span that can be lifted for dredging purposes. It will be
similar in structure and alignment to the former Rizal Avenue bridge (which was moved to its present
location at Magsaysay Avenue). The Main Entry Complex will consist of the bus circulation roads, the
bus transfer stations and the customs plaza for checking exiting vehicles. Two customs gates (four lanes)
will be constructed initially, but two additional gates can be added later to meet traffic growth.
4.           Airort Passenger Terminal and Apron: Existing hangar 8015 will be converted to create
adequate passenger handling capacity at Subic International Airport. Existing office spaces of hangar will
be used as supporting facilities, and the main hangar area will be used for passenger processing. A
second level has been allowed for, for future expansion, but will not be constructed at this stage. The
terminal facility as proposed will be adequate until the year 2000 (based on traffic forecasts), and can be
made adequate until the year 2003 with little additional work and inconvenience. An existing building
will also be converted into a freight warehouse for freight carried on passenger aircraft. The apron in
front of the hangar will be strengthened to accommodate aircraft of sizes up to 737s and A-300s. The
various communications equipment will be replaced so as to provide reliable communications between
the airport tower and the approach aircraft as well as between the tower and other parts of the airport.



- 39 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
5.            Airport Pavement Improvements and Air Traffic Control System:  In light of the
anticipated freight hubbing activity at Subic International Airport, the runway will be strengthened (100-
125 mm AC overlay; minor repairs to PCC) in order to accommodate the size of aircraft which are
forecast for the next ten years. Study and mitigation of the subsidence problem at the northeast end of
the runway are also included. The reconstruction of the southeast taxiway including strengthening and
widening of the taxiway to 100 feet in order to accommodate MD-11 aircraft is also foreseen. The
installation of an Area Surveillance Radar system and completion of the Instrument Landing System will
allow the airport to offer 24-hour, all-weather operations required for freight hub operations. Existing
aprons are not designed for planned heavier aircraft weights, and 150 mm PCC bonded overlay will be
provided. In the air freight operations area, the apron strengthening will accommodate MD-i Is and
similar sized aircraft with cargo and fuel loads consistent with a regional freight hubbing operation.
6.            Saport Rpair:  Pier 1010, also known as the Marine Terminal, is a trestle type
reinforced concrete structure on piles, 70m wide and 225m long. The Alava Wharf is a reinforced
concrete structure, 700m in length, supported by composite piles. The present elevation of the deck
shows some uneven settlements, requiring in-depth investigation. The Rivera Wharf has a concrete deck
with a total length of iOOOm. Behind the wharf is a sheet pile retaining wall which provides direct access
to the back-up area. The Bravo Wharf is a reinforced concrete structure supported by steel tubular piles.
Given the present and anticipated use of these facilities, it is not appropriate to renew the wharves or
strengthen them beyond their current capacity. However, maintenance work is required to prevent further
rapid deterioration of the underdeck structure, and to ensure their continued availability for operations
or commercial activities. The subsidence problem at Alava and Rivera Wharves would be studied, but
not rectified. The fendering systems would be repaired, but not renewed. The piles would be patched,
but not jacketed, and the decking would be patched, but not resurfaced. Pier 1010 would receive a more
comprehensive maintenance because of its anticipated use for cargo handling activities; repairs are
required mainly to the fendering system. A cathodic protection system will be installed to protect the
steel components at Pier 1010 and Bravo Wharf.
7.           Standard Factory Buildings: A pilot standard factory building development will be
undertaken on a 10 ha site in the former PWC area. Site development will include the basic
infrastructure (roadways, water, electrical and sewer line connections). The initial phase will cover an
approximate land area of 6 ha for 20,000 m2 of covered floor area. Three basic configurations, providing
multiples of 1,000 m2 space, have been designed. 6 buildings will be constructed in total. The rate of
construction would be adjusted to the demand for this space; however, site development of the entire area
would take place in 1994.
8.           Security and Miscellaneous Eguipment: Water and electricity meters will be provided
to permit appropriate billing of utilities. Several lots of miscellaneous equipment will be purchased.
These include: (i) 8 all-terrain vehicles (2 for the Ecology Center and 6 for Security Services); (ii) 5 16'-
20' 'patrol' boats and 1 aluminum banca with outboard; (iii) trucks and specialized equipment for
facilities maintenance; (iv) communications equipment for SBMA's security forces (radios, batteries,
antenna); (v) electrical equipment such as portable generators, flood lights, and other emergency
equipment; (vi) laboratory equipment for the Ecology Center; and (vii) office equipment such as overhead
projectors and computers.



- 40 -
Annex 2
PHILIPPINES
Subic Bay Freeport Project
Indicative Timetable of TA Activities
Item               Expected Start       Discussion of         Comments
Recommendations
Merchandise        9/94                 6/95                  Installation and
Control System                                                verification expected to
be completed 5/96
Automated and      12/94                3/95                  System installation
Billing                                                       expected by 12/95
Zoning             9/94                 3/95
Regulations
Privatization      9/94                 --                    Specific studies and
Transactions                                                  actions to be jointly
agreed
Long-term          10/94                --                    Duration of assignment
advisors 1'                                                   is 2 years
Short-term         3/95                 --                    Specific activities to be
training                                                      jointly agreed
Baseline Survey    9/94                 10/95
1/ Includes facilities management and environmental advisor.






- 41 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 3
PHILIPPINES
SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Merchandise Control System
Terms of Reference
Backgrogn
1.    One of the unique features of the Subic Bay Freeport regime is the ability for freeport residents
and visitors to directly purchase imported consumer goods on a tax- and duty-free basis within the
Secured Area of the SBF. An unlimited amount of such goods may be taken from the SBF to destinations
outside of the Philippines without payment of any duties or taxes. Goods entered into the customs
territory of the Philippines are subject to full payment of applicable duties and taxes as regular imports
into the country. However, under certain conditions, SBF residents and Philippine residents may import
SBF merchandise into the domestic customs territory on an import tax- and duty-free basis. GOP policies
allow adult SBF residents living outside the Secured Area to introduce into the domestic customs territory
up to US$100/month of SBF retail purchases on a duty- and tax-free basis; Philippine residents are
provided an import duty- and tax-free allowance of US$200/year/adult resident.
2.    There is an urgent need for an SBMA merchandise control and identity card system to track
purchases of duty- and tax-free goods in the SBF, and to ensure that full taxes are paid on excess
purchases entering the domestic customs territory.
Purpse
3.    The purpose of this consultancy is to design, install and operate a merchandise control and
identity card system for the SBMA. The consultant is expected to build, operate and maintain the system
for the SBMA for a period of two years, and train SBMA staff to do the same thereafter.
System Requirements
4.    The principal system objectives are to (i) monitor purchases of SBF residents residing inside and
outside the Secured Area, Philippine residents, and non-residents of duty- and tax-free goods; (ii) facilitate
the assessment and collection of customs duties and taxes of purchases exceeding the monthly and yearly
duty-free allowance; (iii) monitor purchases of SBF residents to detect unusual or excessive purchases
on a periodic basis; (iv) produce reports on a real-time basis to allow the SBMA to enforce limits on
purchases through a system of post-audits checks; and (v) allow for remittance of customs duties and
taxes assessed on dutiable purchases to be remitted to the Department of Finance electronically.
5.    The system must meet the following minimum specifications:  (i) build upon the existing
merchandise control system and security checking procedures; (ii) be revenue-generating and financially
self-sustaining over the long-run; (iii) contain multiple system backup, redundancy and recovery features;
(iv) provide for statistically based, randomized physical checking and inspections procedures to be
followed by SBMA security which will back-up and support the computerized merchandise control
system. The system shall be based upon the Open Systems Concept, preferably utilizing PC-LAN or
UNIX, and using a relational data base management approach.



- 42 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
6.    The system must be able to adequately track and differentiate among purchases of duty- and tax-
free goods which are consumed within the SBF, re-exported, or imported into the Philippine customs
territory. The system must also clearly differentiate among several categories of SBF residents and
visitors, and facilitate tracking of their purchases of SBF merchandise. Possible categories include: (i)
Category A: SBF residents residing inside the Secured Area, who are allowed to purchase and consume
unlimited amounts of goods and services on a duty- and tax-free basis; (ii) Category B: SBF residents
residing outside the Secured Area who are given a duty-free allowance of US$100/month/adult resident;
(iii) Category C:  Philippine residents intending to purchase and bring back duty- and tax-free
merchandise from the SBF into the Philippine customs territory; (iv) Category D: Philippine residents
not intending to bring back duty- and tax-free merchandise purchased in the SBF into the Philippine
customs territory. Category B and C permit holders would have more extensive exit checking procedures
to ensure that purchases remitted to the Philippine customs territory are within duty-free allowances;
Category A and D permit holders would have faster exit formalities.
7.    The ID card system shall be integrated with the merchandise control system, and shall use ID
cards equipped with a magnetic strip and bar code which shall identify the card and the cardholder, SBF
residents and visitors. The principal system objectives are to (i) provide a provide a central databank of
personal information on all ID cardholders (permanent residents and visitors), to facilitate issuance of
identity cards; (ii) allow for ID passes to be issued at multiple points within the SBF and Olongapo City,
as currently envisaged, without compromising the need for information to be updated on a real-time basis;
(iii) generate a unique ID number that is verifiable; (iv) interface with the Merchandise Control System
and other SBMA applications. Each cardholder shall be provided a ID card number, which shall identify
the cardholder to all SBMA application systems. The ID number shall be generated using a specially
designed algorithm, and shall be equipped with a check-digit which shall ensure 100 percent accuracy
against transposition as well as single digit errors.
Description of Services
8.    The consultant will undertake the following tasks:
(i)    design a computer-based Merchandise Control and Identity Card System consisting of the
following components:
-     Point-of-Sale (POS) terminals equipped with magnetic card readers
located within all duty-free retail shops;
-      Central Computing Center within the SBMA which will (a) contain a
purchase transactions database which will be updated on a real-time with
purchase information, (b) a personal information data base containing
information on SBF residents and visitors, capable of storing both text
and image data; (c) facilities to process and issue temporary and
permanent identity cards to SBF visitors and residents, respectively;
-     Local Area Network connecting the POS terminals, the Central
Computing Center, Visitors Center, Investors' Center, and various entry
and exit points, allowing for the exchange of text and image data on a
real-time basis; and,



- 43 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
Randomized physical checking and merchandise inspection procedures
for residents and visitors exiting the SBF to augment and support the
computer-based merchandise control system.
(ii)   procure, install and test computer and communications hardware and software for the
system which is expected to consist of the following (although the consultant can suggest
a hardware configuration consistent with the proposed approach): (a) POS terminals and
file servers in various duty-free retail shops; (b) optical drive, database servers, LAN
supervisors in the central computing center; (c) magnetic swipe stations and terminals at
various vehicular and pedestrian entry and exit gates; (d) card issuers and PC terminals
at various card issuance points within and outside the SBF.
(iii)   operate and maintain the system jointly with SBMA information systems staff for a period
of two years;
(iv)   develop systems operating plan, manuals and other tools to train SBMA staff in
operation, maintenance, modification and expansion of system, and train SBMA staff to
take over these functions after the end of the operating contract;
(v)    develop a financial and operating plan which outlines equity and in-kind contributions to
be made by the consultant; funding and other resources and commitments required of the
SBMA.
Personnel Requirements and Oualifications
9.    It is envisaged that the consulting team will consist of three technical specialists based in Subic
for a fixed term of two years, supplemented by a team of specialists to undertake various short-term
engagements, on an as needed basis. All consultants will be fluent in English. The exact composition
of the consulting team is to be proposed, but it is expected that the long-term team will include an overall
manager and an MIS specialist. Both specialists must have an extensive trackrecord of designing and
managing similar MIS systems, especially in the area of security and merchandise control systems. The
institutional contractor must have an extensive trackrecord and proven capabilities in application systems
development and maintenance; network and communications consultancy; facilities management and
equipment maintenance. Experience with designing, installing and operating similar systems elsewhere
is a definite asset.
Consultants' Inputs
10.   The estimated level of effort for the consultancy is 92 person-months, consisting of 72 person-
months of long-term technical assistance activities, and 20 person months of short-term technical
assistance activities. The project will have a term of two years; the long-term consulting team will be
required to be in place within one month of awarding a contract and remain in Subic for the duration of
the contract. A major emphasis will be placed on the project trackrecord and institutional capabilities of
the consulting and information systems organization, and the technical design and management and
financial plan outlined in the proposal.



- 44 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Zoning Regulations and Design Code
Terms of Reference
Backgrond
1.    The centerpiece of the effort to convert the Subic Bay Naval Base into the Subic Bay Freeport
was the formulation of a comprehensive land use masterplan. The masterplan, which has been adopted
by the Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA), regulates land use within the SBF by designating
various land parcels for light industrial, commercial, tourism/recreational, residential and other uses.
Technical assistance is required to help the SBMA develop zoning standards, formulate a legally binding
zoning ordinance, and develop a building construction and design code, to implement and enforce the land
use plan.
rnsed Consultancy and Description of Services
2.    The SBMA is seeking the services of a specialized consultant to develop zoning standards,
ordinance and a building and architectural code. The consultant shall provide the following services:
-     prepare zoning standards to regulate industrial, tourism, recreational and other physical
development within the Subic Bay Freeport. These standards must be based upon
guidelines set forth in the land use masterplan, and reflect the "best practices' in
industrial parks, and freeports worldwide. Zoning standards should specify maximum
building coverage ratios; site set-backs; maximum floor area ratios; permissible uses
within areas; prohibited uses and operational prohibitions; easement rights; parking;
landscaping; height restrictions; etc.
-     prepare additional protective covenants which will govern conversion and rehabilitation
of buildings and facilities, and construction of new buildings and facilities; specification
of procedures to be followed to approve and enforce plans (including standards for
signage within the SBF; specified building materials; exterior painting standards; open
storage and loading areas; construction regulations and materials; resurfacing of paved
areas; mechanical service controls; temporary structure construction; utility connections.
-     codify these standards into Architectural Planning Criteria to be adopted by an
Architectural Review Committee of the SBMA, and prepare a zoning regulations
ordinance for adoption by the SBMA Board which would be binding on existing and
future SBF occupants and locators. These regulations must incorporate and be consistent
with generally accepted standards in the Philippines.
-     specify additional measures (if any) to ensure consistent and fair implementation of the
land use plan.



- 45 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
Personnel Requirements and Oualifications
3.    The consulting team shall consist of two individuals: a real estate planner and a real estate
lawyer. The real estate planner shall have extensive experience with the design, planning, sale,
management and development of mixed use complexes, and office and industrial parks. The ideal
candidate would have 'hands-on" experience with formulating and enforcing zoning standards, protective
covenants and other regulations as a part of a real estate development and management company.
Experience in the Philippines or similar countries would be desirable. The real estate lawyer shall have
extensive experience in drafting zoning ordinance, building codes, and protective and architectural
covenants for mixed use developments. Relevant experience in the Philippines is required.
Level of Effort and Term of Engagement
4.    This consultancy has a total level of effort of five person-months. The work should be completed
within three months of contract signature.






- 46 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
Subic Bay Freeport Project
Automated Financial Management and Billing System
Terms of Reference
Background
1.    Like all Government owned and controlled corporations, the SBMA is required to adopt standard
procedures and systems for accounting and financial reporting. These are audited annually by the
Commission on Audit. Since it first began financial operations in June 1992, the SBMA has made
significant progress in setting up a general accounting system along these lines. The system is now fully
operational on a manual basis. However, the system needs to be enhanced in order to increase the
efficiency of financial management operations and decision making. First, there is a need to automate
the general ledger system along with a number of subsidiary modules for billing and collections,
purchasing, inventories, fixed asset accounting, and payroll and personnel management. The billing and
collection system is of particular importance because customer accounts are growing quickly and the
SBMA bills for a number of services including among others, telephone, water and sewerage, security,
and facilities leases.
2.     Second, the automated system should be designed along profit and cost centers so that each main
service operation of the SBMA can accurately assess their contribution to the overall profitability of the
organization. Accordingly, this second objective must be incorporated in the design of the automated
financial system.
Proposed Consultancy
3.    The proposed consultancy seeks to engage a qualified firm for assisting the SBMA in automating
its accounting and financial reporting systems. The Consultant will be asked to perform the following
major tasks:
Review of the SBMA's operations and existing manual systems and determination of
recommended enhancements for the automated systems. The consultant will also review
the need for a LAN network, particularly for the billings module.
Development of specifications for an automated general accounting systems with various
modules including, billing and collections, purchasing, inventories, fixed asset
accounting, and personnel management.
Review  of off-the-shelf accounting packages and recommendations for the most
appropriate program. In this regard, the consultant will specifically pay attention to
packages commonly used by industrial estate management firms and real estate
development enterprises.



- 47 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
Selection and modifications to accounting software for use by the SBMA.
Successful installation and testing of the system.
Development of procedures and training of the SBMA Accounting and Finance staff on
the proper use of the systems.
Specifications of equipment requirements, evaluation of bids and supervision of
installation of needed computer hardware.
Consultant Inpts
4.    The consultant should have experience in accounting and financial management systems
development and implementation. Experience in automating accounting and billings systems for real
estate development and industrial estate management firms would also be extremely beneficial.  In
addition, the firm should have experience in establishing automated networks. The estimated level of
effort is 15 staff-months.



- 48 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
PILIPPINES
SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Privatizations Transactions Assistance
Tentative Description of Services
Background
1.    The strategy followed by the Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA) in converting the Subic
Bay Naval base into the Subic Bay Freeport (SBF) emphasized rapid privatization of core asets and
facilities, and an expanded role for private management and operation of various facilities. Already, the
SBMA has privatized the existing petroleum, oil and lubricant facility through a long-term leasing
arrangement with a major U.S. oil company. Telecommunications, water/sewerage, waste management,
transportation and other services are slated for privatization or private management shortly; private
management of airport and port facilities is under consideration.
Purpose of Consultancy
2.    Despite considerable progress in drawing up regulations and criteria to guide privatization
transactions, the SBMA needs urgent technical assistance to undertake various technical analyses, develop
viable privatization options and approaches, review privatization proposals submitted by interested parties,
and negotiate final deals with winning proponents. More generally, the SBMA needs a source of
impartial and unbiased advice on these issues.
Description of Services
3.    The Privatization Transactions Fund (US$500,000 equivalent) will cover a series of short-term
technical engagements activated on an 'as needed' basis. Although specific assignments will be defined
by the SBMA, likely engagements include:
-     study of the telecommunications needs of the SBF; assessment of alternative hardware
and software configurations; identification and assessment of alternative privatization
approaches for operation and maintenance of telecommunications facilities and delivery
of services; evaluation of bids;
-     evaluation of technical proposals for the water and sewerage needs of the SBF;
assessment of financial implications; drafting tender documents; evaluation of bids;
-     assessment and revision, if necessary, of terms of reference for solid waste management
services; evaluation of proposals for the private provision of solid waste management
services in the SBF; financial advisory services to the SBMA with regard to solid waste
management privatization;



- 49 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
evaluation of alternate approaches for management and operation of the Cubi Point
airport, identification of preferred approach to privatization, development of relevant
documentation, etc.
study of approaches to privatize cargo and passenger port facilities and services;
assessment of insurance needs and requirements of the SBF, identification of possible
service providers, evaluation of available alternatives;
preparation of detailed documentation for privatization of major assets (eg, airport
facility, industrial parks, etc) and negotiation with service providers.
Personnel Oualifications and Requirements
4.     The consultants must have a solid trackrecord of successfully undertaking privatization
transactions and must have knowledge of the range of possible privatization options Oease and
management contracts, buy-back arrangements, BOT and its variants, equity sharing arrangements,
divestment) and various bidding and valuation approaches. Experience with mixed use facilities and
privatization of public services is a requirement. Identification of various technical specialists (industrial
parks, hotels and resorts, ports, airports, urban transport, etc) to be used for specific studies is required.



- 50 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 5
PHILIPPINES
SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Enhancing SBMA's Institutional Capabilities
Terms of Reference
Background
1.    The Subic Bay Freeport (SBF) regime was created by the Bases Conversion and Development
Act (RA 7227) of March 13, 1992, which also established the Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA.)
The SBMA is a public corporation vested with the authority to undertake development of the SBF,
regulate the activities of enterprises and individuals operating within SBF boundaries and ensure
compliance with RA 7227 and other Philippine legislation, and promulgate regulations for the operation
and development of the SBF. The World Bank provided specialized technical assistance to the SBMA
since inception, until January 1993. World Bank consultants assisted in developing a comprehensive base
conversion strategy; drafting a general land use master plan; undertaking detailed transportation
engineering analyses; assisting in the privatization of key assets and facilities; rationalizing the
organization structure and strengthening the institutional framework; and developing implementing
regulations and procedures for operationalization of the freeport regime. The conversion strategy adopted
by the SBMA stresses the rapid privatization of core and support facilities and the transformation of the
SBMA into a regulatory and facilitating entity.
2.    Unlike freeports and special economic zones in other countries which are established through a
series of specialized legislation, the entire basis for the SBF is contained in three articles in RA 7227.
Clarifying the resulting policy gaps and deficiencies have been the focus of SBMA efforts. In March
1993, the SBMA promulgated Implementing Rules and Regulations (covering taxation, customs, labor,
immigration, foreign exchange, banking, environment and other major components of the freeport
regime), supplemented by detailed procedures manuals in critical freeport policy areas.
3.    The SBMA has also made progress in establishing a working organizational structure, defining
staff responsibilities and providing key services and undertaking many activities. Investment promotion
activities undertaken by the organization have been quite successful, generating numerous foreign and
local direct investments in excess of i 8.6 billion to date engaged in a wide range of manufacturing and
service activities. The SBMA is rapidly privatizing the operation of many existing facilities and is
operating others directly on an interim and transitional basis. It is also in the process of working with
other Philippine Government agencies to operationalize the freeport regime.
Purpose of the Consultancy
4.    Despite these considerable achievements, the SBMA requires immediate assistance from a
qualified organization or organizations to rationalize and strengthen key organizational functions, in order
to fulfill its mandate articulated in RA 7227. Previous analyses of SBMA organizational capabilities
indicate several areas where further institutional strengthening is required. First, the planning capability



- 51 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 5
is deficient, and a comprehensive privatization and development plan is an urgent priority. Second,
investment promotion and investment application evaluation/registration procedures are poorly defined
and undertaken in an ad hoc manner. The lack of experience in this critical area is dampening investor
interest. Third, there is a lack of organizational expertise in the implementation of critical components
of the freeport regime.
5.    The overall purpose of this consultancy is to provide long- and short-term technical assistance to
the SBMA to enhance its capabilities to achieve the rapid conversion of the Subic Bay Naval base, and
the development of a successful Subic Bay Freeport.
DescriDtion of Services
6.    Long-Term Technical Assistance Activities.  The consultants will assist the SBMA in the
operationalization of the Subic Bay Freeport regime, and the development of the freeport complex.
Principal long-term technical assistance tasks to be undertaken shall include the following:
i.    Work with the SBMA Administrator and Senior Deputy Administrator in implementing
the organizational restructuring of the SBMA, identifying principal staff positions, and
training senior staff in freeport policy administration; infrastructure development and
master planning; promotion techniques and investor services; investment evaluation and
registration approaches; and environmental policy and enforcement. In addition, assist
in identification of specialized sources of technical services and goods.
ii.    Assist the Senior Deputy Administrator and GOP technical working committees in
formulating the development of additional SBF regulations, and operationalization of the
freeport regime, especially in the Customs and taxation areas. Assist in training SBMA
staff to enforce SBF customs, taxation, foreign exchange, immigration and other
regulations. Assist SBMA legal department in finalization of Customs Procedures
Manual, and in development of additional regulations with other GOP agencies. Liaise
with relevant Philippine Government agencies involved in administering the freeport
regime.
iii.    Assist the Corporate Planning Department in the preparation of a comprehensive multi-
year action strategic plan for development of the Subic Bay Freeport; detailed action plan
for development of SBMA's organizational capabilities, services and systems;
comprehensive approach to privatization and commercialization of core and support
facilities and assets; supervision of approaches to deepen and operationalize the general
land use masterplan; develop a realistic capital investment and facilities maintenance
program commensurate with the overall development strategy. Ensure implementation
of proposed land use plan, and develop capabilities of SBMA staff in undertaking
systematic infrastructure planning, engineering and design activities.



- 52 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 5
iv.    Collaborate in preparation of privatization approaches for core and support facilities, and
develop a standardized leasing approach for existing facilities and buildings. Coordinate
efforts of specialized consultants and financial advisors. Participate in negotiations with
potential investors of business complexes and specialized facilities.
v.    Work with the Deputy Administrator in charge of the investment evaluation and
investment promotion departments, in streamlining and systematizing investment
evaluation process. Assist in development of a workable negative list and utilize other
approaches to ensure transparency and predictability in investment application processing
and registration procedures. Facilitate development of a pro-active investment promotion
effort, and design and implementation of an investor tracking system. Organize and
develop the capabilities of a "one-stop" registration center, and an investor services and
aftercare division. Assist in the development of world class investment promotion
materials. Develop position descriptions and conduct specialized training courses in these
areas. Establish relevant data base and library capabilities.
7.     Short-Term Technical Assistance Activities.  In addition to these technical activities to be
provided by a long-term team of technical advisors, the consultant shall provide short-term technical
assistance activities. These specialized activities shall be identified jointly with SBMA staff and will be
provided on an "as-requested" basis over the life of the project. Examples of activities to be undertaken
include the following:
training workshops on freeport customs policy and administration, freeport customs
control concepts and inspection and examination procedures for SBMA staff and Customs
personnel, based upon practices in other freeports and the customs procedures adopted
by the SBMA. Topics to be covered can include SBF merchandise control and inspection
procedures, transfer procedures, administration of the special retail sales regime,
examination procedures for commercial transactions and tourist traffic, among others.
workshops on SBF enterprise investment application evaluation procedures, including
formulation of a negative list, applicability for detailed environmental impact assessment,
and other topics designed to streamline the investment evaluation process based upon the
best practice worldwide.
workshop on investment promotion strategy and approaches for targeted sectors and
activities. The investment promotion approaches will differentiate between investments
by developers in comprehensive development area facilities, and individual locators.
Other topics include application of a comprehensive investor tracking system, and
promotion tools and materials.
inputs into development of country- and sector-specific marketing plans including
identification of potential investors, facilitation of SBMA outbound investment missions,
and similar activities.



- 53 -
Annex 7
Page 4 of 5
Personnel Requirements and Oualifications
8.    In&mMttX  Team. The long-term consulting team will consist of three technical specialists, all
fluent in English. The ideal profile of the team members shall be as follows, although the team leader
can be any one of the specialists so long as the proposed candidate possesses the relevant skills and
experience indicated below:
Planning and Properq Develogment and Management Specialist. The Planning Specialist
will be a seasoned professional with at least ten years experience in special economic
zone and freeport development issues in an East Asian context, and senior management
experience in administration of an integrated industrial and tourism real estate complex.
He/she will have specialized expertise in conducting strategic plans, developing industrial
and transport infrastructure development plans, privatizing building, transport
infrastructure and other assets, developing leasing rates and other commercialization
approaches, and implementing land use plans of industrial free zones or similar facilities.
Experience in multi-use real estate development, with expertise in land planning, land
development, real estate financing, and lease rate setting is critical. Experience with
developing or restructuring public real estate issues is important, especially in a
developing country context. He/she will have in-depth practical knowledge of competing
East Asian freeport projects. He/she will demonstrate practical skills in institution-
building and organizational development.
Freegort Policy Specialist. The Freeport Policy Specialist shall have at least five years
of experience in the formulation and implementation of export processing zone, free zone
and freeport policies and procedures, with an emphasis on investment incentives, taxation
and customs policy and procedures. He/she shall have extensive experience in the
design, evaluation and implementation of these policies in successful freeport projects in
developing countries worldwide. The ideal candidate would have a Customs background,
with experience in regulating free zones, especially those with large land border areas
with the domestic customs territory. Prior experience with Customs and investment
incentives issues in the Philippines would be an advantage.
Investment Promotion and Investor Services Specialist. The Investment Promotion and
Evaluation specialist will have extensive experience in the design, evaluation and
implementation of foreign direct investment promotion programs and organizations
worldwide. Practical experience working with promotion organizations; or developers
and operators of free zones would be required. The specialist should have practical
experience with streamlining investment evaluation procedures to ensure transparency and
predictability, and establishing one-stop administrative approval centers. He/she should
also have practical experience in developing promotion and marketing plans; undertaking
image-building, investment generation, and investor services and aftercare activities;
designing and using computer-based investor tracking systems. He/she should possess
evident organization development and people-management skills. The ideal contact would
possess extensive contacts with relevant agencies and private corporations in East Asia
and the United States.



- 54 -
Annex 7
Page 5 of 5
9.    Institutional Capabilities. The institutional contractor should possess an extensive track record
in the design and implementation of free zone policies and projects. Experience in the assessment and
institutional strengthening of free zone regulatory and development bodies and investment promotion
organizations is required in leading free zone locations worldwide. The contractor should demonstrate
relevant capabilities in undertaking similar projects in the past, the ability to manage the activities of field
personnel engaged in a long-term project, and deploying short-term specialized consultants on a timely
basis. The contractor must evidence staff and consulting resources to be able to provide the specialized
short-term technical assistance activities specified in this Terms of Reference.
Level of Effort and Term of Engagement
10.   The total level of effort for the project is 90 person-months, consisting of 72 person-months of
long-term technical assistance activities, and 18 person-months in short-term technical assistance activities.
The project will have a term of two years; the long-term consulting team will be required to be in place
within one month of awarding a contract and remain in Subic for the duration of the contract.






- 55 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Fadlities Management Support
Terms of Reference
BackgMad
1.    The Subic Naval Base was the largest U.S. military facility operating outside the United States.
The baselands covered over 15,000 ha, and approximately 6,700 ha housed the area formerly leased by
the U.S. Navy. Following the expiration of the 1947 Military Bases Agreement between the Philippines
and the United States, and the failure to negotiate a longer withdrawal schedule for the U.S. Navy, the
facility was turned over to the Republic of the Philippines on November 24, 1992.
2.    The Subic Bay Freeport (SBF) regime was created by the Bases Conversion and Development
Act (RA 7227) of March 13, 1992, which also established the Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA.)
The SBMA is a public corporation vested with the authority to undertake development of the SBF,
regulate the activities of enterprises and individuals operating within SBF boundaries and ensure
compliance with RA 7227 and other Philippine legislation, and promulgate regulations for the operation
and development of the SBF.
3.    The facilities at the former Naval Base Complex were developed and operated to meet the specific
needs of the military. The Base had nearly 2,000 buildings with a total covered area of around 970,000
m2. These buildings include industrial structures for workshops and storage, commercial-type buildings
for office and retail activities, special areas/buildings for the airport, ammunition and fuel storage,
residential areas for family housing and bachelor accommodation, as well as community facilities for
education, health care and recreation. The vast majority of the buildings in the complex are less than 50
years old, and were designed and maintained in accordance with U.S. Navy standards. Many of the
buildings and structures require a high level of maintenance, and with the exception of certain special
buildings such as hangars, warehouses and recently built housing units, the projected remaining life of
the structures is 10-15 years.
4.    Facilities management is currently under the purview of the Public Works Department, which
includes divisions responsible for Engineering, Utilities, Maintenance, Transportation and Environment.
The seaport and airport are presently operated by the Port Authority. The SBMA is actively pursuing
a policy of privatization of various facilities, either through outright lease or through management and
operating contracts. Thus, several services are being provided by the SBMA at present in a transitional
capacity. These include electricity distribution, water and sewerage services, solid waste management,
operation of the port and airport, and telecommunications services.



- 56 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
Puose of the Consultancy
5.    The SBMA requires assistance in the management of its large set of assets. It also intends to
build up its own institutional capacity in interfacing with clients to determine their requirements,
particularly with regard to structures and utilities. The overall purpose of this consultancy is to provide
long-term technical assistance to the SBMA to enhance its capabilities to achieve the rapid conversion of
the Subic Bay Naval base, and the development of a successful Subic Bay Freeport.
Description of Services
6.    The consultant will assist the SBMA in:
-      planning and managing the maintenance activities for all structures and infrastructure;
-      evaluating investor proposals and requirements with regard to the use of buildings,
utilities and infrastructure;
-      overall management of the construction supervision for the planned factory buildings and
other structures to be built by the SBMA;
-      developing standard procedures and programs for maintenance and construction
supervision and strengthening the capabilities of the Public Works Department in
performing these functions;
-      providing hands-on, on-the-job training to counterpart staff to achieve skills transfer and
to strengthen local capability; and
-     providing input into the technical evaluation of terms of reference, proposals, bidding
documents and tenders received with regard to the privatization of services and facilities.
Personnel Requirements and Qualifications
7.     The Facilities Engineer will be a seasoned professional with at least ten years experience in
facilities management in an East Asian context, and senior management experience in the maintenance
and development of large, integrated facilities.  He/she would have demonstrated experience in
developing and scheduling maintenance activities, and planning and contracting for the construction of
buildings, roadways, utilities and other infrastructure. He/she would have an engineering degree,
preferably in civil or structural engineering. He/she would also have experience in evaluating the site
requirements for industrial uses (water, electricity, sewerage, solid waste management).
Term of Engagement
8.    The term of the engagement will be one year, renewable for an additional year. The Facilities
Engineer will be expected to reside in the SBF. He/she will be required to be in place within one month
of contract award.



- 57 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 7
PHILIPPINES
SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Environmental Baseline Survey
Terms of Reference
Background
1.           Due to the nature of the Subic Bay Freeport (SBF), its unique location, past military use
and intended future development as a freeport and light industrial center, a Baseline Survey is required
to determine ecological and environmental conditions as well as to identify potential contamination sites.
Little published information is currently available on base conditions with the exception of a few recent
investment studies. The Baseline Survey will establish the basic environmental conditions within the SBF
area, locate all areas of contamination as well as develop a database on the forest lands and the bay. In
identifying contamination sites additional studies may be recommended to determine the extent and specify
clean-up efforts. This survey is an immediate priority for Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA),
and must be undertaken prior to any large-scale industrial or commercial activity in the SBF. The survey
is estimated to be carried out over a period ranging from six months to one year and requires
approximately 40 man-months of effort, in addition to separate soil, water and air sampling and analyses
carried out by private contractors.
2.           At the height of its use as a US naval base, the facility had some 14,000 dependents and
37,000 local Philippino workers in an operating area of approximately 10,000 ha. The facility was used
as a staging point for the US Navy over a period of 96 years until the fall of 1992 when the lease was
not renewed by the Philippine government. The Subic baselands span 24,000 ha of which 14,000 ha is
considered virgin forest. The SBMA hopes to develop a freeport with light manufacturing. Towards that
end, development has already taken place in the form of a hotel, several restaurants, some light
electronics assembly and several other ventures already under construction. In addition, a Taiwanese
venture is considering the acquisition of some 300 ha for light manufacturing.
3.           Two American energy firms are conducting operations at SBF, Coastal Petroleum (at the
POL facilities) and ENRON  (at the power supply facility).  Coastal Petroleum  undertook an
environmental survey of conditions at the POL Tank Farm and Pier with the results currently under
review. The information developed by this study concerning the environmental conditions of the POL
Tank Farm and Pier must be incorporated into the Baseline Survey report. In addition, ENRON carried
out an EIA in conjunction with its 108 MW power plant currently under construction. The data contained
in this study also provides further information on the base's environmental conditions.
4.           The Subic Bay Freeport is located within one of the last virgin forest areas in the
Philippines. All activities within the Subic Bay area must consider the impact on and the eventual
protection of this forest area including its native inhabitants and its flora and fauna. Coral reef areas are
known to exist in Subic Bay itself, although their condition or extent has not been established after Mt.
Pinatubo eruption. In addition, wetland areas have been identified in numerous locations throughout the
bay area as well. Due to the present lack of heavy industry and lack of substantial vehicular traffic, the
air appears to be in near pristine condition.



- 58 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 7
5.           Presently, the SBMA is not in a position to conduct the various studies necessary to
determine the baseline environmental conditions in Subic Bay due to a lack of available experienced
personnel.  In order to complete the necessary studies, the SBMA will need to contract with
environmental consulting firms. Completion of these studies is absolutely imperative at this time prior
to widespread development of the area. This survey will also identify areas of contamination including
those detailed below as well as develop an initial baseline of information on the forest lands and the bay.
The following sections detail specific efforts that must be undertaken. Additional studies may be
necessary to determine the extent of contamination and what approaches are required for remediation.
Terms of Reference
6.           The consultant will carry out a baseline assessment to include but not be limited to
gathering the following information and performing an analysis of the environmental condition of the
SBF. The survey is divided into two phases for convenience, the first will ambient and ecological
baseline conditions and the second will review the operation of the base to determine the impact naval
operations have had on the environment.
Ecological Baseline Conditions
7.           Little information exists in summary form on the environmental conditions within the
Freeport area, however there are several documents which include partial analysis. The Services Group
prepared an extensive report for SBMA detailing land use plans and the basic institutional framework for
the freeport. This report included an Annex detailing environmental policy and procedures to govern
businesses in the Freeport area (Guidelines for Environmental Protection: Rules and Regulations). The
World Wildlife Fund developed a report for the conservation and management of the Subic Bay Forest
areas in June 1992. The Enron EIS is another source of information on the local environment. Still
other studies have been prepared (Coastal and the WHO) regarding the environmental nature of the
Freeport area; these will be identified and provided to the consultants.
S.           The consultant shall gather and analyze the following:
1.    Review of Existing Documents: Several documents have been produced in relation to
proposed industrial development in the SBF providing an overview of environmental
conditions in the area. These documents include EIAs, investment studies, guidelines and
special studies. These documents need to be collected and reviewed with relevant
information abstracted and summarized in a separate chapter.
2.    Meteorological Baseline Conditions: The Baseline Survey must include data on relevant
meteorological conditions in the Subic Bay area to include, at a minimum, the following:



- 59 -
Annex 9
Page 3 of 7
Mean and Average Annual Amounts of Precipitation
Mean and Average Monthly amounts of Precipitation
Low and High Annual Amounts of Precipitation
Low and High Monthly Amounts of Precipitation
Mean and Average Annual Lake Evaporation Rates
Mean and Average Monthly Lake Evaporation Rates
Area Wind Rose Data and Average
Wind Velocities by Direction
Mean and Average Monthly Temperatures
This information is necessary for siting industrial or commercial industries, gauging the
effectiveness of various treatment scenarios, to determine potential quantities and
environmental effects due to air emissions, and to gauge the effects of potential pollution
accidents. Much of this information has been developed for a variety of purposes and
can be found in the Enron EIS as well as other documents.
3.    Ambient Air Ouality: In order to establish a baseline of air quality within the Subic Bay
area, the Baseline Survey requires the establishment of an ambient air quality monitoring
network and program. This network should include sampling locations within the Central
Business District; the North and South Industrial Areas; the Boton Industrial Area; the
POL Area, the Cubi Point Air Terminal and Mixed Development Area; the Naval
Magazine Area; the Kalayaan, Binictican, Cubi Point Housing Areas; and the City of
Olongapo. This sampling effort must include all ambient air quality parameters
established by the Philippine Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR)
and described in the TSG Final Draft Report, Strategy For Conversion Of The Subic Bay
Naval Base Into A Special Economic Zone and Freeport, January 1993. A sampling
program needs to be developed which will ascertain 24 hour and monthly maximum and
average concentrations.  Along with the general air quality parameters, general
meteorological conditions, wind direction and velocity, and temperature must be recorded
at the time of sample collection.
4.    Water Ouaitjy: The Baseline Survey must include water quality information for the eight
rivers located within the Freeport area and whether these rivers and the Bay have been
classified for use. Should water quality information not exist, initial monitoring of the
rivers, bay, and selective points for groundwater must be undertaken. General sampling
points need to be established and samples collected in each river within the Freeport area,
selected locations for groundwater, as well as in selected locations of Subic Bay. The
basic water quality parameters that need to be determined are listed in Tables 4-1 through
4-4 of the TSG Strategy for Conversion report, Volume II, Annex G: Environmental
Procedures Manual.
5.    Forest Resources: The Baseline Survey must develop an initial list of known endangered
or threatened species of plants and animals known or suspected to exist within the
Freeport forest area. This study should also attempt to identify areas where these species
are known, or are suspected, to exist. It is anticipated that this effort will only involve



- 60 -
Annex 9
Page 4 of 7
a review of existing information and will not involve any actual intrusive studies. In
addition, an analysis of the potential for future acid rain damage should be done based
on increased sulfur dioxide emissions from the power plants.
6.    Marine Resources: The Baseline Survey must also include an initial review of the marine
resources of Subic Bay. This effort should include the general identification and location
of coral reef areas, shellfish beds, marine life breeding or spawning areas, and locations
of submerged aquatic vegetation. Maps giving information on underwater features should
also be provided. This survey should establish basic tidal flow patterns for Subic Bay.
Information on the five wastewater outfalls and the areas around river mouths needs to
be provided as well.
7.    Wetlands and Mangroves: The Baseline Survey must include an initial wetland and
Mangrove survey within the baseland areas. This effort should only involve the basic
identification and location of these areas based on a review of known information with
limited field reconnaissance.
Environmental Ouality
9.           Due to the prior use of the Subic Bay area, the Baseline Survey must identify potential
areas of significant contamination or the presence of toxic materials. This effort should be based on a
detailed review of past land uses and activities within the developed areas of the Freeport from
information obtained from the U.S. Government or from other knowledgeable sources. Since this part
of the assessment will identify sites of contamination, soil, groundwater and sediment samples will need
to be taken.
10.          A recent report prepared by the WHO entitled Subic Bay Environmental Risk Assessment
and Investieation Programme provides the outline for a sampling and analysis program of the baselands
with an emphasis on discovering sites of contamination. This report should be consulted for the
identification of potential sites of contamination.
11.          The investigation should concentrate at a minimum in the following specific areas:
8.    Historical Review of Past Land Uses and Activities: The United States Government must
be petitioned under the Freedom of Information Act to describe all past land uses at the
Subic Bay Naval Base facility. This study should consider advertising in local Olongapo
newspapers as well as newspapers in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii for individuals knowledgeable
about the activities that were conducted at the Naval Base with particular emphasis on the
use of hazardous or toxic materials. Such individuals would consist of former personnel
stationed at the base and former local workers. Information gathered in this manner
would then be analyzed by the consultant to determine where possible sites of
contamination are known to exist.



- 61 -
Annex 9
Page 5 of 7
9.    The Naval Ship Repair Facility: Heavy industrial activities are known to have occurred
at the Ship Repair Facility with the concurrent use of toxic and hazardous materials. The
Baseline Survey must include an initial investigation of the Ship Repair Facility area
including sediments within the adjoining bay area to determine whether significant levels
of contamination might exist. This effort will include the collection of samples consisting
of surface soil, subsurface soil, and sediment, as well as any observed residues. This
investigation should not, however, be viewed as an effort to identify the total extent of
any contamination. The basis of the analytical review of samples collected in this area
should be scans for toxic heavy metals and scans for volatile and semi-volatile organic
compounds.
10.   Active Waste Disposal Landfill: Coupled with the information on historical land use and
activities, the Baseline Survey must identify and locate all present and former waste
disposal areas. A groundwater monitoring network must be established around the
present landfill and both groundwater and surface water must be initially sampled to
determine whether significant contamination is escaping into the environment. The
present landfill operations must also be reviewed for adequacy regarding environmental
protection. The landfill area must be investigated by at least three groundwater
monitoring wells to be located in the perceived downgradient direction and one in an
upgradient location.   Groundwater elevations must be established along with
hydrogeologic flow regimes. Full priority pollutant scans must be included as part of this
initial phase of sampling.
11.   Former Waste Disnosal Areas: A former waste disposal area has been identified in the
proposed Industrial Estate Area, NSD North. This area has been tentatively identified
as existing north of Rizal Highway, east of the North Boundary. Security Road, and west
of Argonaut Highway. An investigation must be undertaken to determine whether
contamination might exist that would pose a threat to human health or the environment.
Information regarding any other waste disposal areas must be gathered as part of the
historical survey described above. Each waste disposal area should be investigated by
at least three groundwater sampling points located in perceived downgradient locations
and one in an upgradient location. Groundwater elevations must be established along
with hydrogeologic flow regimes. Full priority pollutant scans must be conducted unless
specific information exists regarding types of wastes disposed within each area. In
addition, a general scan for the potential presence of radioactivity should be conducted
during the investigation.
12.   Former Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) Area: The former EOD area located at
Camayan Point must be surveyed to determine the potential presence of contamination
resulting from the past activities that might pose a threat to human health or the
environment. The area must be investigated for the presence of semi-volatile organic
compounds (specifically nitrotoluene compounds) and total petroleum hydrocarbon.
13.   Pistol and Rifle Ranges: Four present and former pistol and rifle ranges have been
known to exist at the Subic Bay Naval Base and could potentially be a source of lead



- 62 -
Anex 9
Page 6 of 7
contamination to the environment. These ranges must be surveyed to determine whether
lead is contaminating surface water runoff.
14.   Former Motorpools and Vehicle Maintenance Facilities: All former motorpool and
vehicle maintenance facilities must be surveyed for the potential presence of
contamination. Many of these facilities used various solvents for parts cleaning and had
oil change pits or collection tanks. The analytical parameters for these sampling efforts
must include scans for volatile and semi-volatile organic compounds.
15.   POL Facflities: Coastal Marine Petroleum is operating the principal fuel storage and
transfer facility within the Freeport. Prior to initiating operations it carried out an
assessment of potential contamination. This report must be reviewed by the consultant
and updated if necessary. None of the underground fuel storage tanks in the Freeport
area have been tightness tested or surveyed for possible leaks. An assessment should be
made as to whether specific underground fuel storage tanks in the Freeport must undergo
tightness testing via a non-pressure method. Leaking tanks must be identified so that the
SBMA can take them out of service.
16.   Tank Truck Fuel Loading Rack Area: The tank truck fuel loading rack area must be
surveyed for the presence of potentially significant groundwater contamination. Two
groundwater monitoring points should be located in perceived downgradient locations and
one in a perceived upgradient location. A groundwater flow regime must be established
and samples must be collected and analyzed for total petroleum hydrocarbons.
17.   Power Facl,it: The Enron Corporation has taken over operations at the old 27 MW
power plant facility. This facility is equipped with several above-ground fuel storage
tanks and associated pipelines. The SBMA must require Enron to survey the facility for
the potential presence of significant soil and groundwater contamination. In addition,
sludges and other wastes arising from fuel refining operations need to be tracked. The
results of this survey should be included as part of the Background Survey.
18.   PCB Invntory: All electrical transformers or liquid capacitors remaining from the U.S.
occupation of the Naval Base must be sampled to determine the potential presence of
PCB leakage. Where visual evidence indicates potential leaks of dielectric fluids, the
soils must be sampled for potential PCB contamination.
19.   Lead in Drinking Water Survey: SBMA must develop a program to survey all water
cooler units within the former Naval Base area. In addition, a representative sample of
buildings and residential housing units must be surveyed to determine present lead levels
within the drinking water supply.
20.   DDT and Pesticide Survey: A survey must be undertaken at selected areas of the former
Naval Base to determine any potential threat to human health or the environment from
elevated levels of pesticides. This survey should focus on any areas where quantities of
pesticides were stored or mixed or applied such as at the golf course. In addition,



- 63 -
Annex 9
Page 7 of 7
representative areas throughout the former base and its housing areas should be monitored to determine
any levels that might pose a threat to human health or the environment. Surface soil samples should be
collected from these locations and scanned for the presence of the various pesticides listed in the general
water quality standards of the Philippines.
21.   Former Firefighting Training Area: Firefighting activities involve the lighting of fuel and
the subsequent effort to extinguish the fuel fire. Such a training area existed at the Cubi
Point Airfield and may potentially have associated contamination. Historical records
must be reviewed to determine whether any other firefighting training areas exist in the
Freeport area and they must be investigated for possible contamination. Surface and
subsurface soil samples must be collected and analyzed for the presence of total
petroleum hydrocarbons.
22.   Subic Bay Water Ouality Model: In order to have an on going effort to assess the quality
of bay water and impacts from river flows and watershed runoff, the feasibility of
developing a water quality model should be investigated. Water quality models exist for
a variety of water bodies to determine the fate of pollutants, the level of biological
activity and to predict long term impacts. Several proven models are available in the
public domain from the US EPA. The consultant will identify the appropriate model, its
source and describe the human and microcomputer resources necessary to operationalize
it within the Ecology Center.
23.   Review of Coastal Corporation Spill Prevention Strategies:  The Coastal Corp. is
planning to develop an oil spill cleanup capability for Southeast Asia operating from
Subic. The consultant will review these plans and determine the environmental costs and
benefits.
Baseline Survey Format
12.          The final report must include an Executive Summary detailing the general findings of the
survey effort.
13.          The body of the report must provide details on the actual efforts undertaken to develop
the findings.  It must contain an analysis giving trends and approaches for improved resource
management. Where sampling is conducted, a detailed map of sample location, a description of sampling
technique, details of field observations and conditions, and sample preservation techniques must be
described. An estimate of further work required to determine the extent of contamination must be made
as well. Field blanks and laboratory blanks must also be developed and analyzed. Copies of all actual
analytical results must be included as appendices. Where borings are made or monitoring wells installed,
boring logs must be kept and included as appendices as well.
14.          Finally, the report must include conclusions and recommendations which can be
realistically implemented in the short term. In addition, detailed recommendations for follow up activities
including their scope must be described.



- 64 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Institutional Support to the Ecology Center
Terms of Reference
Background
1.    The degree of success for development of Subic is in large part dependent on how well
environmental mranagement of the freeport area is carried out. Currently, environmental conditions
around the base can be considered good but there are a series of issues which need to be addressed in
the short term in order to maintain the present level of environmental quality. These issues, which
are being addressed in the context of an Environmental Management Plan (EMP), are:
-     Staffing and institutional development of SBMA's environmental affairs unit, the
Ecology Center;
-     Drafting, monitoring and enforcing a range of environmental regulations that will
safeguard development;
-     Providing integrated wastewater treatment services for the SBF and Olongapo;
-     Providing and maintaining water supplies for both the SBF and Olongapo;
-     Providing integrated solid waste management services for both the SBF and Olongapo;
-     Assuring that security be provided to safeguard the forest preserve;
-     Hazardous waste management, including ship's waste.
2.    The Ecology Center is responsible for managing the environmental affairs of the SBF.
Although currently staffed with 20 people, it is expected that at full development, the staff will
number some 60 to 80 individuals. The Ecology Center is responsible for:
-     monitoring of air and water quality, biological productivity and diversity, and other
parameters indicative of the state of environmental quality throughout the SBF;
-     enforcement of the environmental quality goals and standards established for the SBF;
-     issuance of Environmental Compliance Certificates, Authorities to Construct, and
Permits to Operate required for facilities operating within the SBF;
-     revision, as required, of standards, policies and regulations;



- 65 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
emergency response and remediation in the event of any event or accident that
threatens the SBF environment;
administration of protected areas, such as the Subic watershed and Subic Bay;
public awareness and education.
Scope of Work
3.    The Environmental Specialist will assist the Administrator and Senior Deputy Administrator in
implementing and environmental management program sustainable over the long term. He/she will
identify principal Ecology Center staff positions, establish administrative and budgeting procedures,
and develop training activities. He/she will work with Senior Deputy Administrator and SBMA legal
department to enhance existing environmental regulations, and monitoring and enforcement
procedures. He/she will establish a separate forest management program to preserve the SBF's
forests including programs for staff recruitment and training. He/she will liaise with SBMA and
Olongapo city staff to assure smooth operating environment regarding water supply, wastewater
treatment and solid waste management for the entire sub-region. He/she will be expected to provide
leadership in areas of environmental research, site-specific remediation studies and cost recovery for
environmental investments. He/she will develop a program for long-term monitoring and
management of the Subic Bay marine environment and airshed to assure long-term sustainability.
He/she will monitor large scale environmental studies such as the Baseline Survey carried out by
specialized consultants. He/she will establish an environmental data base, library and analytical
capability. Finally, he/she will establish an adjudication process whereby polluters have recourse to
state their position in a dispute with the SBMA.
Oualification
4.    The Environmental Specialist will be a seasoned professional with at least ten years of
relevant experience in the development and management of environmental management and
enforcement programs, preferably in an Asian context, managing a team of professionals. He/she
will be familiar with both tourism and light industrial development as well as both "green' and
'brown' issues. The candidate must possess an extensive track record in environmental management
with specific experience in the establishment of regulatory, monitoring and enforcement procedures.
Term of Engagement
5.    The initial contract will be for one year, renewable for an additional year. The
Environmental Specialist is expected to reside in the SBF, and take up his/her duties within one
month of contract signature.






- 66 -
Annex 11
Page 1 of 6
PHILIPPINES
SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
Terms of Reference
Study Aoroach
1.    The degree of success for development of Subic is in large part dependent on how well
environmental management of the port area is carried out. Currently, environmental conditions around
the base can be considered good but there are a series of issues which need to be addressed in the short
term in order to maintain the present level of environmental quality. These issues, which are discussed
in detail in these Terms of Reference, are:
-     Staffing and institutional development of SBMA's environmental affairs unit, the Ecology
Center;
-     Drafting, monitoring and enforcing a range of environmental regulations that will
safeguard development;
-     Providing integrated wastewater treatment services for the base and Olongapo;
-     Providing and maintaining water supplies for both the base and Olongapo;
-     Providing integrated solid waste management services for both the base and Olongapo;
-     Assuring that security be provided to safeguard the forest preserve;
-     Adequate management of ENRON's effluents to assure no deterioration in air quality;
-     Hazardous waste management, including ship's waste; and
-     Environmental analysis of proposed infrastructural investments under the project, to
include a bridge, 10 factory buildings and a 4 kilometer road.
Institutional Development of SBMA for Environmental Management
2.    Currently the Ecology Center of the SBMA has the principal responsibility for managing the
environmental affairs of the Freeport. They are staffed with approximately 20 people, four professionals
but only one with adequate training and long term experience. The rest of the staff is primarily
concerned with refuse pickup and cleanup around the base proper. The Ecology Center staff report
directly to the unit responsible for infrastructure around the base such as water supply, roads, power and
building maintenance. It therefore does not have an independent oversight responsibility required to



- 67 -
Annex 11
Page 2 of 6
manage environmental affairs objectively. Nevertheless, the Ecology Center is responsible for overall
environmental quality from the standpoint of monitoring rather than enforcement.
3.    The Ecology Center also has responsibility for review of EIAs as they are carried out by
prospective investors. For example, they are currently reviewing the EIA submitted for the new 108
MW ENRON Power Plant due to come on line in 1994. However, because of the technical nature of
the project, the EIA is being reviewed by DENR staff for issuance of an Environmental Compliance
Certificate. They are also about to review due diligence work carried out by the Coastal Corporation to
establish whether contamination exists on the tank farm. Staff limitations at this time prevents a
comprehensive approach to the review of EIA as well as other types of environmental management
activities.
4.    A staff of between 60 and 80 is recommended with fully one third at professional ranks. These
would include environmental engineers, scientists, lawyers, foresters, marine biologists, soil scientists
and two or three professional managers. Field staff should include technicians and air and water quality
monitoring specialists. Only at this level can the Ecology Center assure that all the environmental needs
of the Freeport are met.
5.    The EMP should discuss the above staffing needs and propose a phased plan for the
recruitment of specialists and their training. It should provide an organizational chart along with
specific job descriptions assigning priorities for each based on current and future needs
Establishing Regulations. Monitoring and Enforcement Procedures
6.    Environmental rules and regulations for the Freeport are outlined in the draft Environmental
Procedures Manual, prepared as part of the Strategy for Conversion of the Subic Bay Naval Base into
a Special Economic Zone and Freeport, January 1993. However, implementation of its provisions has
not taken place, again due to staff limitations. To date the Ecology Center has had to rely on the DENR
for substantive input. The lack of staff has also limited the Ecology Center's ability to establish a fine
and fee structure, guidelines for industrial pre-treatment of waste streams prior to discharge into the sewer
system, to develop a list of prohibited materials and industrial processes, hazardous waste handling
guidelines, procedures for handling of ship's wastes and to deal effectively with emissions from the power
plant.
7.    Specific monitoring procedures and protocols do not exist at the SBMA but will need to be
developed as new industries come on line. Protocols for measuring ambient concentrations of pollutants,
water based and air based, already exist at the national level through DENR. These should be reviewed
and adopted for use in the Freezone if appropriate. Programs of monitoring (frequency, species,etc.)
should be developed along with appropriate fines for non-compliance. These programs must be carefully
crafted so as not to discourage investors from locating in the zone.
8.    In the EMP, a comprehensive list of short run and mid-term program activities will need
to be identified based on current needs within the freeport.



- 68 -
Annex 11
Page 3 of 6
Integrated Wastewater Treatment Services
9.    Because of the juxtaposition of Olongapo and the base, an integrated wastewater treatment
program is recommended. This approach would provide for treatment of all wastewater in the area so
that the Bay and its tributaries would remain free of pollution. Currently, wastewater coming from the
base is discharged directly into the Bay through a 1000 foot outfall located in a area where hotels and
other tourist type facilities are to be developed. There is also no wastewater treatment in Olongapo with
sewered districts discharging directly into the rivers but with the majority of the population using septic
tanks. These septic systems are full most of the time and residents simply dig an adjacent tank when full.
Little cleaning of septic systems actually takes place. There is little information on groundwater
contamination around Olongapo for those areas most suspect, near the landfill and in dense areas with
overflowing septage.
10.   Residential areas of the baselands,largely unoccupied, have their own wastewater treatment plant
but which has not been in operation since the Navy vacated. Therefore no wastewater treatment exists
in an area with a population of some 250,000. An integrated wastewater treatment approach needs to
be implemented consisting of a treatment plant serving the base and the sewered areas of Olongapo as
well as provide for septic tank evacuation and subsequent treatment of collected wastewaters.
11.   Such a plant should be centrally located within reach of septage collection vehicles, Olongapo
sewers and baseland sewers. Prior to implementation of such a scheme, regulations on industrial
pretreatment need to be developed so that industries discharge only organic laden wastes to the plant.
In addition, the integration of wastewater treatment and water supply system operation under one private
contractor needs to be evaluated.
12.   In the EMP, the contractor will study the feasibility of the above approach and suggest an
implementation strategy including an approximate budget for capital and operating cost and its
impact on water and sewer charges.
Integrated Water Supply Services
13.   Olongapo's water supply system is severely overtaxed originally built after WW  II for a
population of 40,000 and now serving 250,000. Although filtered and chlorinated, the city's water supply
is not considered safe and needs to be upgraded. The base has a more modern water supply system
capable of providing some 10 million gallons per day and currently only supplying 4 million gallons per
day to the base and some connected areas of central Olongapo. An integrated system whereby the base's
plant can provide for Olongapo's water supply needs should be developed.
14.   In the EMP, the contractor will assess the potential for integrating the city's water supply
system with that of the base as well as possibility of linking it to the wastewater treatment system
operated by a private contractor.



- 69 -
Annex 11
Page 4 of 6
Integrated Solid Waste Treatment
15.   Solid waste produced on base is picked up by the municipality for disposal at the town's landfill.
Solid waste management on the base was turned over to Olongapo when the base's landfill was closed
in 1992. The town's landfill which accepts approximately 250 to 300 cubic meters of solid waste per day
can be characterized as dump where little of today's landfill management practices are applied. Although
the landfill has a leachate collection system consisting of a holding tank without treatment which usually
overflows during the rainy season. Municipal officials feel that the landfill still has some 20 years of life.
A study on re-engineering the existing landfill and the identification of potential sites for future
development needs to be undertaken. Solid waste loads will increase as industries move into the
Freeport. In addition, sites for sludge disposal and non-hazardous waste (demolition debris) need to be
identified and developed as well. Collection and transport of solid waste appears to be well managed
although a visit to the municipal garage revealed a large number of vehicles which are not adequately
maintained.
16.   In the EMP, the consultant will carry out a review of procedures and practices to determine
If privatization of solid waste management is practical and cost effective and how It may be
Implemented.
Forest and Wetlands Preservation
17.   The preservation of baselands forests and wetlands is vital to maintaining the ecology and
attractiveness of the region. Current efforts to preserve the forest have been largely successful through
the efforts of the military and thousands of volunteers. The ban on tree cutting and prohibition against
allowing people into these areas needs to be supported. The development of the Naval magazine area
should be postponed until a plan for the entire base has been adopted. It is important to maintain these
areas in pristine condition for as long as possible discouraging any attempts to propose projects with short
term gains at the expense of long term sustainable development.
18.   The organization of units responsible for forest and wetland area preservation need to be well
thought out so that the long term viability of these areas is assured. In the EMP, a plan for the
organization responsible for forest and wetlands protection needs to be outlined.
Power Plant Pollution Control
19.   Current emission levels from the 27 MW  Enron power plant are unknown yet there is a
continuous plume coming from the plant visible for many kilometers. At this time it is clearly an
environmental blot on an otherwise pristine landscape. Reasons for the plume include combustion of
Bunker 'C rather than diesel fuel and the age and condition of the diesel engines. However, the new
108 MW Enron facility will also burn Bunker "C" containing 3.5 percent sulfur. When the new facility
is complete, the small plant will be modernized but continued operation is planned.



- 70 -
Annex 11
Page 5 of 6
20.   An EIA has been carried out and is currently under review awaiting an Environmental
Compliance Certificate to be issued by the DENR. Since the Ecology Center is so thinly staffed with
no skills in the 'brown' sector, DENR has responsibility for environmental management at this point in
time. The EIA indicates that emission standards are violated but ambient standards are met and this is
permissible according to Philippine law. The determination that ambient standards are not violated is
based on dispersion modelling which is not adequately discussed in the EIA. In addition, a stack height
of 50 meters is mentioned as optimal making the EIA rather suspect in terms of its final conclusion.
Nevertheless, construction of the new plant has started because it has been designated a "fast track"
project although a Permit to Construct has not been issued.
21.   The central issue is the planned use of Bunker 'C" in the new plant which could quintuple the
present levels of emissions. The fuel is supplied by NPC under an arrangement prohibiting the use
alternative fuel. This situation should be addressed immediately and therefore needs to be fully
discussed in the EMP.
Hazardous Waste Management
22.   The management of hazardous wastes which potentially exist in the Freeport and those wastes
which might be created through light industrialization will need to be managed using up to date techniques
for storage, transport and disposal. At this point, any industrial ventures which produce significant
quantities of hazardous wastes are prohibited in the baselands. Nevertheless, there may be small
quantities of wastes generated such as spent solvents, ship's wastes and hospital wastes. These should
be treated away from the baselands at a central facility serving this part of the Philippines. Therefore
hazardous waste management capability should be limited to storage and transport of small quantities of
these materials and not final disposal. In event that major sources of hazardous materials are identified,
a special program will have to be devised to dispose of this material. To have a major emergency and
waste disposal capability within Subic would be costly and invite certain criticism.
23.   In the EMP, a plan for handling hazardous materials and ship's waste needs to be
developed.
Environmental Review of Investments
24.   Three capital projects are to be made in conjunction with this project, they include the widening
of a bridge, the construction of approximately four kilometers of road and the construction of 10 light
factory buildings. Each will require an environmental analysis with a focus on mitigation of negative
environmental impacts. Construction of the bridge and 10 buildings will require a less detailed analysis
than the road. Issues of erosion, wetlands, roadside residents and squatters, traffic flow and safety will
need to be addressed. At the time of the writing of these TORs, we have been told that no resettlement
of any residents is necessary since the proposed route is within the base in an unhabited area. If,
however, private land is to be acquired, then the procedure for compensation needs to be reviewed and
described in the EMP. If the compensation is judged to be insufficient based on the purchase of similar
land for public projects, then the compensation structure will have to be modified.



- 71 -
Annex 11
Page 6 of 6
25.   In the EMP, the consultant will review the environmental impact of these investments.
Repr
26.   The contractor will deliver a report addressing each of the above issues. In addition, a plan will
be provided which gives recommendations and establishes priorities for the various programmatic actions,
with schedule and budget. This report will be delivered in two phases, the first within one month of the
contract date and the second within six months of the contract date.
27.   The first phase report will provide a general overview of all issues and pose generic approaches
to be developed further in the second phase. This document is not to exceed 35 pages and will serve as
an environmental summary for the Bank's project documentation. During the second phase a more
detailed report will be prepared, expanding on the issues contained in the summary. This document will
provide a road map for environmental management of the Freeport and will have concrete
recommendations for capital investment and long term institutional development.



- 72 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Total Project Cost
-     Million Pesos-       %of             MiUon USS             %
Local  Foreign    Total    Base    Local   Foreign    Toal   Foreign
A. SITE IMPROVEMENT             259.3     753.1   012.4    83.9    9.26       26.90    36.16      74.4
Land Access                    64.5      73.8   143.2    11.9    2.30        2.81     5.12      55.0
Airpport Improvements          95.5     380.5   476.0    39.4    3.41        13.59    17.00     79.9
Port Repairs                   26.3      27.0    53.9      4.5    0.96       0.97     1.92      50.2
Standard Factory Buildings     53.9      110.8   164.7    13.6    1.92       3.96     5.88      67.3
Miscellaneous Equipment        11.9      144.1   156.0    12.9    0.43        5.15    5.57      92.4
Engineering/Supervision         6.7       11.9    18.6      1.5    0.24      0.42     0.66      64.0
B. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT          4.9     133.4   138.3    11.5    0.18        4.77     4.94      96.5
Merchandis Control System       0.0       56.0    56.0      4.6    0.00       2.00    2.00      100.0
Zoning Regulations              2.4       0.4      2.8     0.2    0.09       0.01     0.10      14.3
Accounting an Billing           2.5       4.5      7.0     0.6    0.09       0.16     0.25      64.3
PrivatizationTrmesactions       0.0      14.0    14.0       1.2    0.00      0.50     0.50     100.0
L-T Freeport Advisors           0.0      40.3    40.3      3.3    0.00        1.44    1.44     100.0
S-T Tmining and TA              0.0       11.2    11.2     0.9    0.00       0.40     0.40      100.0
Facilities Management           0.0       7.0      7.0     0.6    0.0        0.25     0.25     100.0
C. ENVIRONMENT                    0.0      27.5    27.5      2.3    0.00       0.98     0.98     100.0
Baseline Survey                 0.0      18.2    18.2      1.5    0.00       0.65     0.65     100.0
Ecology Center Support          0.0       9.3      9.3     0.8    0.00       0.33     0.33      100.0
0.0
D. TAXES AND DUTIES              29.1       0.0    29.1      2.4    1.04       0.0      1.04       0.0
TOTAL COST                    293.2     914.1  1207.3   100.0   10.47       32.64    43.12      75.7
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES         41.1      127.5   168.5    14.0    1.47       4.55     6.02      75.6
PIUCE CONTINGENCIES            65.5     154.4   219.9    18.2    0.96        1.89    2.85       70.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST            399.8    1195.9  1595.7   132.2   12.90       39.09    S1.99      74.9



SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJEICT
Totl Projed Cod with Cmwgu
Million Pewos                         % of                                   Million USS
1994       1995      1996        1997       TotWl       Total       1994        1995       1996        1997        Total      Forign
A. SITE IMPROVEIENT               308.7      677.4     213.0        145.7     1344.9       34.3        10.6        22.2        6.7         4.4        43.3        32.6
Land Accec                        9.0       35.7      73.9        16.2       205.0       12.8         0.3         1.2        2.3         2.6         6.4         3.5
Airport Improvemcnta            226.3      402.5       0           0         629.3       39.4         7.3        13.2        0           0          20.9        16.6
Port Repairs                      0         26.S      45.7         0          72.4        4.5         0          0.9         1.4         0           2.3         1.1
Standard Factory Buildings        0         70.3      92.7        59.5       222.6       14.0         0           2.3        2.9         1.8         7.0         4.7
Miucellana Equipmeat             50.1      142.1       0.7         0         193.0       12.1         1.7         4.7        0           0           6.4         5.9
Engineering/Supcerviion          22.6        0         0           0          22.6        1.4         0.3        0           0           0           0.3         0.5
B. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT           22.9      101.2      46.2         6.7       177.0       11.1         0.3        3.3         1.5         0.2         5.3         5.6
Merchandise Control System        7.2       53.9      16.5         0          77.5        4.9         0.2         1.8        0.5         0           2.5         2.5
Zoning Regulations                1.3       2.1        0           0           3.4        0.2         0          0.1         0           0           0.1         0.0
Accounting a*d Billing            0          7.1       1.9         0           3.9        0.6         0          0.2         0.1         0           0.3         0.2   I
PrivatizationTransations          1.5       6.4        3.6         1.3        18.3        1.1         0.1        0.2         0.3         0.1         0.6         0.6  w
L,T Freeport Advisom             10.3       23.1      12.3         0          46.2        2.9         0.4        0.3         0.4         0           1.5         1.5
S-T Training and TA               0          4.3       4.6         4.9        13.7        0.9         0          0.1         0.1         0.1         0.4         0.4
Facilitics Managenent             2.1       4.4        2.4         0           3.S        0.6         0.1        0.1         0.1         0           0.3         0.3
C. ENVIRONMENT                      9.2       21.9       3.1         0          34.2        2.1         0.3        0.7         0.1         0           1.1         1.1
Baseline Survey                   6.4       16.0       0           0          22.5        1.4         0.2         0.5        0           0           0.7         0.7
Ecology Center Support            2.7        5.9       3.1         0          11.3        0.7         0.1         0.2        0.1         0           0.4         0.4
D. TAXES AND DUTIES                 3.3      20.3        9.3         6.3        39.6        2.5        0.1         0.7         0.3         0.2         1.3         0
TOTAL                           344.0      821.3     271.7        158.7     1595.7      100.0        11.8        26.9        3.5         4.8        52.0        39.1
OQ :
(D D
I X
O F
0~



- 74 -
Annex 13
Philippines
Subic Bay Freeport Project
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year    Semester Ending     Disbursement Cumulative    Profile %!'
1995                December 31, 1994      1.2           1.2           3
June 30, 1995          6.0           7.2          18
1996                December 31, 1995      8.0          15.2          38
June 30, 1995          9.6          24.8          62
1997                December 31, 1996      6.4          31.2          78
June 30, 1997         4.8           36.0          90
1998                December 31, 1997      1.6          37.6          94
June 30, 1998         0.8           38.4          96
1999                December 31, 1998      0.8          39.2          98
June 30, 1999         0.8           40.0         100
Follows the profile for Philippines Industrial Development.



- 75 -
Annex 14
PHILIPPINES
SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Project Supervision Plan
Bank's Supervision Inputs into Key Activities
1.    The staff inputs indicated in the table below are in addition to the regular supervision needs at
headquarters for the review of progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence, etc. Bank
supervision over the life of the project is estimated at 60 staff weeks, of which 45 staff weeks would be
in the field and 15 staff weeks at headquarters.
2.    An indicative supervision program is shown in Table 1:
Table 1: Indicative Supervision Program
Approxunate     Activity                 Expected Slkll Requirements  Staff Input
Date
September 1994  Detailed Engineering    Institution Specialist          10
Environmental Aspects    Project Engineer
Launching Studies       Environmental Specialist
Institutional Progress  Financial Analyst/Economist
February 1995   Construction Progress   Project Engineer                4
Finances                Financial Analyst/Economist
Studies Progress
July 1995       Organizational Review   Financial Analyst/Economist     6
Studies Progress        Institutional Specialist
November 1995  Works Progress           Airport Specialist              6
Environmental Aspects    Environmental Specialist
March 1996      Works Progress          Project Engineer                2
July 1996       Studies Progress        Financial Analyst/Economist     4
Works Progress          Port Engineer
September 1996  Institutional Progress  Institution Specialist          2
June 1997       Works Progress          Financial Analyst/Economist     6
Overall Review          Project Engineer
December 1997  Overall Progress         Institutional Specialist        5
PCR                     Financial Analyst/Economist
Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
3.    All project actions will be coordinated by the SBMA. Regular progress reports will be provided
by the SBMA, as will Part 2 of the Project Completion Report. Provisional financial statements will be
provided on a semi-annual basis, and audited financial statements will be provided annually.



Philippines
Subic Bay Freeport Project
Implementation Schedule
0          akae             Draz        ti         n             1994                   1995                       1996     ___1997
#          Task Name         Durabo    Start      End      Q2    Q3    Q4    QI   Q2    Q3    Q4    Qi   Q2    Q3    Q4    QI    Q2    Q3    Q4
I Access Road              19.95 m  Jan/02/95 Aug/29/96                      -      -             -
2  Detailed Engineermg      4.00 m  Jan/02/95 May/02/95
3  Tendering                4.00 m May/03/95 Aug/31/95
4  Award                    0.00 m Aug/31/95 Aug/31/95                                      A
5  Construction             7.00 m  Jan/01/96  Jul/31/96
6  Kalayaan Seeurit Gate    1.00 m   JuV31/96 Aug/29/96                                                               m
7 Rizal Bridge              9.75 m   JuVOI/94 Apr/25/95 -       _ --
8  Detailed Enginwering     4.00 m   Jul/01/94  Ocrt31/94
9  Tendering                2.75 m Nov/01/94  Jan/23/95
101_Award                    0.00 w  Jan/23/95  Jan/23/95                    a
II  Costruction              3.00 m  Jan/23/95 Apr/25/95
12 Main Entrance Complex    12.75 m   Jul/01/94  Jul/25/95 . ........ -
13  Detailed Engineering     4.00 m   JuVO/I/94  Oct/31/94       _ Ml
14  Tendering                2.75 m Nov/01/94  Jan/23/95
15  Award                    0.00 m  Jan/23/95  Jan/23/95                    A
16  Consuction               6.00 m  Jan/23/95  Jul/25/95      .4
17 Airport Terminal         19.95 m   Jul/O1/94  Feb/28/96       _
I8  Detailed Enginmering     3.00 m   Jul/01/94  Sep/30/94
19  Tendering                4.00 m  Sep/30/94  Jan/31/95
20  Award                    0.00 m  Jan/31/95  Jan/31/95                     A
21  Construction            12.00 m  Mar/01/95  Feb/28/96                        _
22 Airport Pavement         20.02 m  Apr/01/94 Dec/01/95
23  Detailed Enginring       3.00 m  Apr/01/94  JulOI/94
24  Tendering                3.00 m   JulOI/94  Sep/30/94
25  Award                    0.00 m  Sep/30/94  Sep/30/94
26  Construction            14.00 m  Oct/03/94 Dec/01/95
27 Port Repairs             31.98 m  Sep/01/94 May/01/97                _
28  Detailed ngineeing       4.00 m  Sep/01/94 Dec/30/94
29  Tendering                4.00 m  Jan/02/95 May/02/95
30  Award                    0.00 m May/02/95 May/02/95                              a
31  Constunction            12.00 m Nov/01/95  Oct/30/96
32  Cathodic Protection      6.00 m  Oct/31/96 May/01/97                                                                      _
33 Standard Factory Buildings   18.00 m  Sep/01/94 Mar/01/96       U                                     -
34  Detailed Engineering     2.00 m  Sep/01/94 Nov/01/94
35  Tendering                4.00 m Nov/01/94 Mar/02/95
36  Award                    0.00 m Mar/02/95 Mar/02/95                         A
37  Constuction             12.00 m  Mar/02/95 Mar/01/96
38 Equipment                24.00 m  Apr/01/94 A/01/96 _
Prin,ed: May/09/94                                                                                                             Miestonc  A    Summary    _
Page I                                                                                                                                         lFxed Delay - ------



Philippines
Subic Bay Freeport Project
Implementation Schedule
a                                                                1994199                                           1996                      1997
TaskName          Duratio    Stan      End      Q2    Q3    Q4   QI   Q2    Q3    Q4    Ql   Q2    Q3    Q4    Ql   Q2    Q3    Q4
39  Air Traffic Control      8.00 m  Apr/01/94 Nov/30/94
40  Communications           10.99 m  Oct/03/94 Aug/31/95                _          _
41    Security               4.00 m  Oct/03/94  Jan/31/95
42    Airport Communications  8.00 m  Jan/02/95 Aug/31/95
43  Vehicles                 6.00 m  Oct/03/94 Apr/03/95
44  Miscellneous             17.98 m  Oct/03/94 Apr/01/96
45    Boats                  4.00m  Oct/03/94  Jan/31/95
46    Heavy Equipment        8.00 m Nov/01/94  Jun/30/95
47    OGal Eqipment          6.00 mi Oct/03/94 Apr/03/95
48    Electical Equipment    6.00 m  Jan/02/95  Jul/03/95
49    Laboratory Equipment    6.00 m  Jan/02/95  JuL03/95
50    Office Equipment      12.00 m  Apr/03/95 Apr/01/96                              _
51    Water and Electicity Me 12.00 m  Dec/01/94 Nov/30/95
52 Merchandise Control System  23.00 mn  Jul/0194 May/31/96
53  Short Listing            3.00.  Jul/01/94  Sep/3041
54  Award                    0.00 m  S*30M    Se304                                                                                                                  L
55  InstWlation             12.00 m  S*30M   Oct/02/95                                                                                                              `4
56  Veriftion                8.00 m  Oct/02/95 May/31/96
57 Accounting nd Billing    15.00 m  Sep01/94 Dec/01/95                            
58  Short Listing            3.00 m Septl/94 Dc/A01/94            *
59  Award                    0.00 m  Dec./01/94 Dec/01/94
60  Installation             8.00 m  Dec/01/94 Aug/0295_
61  Verification             4.00 m  Aug/02/95 Dec/01/95
62 Zonung Regulations        6.00 m  Sep01/94 Mar/02/95
63 Privatization Transactions    36.00 m  Sep/01/94  Sep01/97      *
64 La"-term Advisors        27.00 m    Jul/01/94  Oct/01/96
65 Short-term TA and Training  27.00 m  Mar/01/95 May/30/97
66 Facilities Management    27.00 m    Jul/01/94  Oct/01/96
67 Baseline Survey           17.00 m   JulO1/94 Nov/30/95
68  Short Listing            3.00 m   JuU01/94  Sep/30/94
69  Award                    0.00 m        Sep/3094     I
70  Study                   14.00 m  Sep/30/94 Nov/30/95
71 Ecology Center Support   27.00.  Jul/01/94  Oct/01/96          -                                       -     - m
_    _ _ _ _ _    __                   ==_ ___                                                                                                                    otji
Printed: May/09/94                                                                                                              Milestone  A    Summary 
Page 2                                                                                                                                         Fixed Delay



- 78 -                       ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 3
SUBIC BAY METROPOLITAN AUTHORITY
INCOME STATEMENT
in (000) Pesos
1992            1993
6-Months Actual    Preliminary
GENERAL LEASE REVENUES
Land Leases                                           0            7,116
Revs. from Industrial & Commer. Space                 0          138,910
Revs. from housing                                    0                0
Others                                                0                0
Total General Lease Revenues                          0          146,026
OPERATING, SERVICE & OTHER INCOME
Tourism & Recreational Faciliites                   135           27,156
Public Works Services                                 0           19,559
Security Services                                  194            8,649
Airport & Port Facilities                            43            5,740
Power Plant Personnel Services                    4,892                0
Interest Income                                     540            8,917
Extraordinary Income                                  0            1,129
Miscellaneous                                        42           10,826
Total Other Revenues                              5,846           81,976
TOTAL REVENUES                                    5,846          228,002
OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries & Benefits                             11,597          93,803
Grounds & Maintenance Exp.                      11,632            1,952
Sales & Promotional Expense                       271             2,246
Water Power & Sewarage                               0          48,097
Communications Exp.                                 22            2,032
Supplies & Materials                             1,033           14,651
Professional Services                                0          28,718
Miscellaneous                                     460            2,811
Subtotal                                    25,015          194,310
NET OPERATING PROFIT                            (19,169)          33,692
Depreciation                                     3,821           12,529
Interest                                             0
Subtotal                                     3,821           12,529
NET OPERATING MARGIN                            (22,990)          21,163
Income Taxes                                         0               0
NET PROFIT/(LOSS)                               (22,990)          21,163



79 -                       ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 3
SUBIC BAY METROPOLITAN AUTHORITY
FLOW OF FUNDS STATEMENT
in (000) Pesos
1992             1993
6-Months Actual    Preliminary
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION
Net Income Before Int                           (22,990)          21,163
Disposal of Assets                                                 1,503
Add: Depreciation Exp                             3,821           12,529
Operating Cash Flow                              (19,169)          35,195
Add: Beg Cash Position                                0           75,411
Working Cap Inc/(Dec)                            (6,054)         (44,329)
CASH BEFORE DEBT SERVICE                         (13,115)         154,935
DEBT SERVICE
Interest Charges                                      0                0
Repayment of Notes                                    0                0
Principal Repayments                                  0                0
Total Debt Service                                     0                0
CASH AFTER DEBT SERVICE                          (13,115)         154,935
CAPITAL INVESTMENT REQUIREMENTS
Construction Projects                                 0                0
Capitalized Interest                                  0                0
Annual Capital Invest.                                0                0
Equipment Purchases                             122,943            8,396
Add: Cash Ending Bal.                            75,411          365,217
CASH AFTER CAPITAL EXPEN.                       (211,469)        (218,678)
FUNDS FROM LOANS & CONTRIBUTIONS
Other Loans                                           0                0
Working Capital Loans                                 0                0
Funds From Loans                                       0                0
Appropriated Contributions                       211,469          258,397
TOTAL CASH SUR/(DEF)                                   0           39,719
Short-term Investments                                 0           39,719



- 80 -                     ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 3
SUBIC BAY METROPOLITAN AUTHORITY
BALANCE SHEET
in (000) Pesos
1992            1993
ASSETS                       6-Months Actual    Preliminary
FIXED ASSETS
Properties and Facilities                          0       19,101,686
Equipment                                    122,943         129,795
Less: Acc. Depreciation                         3,821           16,215
Net Fixed Assets                             119,122       19,215,266
Works In Process                                   0
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                            119,122       19,215,266
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash                                          75,411         365,217
Short Term Investments                             0          39,719
Accounts Receivable                              196          39,578
Spares and Material Inv.                       1,850           5,964
Prepaid Exp.                                       8               3
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                           77,465         450,481
TOTAL ASSETS                                  196,587       19,665,747
LIABILITIES & NET WORTH
EQUITY
Paid In Capital                              210,969       19,569,865
Addnl Cap Contributions                         500                0
Retained Earnings                             (22,990)         2,717
Beginning                                         0          (22,990)
Net Income                                  (22,990)         25,707
Extraordinary Income                              0               0
TOTAL NET WORTH                               188,479       19,572,582
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable                               5,315           18,007
Notes Payable                                      0               0
Adv. & Security Deposits                       2,793           75,158
Current Portion of Debt                            0               0
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                       8,108           93,165
TOTAL LIABS. & NET WORTH                      196,587       19,665,747



SUBIC BAY METROPOLITAN AUTHORrTY
INCOME STATEMENT
14-Feb-94                                                           in (000)
1904         1905         19906        1997        1908         1999          2000        2001         2002         2003
GENERAL LEASE REVENUES
Revenues rorm Industril Areas                          45,018      111,711      184.990      231,868      231,38      254,505      254,05       279,055      279,955      307,9f1
Revs, *Orn CommercIal Spaco                            50,426      116.862      142,634      156,898      156,898      172,587      172.587      189,846      189,084      208,331
Leseo Rove. tom Housing                                24,000       59,400       99,000      130.680      130,.60      143,748      143,748      158.123      158,123      173,035
Revs, *om Touriam Aroas                                44,933       82,377      115,327      120,860      120,860      139,546      139,50       153,501      153,501      168$,51
Totd General Lease Revenues                           164.377      372,349      541.952      645,806      645,806      710,386      710,386      781,425      761,425      859,5e7
OTHER REVENUES
Revs, trom Privtized Servicts                         132,506      304,645      506.836      685,907      717,420    1,470,121    1,566,431    1,821.797    1,962,130    2,345,389
Revs. trnm Spec. Facil. & Concessions                 236.500      257,950      226,325      232,320      272,250      299,475      209,475      329,423      329.423      62,365
Intredt From ShrtTwrm Investments                       2,111       25,100       23,063           0         0,222       29,263       78,374      177,492      298,388      437,448
Total Othr Revenues                                   371,217      587,701      756,824      918,227     9095.892    1,798,859    1,943,279    2,328,712    2,589,940    3,145.202
TOTAL REVENUES                                        535,594      960.051    1,28.776     1,564,032    1,641,697    2,509,245    2,653,666    3,110,136    3,371.365    4,004.760
OPERATING EXPENSES
Salwies & Benefits                                  207,000       232,565      156,772      176.133     201,655      226,559       254,539     285,975      300,683      321,730
Grounds & Maintenanre Exp.                           40,000        48,150      54,383        61,252      65,540       70,128       75,037       50,289       85,090       910123
Sales & Promotional Expenses                         10,000        16.050      20,036        24,501       26,216      28,051        30.015      32,116       34.364       38 760  ao
Water, Power and Seweage                             75,000       191,911     306.458      377.239      403,646      790,1609     845,480      n04,664      967,001     1.035,750
Communiation Expenses                                 3,000         5,350       5.725         7,350       7,865        8,415         9,004       9.635       10,309       11,031
Supplies and Materials                               30,000       37,450       40,072       49.002       52,432       56,102       60,020       64,231       68,727       73,538
Other Services                                       50,000       42,800       34,347        24.501      26,216       14,026       15.007       18,058       17,182       18,385
Miscellaneous                                        36,000       64,200       68,694       79,628       85,202       91,1606      97,547      104,376      t111,82      119,500
Subtotal                                         451,000      638,475      688.485      7000.6       868,771     1,284,615    1,380,559    1,497,343    1,5060.47    1,708,626
NET OPERATING PROFIT                                  64,5e4      321,576      612.291       764,426      772,927    1,224,630    1,267,006    1.612,703    1,774,518    2,290,143
Dopreciatlon                                        382,000      395,585      436,754      403,343      541,674      571,276      591,675      e02.784      603,76       603,7609
Interest                                              2,613       16,418       67,774        90,387     109,493      110,000       108,300      102,792      96,332       89,720
Subtotal                                         384,613      412,003      504,528      583,730      651.167      681.386      700,035      705,576      700,101      603,480
NET OPERATING MARGIN                                (300,018)     (00,428)     107,753      180,696      121,780      543,264      566,071      907,217     1,074,417    1,602.854
Income Taxes                                              0            0       37,717       63,244       42,.16      190,142      198,440      317,526      376,048      560,929
NET PROFIT/(LOSS)                                   (300,018)     (00,428)      70.048      117.453       79,144      353,122      368,531      589.6091     6098.371    1,041,725
xl
o  -j
FH



SUBIC BAY METROPOUTAN AJTHORITY
FLOW OF FUNDS STATEMENT
14-Feb-94                                                           in (000)
1994         1005        1006          1997         1098         1990         2000         2001         2002         2003
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION
Not Income  he4r olntermst                          (297,406)     (74,000)     137,820      207,840      1U8036       403,212      476,802      092,483      704,703    1.131.445
Add: Deprecaton Expense                              382,000      395.585      436,754      493,343      541.674      571,278      591,675      602,784      603,769      603,700
Operaing Cash Flow                                   U4,594       321.576      574,574      701,183      730,311    1,034.488    1.068,566    1,295,267    1,308,472    1,735,214
Add: Beg Cah PomlUon                                 230,532       56,375       7o.8N        85,811       99,951      108.596      160.577      173,332      187,168      190,606
Working Cap Inc/(Dec)                                (95,853)     (27,354)      (5.579)     (76,406)     (11,039)     (91568)      (17,173)      17,350      (22.234)     (54,102)
Escrow for Secuity Deposit                            89266        70743        56454        44200        12944       144591        24070        78078        43538       105507
CASH BEFORE DEBT SERVICE                             327,713       334,502      603,508      319,190      828.356    1,090,061    1.222,246    1,375,162    1,564,336    1,883,355
DEBT SERVICE
Interest Chwges                                        2,613       16,418       87.774       90,387      109,493      110,090      108,360      102,792       98.332       $9.720
Repayment of Notes                                        0        15,250       25,369       33,107       15,587       16,678       26,451       28,303       25,237       27,003
Principal Repayrmnts                                      0            0            0            0            0            0        74ee67       74,667      111,333      111,333
Tot Dcbt Srvice                                         2,613       31,66        93,143      123,494      125,079      122,768      209,478      205,702      232,902      228,057
CASH AFTER DEBT SERVICE                              325,101       302,893      510,365      695,696      703,277      963,293    1,012,768    1,169,400    1,331,434    1,655,208
CAPITAL INVESTMENT REQUIREMENTS
Corutrucrion Project                                543,394     1.103.383    1,160,169      773,081      410,974      404,987       39,394           0            0            0   1
Capitalized Interest                                   9,650      35,168        20,719       14,241           0            0            0            0            0            0  co
Annual Capial Inwvet.                                553,044    1,138,570    1,180,888      787,321      410.974      404,987       39,394           0            0            0
EqulpmentPuchaves                                    132,311      59,039        58,462       27,159        8,376       14,925        2,380           0            0            0
Add: Cash Ending Balance                              56,375      79,809        85,811       99,951      108,596      160,577      173,332      187,168      19906w6      213,578
CASH AFTER CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                      (416,629)    (974,526)    (814.796)    (218,735)     175.330      382.604      797,681      982,232    1.131,828    1.441,720
FUNDS FROM LOANS A CONTRIBUTIONS
Othw Loans                                                0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0
IECDF                                               100,000       125,000      285,000      150,000           0            0            0            0            0            0
IBRD                                                260,000      630,000       125,000      105,000           0            0            0            0            0            0
Working CapIal Loans                                 15.250       25,369       33,107        15,587       16,678      26,451        28.303       25,237       27,003       28,894
Funds From Loans                                     375,250      780,389       443,107      270,587       16,678       26,451       28,303       25,237       27,003       28.894
Appropriated Conlributions                            233,000      182,134      150,000           0            0            0            0            0            0            0
TOTAL CASH SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                          191.621      (12,022)    (221,889)      51,851      192,008      409,258      825,984    1.007,469    1,158,831    1,470,613
k Cah Stpluk:
Cah Avalbbi For DiBtrbution                         191,621            0            0       51,851       192,008     409,256       825,984    1,007.489    1,158,831    1.470,813
Ditributions to Govt.                                     0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0
Purchas of Secuites                                 191,621            0            0       51,851       192,008     409,256       825,984    1,007,469    1,158,831    1,470,613
It Cash D dcIt
Scbed Sect,ue                                             0       12,022      197,194            0            0            0            0 O          0            0            0
Gov.rnmentConrliiuons                                     0            0       24,495            0            0            0            0            0            0            0
Fd :>
I'3
OQ 0
-4



SUBIC BAY METROPOLITAN AUTHORITY
BALANCE SHEET
14-Feb-04                                                           hi (o0o)
1004         1995         10se         1007         100         1900          2000        2001         2002         2003
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
Land                                               11460000     11460000     11460000     11460000     11460000     11460000     11460000     11460000     11460000     11460000
Properties and FUcit                               7,640,650    6,228,231     0,352,333    10,526,743    11,200824    11.710,797    12,115,784    12.155,178    12.155.173    12.155.178
Equipment                                            201.335      320.374      378,836      405,90f      414,372      429,297      431,657      431,657      431.657      431,857
Lses: Accumujted Depreciation                         398,267      793,852    1.230.606    1,723,W94     2,265.823   2.836.,8s    3,428.574    4.031.358    4.635.127    5.238.806
Not Fkxed Assets                                  18,972,718    10.214.753    10,060,503    20,e66,780    20,908,572   20,763,105    20,578.8e7    20.015,477    19.411,708    16,807,939
Works In Proes_s                                     543,394    1,103,383    1.160.150      773,081      410,974      404,987       39,304           0            0            0
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                                 19.516.112    20,318,136    21,120,732    21,441,870    21.310.548   21,16,182    20,618,262    20,015.477    19,411,708    18,607,03
CURRENT ASSETS
C_h                                                   50,375       79,809       85,811       090,51      108.506      160.577      173,332      187.168      100.60       213.576
Short Tem IrInvetmebnts                              320620       388.346      247.607      343,608      548,620    1,102.407    1,952,521    3,036.068    4,238.438    5,814,616
Accounts Receivable                                   67.416      121,812      165,214      132,812      139.726      212,151      225,632      263,012      286.442      339,661
Spores and Mst.rs Inv.                                30,500       50,739       66,214       51,050       55,593      S8,171        04,343      100,947      108,014      115,575
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                                  483,917      640,707      564.s40      628s3se      8s52.3     1,503,367    2,445.820    3,506,090    4,832,400    6,483,432
TOTAL ASSETS                                       20.000,029    20,0s5,843    21,685.578    22,070,257    22,172,081    22,731,541   23,064,0s0   23,603,573    24,244,207    25,201.371
UABILmES A NET WORTH
EQUITY
Psid In Capis                                     19,607.800    10650.000    20,024,495    20,024,405    20,024,495   20,024,405    20,024,495    20,024,495    20,024,495    20,024,406
Addiionai CspIW Conlritbiton                        233,000      182.134      174,495            0            0            0            0            0            0            0
Retained Earnings                                   (298.558)    (388.980)    (316.040)    (201,487)    (122.343)     230,778      599,310    1.180.001    1,u87,372    2,929,097
Boginning                                             1,400     (20,558)     p88,98W)     (318,940)    (201,487)    (122,343)     230,77S      500,310    1,189,001    1.87.372
Not Income                                         (300,018)     (90,428)      70,040      117,453       70,144      353.122      308,531      580,601      608.371    1,041,725
Dividencit                                               0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0
TOTAL NET WORTH                                    10.380.308    19,481.014    10,705.555    10,823,008    19,902,152    20,255,273    20,623.85    21,213.406    21.011 .7    22,05.502
BORROWINGS
Interest Fr" Loan                                         0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0
IBRD                                               100.00       225,000      510o00o      600,000       660.000     5O5.000 6o00000           660,000      623,333       580,.e7
IECOF                                               260,000      690,000     1,015,000    1,120,000    1,120,000    1,120,000    1.045.333     070.667      806,000      621,333
Lass: Currnt Portion                                       0            0            0            0            0       74,6e7       74,667      111,333      111,333      111,333
TOTAL BORROWINGS                                     3e0,000     1,115,000    1.525,000    1,760,000    1.780,000    1.705,333    1.630,687    1.519.333    1,408,000    1,290.667
CURRENT LIABILMES
Accounts Payable                                     75,167      106,413       114,414      00.951       108.590     160,577      173,332       124,770     133,071      142.385
Notes Payabla                                        15,250       25,369       33,107        15,587       16,876      26,451       28,303       25,237       27.003       28,804
Adv. A Schity Deposlts                              180.305      251,047      307,502      351,711       34,855      500.247       533,317     o09,395      652,9s3      758.500
Ctwrcnt Potion o Debt                                     0            0            0            0            0       74,607       74,67      111,333      111,333      111,333
TOTAL CURRENT UABILITIES                             270,721      302,820      455,023      407,249       489,930     770,941       800,610      870,744      024.340    1,041,113
TOTAL UABIUTIES A NET WORTH                        20,000,029    20,0581,843    21685.578    22,070,257    22,172,081    22,731,841    23,064.000    23,6035,73    24,244.207    25,201,371
Su 0
x
I)



SUBIC BAY METROPOLIfAN ALITHORffY
BORROWING SUMMARY
14-Feb-94                                                         in (000)
1994        1995         1990         1997        1908         1909        2000         2001         2002        2003
LOANS
IBRO
Opening Balance                                          0       260,000     80.000    1,015,000    1,120,000    1,120,000    1.120,000    1.045,333     970,867      800,000
Additonr                                            26000        630,000      125,000     105,000           0            0           0            0            0           0
lntwert Expense                                        975        10,781      57,150       76,059       84,000      84,000       81.200       75,600      70,000       64,400
Capiaized lntweet                                     8.775       32.344      14,288        4,003           0            0           0            0           0            0
Total Inteust                                         0.750       43,125      71,438       80.003       84,000      84,000       81,200       75,600      70,000       64,400
Arnortizaon                                              0            0            0           0            0            0       74,607       74,867      74,6U7       74,607
Closing Balance                                     260,000      890,000    1,015,000    1,120,000    1,120.000    1,120,000    1,045.333    070,6e7     890.000      $21,333
IECDF
Opening Balance                                          0       100,000     225,000      510,000      600,000     000,000     600,000      000,000      000,000      623,333
Addition                                            100.000      125,000     285,000      150,000           0            0           0            0           0            0
lntwoet Expense                                        875         2.844       0,431       10,238       23,100      23,100       23,100       23,100      22,458       21,175   1
Capitalized Interest                                   875         2.844       6,431       10.238           0            0           0            0           0            0  00
Total Intweet                                         1,750        5,688      12,803       20,475       23.100      23,100       23.100       23.100      22,458       21,175   1
Arnortizabon                                             0            0            0           0            0            0           0            0       30,007       36,607
Ciosing Balance                                     100,000      225,000     510,000     060,000       500,000     80,000       000,000      0,000       623,333      a0.607
Other Loans
Opening Balance                                          0            0           0            0            0            0           0            0           0            0
Addition                                                 0            0            0           0            0            0           0            0           0            0
Intrest Expenseo                                         0            0            0           0            0            0           0            0           0            0
Capitalized Intuest                                      0            0           0            0            0            0           0            0           0            0
Total lntrst                                             0            0            0           0            0            0           0            0           0            0
Amnortizaton                                             0            0            0           0            0           0            0            0           0            0
Closing Balance                                          0            0           0            0            0           0            0            0           0            0
ALL LOANS
Opening Blance                                           0       360,000    1,115,000    1,525,000    1,780.000    1,780,000    1,780,000    1,705,333    1,030,607    1.519,333
Additioro                                           300,000      755.000     410,000      255,000           0           0            0            0           0            0
Interest Expense                                      1,850       13,625      63,581       80,297     107.100      107,100      104,300      98,700       92,458      85.575
Capitized Expense                                     9,050      35,188       20,719       14,241           0           0            0            0           0            0
Total Interest                                       11,500       48,813      84,300      100,538     107,100      107,100      104.300      98,700       92,458       85,578
Amortizadon                                              0            0           0            0            0           0        74,e67      74,8e7      111,333      111,333
Closing Balanc                                      300,000    1.115.000    1,525,000   1,780.000    1.780,000    1,780,000   1,705,333    1,030,607    1.519,333    1,408,000
x
o    .-j






-85-                                      Annex 17
Page 5 of 11
PHLIPPINES
SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
Model Description and Programming Logic
1.           A fully integrated model was developed to project SBMA financial activity including the
investments that will be financed by the proposed Project. The model accepts as inputs revenue
assumptions from leases of industrial, commercial and recreational facilities as well as from SBMA run
services and joint ventures of privatized facilities. Also, operating cost assumptions were made for
SBMA activities for operating and maintaining the various facilities which will be retained by the SBMA.
Other inputs to the model include assumptions for financing, inflation and financial management policies.
Year-end 1993 balance sheet accounts, adjusted for the booking of P 19.1 billion in paid up capital was
used as the starting position.
2.           The model was programmed to simulate SBMA's activity as a Government owned
industrial estate development and management activity, according to acceptable financial management
principles. As such, the total funds available through internal and external financing sources are allocated
based on specified priorities, with internally generated funds going first to meet requirements for
increases in working capital, fulfilling obligations to fund trust liabilities, and debt service obligations and
secondly, to meet any additional requirements. The estimated external sources of funds, both borrowings
and appropriations from Government as equity contributions are added as independent variables in order
to bridge any financing gap. Annual cash surpluses are reinvested in short term securities, while deficits
are deducted against this same account to the extent there are sufficient funds to cover the draw. The
final source of funds available to the SBMA would be additional contributions to equity from the
Government. However, since these are not assured, revisions to other assumptions are considered first,
such as scaling down the investment program.
Significant Accounting Principles
3.           The model incorporates several important accounting principles, which influence the
interpretation of SBMA's financial statements. These include:
(a)    Booking of P 19.1 Paid-up Capital. Most facilities of the former US Naval base were
turned over to the Government no cost. However, in order to better reflect the true value
of these facilities on SBMA's financial statements, a more appropriate value of i 19.1
billion for such facilities were booked to the accounts. RA 7227 provided the basis for
this estimation since it specified that the amount represented the Government's equity
as paid up capital and representing all the properties and facilities turned over to the
SBMA. Since this amount is still an estimate, the SBMA has adopted the policy of
performing appraisals of each fixed assets estimate and then booking any adjustments as
either gains or losses from the revaluation. Under this approach the SBMA can reflect
an indicative value for the properties previously unaccounted for and to begin to
depreciate such assets based on their remaining useful lives.



Annex 17
-86-                                   Page 6 of 11
(b)    Security Deposits Held in Trust. The SBMA is required by law to place any security
deposits made by its tenants into a trust account. While the SBMA can earn income from
these accounts, it may not use these funds for its own purposes. Accordingly, all funds
received by the SBMA from projected security deposits have corresponding liability and
cannot be allocated to other uses other than to fund the trust account.
(c)    Accounting for Foreign Exchange Risk. It is assumed that the SBMA will be subject to
minimal foreign exchange risk exposure since most of its revenues are earned in foreign
exchange. Accordingly, no provisions are made for foreign exchange loss provisions on
the dollar denominated borrowings.
(d)    Accounting for Revenues and Expenses. SBMA revenues and expenses are accounted
on the accrual basis for which collections and payment, respectively, are governed by
assumed financial management parameters based on actual experiences.
Assumptions to the Financial Projections
General Projection Parameters
-      Projection Period:   1994 to 2003
-     Currency: Thousands of Pesos in current prices.
-      Exchange Rate: US Dollar denominated inputs were converted at an exchange rate of
28 Pesos to US$1.
-     Price and Cost Escalation Rates: Revenues, consisting of primarily building and land
leases, were increased 10 percent every two years beginning with 1995. Operating and
investment costs were increased at 2.8 percent and 7.0 percent for local and foreign
inputs, respectively.
Income and Other Taxes: As a Government-owned and controlled corporation, SBMA
is subject to income taxes of 35 percent with no provisions for carrying forward losses.
This is not expected to have a material effect on the derived results. It is assumed that
the SBMA will be exempt like all other enterprises operating within the SBF from tariff
or other import duties on equipment and goods operated and consumed within the area.
Depreciation: For projection purposes, approximately 40 percent of the IR 19.1 billion
to be booked to SBMA balance sheet representing the existing facilities on the base were
assumed as depreciable assets such as buildings and equipment. These, including new
investments to be made by the SBMA over the projection period, are depreciated at
5 percent per year.



Annex 17
-87-                                    Page 7 of 11
General Lease Revenue
Occupancy Schedule: Occupancy is defined as the total lease out area divided by the
total available area. The following are the occupancy schedules assumed for the major
industrial, commercial, tourism and housing facilities:
INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES                  1994      1995      1996       1997       2007
20       40        60          -          -
Existing buildings (%)
Areas Developed for Land Lease (%)     10       30        60         80
Standard Factory Buildings (%)                  20        50         90
Areas developed for land lease refer to the 120 ha (first phase) to be developed with financing from the
Taiwanese Government. Of this 120 ha, it is assumed that 80 percent (96 ha) will be the total net
industrial area.
OTHER FACILITIES                       1994      1995      1996       1997       2007
35       75        90          -          -
Commercial Areas
Tourism Areas                          30       50        70          -
No. of Houses Leased Out              400       900      1,500      1,800
-     The maximum occupancy rates for industrial, commercial, and tourism have to be refined
after a thorough evaluation of the condition of existing facilities. It is further assumed
that 100 percent occupancy cannot be attained due to the regular turn-over of tenants.
-     Lease Rates.  The following lease rates in constant terms are assumed for the various
developed and undeveloped areas. These are comparable to actual lease rates already
achieved by the SBMA for existing space as well as lease rates of other industrial estate
parks within the country.



Annex 17
-88-                                 Page 8 of 11
Pesos/SM/month     Pesos/SM/annum
Industrial Facilities
Existing Buildings                 60.00              720.00
Industrial Land                     7.50               90.00
Standard Factory Bldgs.            60.00              720.00
Commercial Areas                     125.00            1500.00
Tourism Areas                        100.00            1200.00
Residential Areas (per unit)       5000.00            60000.00
Revenues from Privatized Support Services
4.           The SBMA is in the process of negotiating a number of agreements for privatizing some
of the key facilities of the base.  These will be privatized in a number of ways ranging from simple
operating and management contracts to capital long term leases. It is not anticipated, however, that the
facilities and corresponding land will be sold outright. The following are the assumptions to the various
support services to be privatized.
(a)    Port Operations. SBMA revenue is assumed to be a function of future shipping traffic
at SBF. In 1994 it is projected to amount to P 6 million. This is assumed to increase
by 25 percent per annum until 1999.  From 2000 to 2007, a revenue of P 20 M is
assumed.
(b)    Airport Operations. Similarly, the SBMA will earn revenues from air traffic in the form
of landing fees and leasing of hangers in the airport area. This revenue is estimated at
P 1 million for 1994 and is assume to double for 1995 and 1996.  A 50 percent
increased is assumed for period 1997 through 1999, then leveling off at iP 15 million by
the year 2000.
(c)    Power Plant. The SBMA has concluded an agreement with ENRON to lease its existing
power plant for approximately iP 18.63 million per year for a 5-year period.  In the
meantime, ENRON will be building a 100MW plant, for supplying power to the SBF
freeport and neighboring municipalities. The existing plant will be scrapped at the end
of the 5-year lease period due to obsolescence.



-89-                                     Annex 17
Page 9 of 11
(d)    Power Distribution. The following consumption (kwh/SM/year is assumed by type of
activity:
Commercial                           120
Industrial                           420
Tourism                              180
Residential (per unit)             4,000
A retail price of P2.75/kwh was assumed, multiplied by the occupancy rate for each category of space.
(e)    Water & Sewerage. The total water consumption for the zone was projected based on
occupancy rates. The following consumption factors (m3/SM/year) were assumed:
Commercial                          20
Industrial                          81
Tourism                             54
Residential (per unit)              30
A retail price of P 6.00/m3 was assumed.
(f)    Teleconmmunications. The SBMA is in the process of entering into negotiations for the
privatization of the telecommunications within the SFB. The revenues expected for the
SBMA on a possible joint venture were estimated based on the actual proposals received
by qualified bidders.
5.           Revenues from Specialized Facilities and Concessions. The SBMA is in the process of
granting concessions for a number of facilities, particularly those for recreational purposes.   The
following are the assumptions used for projected revenues from these concessions as well as other
specialized facilities.
(a)    POL Depot. The SBMA has already entered into an agreement with Coastal Petroleum
for the lease of the oil and lubricant tank farm. The agreement specifies US$4.1 million
per year from 1994 to 1997 and US$5.2 million thereafter.



Annex 17
90~                              Page 10 of 11
(b)    Binictican Valley Golf Course.  Upon privatization, the golf course is expected to
generate P 30 million per year for the SBMA to commence in 1995.
(c)    Marina. The marina will be leased out to an operator and is expected to generate P24
million per year commencing in 1994.
(d)    SBMA Operated Hotels and Housing. The SBMA is presently operating a number of
quarters as hotels and week-end housing. The revenues for these facilities has been
significant during 1992 and 1993 but it is expected to decline since these will be turned
over to private operators in the near future.
(e)    Other Tourism Concessions. It is assumed that concessions for the beaches and other
recreational facilities such as the mini golf, riding stables, swimming pools, sport fields
and theaters will generate roughly P 10 million per year for the SBMA.
(f)    Security Services.  The SBMA is presently providing security for its tenants on a fee
basis.  During 1994, it is assumed that it will earn P 9 million from these services.
However, after 1995, this service will be provided by a private operator on a for profit
basis.
(g)    Equipment Rental.  The SBMA has been earning some income from the rental of
miscellaneous equipment to its operators. The revenue from this activity is assumed to
amount to P 2 million per year.
6.            Operating Expenses.  The following are assumptions made for operating expenses
projected for the SBMA:
(a)    Salaries and Benefits. It is anticipated that personnel levels will decline significantly in
the near future as most of the facilities are privatized to private operators. The SBMA
would then principally be involved in managing and maintaining the common areas of the
freeport. Accordingly, operating expenses are assumed to increase to a high of P 217
million by 1995 then drop to about 60 percent of that amount in the following year.
Thereafter, salaries are assumed to rise gradually till the year 2000 and subsequently
level off at P 175 million.
(b)    Grounds and Maintenance.  It is assumed that most of the routine maintenance of the
facilities will be the responsibility of the individual private operators. Accordingly, the
SBMA will be responsible for only the common areas under this expense category.
Major repairs will be treated as capital expenditures and are reflected in the SBMA five
year investment program. Operating expenses for the upkeep of ground are assumed to
rise to a high of P 50 million in constant terms by 1997 and remain at that level
thereafter.
(c)    Sales and Promotional Expenses. These are assumed to reach P2 20 million by 1997 and
remain constant at this level thereafter.



- 91 -
Annex 17
Page 11 of 11
(d)    Water. Power and Sewerage.  Most of this expense category consists of power cost
which would be purchased by ENRON at wholesale prices for distribution to tenants
within the SBF.
(e)    Other and Miscellaneous Operating Expenses.  Assumptions were made for other
expenses for communications, supplies and materials, professional services and
miscellaneous based on past experience.
7.            Financing Sources
(a)    Proposed Bank Loan. Approximately US$40.0 million will be made available by the
Bank for the Project. This will have a 20 year maturity and 5 year grace period and will
carry an interest rate of approximately 7.5 percent.  The entire loan will be disbursed
over a four year period commencing in 1994.
(b)    IECDF Proposed Loan. The SBMA has entered into an agreement with the Taiwanese
Government for the financing the development of an industrial park in the North NSD
area. The proposed loan for an estimated US$23.5 million will be made available for 25
years maturity, 7 years grace and at an annual interest rate of US$3.5 percent.
(c)    Government Appropriated Contributions. RA 7227 provides annual contributions from
the Government in the amount of P300 million for the first three years of SBMA's
operations. As of year end 1993 however, the SBMA had only received R335 million
instead of the required P 600 million. Accordingly, the remaining P 565 million is
being staggered over the 3 years from 1994 to 1996.
(d)    Revolving Line of Credit. It is assumed that the SBMA will establish a line a credit with
its local bankers to finance working capital requirements, particularly for inventories of
spare parts and materials that are not financed under the Project loans. The line of credit
is of a short-term nature to be repaid within one year of draw down. Further, it is
assumed that the line of credit will carry an interest rate of 10 percent per year.
8.            Financial Management Parameters
(a)    Cash Position. Based on days of operating expenses at approximately 45 days throughout
the projection period.
(b)    Accounts Receivable. Based on months of annual revenues at 1.5 months during 1994-
1996 and 1 month thereafter.
(c)    Inventories of Spare and Materials.  Based on days of annual direct costs at 45 days
during 1994-1996 and 30 days thereafter.
(d)    Accounts Payable. Based on months of operating expenses at 2.0 months during 1994-
1996 and 1.5 months thereafter.
(e)    Short-term Securities. Funds held in trust and excess liquidity are held in short term
investments such as government securities with annual yield of 12 percent.






- 92 -
Annex 18
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Table 1: Projection of Employment Within the SBF
1993        1995        1998        2003        2008
Expected Scenario
SBMA                            2,035       2,490       3,115       3,530         3,885
Administration                 1,600       1,940       2,440       2,630        2,760
Port and Airport                 35          50          75          100          125
Utilities                       400         500         600          800         1,000
Tourism                         2,700       2,770       3,790       5,690         7,070
Commercial, Retail               570        1,200       2,630       5,500         9,550
Industrial                      1,000       9,000      27,500      65,000       120,000
Transhipment                      20          840         955       1,085          895
TOTAL                           6.325      16.30       37          80.805       141.400
Pessimistic Scenario
SBMA                            2,035       2,415       2,890       3,215         3,550
Administration                 1,600       1,870       2,230       2,340        2,460
Port and Airport                 35          45          60          75            90
Utilities                       400         500         600         800         1,000
Tourism                         2,700       2,360       2,400       3,040         3,590
Commercial, Retail               570         960        1,910       3,300         5,640
Industrial                      1,000       6,000      18,750      37,500        70,000
Transbipment                      20          720         735         755           30
TOTAL                           6.325      12.455      26.685      47.810        83.100
Optimistic Scenario
SBMA                            2,035       2,565       3,370       3,880        4,340
Administration                 1,600       2,010       2,680       2,960        3,190
Port and Airport                 35          55          90          120          150
Utilities                       400         500         600          800        1,000
Tourism                         2,740       3,180       4,890      10,120        17,540
Commercial Retail                570        1,460       3,400       7,550        10,360
Industrial                      1,000      12,000      36,000      89,000       120,000
Transbipment                      20          980       1,205       1,645          1,70
TOTAL                           cm         20,185      48.865     112.195       154.030



- 93 -
Annex 18
Page 2 of 2
PEILIPPNES
SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Table 2: Economic Rates of Return on Major Project Components
(in percent)
Scenarios
Expected   Pessimistic   Optimistic
Airport Passenger Terminal, Cargo Terminal,   19.4        18.7        41.5
Passenger Apron & Communications
Equipment
- Costs up 20%                              16.0        15.5        36.4
- Costs down 20%                            24.0        23.1        48.6
Airport Pavement Improvement, Freight         15.4         9.1        20.8
Apron, Strengthening of Taxiway & Air Traffic
Control Equipment
- Costs up 20%                              10.3         4.2        15.3
- Costs down 20%                            22.1        15.3        28.1
Rizal Bridge & Main Entry Complex             36.8        26.9        42.7
- Costs up 20%                              32.7        23.5        37.9
- Costs down 20%                            42.5        31.4        49.3
Access Road &Kalayaan Security Plaza          14.5         6.1        18.5
- Costs up 209%                             11.7         3.9        15.4
- Costs down 20%                            18.2         9.0        22.8
Wharf Repairs - Alava, Rivera, Bravo & Pier   13.4         n.a.        n.a.
1010
- Costs up 20% in 2000                      17.2         n.a.       n.a.
- Costs down 20% in 2000                     8.9         n.a.       n.a.
Cathodic Protection -
Bravo                                       11.5         n.a.       n.a.
Pier 1010                                   12.3         n.a.       n.a.
Standard Factory Buildings                    20.0        12.9        25.6
- Costs up 20%                              15.5          9.2       20.4
- Costs down 20%                            26.3         17.9       33.0



- 94 -
Annex 19
PHLIPPINES
SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
1.    Philippines: A Strategy for Conversion of the Subic Naval Base into a Special Economic Zone
and Freeport.
2.    Environmental Issues Summary Report.
3.    Preliminary Engineering Studies for Infrastructure Components.
4.    Projections of Economic Activity in the SBF, Demand Scenarios, and Economic Evaluation of
Project Components.
5.    Republic Act 7227, Presidential Proclamation 50, Executive Orders 97, 97A and 140.



Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority
Organizational Chart
| Bard of
Drctors
|Office of the Corporate|
l               l   ~~~~~~Board Secretary l
|  Office of the   |
Administratio
P                                         Public Affairs Office  M
D   Intelligence and                      D                                  DOffice of the Department         D
|EInvestigation Office                 fr/ior MIS and Corporate Planning                                 A
inenlCnrlOfcl-                      Office of r e Senior                  MSDprmn
Dntepnal mntr                Registration Depar t DDeputy Administrator       D                        Depaeame
P   Corporate Planning
I    Departmentin
|  Office of the Deputy    | |Offic of the Deputy Administrator | |Offic of the Deputy Administrator |   Office of the Deputy Administrato|| Offic of the Deputy Administrtor 
Adninistrator for Administration            for Finance             fo LTlourism, Trade and Business          for Public Works            L     for Port Operations    l
HRD                                   Budget                     Promotion and Marketing          Engineering & Maintenance              Seaport Operation
Manaemn Department                        Department                   B          Departnment                  Department                        Department
r  Medical       lTreasury                          l|Enterprise/Resident  |                         |Constructionad|| ArotOetin
Division        l                  Deparlment      l             Registration Department |            DevelopmentDiiin                     Departmen        l
X  Personnel                       Cash Managem~enjt ||SBF Enterpris                                        Maintenanc     l
Division        l                      Division     l                    Division     l|                    Division   l1
Legal         l              |Financial Management|                  SBF Residen                         Utilities     l
Department          l                      Division     l                    Division     l                  Department      l
Investment  Prcssing                        WatPoer
Management Department |          X        Department      l              uiesDeveomnf                              DivisonwjO
Procuremnent & Properly |                                              jnvestmentProcessing|_                      Water        l
: | Management Department |                                             1      Division     l              l      Division
Security       I                                                 Business Development                Telecommunications
Departent                                                                Division                          Division
Fire                                                                   Tourism                           Transportation
- - - - Department - - -                                              Department                            Division
Ecology
Center
sads%c4%w55442



,IRD   25A99
-20-                                          0
-2 5 t      i                             2 0 "                                                        Z   -                                                                                                         P   H   I   LPI    P  P  I     N   E   S
Cho6ip                                         -X>ON                                                                                                                                               SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
------    ,|XNEW ROAD CONSTRUCTION
Ar.. *I ..,p ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gLK9                                                                                                                         -       PHILIPPINE NATIONAL HIGHWAY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PIU [E ATONL IGWA
___  ROADS
>              t           t                        g                                                                                   '                                                         -      NEW    BRIDGE   CONS R2UCTION
\~~~~~~~~~~iK V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\                                                                                                            *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~GATES
VIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~~~~~~~~~~~A  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRIDGES
-lo  4  < ?        <                                   =                                           R e f >            <     ,  .    ,                                1K. kSEW                        ERA G E     TREATM EN T     PLA NTS
/  ~ ~~~   ~~                                                                                                                                                                                       0 0,WATER FILTRATION PLANT
S.A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.o  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                     U ~~~~~~~~~~POWER PLANT
C~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--RIVERS
)   - IIGANAO '                                                                                                                                                                              -       MILITARY EASE BOUNDARY
2                                                                                                                                                                         -  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00PROVINCE BOUNDARY
/                               lnne, Basin                  Pta.                                                                                          /
S u b icW                                                                jo                                    ,X
2> IsIard~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MRHIC
jC~~Cl
KIIOSaETERS
-    -   -   -.                              r~~~~~~.-_'" ..          Th.rA5   fTgold   G.,
-'r i-ir-I ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    MCI  R






IRDT 25500R
I 2o                 12?3
-20                                              20                    - 
PHILIPPINES
Ppp.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
tuzo                Seo                                                                                                                           'PROPOSED LAND USE
I?                           1-           /;(       <=                                                                                                                                                                               NW ROAD CONST,,:''UC'.''
PHIUIPPINE NATIONAL HIGHWAY
ROADS
-.  NEW BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION
*"I-I    GATES
.&                                      /                                     rh    .    c  s  ,, p n  h  F o     w o,BRID G ES
w                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~WATER FILTRATION PLANT
1W  4  1                J                                                                                                                                                                U        POWER PLANT
W.6 H~5.o  0                                                                                                                                              -~,--       RIVERS
I          -.   -    ~~~~MIUTARY BASE BOUNDARY
---   PROVINCE BOUNDARY
a                                                                                                                                        I                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED LAND USE:
[I:]  RESIDENTIAL AREAS
120_______________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                  INDUSTRIAL AREAS
COMAMERCIAL AREAS
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
u         b    ic                                                                                                                        p                                                             ICOMMUNITY FACILITIES
TOUJRISM!/ RECREATIONAL
PUBLIC UTILITY!/ SPECIAL AREAS
GREEN RUFFER AREA
G-onde/
I                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ICILRETERS
-   - -                                                                   oI..~~~~~~~~~~~~hThbda-- ,, .6- -d,0-m-
APRIL 1R9A



