Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20071
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(LOAN 37450)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 40 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FORA
PROJECT ID: P004609
L/C NUMBER: 37450
SUBIC BAY FREEPORT PROJECT
February 22, 2000
Private Sector Development (PSD) Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of December, 1999)
Currency Unit = Philippine Peso (P)
P1.00=US$ 0.025
US$ 1.00 = P40.00
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APEC         -      Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation
BCDA         -      Bases Conversion and Development Act
BOT          -      Build Operate Transfer
CAS          -      Country Assistance Strategy
CBD          -      Central Business District
COA          -      Commission on Audit
DBP          -      Development Bank of the Philippines
EIRR         -      Economic Internal Rate of Return
EPZ          -      Export Processing Zone
FIRR         -      Financial Internal Rate of Return
GOCC         -      Government Owned and Controlled Corporation
GOP          -      Government of the Philippines
IATF         -      Inter-Agency Task Force
ICAO         -      International Civil Aviation Organization
IFMS         -      Integrated Financial Management System
IPDP         -      Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
IRR          -      Implementing Rules and Regulations
PMO          -      Project Mangement Office
PEZA         -      Philippine Export Zone Authority
PNB          -      Philippine National Bank
QAG          -      Quality Assurance Group
SAR          -      Staff Appraisal Report
SBF          -      Subic Bay Freeport
SBIA         -      Subic Bay International Airport
SBMA         -      Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority
SEZ          -      Special Economic Zone
TA           -      Technical Assistance
Vice President:   Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Manager/Director:   Vinay K. Bhargava, EASPF
Sector Manager/Director:   Javed Hamid, EASPS
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Aloysius U. Ordu, EASPS/EACPF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   8
6. Sustainability                                                                      10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     15
9. Partner Comments                                                                    16
10. Additional Information                                                             18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P004609                                      Project Name: SUBIC BAY FREEPORT
Team Leader: Aloysius Uche Ordu                          TL Unit: EACPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: February 21, 2000
1. Project Data
AName: SUBIC BAY FREEPORT                              LIC Number: 37450
Country/Department: PHILIPPINES                                         Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: TP - Ports & Waterways
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/12/93                               Effective: 08/17/94           08/17/94
Appraisal:  11/09/93                                 MTR: 03/06/96             03/06/96
Approval:  06/02/94                               Closing: 06/30/99            06/30/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: SBMA/SBMA
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jean-Michel Severino                      Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:     Vinay K. Bhargava                        Callisto Madavo
Sector Manager:      Javed Hamid                              Vineet Nayyar
Team Leader at ICR:   Aloysius U. Ordu
ICR Primary Author:  John Cameron
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development M
Impact:
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objective was to attract private investors to the Subic Bay Freeport (SBF) by (a)
improving infrastructure and access to the area for industrial, commercial, and passenger traffic, (b)
maintaining the SBF asset base, including protecting the environment, and (c) strengthening the capacity of
the Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority (SBMA) to manage and administer the facility.



The Bank's March 1993 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the Philippines stated that the
Bank would focus its efforts on macroeconomic issues, infrastructure provision, improving the private
business climate, and poverty alleviation. The CAS noted that there was a need to strengthen public sector
infrastructure institutions to increase their capacity to absorb foreign assistance and deliver services. On
the Borrower's side, the Government's Republic Act No. 7227 of 1992 established the Bases Conversion
and Development Authority (BCDA) to accelerate the conversion of military reservations into other
productive uses. The declared policy of the government was to accelerate the sound and balanced
conversion of the Clark and Subic military reservations into alternative productive civilian use.
The project objective was consistent with both the Bank's CAS and the Government's development
strategy. The objective and the means set out to achieve it were clear and realistic, and the project
contributed significantly to development in the SBF, neighboring areas, and the Philippines in general. The
project was risky for a number of reasons. First, SBMA was a relatively new institution that lacked project
management, freeport, and international airport operational experience. Second, SBMA's task of managing
and further developing the military base assets left by the United States was, in itself, a massive task.
Third, the concept of freeport zones in the Philippines was new and the Government and its agencies had
little experience in this area. Fourth, limitations in SBMA's charter and status as a Government Owned and
Controlled Corporation (GOCC) reduced its operating autonomy and flexibility. These imposed rigid rules
on staffing, compensation, procurement, investment, etc., that led to high employee turnover rates and poor
morale. These factors made it difficult for SBMA to carry out its multiple responsibilities over a large and
complex set of facilities. In essence, operating as a traditional public sector agency was extremely difficult
for an entity that had to move quickly to compete with other freeports in the region. Despite these operating
impediments, SBMA generated substantial investor interest and rapid growth in the SBF. But the very
growth of the freeport and increasing complexity of investor relationships placed enormous strains on the
organization, and raised fundamental questions about its basic role and core mission.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Even though there was a substantial shift in funding to the airport from other infrastructure works
(see below) there was no change in project objectives, as they were sufficiently broad that revision was not
required.
The objective of the project is to attact private investors to the Subic Bay Freeport (SBF), to be
achieved by: (a) improving infrastructure and access to the area for industrial, commercial and passenger
traffic; (b) maintaining the SBF asset base, including protection of the environment; and (c) strengthening
the capacity of the SBMA to manage and administer the facility.
3.3 Original Components:
The project components were aggregated into three broad areas: site improvement; institutional
support, and environmental protection.
The site improvement component comprised: (a) construction of 4 km of two-lane access road
connecting Kalayaan Gate to Kalalake Bridge; (b) construction of the Kalayaan Security Gate; (c)
construction of the Rizal Avenue Bridge and Main Entrance Complex; (d) conversion of hangar 8015 to an
airport passenger terminal and apron strengthening; (e) airport pavement improvements and air traffic
control systems; (f) repairs to piers and wharves; (g) construction of standard factory buildings on a 10 ha.
site within SBF; and (h) procurement of security and miscellaneous equipment.
- 2 -



Several programs were designed to strengthen SBMA's institutional capacitv, including: (a) a
merchandise control system to monitor duty-free purchases; (b) technical assistance in preparing zoning
regulations and a building design code for the SBF; (c) an automated financial management and billing
system; (d) technical assistance to guide privatization transactions; (e) technical assistance to enhance
SBMA's institutional capacity as freeport manager; (f) short-term training and technical assistance, and (g)
support for facilities management.
The environmental protection component comprised: (a) preparation of an environmental baseline
survey; (b) institutional support to the newly-established Ecology Center, including provision for
environmental monitoring equipment; and (c) support for an environmental management plan covering the
organization and work plan for the Ecology Center.
Building SBMA's capacity to manage SBF was a key project ingredient. To this end, $5.8 million
(1 1% of total project cost) was allocated to institutional support and $1.1 (2% of total project cost) to
environmental protection. While these interventions had a significant impact on SBMA's capacity as a
freeport manager, the inflexibility of SBMA's structure and management, its limited staff capacity, and the
imposition of govemment controls and regulations became major impediments to the successful
implementation of all institutional aspects of the project. These problems are discussed below.
3.4 Revised Components:
In October 1994 the Bank and Borrower agreed to amend the Loan Agreement to change the scope
of the airport improvements to reflect the need to accommodate a major airfreight operator (Federal
Express), which was to use the Subic Bay International Airport (SBIA) as its Asia hub. To accommodate
the changes, the Loan Agreement was amended to reduce the Bank's share of expenditure for works from
90% to 75%. Other changes included a significant increase in expenditures to convert Hanger 8015 into a
passenger terminal to accommodate the needs of the November 1996, Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation
Summit (APEC), which was held at the SBF. The additional expenditure for the terminal was largely met
by SBMA. The project underwent other significant modifications including:
Site Improvement Component: Access road. and security gate construction was deleted from the
project, but superior access improvements were undertaken by a Build Operate and Transfer (BOT)
operator, financed by the Government and the private sector under separate arrangement. The Main
Entrance Complex component was completely funded by SBMA. Airport apron strengthening was
upgraded and completed by the project at increased cost, and airport pavement improvements and the air
traffic control systems were upgraded and completed at a greatly increased cost. Pier and wharf repairs,
construction of factory buildings, and procurement of security and miscellaneous equipment were all
cancelled. Additional project expenditures on airport works resulting from the agreement with Federal
Express included perimeter fencing ($0.67 million), runway, taxiway, and apron lighting ($4.7 million),
standby generators and transformers ($0.71 million), and design modifications and additional works to
accommodate wide-bodied aircraft.
Institutional Capacity Component: The merchandise control system sub-component was removed
from the project as SBMA undertook to design and implement this system, as part of a broader cybercity
development for the SBF, using its own resources. In the event, SBMA proved unable to carry out this
task. Technical assistance to prepare zoning and building regulations was substantially upgraded to become
preparation of a master plan for the central SBF area, and the planned automated financial management
and billing system was also significantly upgraded to become an Integrated Financial Management System
-3 -



(IFMS). Technical assistance to guide privatization transactions was not altered, but project funds were not
used. Technical assistance to enhance SBMA's institutional capacity to manage the freeport was
implemented as planned, but at increased cost. The short-term training and technical assistance and
technical assistance to improve SBMA's management of facilities were not altered, but project funds were
not utilized. During the early stages of implementation it was agreed that the project would fund a master
plan for SBIA. This was completed.
Environmental protection: The environmental baseline survey and institutional support to the
newly-established Ecology Center were implemented as planned. The environmental monitoring equipment
was, however, not procured as SBMA did not attach priority to this procurement, relying instead on the
monitoring equipment used by the consultants retained to carry out the environmental baseline survey.
These project revisions were major. They effectively changed the project's focus from general
infrastructure construction, rehabilitation, and institutional development to upgrading the SBIA.
Comparing projected and final costs for airport improvements demonstrates these changes. In the SAR
airport improvements accounted for 40% of project costs ($20.9 million of a total $52 million). Final
project expenditure on the airport was 87% of project costs (approximately $45.3 million of a total of
$52.2 million). A revised financial and economic analysis undertaken by the Bank in 1994 for the runway,
taxiway, radar, passenger terminal, apron, and communications systems concluded that the airport would
be unlikely to recover this increased level of investment. However, Bank management agreed with SBMA
on the importance of Federal Express's investment in Subic, as it was expected to provide SBF with greater
visibility, assist SBMA in attracting high-value manufacturing dependent on air freight, and generally
assist with drawing potential investors to the freeport.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The SAR identified five potential project risks. First, risks associated with the political situation in
the Philippines. The perceived political risks involved possible government policy modifications in SBF's
freeport regime. The loan included appropriate remedies to mitigate this risk. However, the SAR failed to
foresee the potential risk or impact of a change in SBMA leadership and administration on the project, or
on potential freeport investors. A change in leadership did occur, in 1998, and was extremely disruptive to
SBF. Most of the major infrastructure works funded by.the project were completed before the leadership
change, however, and it had little impact on the site improvement component. However, one key
institutional component, the IFMS had not been completed and the change in leadership and associated
disruption effectively prevented it from being completed and commissioned.
The second perceived risk was SBMA's lack of experience in freeport management. The project
addressed this concern by providing significant technical assistance and training. Prior to project start-up,
the Bank provided SBMA considerable technical assistance. This assistance confirmed the validity of the
strategy to convert the naval base into a freeport, legitimizing the vision of SBMA's chairman and giving
him a boost in his marketing efforts to foreign investors. This pre-project support was most valuable and it
assisted SBMA in: (a) developing a comprehensive base conversion strategy; (b) drafting a land use master
plan; (c) undertaking detailed transport engineering analyses; (d) carrying out the privatization of key
assets and utilities; (e) rationalizing its organizational structure and institutional framework, and (f)
developing rules and regulations for SBF operations. This comprehensive TA enhanced SBMA's capacity
to implement the project.
Delays in project implementation were identified as a third risk. The project disbursement record
shows that implementation delays were not a significant problem, particularly in the early stages of the
-4 -



project. The fact that the airport consumed such a large portion of project funds meant there were few
major contracts, and SBMA's Federal Express and APEC obligations created significant time pressure that
helped speed disbursement. Project implementation delays did occur in other smaller parts of the project
largely because of the lack of institutional capacity. The Rizal Avenue Bridge and IFMS delays clearly
demonstrate this point.
Delay in investor activity was the fourth risk identified in the SAR. The proposed investor
incentive regime and first-class infrastructure were designed to help minimize this risk. A downturn in
regional economic activity from the 1997Asian financial crisis had an adverse impact on SBF and the rate
at which new enterprises located there.
Future environmental degradation if satisfactory maintenance practices were not followed was
identified as the final risk. This has not been a problem in the SBF to date. Further strengthening of
SBMA's capacity to implement project environmental provisions was identified by the ICR Mission as
necessary to protect SBF's environment in the long term. This has been incorporated in the Subic II
Project.
In summary, qualitv at entrv is rated satisfactory. The Bank provided significant and effective
inputs into developing the capacity of SBMA to implement projects and project objectives were consistent
with the Bank's CAS and government development priorities. Peer reviewers and the Bank decision
makers endorsed the project design, its scope and components. (The Quality Assurance Group, QAG, did
not exist at the time of project approval.)
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
As noted, the project objective was to attract private investors to the SBF by providing
infrastructure and institutional strengthening support to SBMA. Although significant changes were made to
infrastructure works funded by the project, this objective did not change. The SBIA improvements, the
major part of the project, have had a positive impact on the development of SBF. The development of the
airport has directly resulted in significant investments by investors in airfreight services and tourism-related
facilities. It has also indirectly supported other investors who have made use of the infrastructure developed
by the project to support their enterprises. An economic analysis of the airport facilities shows a positive
net present value at a discount rate of 10%. In view of the direct physical, financial, and economic impact
of investments, the project is assessed as satisfactory on the basis that it has achieved its objective with
only a few shortcomings. Additionally, and importantly, SBMA has been able to complete some of the
original components using other funding sources.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The main physical components noted in the SAR to be funded by the project were:
Site Improvement Component
a.   Access road connecting Kalayaan Gate to Kalalake Bridge: Access road built by BOT operator in a
location superior to that planned in SAR. Highly satisfactory outcome
b.   Kalayaan Security Gate: Built as part of BOT for the Kalayaan access road. Highly satisfactory
outcome
-5 -



c.   Rizal Avenue Bridge and Main Entrance Complex: Bridge completed as part of the project 2.5 years
behind schedule; entrance complex funded by SBMA. Satisfactory outcome
d.   Airport Passenger Terminal and Apron: Facilities planned in the SAR expanded to accommodate
APEC requirements, which were excessive to the needs of tourism for Subic Bay. Satisfactory
outcome
e.   Airport pavement improvements and air traffic control system: Works expanded from those planned
in SAR by adding airport perimeter fencing, runway lighting, taxiway and aprons, and standby
generators and transformers. Other modifications and additions were made to accommodate
wide-bodied aircraft. Satisfactory outcome
f.   Seaport repair: Deferred pending privatization of seaport. SBMA vigorously pursued privatization
strategy but this was thwarted by forces outside its control. The bidding process for the seaport
privatization was challenged in the court and the lawsuit has not been resolved. As a consequence
the seaport has not been privatized and the wharves have not been maintained. Unsatisfactory
outcome
g.   Standard factory buildings: Cancelled because prospective investors preferred to design and build
their own facilities and industrial parks. Satisfactory outcome
h.   Security and miscellaneous equipment: Cancelled, and funds channeled to airport. Unsatisfactory
outcome
Overall, the Site Improvement Component is rated satisfactory on the basis that most of the
proposed works were completed with minimal delays.
Institutional Componen
a.     Merchandise control system: SBMA proved unable to design and implement this system. The lack
of such a system was a major factor in allegations of smuggling that contributed to the GOP's
issuance of Executive Order 140 of November 1993 imposing a moratorium on the establishment
of new duty free shops and the removal of the $200/year non-resident duty-free purchase privilege
in January 1996. These decisions curtailed the freeport regime. Rated unsatisfactory.
b.    Zoning regulations and design code: Comprehensive master plan for the central area developed,
including detailed building construction and design codes for sub-zones within the central area.
Rated satisfactory.
C.    Automated Financial Management and Billing System: Upgraded at substantially increased cost to
an Integrated Financial Management System, but implementation remained incomplete at project
close. Implementation to continue under Second Subic Freeport Project (Loan 4111- PH) (Subic
II). Rated highly unsatisfactory.
d.    Privatization transactions: not implemented under the project and funds reallocated to other
subcomponents. Rated unsatisfactory.
e.    TA to enhance SBMA's institutional capabilities: Implemented at increased cost but very few of
the freeport advisor's proposals have been integrated into SBMA's current operations. Rated
unsatisfactory.
f.    Short-term training and TA: Not implemented as part of the project. Rated unsatisfactory.
g.    Facilities management: Not implemented, as part of the project as original design was determined
to be inadequate. Rated unsatisfactory.
h.    Airport master plan: Master plan completed. Rated satisfactory.
Even though the institutional support provided during project preparation was of a high quality, the
freeport advisors retained under the project did not have significant impact as their advice was not accepted
by the SBMA chairman and senior management. A major part of the problem was that the project design
-6 -



underestimated the institutional burden that the rapid growth of SBF would impose on SBMA. Overall, the
Institutional Development Component is rated as unsatisfactory on the basis that many components were
not completed or the outcomes were unsatisfactory.
Environmental Components
a.     Environmental baseline survey: Completed as planned. Rated satisfactory.
b.     Procurement of monitoring equipment: Not procured. Rated unsatisfactorv.
c.    Institutional support to establish an environmental management infrastructure: Completed as
planned. Rated satisfactory.
The purpose of the environmental component was to strengthen SBMA's (Ecology Center)
capacity to manage and administer the SBF in environmentally sound ways, including monitoring of air and
water quality; enforcement of environmental standards; issuance of Environmental Compliance
Certificates; administration of protected areas; and public awareness. There is no doubt that there were
adequate project resources to achieve this outcome, but a lack of commitment from SBMA and a shortage
of experienced staff, over time, weakened the Ecology Center's effectiveness in carrying out its prime
function. To address these concerns, SBMA and the Bank have committed to strengthen the Ecology
Center through continued support under Subic II. Despite the shortcomings of the Environmental
Component, the Ecology Center was instrumental in introducing many sound operational practices into
SBMA including land acquisition, improving SBMA's relationship with the surrounding indigenous
population, and developing a working partnership with all local communities. The component is therefore
rated satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The overall financial and economic rate of return for the project was not provided in the SAR.
Instead, the economic rate of return for each group of subcomponents was prepared for expected,
optimistic, and pessimistic scenarios. The SAR does not reveal the percentage of total costs on which the
estimates were based. The expected returns shown in the SAR were: (a) Land access: Bridge and main
entry complex 37%, access road 15%; (b) Airport: Passenger terminal 19%, pavement improvements 15%;
(c) Port: Wharf repair 13%, cathodic protection 12%, and (d) Standard factory buildings 20%. The revised
projected expected economic rates of return were 7.5% for the runway, taxiway, and radar, and for the
passenger terminal, apron, and 15.2% for communications systems.
The actual growth of SBF, and the consequential economic benefits have been substantial. Section
10 (Additional Information) outlines this expansion. In particular, about 300 investors were attracted to the
freeport, including manufacturing, utilities, banking, tourism and other service enterprises. Acutal
investments, employment, exports, and tourist numbers rose as indicated in Annex 7 (Supplementing
Economic Activity Data). The rapid growth (1994-1996) put pressure on Subic's infrastructure and
SBMA's management capacity. At the request of the borrower, the Second Subic Bay Freeport Project
(Subic II, Loan 4111 -PH) was designed to meet these pressures by providing new water supply, power
distribution and transport infrastructure and institutional support to SBMA and the Subic Bay Ecology
Center. Unfortunately, it is not possible to isolate the portion of the SBF growth resulting from the project
(Subic I). Consequently the financial and economic analysis which follows evaluates returns from the
airport only. This is reasonable because 87% of project costs were spent on the airport.
The calculations for the financial and economic analysis for the ICR included loan funds and
counterpart funds for the runways, taxiways, aprons, and lighting included in the project and loan funds
- 7 -



only for the terminal building. This procedure was followed because the total actual expenditure was
distorted by the APEC requirements for the terminal. The financial and economic analysis for the ICR
included 85% of the total project funds spent on the entire project. (This calculation excludes SBMA's
contribution to the terminal.) In addition to the project funds, the financial and economic analysis includes
additional capital expenditure needed to bring the airport into line with the contractual arrangements agreed
between SBMA and the airport's major user, Federal Express. The total cost of these additional works is
estimated to be $5.5 million. These costs are not included in the 85% of funds spent on the project noted
here. The financial and economic rates of return from the airport project are estimated to be 9% and 11%
respectively. Because the SAR does not provide an overall assessment of the project or the airport in
totality and because of a lack of background material, the ICR is unable to provide comment as to the
differences between the SAR and ICR economic analysis. However, the ICR estimates are higher than the
revised airport projections (1994) because revenue from Federal Express is estimated to be higher in the
ICR analysis. Historic data shows that the 1994 projections of income from Federal Express of $1.75
million fixed per annum were too conservative. The ICR estimates revenue from Federal Express to be $3.2
million in 2000 and rising.
The ICR financial and economic analysis is quite sensitive to changes in SBIA's projected traffic
growth. For example, a reduction in annual growth from 10% to 5% reduces the financial internal rate of
return (FIRR) and economic internal rate of return (EIRR) from 9% and 11% to 5 % and 8% respectively.
Conversely, increasing growth from 10% to. 1 5% raises the FIRR to 12% and the EIRR to 14%. Two
major groups of factors will impact SBIA growth. First, factors external to SBMA and government control,
such as regional economic growth, and second, factors internal to SBMA control. Key considerations here
include SBMA's business management capacity, the maintenance of the airport and its ancillary facilities,
the maintenance of reliable support services such as power, water, and roads, and finally, the stability
within a growth-oriented SBMA.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
See paragraph 4.3 above.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
See paragraph 4.2 above.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Asian Financial Crisis: The 1997 Asian Financial Crisis and the devaluation of the peso were
the major external factors affecting SBF development during project implementation. The significance of
the crisis is difficult to gauge, but it is clear that demand for space in the two major industrial
developments, the Taiwanese Industrial Park and the Japanese Technopark has weakened. Available data
also shows less traffic through SBIA. Within Stage 1 of the Taiwanese Industrial Park, 86 hectares are
useable. In 1996 the entire 86 hectares was fully committed, but development on about 46 hectares has
been cancelled. A similar picture applies to the Japanese Technopark, which has an occupancy rate of
about 25%. Both industrial parks have had few, if any, inquiries since early 1998. The Japanese
Technopark had budgeted to be fully occupied by 2000, but clearly this is not going to happen.
Manufacturing firms, retail outlets, restaurants, and concessionaires ate among the domestic and foreign
investors that have left SBF. The number of visitors, which had increased from just over 1 million in 1993
to over 2.6 million in 1997, fell sharply in 1998 to 1.25 million. At the end of 1997 SBMA estimated that
- 8 -



about 40,700 people were employed in the SBF, up from about 6,700 in 1993. This dropped to about
27,600 at the end of 1998-a decline of about 30% in one year. Some part of this decline in employment
can be attributed to the completion of major works in SBF and the resulting laying off of construction
workers.
SBMA has been affected significantly by the recent decline in expansion of the SBF and the
general economic conditions. Using midyear exchange rates and SBMA's audited financial statements, total
revenue declined from $61 million in 1997 ($5.1 million per month) to $48 million in 1998 ($4.0 million
per mnonth). The average monthly billings for the first six months of 1999 (using an exchange rate of peso
40 to $1) were $3.6 million. Average monthly airport billings for 1997, 1998 and 1999 were $0.44 million,
$0.34 million, and $0.27 million-a decline of about 40%. Average monthly billings from land, buildings,
and long-term residential leases declined from $2.7 million in 1997 to $2 million in 1998, and $1.7 million
in 1999. This data indicates that some investors have terminated their leases and that SBMA is reducing
rentals. Losses of key investors are apparent in the retailing sector (where a number of firms downsized
their operations); and many hotels continue to operate at low capacity. The impact of the Asian financial
crisis on existing investors may also be gauged by SBMA's accounts receivable. As of December 31, 1997
total receivables were $18.8 million and as of December 31, 1998 and June 30, 1999 they had climbed to
$24 million and $26 million respectively. In 1996, accounts receivable (as at December 31) was equal to
2.7 months of average total monthly revenue, but by June 30, 1999 accounts receivable had increased to
7.2 months of average monthly revenue.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Philippines elected a new national government in May 1998, and one of its first acts was to
replace the SBMA chairman/administrator and his management team. The original administration refused
to recognize the validity of the new appointments, leading to major civil disturbances within the SBF. Once
these serious problems had been resolved, the new SBMA administration replaced many key management,
administrative and technical SBMA staff, resulting in a short-term weakening of SBMA's institutional
capacity. This undermined investor confidence in the SBF and exacerbated the serious problems already
present from the Asian financial crisis. The new administration was unable to reassure existing investors
early on of its capacity to manage SBF. As a consequence, existing and probably prospective investors
were particularly concerned about the new team's capacity to effectively manage the SBF. These issues are
considered to have had substantial impact on the project.
Ad hoc policy changes and reversals impacted the stability of the SBF business environment.
Over the life of Subic 1, the government implemented a number of policy and administrative actions that
diluted the integrity of the policy framework and introduced ambiguity into the freeport investment
environment. For example, there were a series of policy reversals on the application of duty-free retailing
privileges pertaining to the zone and eventually all privileges were removed for non-residents of the zone.
During the Subic I project the government did not act to reaffirm Subic Bays integrity as a freeport.
Following the mid-term review in 1996, the Bank helped foster closer collaboration between SBMA and
national government agencies. An inter-agency task force did revise the implementing rules and regulations
(IRR) and fostered fruitful collaboration. In the major area of taxation, for example, the task force
examined the rationale for amending SBF's taxation policies and making Subic investment incentives
comparable to those available under the Philippine Export Zone Authority (PEZA), but the government
failed to carry out any amendments to the policy regime or the IRR. Work on these matters was not
completed in advance of the May 1998 presidential elections, and came to a halt due to the disruptive
nature of the SBMA administrative transition. The effect has been to leave investors in some doubt as to
the government's commitment to SBF's status as a premier investment zone.
-9-



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Appointment of key staff:   Recent aides memoire from Subic I supervision missions are
replete with details of the inadequacy of key SBMA personnel in terms of both the number of approved
civil servants- plantilla- and their skills. It is clear that the lack of qualified staff has had a substantial
impact on SBMA's ability to manage its business and assets effectively, implement the project, and absorb
the potential benefits of the TA provided by the project. This is evidenced by the inability of SBMA and its
advisors to implement the IFMS subcomponent of the project, the delays and mistakes associated with the
construction of the Rizal Avenue Bridge, and generally poor financial management and control within
SBMA. SBMA failed to heed advice to appoint a Bank-financed specialist to assist in strengthening its
organizational structure and locating and training key personnel. If SBMA had adequate staff, the IFMS
subcomponent would have been completed on schedule.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project costs are estimated to be approximately equal to those planned in the SAR ($52.2
million actual compared to SAR planned expenditure of $52 million). Estimated actual costs compared to
SAR estimates within the three project components are: site improvement 105% of the SAR estimate,
institutional support 93%, and environment support 87%. There was, however, significant reorganization
within the site improvement component. In the SAR, airport improvement costs ($20.9 million) made up
48% of the site improvement component and 40% of total project cost. The estimated actual cost, excluding
the airport master plan ($44.5 million), is 97% of the total component cost and 85% of the total project
cost.
SBMA's contribution to the project was estimated in the SAR to be 26% of the estimated site
improvement cost and 23% of total project costs. Their actual contribution to the site improvement
component was approximately $14.4 million or 31% of the total component cost and 28% of total project
costs. SBMA's contribution to the institutional support and environmental component was budgeted to be
minimal, and the actual data confirms this position has not changed. All SBMA's over-budget expenditure
is associated with airport works. Disbursement delays were not significant during project implementation,
with the major airport works being completed on schedule.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Rationale for Sustainability Rating:   Two major infrastructure items were funded by the
project: airport improvements and the Rizal Avenue Bridge. Maintenance of the bridge is covered by the
maintenance plan currently being prepared by SBMA as part of the Subic II project, but the project made
no provision for developing a comprehensive airport maintenance plan. This is considered a major
weakness. The SBIA provides SBMA significant cash flow, but these returns are sensitive to adequate
maintenance and there are already indications that vital operational aspects of the facility are deteriorating
due to lack of comprehensive maintenance. While SBMA does carry out airport maintenance, it has
acknowledged that there is an urgent need to upgrade its maintenance practices. During the course of ICR
preparation SBMA undertook to prepare an airport maintenance plan satisfactory to the Bank [See Section
10 (B)]. It was agreed that the plan would include (a) an overall airport maintenance plan prepared in
accordance with internationally accepted standards, (b) a plan to strengthen its airport maintenance crew,
facilities, and technical assistance, (c) a schedule of maintenance events to be performed by the
- 10-



maintenance crew, (d) a cost estimate for establishing the crew and implementing the operations, and (e) a
maintenance monitoring program. It was also agreed that SBMA would utilize the services of the roads
maintenance consultant retained under Subic II to assist with this task, and that it would be funded and
supervised by the project.
In the analysis undertaken by the Bank in 1994, when the viability of the additional expenditure on
SBIA was assessed, the lack of an experienced airport management team to deal with commercial matters,
safety, operations, and maintenance was raised. SBMA's lack of negotiating experience was also noted as a
problem, as Federal Express had negotiated an extremely favorable agreement. It is apparent that SBMA
did not appoint professional airport managers, and this has probably had a detrimental impact on the
viability of SBIA.
As noted above, the institutional components of the project were regarded to be unsatisfactory and
the Subic I project delivered few institutional benefits. It is anticipated that the Subic II project will sustain
and build on the few institutional benefits achieved in Subic 1.
Despite these shortcomings noted, project sustainability is rated as likely because of SBMA's
current airport contractual arrangements, including the lease with Federal Express, which has recently
been extended to 2007, the further institutional strengthening expected under Subic 11, and the airport
maintenance plan being prepared by SBMA according to the Bank's requirements. Project sustainability
would have been enhanced had all institutional components been concluded in a satisfactory manner.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
SBMA is benefiting from the substantial institutional strengthening aspects of Subic 11, which is
expected to extend to 2002. This will significantly enhance SBMA's capacity to manage its asset base. At
the time of the preparation of the ICR, Subic II is being retrofitted with monitoring key performance
indicators and these will be used to evaluate future performance.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal is rated satisfactory.
As noted, the project as designed was consistent with the government's development strategy and with the
Bank's country assistance strategy. As a direct result of extensive preparation, the skills mix of the
appraisal team, and the Bank's commitment to the project, appraisal was comprehensive. It is worth noting
here that there was a crisis situation that was created when the Philippine Congress declined to renew the
bases agreement and the US Navy had to leave Subic Bay with a few months notice. The entire strategy
and plan for Subic was created within a period of months, under difficult circumstances. In contrast, most
military base conversions in the US and elsewhere are preceded by careful planning for a period of two
years or more. The conversion of Subic also came after the widespread looting of the other US base at
Clark, which further heightened concerns. The conversion of Subic Bay to a freeport would not have
happened as successfully as it did without Bank assistance.
Total expenditure on project identification, preparation, appraisal, and negotiation was $0.7
million. The appraisal document contained some weaknesses including failure to (a) recognize apparent
staffing weaknesses in SBMA, (b) recognize the weaknesses of SBMA's privatization strategy; (c) include
performance and monitoring indicators, (d) include a detailed financial and economic analysis of the
- 11 -



project, and (e) include detailed and consistent project cost estimates.
As noted, the project was altered quite considerably soon after implementation commenced. Many
infrastructure items were cancelled and substantial funds were reallocated to development of the airport.
These changes were not considered to be a restructuring of the project. However, perhaps such significant
modifications should have undergone greater scrutiny, including a revision of the loan agreement requiring
the borrower to implement certain practices to ensure the airport was managed and maintained at a level
consistent with other commercial international airports.
SBMA's preferred approach to the development of the freeport was to use joint ventures between
itself and other investors and service providers to provide infrastructure and services within the SBF. This
approach is consistent with government policy (Executive Orders 50 and 62) but it is contrary to
the Bank's privatization strategy and has the potential to create serious and complex conflicts of interest.
This problem has already surfaced within the SBF, and SBMA is ill equipped to resolve it. It is noteworthy
that in the early days of project design, the scope of privatization was not entirely clear and the priority was
successful takeover, protection, and operation of facilities. Over time, the Bank repeatedly and forcefully
challenged SBMA on its joint venture approach. But there was little leverage available to force change
short of suspending disbursement of loan funds.
7.2 Szupervision:
The supervision plan in the SAR allowed for 45 staff weeks over a period of about 40 months.
Supervision intensity was planned to be heavier in the earlier stages of the project and lighter toward the
end. Total supervision in the five calendar years 1995 to 1999 was 118.1 staff weeks or 2 1/2 times that
planned in the SAR. Approximately 40% of this time was spent in 1995, with the remaining 60% spread
and reducing over the subsequent years. A review of mission aides memoire indicates a strong Bank
presence from a consistent team of personnel with an appropriate skills mix. The aides memoire reviewed
for the ICR are detailed and they provided the Borrower with sufficient advice to correct implementation
problems. It is apparent that subsequent missions always followed up on prior agreements or observations.
The status of compliance with covenants was regularly reported in the aides memoire. SBMA
breached the negative pledge provision of Section 9.03 (b) of the General Conditions applicable to Bank
loans by pledging certain of its assets to creditors and giving that pledge priority over the Bank's loan. This
held up the signing of the Second Subic Bay Freeport Project (Loan 411 1 -PH) by about 8 months, and the
Bank considered suspending disbursements under Subic I in an attempt to urge SBMA to expedite
resolution of the problem. SBMA took appropriate steps to resolve the problem by reaching agreements
with the creditors, the Philippine National Bank (PNB) and the Development Bank of the Philippines
(DBP), to eliminate the liens and replace them with a sovereign guarantee from the Department of Finance
(in the case of the PNB) and to pay a higher interest rate on its loan with the DBP. The covenant governing
SBMA's debt coverage ratio also created problems. The calculation of this ratio was based on a reasonable
forecast of SBMA's revenues and expenditures. Supervision missions had difficulty relying on the forecasts
supplied by SBMA, as its budgeting procedures were inadequate. It is apparent that the Bank made every
effort to assist SBMA to resolve the negative pledge issue and it offered support in budget preparation. As
a consequence, despite the problems discussed, Bank supervision performance is rated satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's oveiall lending and sxpteNision pesformanze is sated salisiaexiory. `The basis aitWis
evaluation is: (a) the identification of a project consistent with Government and Bank development
- 12 -



strategies; (b) the assistance provided the Borrower during project preparation; (c) the Bank's rapid
response to the Borrower's request to redirect project funding as priorities changed; (d) the intensity and
skills mix of supervision missions, and (e) general client contact through the Resident Mission.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
SBMA was essentially a new agency at the time the project was prepared, and it relied heavily on
the general TA and technical skills provided by the Bank. This TA made a significant contribution to the
new administration's capacity to utilize the assets of the former naval base. SBMvA was committed to a
privatization strategy, but its flawed approach created many conflicts-particularly as the SBF expanded.
It is apparent that SBMA's short-term priority was to enhance and harness the value of existing
infrastructure through new physical investment (SBIA for example) and to conclude joint agreements with
service providers. Thus, SBMA did not share the Bank's sense of urgency about the need to convert the
agency into an effective administrative and regulatory institution, and it clearly did not make this a priority
during project implementation. Despite these flaws and SBMA's limited institutional capacity during
project preparation, SBMA contributed positively to project preparation. In particular, it worked closely
with the task team in formulating implementing rules and regulations for the freeport, which clarified many
of the ambiguities and other deficiencies in the enabling legislation. SBMA developed and adopted a land
use plan for the main base area, taking into account existing facilities and proposed activities of the SBF. It
established an environmental management plan and adopted an environmental procedure manual to govem
environmental review and monitoring of prospective SBF investors. The agency committed significant
inputs from its limited resource pool and assigned a dedicated team of its staff to work with the Bank's task
team in preparing the project and it promptly completed the critical steps and actions needed to facilitate
appraisal and project readiness for implementation. As a consequence, the Borrower's contribution to
project preparation is rated satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The civil unrest and court challenges that followed the newly elected government's decision to
change the SBMA administration in 1998 effectively closed SBMA for a period of three months. This
closure, and the unprecedented period of duress and uncertainty that followed, had a major detrimental
impact on the SBF. It is apparent that the national govemment made little effective attempt to intervene to
quell the unrest and mitigate the significant damage caused by the protracted leadership struggle and
subsequent uncertainty it created in the investor community.
Ad hoc policy changes and reversals were noted earlier as having an impact on the stability of the
SBF business environment. The Govemment implemented a number of actions that diluted the integrity of
the policy framework and introduced ambiguity into the freeport investment environment. Govemment
implementation perfornance is rated unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Major project works associated with the development of the airport proceeded rapidly and
disbursement rates were high. But the success with the completion of the airport on schedule may have
glossed over other implementation and institutional development problems. After the SBIA expansion and
development program, the two largest project works were the Rizal Avenue Bridge and the IFMS. Both
these components suffered significantly because of poor project management skills, particularly the IFMS.
The fundamental cause of these problems, and others noted in other project components, was a lack of
- 13-



adequately skilled and trained staff. The Bank made numerous attempts to bring this important matter to
SBMA's attention, and it offered to finance additional assistance, but these representations were effectively
unheeded. As a consequence, most of the technical assistance provided under the project failed to deliver its
full potential, as the institution lacked absorptive capacity and key staff were overextended on daily
operational matters because of a lack of competent support personnel and senior officers.
The leadership struggle and the resulting change to the administration further exacerbated SBMA's
management problems. Most of SBMA's key senior staff were replaced after the 1998 leadership change
and as a consequence there was little, if any, institutional memory left within SBMA. Fortunately most
major project works for Subic I had been completed or were close to completion by then. The exception
was the IFMS. It is clear that the disruption to the project resulting from the civil disturbances and
management changes had a significant impact on the ability of SBMA to complete the installation of the
new system prior to the loan closing date.
The project design did recognize the rapid growth that occurred at SBF (see Annex 7) but it
underestimated the institutional burden that this rapid growth would place on SBMA. As a consequence it
may not have provided sufficient resources to circumvent the institutional problems noted in the ICR.
However, because: (a) 87% of the value of the project involved the upgrading of the airport and this was
accomplished most successfully; (b) the Rizal Avenue Bridge was completed, albeit two years behind
schedule; (c) most other project infrastructure components were carried out using alternative resources; (d)
the environmental protection component was completed in a manner considered satisfactory, and (e)
institutional weaknesses are being addressed under the Subic II project with the full cooperation of SBMA,
SBMA's implementation performance is rated satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
Even though the project's major institutional initiatives were largely not achieved, and government
implementation performance was assessed as unsatisfactory, most of the infrastructure development
program was completed under the project or satisfactory alternative provisions-such as the BOT access
road-were put into place. Consequently the overall performance of the Borrower is rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
On the basis of this evaluation the project provides the following key lessons:
a.    In converting existing infrastructure into a freeport, a well planned technical assistance program
staffed with appropriate expertise and skills mix is a prerequisite in advance of lending. This was
most valuable in the case of Subic, confirming the validity of the conversion strategy and
legitimizing the vision of the first chairman of SBMA.
b.     Existing infrastructure is a major asset for the rapid establishment of a freeport. It is almost always
cheaper and better to convert existing infrastructure than starting a "greenfield" project. However,
it is difficult, if not impossible, to instill the needed institutional capacity in a newly established
freeport administration within a very short timeframe. Future lending operations for freeports and
economic zones should focus more attention on the institutional strengthening of the freeport
authority.
c.     Freeport administrators must operate within well defined and understood regulations and
- 14 -



guidelines. Planners need to establish what roles can be better undertaken by the private sector
without undermining the revenue stream and overall benefits for the administration and country.
d.     Limitations in SBMA's charter and status as a Government Owned and Controlled Corporation
reduced its operating autonomy and flexibility. Operating as a traditional public sector agency is
extremely difficult for an entity that must move quickly to compete with freeports worldwide.
SBMA was constrained by Government regulations and procedures from being able to act
commercially in a number of key areas of its operation and charter. Also, a better legal framework
is required so that building institutional capacity is not so difficult and restricted by rules.
e.    In any major infrastructure project, it is critical to include a formal program for developing and
financing a comprehensive maintenance program and the development of a competent and
professional facility management team.
f      Better results will occur where public and private roles are distinct and mutually complementary.
Alignment of the administration with service providers, investors, and other investors within the
freeport creates problems and an environment in which complex conflict of interests cannot be
resolved. The Bank must be alert to potential pitfalls in any privatization strategy.
g.     Good governance practices and monitoring procedures that will minimize corrupt practices or
practices perceived as corrupt should be established at the outset of a project.
h.    Institutional capacity to implement the proposed program must be carefully evaluated, and
technical assistance provided where necessary. Financial management and project systems should
be kept simple. Realistic institutional development goals should be set, and loan covenants should
be enforceable, if necessary. More emphasis should be placed on staffing and staff training than
was done in Subic I.
i.    Proposals to alter the project should be evaluated rationally and objectively; if they add to project
complexity there should be confidence that the organization has the skilled personnel needed to
implement them. In Subic I, the Bank might have done better to agree to the changes in the
infrastructure program only on the proviso that certain commitments were made by SBMA in the
area of institutional development and management of SBIA.
j.     Finally, the experience of the Ecology Center's Social Development Unit confirms that a private
sector development project can benefit and be significantly enhanced by the inclusion of a strong
social development component.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowver/implementing agency:
For the most part, SBMA is in agreement with the ICR for Subic I as submitted. The following comments
are offered for your consideration. These comments are only meant to clarify and not to be defensive or lay
blame elsewhere.
1. Institutional Development Component rating of unsatisfactory. In reference to the ICR's section on
Quality at Entry, the Bank recognized the turbulent change in SBMA's leadership and ensuing trauma as
contributing to the inability to complete the IFMS project. At the implementation level, the lack of
- 155-



institutional capacity is cited as contributing to the rating. Contributing factors include: the unforseen
impact of the change in SBMA administration (loss of records and replacement of personnel); the change in
scope from a simple billing system to a full blown IFMS with simultaneous implementation of all modules;
and the inexperience of SBMA project implementors. The ICR in particular, mentions at the end (Lessons
Learned) that financial management and project systems should be kept simple.
The non-institutionalization of freeport advisors' proposals were largely due to the attitude of the previous
administration to ignore the proposals (i.e. strategic planning).
2. Number Employed at SBMA. The figure of 40,700 estimated at the end of 1997 is a figure used by
the previous administration. When the new administration took over in September of 1998, this figure
could not be confirmed. The conclusion was that either construction workers were included or that the
workers leaving the Freeport were not being deducted from the employment generated. The 27,600
reported by the new administration at the end of 1998 is a real number. Therefore the 30% decline in one
year is erroneous.
3. Decline in Residential Leases. Part of the reason for the decline in residential leases is that both
previous and new administrations allowed SBMA department heads and above to occupy SBMA
residential units. Much of the remaining units are in bad state of repair. Also, the payment for the units
leased for 25 years during the previous administration were collected within 90 days of the lease period and
considered as current income. Therefore no lease payments are collected in future years.
4. Increasing Accounts Receivables. Some of this increase is also due to additional billings which were
not billed (but should have been billed) during the previous administration.
5. Replacement of Key Personnel. The Bank needs to be more understanding on this issue. When key
personnel displayed their almost blind loyalty to the previous Chairman as evidenced by the protracted
takeover difficulties, the move to replace key personnel was a "no other choice" decision. Note that those
at lower levers were retained and in fact made permanent employees by the current administration.
6. Lessons Learned: Institutional Development. As a development institution, the Bank's ultimate
impact is on the establishment and sustainable support for institutions, particularly in their infancy, as in
the case with the SBMA. The project is one of the few in development finance which involves privatization
and defense conversion in the emerging markets such as the Philippines.
The extent of the challenges and problems which confronted both the SBMA and the Bank made evident the
complexities of the tasks of both institutions. What may be emphasized in hindsight, is the need for more
importance on non political-risk analysis on the part of the Lender and the Borrower, given the traumatic
leadership change experienced by SBMA.
The Bank identified the institutional challenges facing SBMA, specifically in its lack of institutional
capacity, and how it manifested itself in the project's implementation as one of the constraints facing
SBMA. At the same time, the ICR is oriented to view this in the context of the implementation and less in
the larger implications for SBMA as an institution.
7. Sustainability: Rational for Sustainability Rating. The ICR points out the role of the SBIA
Maintenance Plan as critical to its sustainability to financially contribute to the SBMA. The ICR would
benefit from a statement that such a maintenance plan was already in existence, and that what was needed
- 16 -



was for it to be brought to the international standards corresponding to those of the International Civil
Aviation Organization (ICAO).
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
A. Impact of the Subic Bay Freeport
Annex 7 contains eight tables that provide an assessment of the impact that the development of
Subic Bay into a freeport has had on the local and national economy. It is clear that the project supported
the development of the SBF but the ICR has not attempted to assess what portion of these benefits has
accrued as a direct result of the project. The key economic indicators taken from the tables for the SBF
include:
a.     The total actual investment by investors into operational facilities from 1992 to November
1999 was $2.3 billion of which 46% was invested in service facilities, 9% in transhipment facilities,
and 15% each in manufacturing, tourism, and utilities facilities (see Annex 7 Table I).
b.     The export value of goods produced at Subic went from $24 million in 1994 to $1,012 million
in 1999 (see Annex 7 Table II).
c.     The total number of employees in the SBF increased from 6,758 in 1993 to 26,809 as at
December 15, 1999 (see Annex 7 Table III).
d.     Bureau of Internal Revenue collections of Corporate Income Tax increased from Peso 35
million in 1994 to Peso 161 million in 1998 (see Annex 7 Table IV).
e.     The total number of domestic tourists visiting the SBF increased from 24,000 in 1992 to 1.2
million in 1998 and the number of foreign tourists increased from effectively zero in 1992 to 96,000 in
1997 (see Annex 7 Table V).
It is clear that the project supported the development of the SBF and it is evident that the
development of the freeport has had a major impact on the economy of the immediate vicinity,
particularly Olongapo City, and on the nation generally. Even though the Bank was not involved with
many of the private infrastructure developments in Subic, it is clear that the Bank's presence and
involvement in the development of the SBF provided investors with significant support and comfort. It
is likely that this presence influenced many investors' decision to locate in the freeport. SBMA's
enthusiasm and professionalism in attracting investors to the freeport should not be underestimated. It
is clear that the agency did an excellent job in attracting large-scale investors into the freeport; perhaps
at the expense of its own institutional development.
- 17-



Two events had a major adverse impact on the development of the SBF: first, the Asian
financial crisis; and second, the disruptive and extended SBMA leadership struggle of 1998. It is clear
that these events did affect the development of the freeport, but data indicates that the SBF rebounded
quickly into further growth. Perhaps the key indicator demonstrating this is the export value of goods
produced within SBF as indicated above. Annex 7 Table II shows that in 1996, the total value of goods
produced was $328 million and this increased by 62% to $530 million in 1997. Growth in terms of
export value of goods produced between 1997 and 1998 was effectively static but it rebounded in 1999
with an 82% growth factor from the 1998 level of production of $555 million. Employment (see Annex
7Table III) in the SBF peaked in 1997 with about 41,000 employees but this fell to 28,000 in 1998 and
27,000 in 1999. It is clear that the Asian financial crisis impacted employment levels but it is also clear
that much of the major infrastructure development was completed around the time of the decline in full
time employment. The employment levels of 1997 are unlikely to return until existing industrial parks
are full and there is another round of major industrial development.
B. Subic Airport Maintenance Plan
(See SBMA's letter dated December 27, 1999 attached)
- 18-



OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN
Bldg. 229, Room 201 Waterfront Road
G,#,sb              m                   Subic Bay Freeport Zone, Philippines 2222
Tel. Nos.: (63-47) 252- 4893/4895 Fax No.: (6347) 252 - 3014
December27, 1999
rIlIE W,ORLD B.\NR;
Mr. Aloysius Ordu            AN 0 s 200
Task Manager, Subic II
Resident Mission PhilippinesLy  /d
The World Bank
23rd Floor Taipan Place
Ortigas Center, Pasig City
Ref.: Subic II: SBIA Maintenance
Dear Mr. Ordu,
Background. The Subic Bay International Airport formally began its commercial
operation on April 30, 1995. Upon completion of reconstruction, upgrades and the
installation of navigational, meteorological equipment, SBMA immediately assumed
operational and maintenance responsibility for all of the equipment, structures and
facilities.
Recently, we have carefully reviewed our current facilities maintenance programs and in
particular our airport maintenance practices and records. In-depth discussions with our
airport operations group show that since the completion of the airport under Subic I,
preventive maintenance inspections and maintenance related repairs are being
undertaken on navigational aids equipment, structures, other airport faciiities, runway,
aprons and grounds. However, we feel very strongly that there an urgent need to
upgrade these practices.
Current Practices.  All navigational aids are being maintained based on the
recommendations of the respective manufacturers in conformance with ICAO standards
(Airport Services ManualiPart 9 Airport Maintenance Practices) These equipment are
being operated and maintained by ATO-ANS assisted by the SBIA Electronics Section.
Visual aids are being operated and maintained by our SBIA Electrical Section.
The Civil/Structural Section of SBIA is maintaining the paved and unpaved areas
including drainage and buildings.
Inspection, repairs and maintenance are being performed periodically on a
shift/daily/weekly/monthly/quarterly/semi-annual/annual frequency following suggested
schedules found in manufacturers' manuals. Observations and repairs are manually
recorded on printed forms. These are used for maintenance planning and scheduling,
parts inventory and budgeting. No computers are currently used for documentation,
maintenance scheduling, parts utilization and inventory, equipment history, cost tracking.
-19-



Other services such as PM of escalators/elevators, x-ray machines, CCTV and janitorial
services are contracted out. Maintenance of unpaved areas, pest control is also
programmed to be contracted out.
Opportunities for Improvement. When we compared the current airport maintenance
practices with the MMS that was developed and recently completed by SMEC for the
Freeport's roads and bridges under Subic 11, it is very clear that the airport's
maintenance practices need to be brought to world class standards. We are aware of
the Airport Maintenance Practices prepared by the International Civil Aviation
Organization (ICAO) covering navigational aids, visual aids, electrical systems,
pavements, drainage, fire protection systems, unpaved areas, vehicles etc.
Computerization, maintenance personnel skills assessment and upgrading are other
areas for improvement.
Objective. Recognizing the need to develop and adopt a comprehensive, computerized
airport maintenance management system, it is our immediate objective to prepare a
proper Maintenance Management Plan for our airport. This will include a long-term
pavement rehabilitation and maintenance program to meet actual traffic volumes and
aircraft sizes and loads. This plan intends to enhance our current methods and practices
as well as upgrade the skill levels of our maintenance personnel. We also intend to
acquire state of the art maintenance tools, test equipment and critical spare parts
inventory. As minimum guidelines, we will use the ICAO standards.
Commitment. In this regard, we are pursuing the utilization of our Roads MMS
consultant SMEC, who developed the excellent computerized roads maintenance
management system for us, for the purpose of assisting us develop and prepare this
comprehensive maintenance management system using funds from Subic 11. It is our
intent to extend the consultancy services of SMEC for this purpose. We have already
discussed the general scope for this consulting service with SMEC, and they have
indicated both their interest and their capability in carrying out this project.
As always, we anticipate that you will support us in accomplishing this goal to protect
our investment, improve our operations, maintain a high degree of systems reliability,
extend the service lives of the facilities and more importantly ensure the safety of those
who use our airport. All these will enhance Subic Bay Freeport's competitiveness as we
face the challenges of globalization in the new millennium.
Sincerely yours,
FELICITO         MO
Chairman-Administrator
CC:  Antonio Rex Chan
Roberto T. Feliciano, Head FAPO-PMO
Disraeli F. Santiago, PM Subic 11
-20-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
- ndicator ?4trx                      Pra*d-In last P$R       -     i         tUaLSt*: ; --
SBMA Financial Indicators
Income ($million) 1/
Total revenues                       59.0                                  48.1
Operating expenses                   31.0                                  39.5
Net Income                           3.1                                   0.2
Total assets                         791.9                                 54.9 2/
Primary Ratios
Current ratio                        1.7                                   2.6
Debt/equity ratio (%)                9.0                                   17.3
Debt Service Coverage 3/ times       6.6                                   1.6
Employment Indicators 4/
SBMA 5/                              3,115                                 1,478
Other                                34,875                                26,155
1/ SAR projections for 1998. Actuals taken from SBMA's 1998 audited financial statements. Peso values converted to dollars
atjune 30, 1998 rate of Peso 42.1 to $1.
2/ Assets not revalued according to Vigors Valuation prepared during project.
3/ Adjusted for certain loan principal repayments.
4/ SAR projections for 1998 from Expected Scenario from SAR-total jobs. Actuals for 1998.
5/ 1998 actual data excludes employees and contractors of SBMA-owned Freeport Services Corp.
Output Indicators:
SBMA Revenues ($ million)
1994                                 19                                    18
1995                                 34                                    28
1996                                 47                                    41
1997                                 56                                    68
1998                                 59                                    48
End of project
- 21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Com onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
Site Improvement                                          43.80            45.89           105
Institutional Support                                       5.80            5.39            93
Environment                                                 1.10            0.96            87
Taxes & Duties 6/                                           1.30
Total Baseline Cost                                        52.00           52.24
Physical Contingencies                                                                  100.5
Total Project Costs                  52.00           52.24
Total Financing Required                  52.00            52.24
6/ Appraisal estimate of taxes and duties not available in appraisal component cost estimates.
Project Costs b Procurement Arran ements (A  raisal Estimate) (US$ million e uivalent)
1 Works                        28.30          1.70          0.00          0.90          30.90
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                       3.20           0.00          0.00          6.50          9.70
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00          7.70          0.10           7.80
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous               2.90           0.00          0.50          0.10           3.50
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                       34.40          1.70          8.20          7.60          51.90
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
- 22 -



Project Costs by Procureme  Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
~~ ~~               Ito ~~~Procurement Method
Expenditure   t                           Premet             th             N.B.F.       Total Cost
E~~~C                  Othee
1. Works                         30.27            0.92           0.00           14.19           45.38
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                          1.68            0.00           0.00            0.01            1.69
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00            0.00           5.16            0.01            5.17
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                         31.95            0.92           5.16           14.21           52.24
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.       Bank      Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Site Improvement          33.20      10.60                31.45      14.43               94.7   136.1   0.0
Institutional Support      5.70      0.10                  5.38       0.01               94.4   10.0    0.0
Environment                1.10      0.00                  0.96       0.01               87.3    0.0    0.0
Taxes and Duties 7/                   1.30                                                0.0    0.0    0.0
7/ Actual expenditure for taxes and duties not available.
-23 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
PRESENT VALUE OF FLOWS
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS                         FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Appraisal        Latest Estimates         Appraisal        Latest Estimates
SAR
EIRR
Land access
- Bridge & entry             37
- Access road                15
Airport
- Passenger                   19
terminal 8/
- Pavement                   15
Improvements 9/
Port
- Wharf repair                13
- Cathodic                    12
protection
Standard factory             20
buildings
ICR 10/
Benefits ($mm)               n.a.                62.6                  n.a.                 62.6
11/
Costs ($mm) 12/              n.a.                59.2                  n.a.                67.7
Net Benefits ($mm)           n.a.                 3.4                  n.a.                 -5.1
EIRR / FIRR                  n.a.                 11%                  n.a.                 9%
8/ Revised estimate preparred in 1994 after increase in commitment 15.2%
9/ Revised estimate prepared in 1994 after increase in commitment 7.5%
10/ Present values of economic and financial benefits and costs not shown in SAR
I I/ USS over 25 years 1995 to 2019 in 1999 dollars
12/ USS over 25 years 1995 to 2019 in 1999 dollars
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS. etc.)  Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count      Specialty                      Progress         Objective
Identification/Preparation       U   U
1992
1993                   U   U
Appraisal/Negotiation
1994                   8   TE, FE, U
1995                   4   TE, PL, U
Supervision
1995                    7  PL, U
1996                   18  FE, EN, PM, IE, PE, TE, PL         HS                HS
1997                    9  PE, PM                             HS                HS
1998                   12  EN, FE, PE, AT                      S                HS
1999                   10  EN, FE, EV, IE, PE, AT, PM          S                S
ICR
1999                   3   FE, IE, PM                          U                S
Data in table derived from FACT: Financial and Cost Application, Task Management Report. Project
preparation and apprasial data do not reflect work output.
Specialised staff skills: AT:  Anthropologist
EV:  Environmentalist
EN:  Engineer
FE:  Financial Economist
PE:  Procurement Expert
IE:   Institutional Expert
PM:  Project Management
U:   Unidentifiable
PL:  Planning Expert
TE:  Transport Economist
HS: Highly satisfactory
S:  Satisfactory
US: Unsatisfactory
- 25 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation             186.1                      580.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                   42.8                       130.0
Supervision                            118.1                      591.4
ICR                                      5.0                       25.0
Total                                   352                      1326.50
* Data in table derived from FACT: Financial and Cost Application, as of July 12, 1999.
** ICR Team Estimate
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
FSector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
2 Physical                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
X Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Institutional Development              0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                           OH  *SUOM  ON  O NA
Social
2 Poverty Reduction                0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
EGender                            OH OSUOM ON *NA
MOther (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
2 Private sector development             0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
F Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
MOther (Please specify)                  O H  O SU OM  O N  * NA
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6 1 Bank performance                                 Rating
 Lending                                            O HS OS OU OHU
 Supervision                                        OHS @ S  Ou  OHU
Z  Overall                                           O HS OS  O  U  O HU
62 Borrowverperformance                              Rating
Z Preparation                                        OHS OS  O u  O HU
Z Government implementation performance              0 HS O S  0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  0 HS O S   0  U  C HU
X Overall                                            O HS * S           U. C HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
A. Supporting Economic Activity Data
The data (Source: Subic Bay Metropolitan Authority, September 1999) in the tables that follow provides an
indication of the impact that the development of Subic Bay into a freeport has had on the local and
national economy. The ICR was unable to attribute the portion of this economic activity that has resulted
from the Subic I Project.
Table I
Actual Investment by Investors into Operational Facilities at Subic Bay Freeport 1992 to November
1999 ($ million)
ANNUAL                            %
Warehousing & transhipment                  201.3                            9
Utilities                                   344.4                           15
Tourism                                     337.7                           15
Manufacturing                               348.8                           15
Services                                   1,065.0                          46
Total                                      2,297.2                          100
Table II
Export Value of Goods Produced at Subic ($ million)
Year              Annual
1994               24
1995               174
1996               328
1997               530
1998               555
1999 (to Dec. 7)       1,012
- 29 -



Table III
Total Number of Employees as at Year End
Year              Annual
1993              6,758
1994              12,655
1995              34,510
1996              35,402
1997              40,663
1998              27,633
1999's (at Dec. 15)     26,809
Includes SBMA 1,478; Freeport Service Corporation 3,587 ( a wholly owned subsidiary of SBMA); and
locators 21, 744.
Table IV
Bureau of Internal Revenue 5% Corporate Income Tax Collections  (P million)
Year              Annual
1994                35
1995                50
1996               139
1997               151
1998               161
20 Source: Bureau of Internal Revenue letter to SBMA dated July 14, 1999.
- 30 -



Table V
Number of Visitors Subic Bay Freeport Zone
Year              Local           Foreign
1992             24,205
1993             996,120          47,951
1994            3,129,192         15,265
1995            2,457,669         17,472
1996            1,786,388         49,764
1997            2,508,528         95,554
1998            1,204,275         41,393
1999 (to June 30)    1,572,582         41,061
Table VI
Number of Ships Calling to Subic Bay
Year            Domestic       International
1994               580             909
1995               902             1,104
1996               749             1,181
1997               825              851
1998               715             658
1999 (to June 30)       559              351
- 31 -



Table VII
Number of Aircraft Movements Subic Bay International Airport
Year             Domestic       International
1993              1,566             40
1994              2,920             10
1995              11,542           1,568
1996              17,366           4,246
1997              16,728           5,897
1998              3,278            1,577
1999 (to June 30)      2,608             462
Table VIII
Number of Passengers Subic Bay International Airport
Year             Domestic       International
1993              3,665             794
1994              7,887             656
1995             26,828            9,801
1996             82,266           30,519
1997             48,679           125,488
1998              7,485           29,770
1999 (to June 30)        -             32,760
- 32 -



B. Borrower's Evaluation of the Project
A. PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS
The SBMA principal performance ratings are as follows:
Outcome                    -      Satisfactory
Sustainability             -      Likely
Institutional Dev. Impact  -      Partial
Bank Performance           -      Satisfactory
Borrower Performance       -      Satisfactory
Quality at Entry Project at  -    Satisfactory
Risk at any time
B. ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
1. Original Objective
Objective(s). The objective of the project was to attract private investors to the Subic Bay Freeport
(SBF). This objective was to be achieved by : (a) improving existing infrastructure; (b) improving access
to the area for industrial, commercial and passenger traffic; (c) maintaining the SBF asset base, including
protection of the environment; and (d) strengthening the capacity of the SBMA to manage and administer
the facility.
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. The major focus of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
for the Philippines at the time of project identification and preparation emphasized on investment lending
operations to strengthen the country's infrastructure to sustain economic growth, which is vital for rapid
poverty reduction and alleviation. It also emphasized private sector participation, being the main objective
of this project.
Assessment of Project Objective and Design. The project objective and design was clear, realistic and
important to the Government of the Philippines (GOP) at the time of project inception. The major
immediate concern of the Government when the US Navy vacated the Subic Naval Base in September 30
and Nov. 24 of 1992 was the economic dislocation that would ensue to over 37,000 Filipinos directly
employed by the U.S. Navy, and the nearby communities which were almost exclusively dependent on the
Base for their economic livelihood. The major objective thence was highly relevant and considered
consistent with the Bank's lending and assistance strategy for the Philippines.
The design of the original components was reasonably related to achieving the objectives of the project.
Although the administrative and financial management capacity of the SBMA were not always present
within the organization, the underlying principles and foundation of the SBMA did not change during the
project. Moreover, the SBMA did not have the advantages and benefits of lessons learned from previous
projects. Despite external and internal constraints which affected the implementation of some of the
original components, the SBMA was able to adequately handle those issues.
2. Original Components
The project consisted of three components: (a) site improvement; (b) institutional support; and (c)
- 33 -



environmental protection.
(a) Site Improvement. Several infrastructure improvements were required at the SBF, consisting of new
construction, conversion of existing facilities for civilian use, selected repairs to existing facilities, and
replacement of critical equipment that was removed by the U.S. Navy upon evacuation. Detailed
engineering studies and construction supervision were included for: 1) Access Road; 2) Kalayaan Security
Gate; 3) Rizal Avenue Bridge and Main Entrance Complex; 4) Airport Passenger Terminal and Apron; 5)
Airport Pavement Improvements and Air Traffic Control System; 6) Seaport Repair; 7) Standard Factory
Buildings; and 8) Security and Miscellaneous Equipment.
(b) Institutional Support. Several actions were taken to strengthen the institutional capacity of the SBMA
and to provide the appropriate systems for the implementation of freeport policies. Agreements were
reached at negotiations that for all the technical assistance activities, the SBMA will retain consultants
according to terms of reference and a selection procedure acceptable to the Bank. The studies and the
implementation of the technical assistance activities included: 1) Merchandise Control System; 2)
Automated and Billing; 3) Zoning Regulations; 4) Long-Term Advisors; 5) Short-Term Training; and 6)
Baseline Survey.
(c) Environmental Protection. An Environmental Baseline Survey as to be carried out to establish the basic
environmental conditions within the SBF and to develop a baseline of information on the forest lands and
the bay. The survey was to be divided into two phases, the first was ambient and ecological baseline
conditions and the second was to review the operation of the base to determine the impact of naval
operations on the environment.
3. Site Improvement
Access Road. The construction of a 4 km two-lane road connecting Kalayaan Gate to Kalalake Bridge was
not undertaken. The sub-component was replaced with a private sector financed build operate and transfer
(BOT) highway in a more suitable location.
Kalavaan Security Gate. Construction of a control point at the end of the access road was not undertaken
since the access road was not built.
Rizal Avenue Bridge and Main Entrance Complex. The bridge and complex were constructed. The
original proposal was for the Bank to fund both the bridge and entrance complex. SBMA took over
responsibility for fimding the main entrance complex. The bridge was completed two years behind
schedule because of inadequate design and poor construction supervision.
The Rizal Avenue Bridge was first scheduled to be completed before the APEC meeting in 1996. The
bridge was not constructed on time and was rescheduled to be completed by March 1998. Again the design
and construction supervision consultant made some major revisions on the foundations of the bridge thus
delaying the completion of the bridge to March 1999. The bridge was finally completed two and a half
(2.5) years behind schedule because of poor performance, design, and construction supervision of the
consultant.
SBMA took responsibility for the construction of the Main Entrance Complex and was completed as
scheduled.
Airport Passenger Terminal and Apron. The terminal and apron was designed to cater to passenger
- 34 -



requirements up to the year 2000. However, this sub-component was significantly upgraded and completed
because of the Asian Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Forum meeting held in Subic Bay in 1996.
Hangar 8015 was converted into a new international passenger terminal. The 10,000sq.m. passenger
terminal building is capable of handling 700 passengers at any given time and the apron is capable of
parking two Boeing 747 aircraft.
Airport Pavement Improvements and Air Traffic Control System. Because of the relocation of Federal
Express to Subic Bay International Airport the scope of this sub-component was also significantly
upgraded. The total project cost estimate for the airport passenger terminal, apron, pavement
improvements and air traffic control systems was $20.9 million but the total actual expenditure excluding
the Airport Master Plan was $44.5 million or 85% of the original total project cost estimate of $52 million.
Seaport Repair. This sub-component was designed to stop the rapid deterioration of underdeck structures
and to ensure their continued availability for commercial operations. It was decided not to proceed with
these repairs because of the decision to privatize the seaport. Unused funds were reallocated to the airport.
Standard Factory Buildings. This sub-component consisted of pilot projects which included buildings,
roads, water, electrical works, and sewer line connection. However, the sub-component was not undertaken
as locators were later assessed to want to design and build their own facilities. The unused funds were
reallocated to the airport.
Security and Miscellaneous Equipment. Equipment under this sub-component included electricity meters,
vehicles for maintenance works, patrol boat, communications and electrical equipment, and laboratory and
office equipment. Much of the equipment was not procured. Unused funds were reallocated to the airport.
4. Institutional Support
Merchandise Control System. This sub-component was intended to introduce a computerized merchandise
control and identity card system to track purchases of duty and tax-free goods in the SBF, to ensure that
full taxes were paid on excess purchases entering the domestic customs territory. This sub-component was
not undertaken, partly because it was subsumed within the overall Subic Cybercity MIS strategy, and
ultimately because the duty free privileges accorded to non-SBF residents was revoked by the national
govemment.
Automated and Billing. It was originally expected that a modest consultancy would be undertaken to allow
the automation of billing and thereby enhance SBMA's capacity to collect revenues. The automated
system was also to be designed along revenue center lines to enable SBMA to accurately assess the
contribution of key operations to SBMA's profitability. These objectives were replaced with a more
extensive automation initiative, "Integrated Financial Management System" (IFMS). However, the SBMA
is still producing bills manually and lacks financial information organized by revenue center.
Zoning Regulations. For this sub-component, the SBMA retained the services of Kenzo Tange &
Associates. Significant consulting investments were made in establishing a Master Plan for the
development of the Central Business District and urban design guidelines. For the most part, the SBMA
relied upon its own staff to develop zoning guidelines for the rest of the SBF.
Long-Term Advisors. Maxwell Stamp PLC was retained to provide a team of short and long-term advisors
over a two-year period in several areas of core relevance to SBMA's operations. The Advisors' tenure had
expired before the transition of SBMA administrations. A significant amount of work was undertaken to
- 35 -



design and propose systems to support the following SBMA functions: marketing of SBMA, investor
tracking and handling systems, customs policy and administration, strategic corporate planning, property
development planning and evaluation, analysis of the tax incentive and fiscal policy regime, organizational
structure and evolution planning. Very little of the Advisors' proposals have been institutionalized into the
SBMA's current operations. The Advisors had a lack of influence on the prior SBMA administration for a
variety of reasons.
Short-Term Training. No direct use was made by SBMA of the loan funds in this sub-component.
Facilities Management. The original purpose of this sub-component was to retain an individual facilities
engineer to install within the SBMA the institutional capacity to plan, manage and maintain the use of its
structures and utilities. The SBMA did not make use of the loan funds in this sub-component because: (i)
the administration recognized that its role as a lessor of facilities to the private sector did not oblige it to
undertake maintenance along the same model as had been applied during Navy times; (ii) SBMA did not
have sufficient human resources under its plantilla to undertake the task of facilities maintenance and
instead created the Freeport Services Corporation to address this need; (iii) SBMA recognized that the
strategy of involving the private sector in the delivery of utility services such as telecommunications and
water would shift these operations to the private sector.
Policy. Rules and Regulations. The Subic I loan included a covenant whereby a joint review of SBMA's
policy and organizational effectiveness would be conducted during project implementation. An
Inter-Agency Task Force (IATF) was formed for this purpose, however, the work of the IATF was not
completed. The IATF was supposed to perform an assessment of: (i) the full impact of Executive Orders
and other rules affecting the core policies of the freeport regime; and (ii) the operating autonomy of SBMA,
particularly with regard to staffing, compensation and procurement.
5. Environmental Protection
This sub-component included: (i) the preparation of an environmental baseline survey; (ii) the provision of
environmental monitoring equipment; and (iii) institutional support to assist in establishing a sound
environmental management infrastructure in the SBF. This sub-component was successful in the
establishment of the Ecology Center and the environmental assessment of the subsequent Subic II loan.
6. Institutional Development Impact
To a large extent, the SBMA was not able to institutionalize practices, policies and procedures that would
have made the SBMA more efficient and the freeport policy regime more competitive. The Asian financial
crisis, devaluation of the Peso, and change of administration significantly disrupted operations and
development of the SBMA as an organization. Moreover, the change of SBMA administration has led to
the shaping of a new vision for the development of the SBF.
- 36 -



7. Revised Project Sub-Components
During implementation of the projects, the project sub-components were revised as herein tabulated:
Original                   Nature of the Revision(s)            Reasons/Justifications
Component/Sub-Components                (Design, Scope, etc.)
I. Site Improvement
1. Access Road                     - Sub-component totally dropped from    - Sub-component dropped due to the
the project                         parallel construction and eventual
- Detailed Engineering Design Services  completion of the SBMA-Tipo road. The
was completed by design Consultants   purpose and rationale of this project was
(TCGI) through sole sourcing and   tremendously reduced considering that
consultancy Services for Const.    the SBMA-Tipo road, a BOT private
supervision was deleted from the   sector financed highway project provided
contract through amendment No. I dated a more direct access from the National
8 August 1996.                     Highway to SBF by-passing the zigzag
portion of the National Highway and
by-passing the City streets.
- As originally proposed, containerized
vans/trucks entering/existing SBF would
still have to traverse the zigzig span of
the highway exiting/entering through and
from the SBMA kalayaan Gate.
- The new SBMA-Tipo road provided a
more convenient and safer access to/from
SBF.
2. Kalayaan Security Gate          - Sub-component totally dropped from    - Sub-component dropped in view of the
the project                        dropping in view of the dropping of the
- Detailed Engineering Design Services  Access Road. This project being the
was completed by design consultants    control point at the end of the Access
(TCGI) thru sole sourcing and      road for the checking of trucks and touris
Consultancy Services for Const.    buses by the SBMA security at entrance
Supervision was deleted from the   and by Customs at exit can no longer be
contract with TCGI through amendment served for the same functions have
No. I dated 8 August 1996.          shifted to the SBMA-Tipo Road Toll
Booth and SBMA Security Gate.
3. Airport Passenger Terminal and   - Scope of original design was     - Upgrading was made in anticipation of
Apron                               significantly upgraded i.e., inclusion of  future increase in passenger air traffic
the second level in the improvement    made more urgent and necessary due to
works and the increase in the provision   SBMA's hosting the Asian Pacific
of facilities and procurement of   Economic Cooperation (APEC) Summit
additional aircraft-to-terminal bridges.   meeting held in November 1996.
4. Airport Pavement Improvement and   - Scope of original design was    - Upgrading was made in view of the
Air Traffic Control System         significantly upgraded.             relocation of Federal Express to SBIA for
freight and cargo hub operations in Asia.
- 37 -



Original                  Nature of the Revision(s)            Reasons/Justifications
Component/Sub-Components               (Design, Scope, etc.)
5. Seaport Repair                 - Sub-component was totally dropped    - During the appraisal, this project
from the project and fund re-allocated to focused on maintenance because the
airport sub-component projects.    likelihood of full scale commercial port
operations in SBF seemed remote.
- In view of the significant interest of
shipping companies to call port in the
SBF, in March 1995, SBMA and the
Bank agreed to undertake instead a
detailed Port masterplan in lieu of the
structural repairs as originally
envisioned.
- The Seaport Masterplan project was
coursed through JICA funding after the
proposed NSD privatization project was
put on-hold due to legal problems.
6. Standard Factory Buildings     - Sub-component was totally dropped    - As originally envisioned during the
from the project. Funds originally  project appraisal period, the standard
earmarked were re-allocated to the  factory buildings would entice would-be
airport runway rehabilitation project per investors to SBF. However, this
Amendment to Laon Agreement in Oct.  rationale was significantly reduced when
1994.                             would-be investors opted to use existing
buildings and in lieu of investors
willingness to finance the construction of
their factory buildings.
7. Security and Miscellaneous      - Downscaled security and miscellaneous - Prioritization considering that some of
Equipment                          equipment was procured under the   these equipment identified in the
project.                           appraisal stage have already been
acquired by SBMA using its own funds.
11. Institutional Support
1. Zoning Regulations and Design Code - Sub-component shifted to the Central  - Accelerate and provide a better
Area Urban Design Competition. The   selection of firms knowledgeable in
international design competition was   preparing CBD Development Master
resorted in order to select a firm of  Plan. The increased pressure from
architects and urban planners who will  investors for sites within the Central
undertake the preparation of the zoning  Area necessitated the immediate
regulations and design code based on the preparation of a Master Plan where
Master Plan selected by the board of    zoning regulation and design code will
judges.                            evolve.
2. Facilities Management          - Sub-component totally dropped and    - Firstly, from an individual consultant,
instead absorbed under the Second Subic it shifted to engaging the services of a
Bay Freeport Project (Loan 411 1-PH)   local property management firm to
provide the necessary services where its
resources can be utilized. However, the
need of a specialist expertise with a
broad knowledge and experience in
management of engineering projects was
required and a more comprehensive
treatment of the maintenance issue being
limited to roads and bridges that have to
be addressed adequately, hence, its
inclusion to the Second Subic Bay
Freeport Project.
- 38 -



8. Quality at Entry
The project objective was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, with government
priorities and the over-all mandate of SBMA as created under RA 7227.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND OUTPUTS
An assessment of the project outcome or the degree to which the project achieved its relevant objectives are
itemized as follows:
Component                    Assessment on Outcome                       Remarks
I. Site Improvement
1. Access Road                     Highly Satisfactory Outcome         The deleted project gave way to a world
class highway completed and
implemented through BOT scheme using
private sector initiative. Its better
location/route would pave the way for
improved social and economic prospects
on areas traversed by the new highway.
2. Kalayaan Security Gate          Satisfactory Outcome                The deleted project would pave the way
to the construction of a Security Plaza
which is more strategically located and
would service as many users of the newly
constructed highway.
3. Rizal Avenue Bridge and Main    Highly Satisfactory Outcome         Rizal Bridge has served its purpose
Entrance Complex                                                        being used as entry point to SBF. The
major cause of delay in completing the
project was due to failure of the first
public bidding and the need to re-design
the project to come up with a revised set
of bidding documents. Also, the delay
can be partly attributed to inadequate
supervision and Consultant's deficiency
in the detailed engineering stage. The
Customs Entry Post (Main Entrance
Complex) though downscaled is already
completed. The circulation pattern for
which urban public transport (buses
/jeepneys) would by-pass both the
security and customs checks while
allowing for efficient transfer to the
internal transportation system is still to
be implemented as envisioned in the
project appraisal stage.
Although the construction of Rizal
Avenue Bridge was delayed, the
developmental objective and output was
satisfactorily achieved in the sense that it
primarily became the main entrance to
the Freeport coming from the City of
Olongapo. Since the bridge was opened
to traffic, the congestion at Magsaysay
Bridge eased up considerably especially
during the peak hours of the morning and
afternoon. The construction of the Rizal
Avenue Bridge should be given a highly
satisfactory rating.
-39 -



Component                    Assessment on Outcome                       Remarks
4. Airport Passenger Terminal and   Satisfactory Outcome                Project was completed in record time
Apron                                                                   thereby upgrading the passenger terminal
with world class terminal facilities. The
project entailed so much investment that
to be able to sustain profitable operations
and make use of this facility,
SBMAIGOP will have to open SBIA to
more commercial and cargo flights, both
national and international.
5. Airport Pavement Improvements and  Highly Satisfactory               Project outcome and objective was
Air Traffic Control Systems         Outcome                             attained and installation of ASRS and
ILS allowed SBIA to offer 24-hours
all-weather operations for freight hub
operations as presently availed by
FEDEX.
6. Seaport Repair                   Unsatisfactory                      The Seaport Master Plan preparation is
under JICA funding. The long delayed
full utilization of the Ports as subjected
to repair/maintenance coupled with the
debacled NSD privatization scheme has
deprived SBMA of much needed
revenues. The delay in the repair of the
various piers has also resulted in the
further deterioration of the facilities.
7. Standard Factory Buildings       Satisfactory                        Although project component was deleted,
it paved the way for joint venture
agreements i.e., STEP Techno Park,
SBDMC to develop vast tracts of lands
in the SBF for light and heavy industries.
8. Security and Miscellaneous      N/A                                  Much of the equipment was not
Equipment                                                               procured. Unused funds were
reallocated to the airport.
11. Institutional Support
1. Zoning Regulations and Desing Code Satisfactory                      The CBD Development Masterplan as
developed by Kenzo Tange & Associates
(International Urban Design Competition
Winner) is on the stage of hiring
Consultants to undertake detailed
engineering design services for the Phase
I - Development Stage. The cost of
consultancy services as well as
construction works will be funded by
SBMA.
2. Merchandise Control System      N/A                                  This sub-component was not undertaken,
partly because it was subsumed within
the overall Subic Cybercity MIS strategy,
and ultimately because the duty free
privileges accorded to non-SBF residents
was revoked by the national government.
-40-



Component                    Assessment on Outcome                        Remarks
3. Automated Billing                Unsatisfactory                      The objectives were replaced with a
more extensive automation initiative, "
Integrated Financial Management
System" (IFMS). However, the SBMA
is still producing bills manually and
lacks financial information organized by
revenue center.
4. Long-Term Advisors               Unsatisfactory                      Very little of the Advisors' proposals
have been institutionalized into the
SBMA's current operations. The
Advisors had a lack of influence on the
prior SBMA administration for a variety
of reasons.
5. Short-Term Training              N/A                                 No direct use was made by SBMA of the
loan funds in this sub-component.
6. Facilities Management            Unsatisfactory                       The decision not to maintain the piers
and wharves has resulted in deterioration
that will be very expensive to remediate.
Other buildings and structures as well as
the power distribution system have also
deteriorated. Subic 11 Roads and Bridges
component will take care of the roads
and bridges maintenance as well as the
power distribution system.
III. Environmental Protection       Highly Satisfactory                  An Environmental Baseline Survey was
carried out to establish the basic
environmental conditions within the SBF
and to develop a baseline of information
on the forest lands and the bay. This
sub-component was successful in the
establishment of the Ecology Center and
the environmental assessment of the
subsequent Subic II loan.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME
1.      Factors Outside the Control of the Government or Implementing Agency
It cannot be overstated that two major factors outside the control of the Government or SBMA were critical
in affecting the implementation and outcome of the project:
(a)     The Asian financial crisis and the devaluation of the Philippine Peso had serious direct
consequences on the SBF. The financial and economic crisis adversely effected investment and tourism
within the SBF which undermined the objectives of the project.
(b)     National elections lead to a change of administration of the Philippine government which was
effective June 30, 1998. Former Congressman Felicito Payumo was appointed as the new Chairman and
Administrator of the SBMA. Attempts by former Chairman Richard Gordon to hold on to his position
were unsuccessful. The legal and political struggle surrounding the change in leadership had a major
impact on the SBMA as an institution and in Subic I, in particular the IFMS project and the institutional
strengthening component. A new SBMA Board of Directors was constituted and deputy administrators,
heads of departments, and other personnel were also replaced.
- 41 -



2.     Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
(a)    The suspension of the US$200 annual duty free privilege created through Executive Order No. 77
by the former President Fidel V. Ramos tremendously affected business activity inside SBF. This
suspension likewise greatly affected the volume of passenger and vehicular traffic entering the Freeport so
that design traffic volume for all access roads and transportation infrastructure projects were no longer
realistic.
(b)    The hiring of qualified technical personnel with higher compensation was restricted by DBM and
COA guidelines and limitations.
3.   Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
(a)    The inadequacy of technical personnel in SBMA experienced in project management and contracts
procurement brought about delays in contract documentation and poor supervision of consultants.
(b)   The magnitude or volume of works/contracts as originally envisioned was not properly matched
with the right number of technical and support personnel of the right qualifications and educational
background.
(c)   There was no single PMO created from start of project implementation so that project
implementation functions and responsibilities was distributed through various offices of the SBMA
E. SUSTAINABILITY
Ecology Center. Social Development activities were carried over into Subic II. Sustainability will depend
on the success of the transition plan to plantilla staff from the ad hoc team of consultants. Environmental
protection sustainability will also need support from Subic II .
Airport Improvements. Evolving capital program will be used to implement through a short and long term
capital plan for the airport maintenance and development. A runway and airport facilities preventive
maintenance program should have been put in place as part of this project component. This will enhance
the operational capability of the airport and appropriately address the requirements of the airport locators
as well as the provisions for any adverse circumstances or emergency situations. All development and
improvement plans shall be based on the airport master plan, which shall be regularly discussed and
updated to ensure that all planning parameters are considered and evaluated prior to any execution of
development program.
Institutional Strengthening. The output of Subic II's IS component will have to be institutionalized to make
up for what did not happen in Subic I.
Other Infrastructure Developments. Sustainability will depend on the establishment of a Facilities
Maintance Program similar to the Roads Maintenance Management System developed under Subic II.
(a) Lending (Identification and Appraisal)
Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank was very considerate on the organizational limitations of
SBMA and was highly appreciative of SBMA's volunteerism spirit and its drive to wake-up from the
- 42 -



devastating experience. The Bank did its best efforts in assisting SBMA identify areas of concern at the
time of US withdrawal from the Base. It was able to help SBMA in the identification and assessment of
the assets and its potentials necessary as catalyst for growth and development. The Bank greatly helped in
coming-up with a highly diversified project sub-components that encompassed transportation infrastructure
requirements, institutional support mechanisms and the environmental protection component. The Bank did
a great job in the project appraisal stage by exerting its best efforts in appraising potentials and benefits of
the components identified and assisted SBMA in firming up with estimates, projections and disbursements
for project costs and its financial plan. The Bank was able to recognize SBMA's commitment to the
project from the start and did sense its urgency as well.
(b)    Supervision
Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank was most apprehensive on the unexpected turn of
development of the SBF so that the Bank alerted SBMA on the need to fast track procurement of works.
The Bank paid utmost attention to impact projects i.e., airport rehabilitation as well as the institutional
support components. The Bank's advice during Supervision Missions were on target through its team
composed of various disciplines. Time appropriated for each supervision mission was adequate and highly
critical and urgent issues were given much attention.
The project was closed as scheduled on June 30, 1999.
(c)   Overall Bank Performance
The overall Bank performance was satisfactory. The Bank was highly instrumental in the proper and
thorough identification and appraisal of project sub components. The Bank did its job in preparing SBMA
to be able to compete with other EPZ's and SEZ's by enabling it to recognize its vast potentials combining
industrial growth in harmony with the environment. It was able to foresee vast institutional support
requirements for SBMA to operate as a freeport regime. In totality, the Bank's performance cannot be
segregated from what SBMA has achieved.
2. Borrower Performance
(a)  Preparation
The borrower's performance during project preparation was satisfactory. Considering the urgency of the
conversion strategy program, SBMA was able to adequately provide the technical data and information
required by the Bank in spite of its organizational constraints and inadequate technical support staff.
(b)  Government Implementation Performance
The government implementation performance is deemed satisfactory. It is noteworthy, that there were no
major issues related to the government implementation performance.
(c)  Implementation Performance
The borrower's performance during project implementation was satisfactory. In spite of its shortcomings
and limitations i.e., inadequate staffing, implementation delays, inadequate monitoring and evaluation
systems, procurement delays, organizational constraints, etc., SBMA was able to complete the full
rehabilitation of the Airport such that with this achievement, SBMA played host to the APEC Summit
- 43 -



Forum in November 1996. All other projects that were deleted was due to its being anachronistic with the
fast pace of growth and development experienced by SBF in its early years of operation. These projects
were not deleted due to poor and ineffective project management and financial management such that, some
of these projects were even completed by the use of SBMA funds.
(d)  Overall Borrower Performance
The overall borrower's performance was satisfactory. In spite of all obstacles and hindrances borne out by
its inexperience in implementing foreign funded projects of varied scope and magnitude, SBMA was able to
produce results at a very critical period and the general public is starting to reap its economic and social
benefits.
G. LESSONS LEARNED
World Bank Procurement and Disbursement Guidelines and Procedures. SBMA management and staff
learned through formal and on the job training the Bank's guidelines and procedures in the course of
implementing the various project components. A considerable amount of this learning was lost when senior
staff were replaced during the administration change.
Transparency. The Bank's guidelines also indirectly inculcated the very high degree of transparency
required when undertaking World Bank funded projects. This learning is transferable to other SBMA
funded projects and procurement activities.
Environmental Protection. The establishment of the Ecology Center, the baseline studies and the emphasis
of the Bank in protecting the environment in all Bank funded undertaking is one of the most valuable
lessons learned. This is reflected in the current administration's Mission Statement which mandates
balancing development with protection of the environment.
Social Impact. The establishment of a Social Development Division of the Ecology Center, the Indigenous
Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) and other social impact programs also brought to fore the need to show
concern for those that would be affected by project implementation, to anticipate and provide fair and
equitable solutions to problems and issues brought about by project implementation.
Sustainabilitv. Implemented projects, whether institutional strengthening or infrastructure development
need to have sustainability safeguards, such as development outcome measures, maintenance programs,
refresher training or other performance yardsticks extending well beyond the project completion dates.
Monitoring and Holding Consultants Accountable. During the course of project implementation, it is
important that the Bank (during Missions) and the Borrower should ensure that consultants' services and/or
works are on track. Examples: IFMS, Rizal Bridge, Institutional Support. In conjunction with skills and
knowledge transfer, the monitoring and documentation of project details and conclusions are also very
important. Also, SBMA personnel must be fully aware of the project goals. It is the prerogative of the
SBMA to supervise and control the project at all times. Constant review and evaluation are necessary to
ensure that the goals and objectives are met. The full impact of the project is usually determined long after
the departure of the contractors/consultants. Therefore, the following up of projects is as important as the
actual implementation.
SeW ReYiance. Keeping in mind that the objective of the project was to attract private investors to the
Subic Bay Freeport, at the end of the project, the SBMA should be more self-reliant in terms of
- 44 -



infrastructure/institutional development. Here, skills and knowledge transfer were important aspects of
improving the infrastructure, improving access to the area, maintaining the asset base, protecting the
enviromnent, and strengthening the management and administration of the facility.
- 45 -



