Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15445
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 3032-HU)
JANUARY 31, 1996
Energy, Environment and Transport Division (EC2ET)
Country Department II
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 31, 1995)
Currency Unit   -       Forints (Ft.)
Forint I        -       USSO.01
Forints 125.0   -       USS1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                   US Svstem
1 meter (m)             -       3.2808 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)        -       0.6214 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km2)   -    0.3861 square mile (mi)
I metric ton (m ton)    -       0.9842 long ton (lg ton)
1 kilogram (kg)         =       2.2046 pounds Obs)
ABBREVIATIONS
BKV             -       Budapest Transport Company
BPI             -       Bit per inch
COCOM           -       Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Exports
COMECON         -       Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
CPU             -       Central Processing Unit
ECE             -       Economic Commission for Europe
EDP             -       Electronic Data Processing
ER              -       Economic Return
FYR             -       First Year Return
GDP             -       Gross Domestic Product
GTKm            -       Gross Ton Kilometer
HC              -       Hungarocamion International Freight Company
INS/MIN         -       Lines per minute
IBRD            -       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB             -       International Competitive Bidding
ICIS            -       Integrated Computerized Information System
KTI             -       Hungarian Institute of Transport Science
LCB             -       Local Competitive Bidding
LIB             -       Linited International Bidding
MAHART          -       Hungarian Shipping Company
MAV             -       Hungarian State Railways
MALEV           -       Hungarian Airways Company
MBYTE                   Mega Byte
MIPS            -       Mega Instructions per Second
MIS             -       Marketing Information System
MCC             -       Maintenance Coordination Centers
MOF             -       Ministry of Finance
MTCC            -       Ministry of Transport, Communication and Construction
MSC             -       Maintenance Sub-Centre
M-O                     Budapest By-pass (Motorway)
NBH             -       National Bank of Hungary
NPO             -       National Planning Office
NtKm            -       Net Ton Kilometer
PKm             -       Passenger Kilometer
Pd Km           -       Productive Kilometer
PRD             -       Public Roads Department of MTCC
PRMC            -       Public Road Management Centers
PTT             -       Post and Telegraph Company
RF              -       Revolvmg Fund
SCD             -       Supervision and Control Department
SDB             -       State Development Bank
SOE             -       Statement of Expenditures
TDD             -       Technical Development Department of MTCC
TMIS            -       Transport Management Informational System
TU              -       Traffic Units
UIC             -       International Railway Union
UTITORM         -       Government Mechanical Branch
UNDP            -       United Nations Development Program
VOLAN           -       Domestic and International Freight Company
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31



Table of Contents                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
pagze No.
Preface
Evaluation Sumnuary
PART I:   PROJECT YMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  Introduction.                                                                  1
B.    Project Objectives.                                                         2
C.            Achievement of Project Objectives.                                  2
D.            Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project.       3
E.            Project Sustainability .12
F.            Bank Performance    ................                               14
G.            Borrower Performance ...............  14
H.            Assessment of Outcome ...............  14
I.            Future Operation  ...............  14
J.            Key Lessons Learned  ...............  15
PART II:      STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 7:      Studies Includes in Project
Table 8A:     Project Costs
Table 8B:     Project Financing
Table 9:      Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:     Bank Resources: Missions
Table 14:     Tariffs
APPENDICES
A.            Mission's Aide-Memoire
B.            Borrower's Evaluation Summary
C.            MAPS:  IBRD 27534 - Second Transport Project
IBRD 27535 - The Network of the Budapest Transport Company (BKV)
This report is based on project completion mission which visited Hungary in
September/October 1995. The mission comprised Messrs./Mmes. S. Orlic Orlic (Task Manager),
N. Muhoho (Operations/Financial Analyst), and F. Konigshofer (Senior Operations Officer).
This docwment has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authoririon.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
Second Transport Project (Loan 3032-HU)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Transport Project in
Hungary for which Loan 3032-HU in the amount of US$95.0 million equivalent was approved on
March 30, 1989 and became effective on October 6, 1989. The Loan was closed on June 30, 1995,
the original closing date. It was fully disbursed and the last disbursement made on January 22, 1996.
The ICR was prepared by Energy, Environment and Transport Division (EC2ET) and by the
Infrastructure and Energy Division of the Technical Department (EMTIE) of Europe and Central Asia
Region. The Report was reviewed by Hans J. Apitz, Division Chief, EC2ET and by Jane Loos,
Project Adviser, EC2DR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission, in
September, 1995. The Report is based on information obtained from the Project files, Staff Appraisal
Report, Supervision Reports, several working papers prepared in connection with the Project and
findings of the completion mission. The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing
views in the attached Aide Memoire, preparing own evaluation of the Project's execution and
connmenting on the draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
Second Transport Project (Loan 3032-HU)
Evaluation Summary
INTRODUCIION
Bank Projects in the Sector and Lessons Learned
1.    The First Transport Project, Multimodal Project (Loan 2557-HU, 1985, US$75 million),
provided assistance to the Hungarian State Railways (MAV), roads and a parastatal trucking company
(Hungarocamion). It was completed satisfactorily. The Second Transport Project, (Loan 3032-HU,
1989, US$95 million), included follow-up assistance in the same three sectors, plus a US$7.0 million
component for Budapest Transport Company (BKV). The Roads Project (Loan 3549-HU, 1993,
US$90 million) continued the rehabilitation program for national roads in Hungary that started under
the Second Transport Project. Physical implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily, but
the Government is not budgeting sufficient funds for road maintenance, jeopardizing the conditions of
the road network. The Budapest Urban Transport Project (Loan 3903-HU, 1995, US$35 million)
became effective on December 28, 1995, and is proceeding well.
2.    The key lesson learned from the Project is that management and support from the controlling
authority are the critical factors:
(a)   in spite of difficult economic conditions, it is possible to reduce subsidies, when with good
management, appropriate action is taken and supported by its controlling counterpart. This is
illustrated in the case of BKV and the Budapest Municipality which managed to reduce
subsidies despite difficult economic situation. BKV management took aggressive approach to
keep fares in line with inflation, reduce fleet and operating costs which resulted in improved
cost recovery (para. 4.27);
(b)    political constraints and lack of aggressive management in the case of MAV resulted in a
failure to maintain tariffs in real terms and reduce costs in line with decrease in traffic,
necessitating substantial increase in subsidies (paras. 4.25-4.26 and 4.32);
(c)    HC had monopoly for international trucking transport in the 1980s and was highly profitable.
Deregulation and increased competition led to a financial decline of HC, but also to better and
more competitive transport services for the Hungarian economy (para. 4.28);
(d)    a well orchestrated Transport Sector Action Plan can have a major impact on subsidies,
tariffs, environment, road user charges and technical assistance;
(e)   linking training to specific institutional objectives and related technical assistance has a
positive impact;



ii
(f)   in case of rapidly changing economnies as was the case in Hungary, provision should
be made for periodic adjustments of targets to reflect changing conditions; and
(g)   the Second Transport Project was a complex project with four major elements involved. This
made it difficult for both the Bank and the Borrower to manage, and follow-up projects for
Roads and Urban Transport were therefore limited to only one element.
Objectives
3.    The proposed project was designed to reduce transport costs and increase operational
efficiency and foreign exchange earnings, through providing imnportant infrastructure, increasing
competition in transport markets and upgrading transport technology in management systems and
equipment for both maintenance and cargo handling. The project was also designed to improve the
environment in Budapest city by diverting heavy commercial vehicles from the city to the M-O By-
pass and to reduce accumulated backlog of needed periodic maintenance. The financial objectives for
MAV and BKV were to increase cost recovery, reduce level of Government subsidies and control
operating costs (paras. 4.24-4.27). HC was required to maintain freight rates at sufficient levels to
ensure a reasonable rate of return on average net fixed assets in operation (para. 4.28). These actions
would promote financial discipline at the entity level.
Project Components
4.    The project consisted of high priority investments in: (i) Transport Management Information
System (TMIS), recycling plant for used rails and modernization of track maintenance for the
railways; (ii) construction of section of the Budapest By-pass (M-O motorway), road strengthening
program and equipment for the highways; (iii) Development of Integrated Computerized Information
System (ICIS) and freight handling equipment for Hungarocamion; (iv) traffic control system for
Budapest Transport Company; and (v) related technical assistance and training.
Implementation Experience and Major Factors Affecting the Project
5.     The economic transition in Hungary which resulted in major traffic decline and higher levels
in inflation was a major factor in poor financial performance of the MAV, BKV HC (para. 4.23 and
4.31). Overall outcome of the Project was unsatisfactory despite satisfactory physical implementation.
The three revenue earning entities failed to meet financial targets agreed in the Project Agreements.
The financial covenants provided for MAV to increase tariffs and control operating costs at levels
sufficient to achieve an operating ratio of total operating expenses to total operating revenues of not
higher than 95% for its fiscal year 1990, and thereafter to decline by 1% each year to reach 91% by
1994. In addition, the Transport Action Plan provided for MAV to reduce the level of passenger
transport subsidies by 10% in real terms beginning 1989 (minimum 50% reduction by 1993). In the
initial stages MAV made progress in achieving the targets but later in an effort to stop the decline in
traffic, tariffs were increased at a rate substantially less than inflation. This exacerbated MAV's
financial position. Lack of autonomy for MAV to close lines and services added to the problem
(paras. 4.24-4.26). HC was not able to maintain its financial target of a 22% rate of return on
average net fixed assets in operation each year (later revised to an operating ratio of 95%), due to
disruption of international traffic routes and loss of traffic to competition after trucking deregulation
(para. 4.28). Although BKV made efforts to increase cost recovery and reduce the level of subsidies



iii
despite difficult economic conditions, the operating ratio covenant of 98% for each fiscal year was not
met (para. 4.27).
6.    The construction of the Budapest By-pass eased the traffic congestion by about 20% on some
routes inside Budapest. The diversion of the traffic from the city to the By-pass improved
environment in the city. To facilitate environment protection, an embankment to contain the highway
noise was constructed and is very effective. Road maintenance equipment, field and laboratory
testing equipment and emergency call system procured under the Project are in operation.  The road
pavement and strengthening program for all national roads was a high priority project component to
support the Government in its efforts to reduce deferred maintenance backlog. The component was
satisfactory completed, and on schedule.
7.    Because of lack of local funds, the construction of MAV's Rail Recycling Plant was divided
into two phases. Phase I was rail welding. Equipment for this phase financed by the Bank were
installed and tested. Phase II was the rail recycling which is continuing and is being financed by local
resources.
8.    Information Technology (IT) was a major project component. The Transport Management
Information System (TMIS) for MAV was procured under one general contractor that entailed
acquisition of a major data network and substantial adaptation work on an existing railway operations
system tailored to the needs of MAV. As a result of the US$58.7 million equivalent investment,
MAV now owns a TMIS that is likely among the most technologically advanced system anywhere
(para 4.12 and Table 8A). The Automatic Vehicle Monitoring (AVM) system for BKV was
completed and put into operation. It is effective and efficient. The pilot system achieved its
objectives very quickly due to the fact that it was acquired with an existing software package that
needed only slight adaptation for BKV's specific requirements. HC's Integrated Computerized
Information System (ICIS) was developed from scratch unlike MAV's TMIS and BKV's AVM
systems. The system was developed by HC's staff by combining the original independent sites with
data communication network and by increasing the number of terminals. Later during the
implementation of the project, HC acquired a turnkey system for its Distribution Center. The
software for this system was developed by the contractor. Both the hardware and the software of this
system represent the current state-of-the-art.
9.    The economic contribution of the Second Transport Project must be understood in the context
of the major restructuring of the economy which began in about 1989, and the decline in traffic
levels. During the period 1987-1994, railway freight traffic declined 61 % while passenger traffic
declined 30%, Hungarocamion freight traffic 19 %, and BKV traffic 21% during this period (para.
4.31). Except for the rail recycling plant and the track maintenance equipment which appear
uneconomic at this time, the recalculated economic rates of return (ERRs) remain within a reasonable
range of 17% to 33 % (paras. 4.34-4.39 and Table 9). The overall project remains economically
justified.
10.   Three studies were carried out and financed by EC grants: (i) MAV costing study; (ii)
Organization and Management Study of BKV; and (iii) the River Transport and Port Study (para.
4.40). The implementing agencies used the studies recommendations as the basis for rationalizing
their business activities.



iv
Bank Performance
11.   The Bank maintained good relations with the Borrower and the implementing agencies. The
Bank found it necessary to press strongly to try to come to some understanding about the possible
remedial measures to address the deteriorating finances of our borrowers and requested that no
additional contracts be submitted for Bank approval until MAV, HC and MTCWM had reached
agreement on a 3-Year Business Plan (para. 6.01). The plans were also to provide a basis for
revision of the financial covenants as in the changing economic conditions, the original covenants
were no longer relevant. The financial covenants for HC were revised after receipt of the plan. The
plan submitted by MAV was not acceptable as it provided for unsustainable level of Government
support. As there was little hope of a short-term crash program being adopted, the Bank agreed to
the Government's request for Bank financing for consultancy assistance to prepare a long-term
restructuring program. It was also agreed to permit MAV to commit the remaining balance of the
Loan (paras. 4.26, 4.28 and 6.01) as the investments themselves would increase operational
efficiency. The issue of fiscal support to MAV was discussed as part of our macro-dialogue.
Borrower Performance
12.   The Government showed high level of commitment to the physical implementation of the
project. However, the Government policy on tariff increases was inadequate which led to progressive
weakening of MAV's finances. HC did not meet financial covenants as a result of fall in traffic
levels and interruption of international routes. The Municipality and BKV made efforts to deal with
the difficult economic situation and in part increased cost recovery.
13.   The implementing agencies orchestrated a highly competent technical team and as a result, the
Project investmnents were successfully completed. In addition, the performance of UTIBER, the
management firm engaged by the Ministry of Transport to provide overall coordination of all project-
related activities and to ensure the implementing agencies complied with the reporting requirements,
was commendable. The quality of work carried out in the construction of the Budapest By-pass was
satisfactory (para. 4.06). The Information Technology subcomponents of MAV, BKV and HC
carried out by both local staff and contractors were satisfactorily completed and are in operation.
Asseusment of the Project's Outcome
14.   Despite satisfactory physical implementation of the Project, overall Project outcome was
unsatisfactory because of the poor financial performance of MAV, BKV and HC. Except for the used
rail recycling plant for MAV (Phase 11), all other Project components were completed and are in
operation, including all Bank financed equipment. The Project was 99% completed and 100% of the
Loan was fully disbursed by January 1996. The actual project costs of US$ 285 million equivalent
were 14% higher than appraisal estimate. The increase in local component was due to introduction of
VAT which did not exist at the time of appraisal of the project (para. 4.02). The environment impact
of the project was favorable. The construction of the Budapest By-pass reduced traffic in Budapest
city and consequently reduced air pollution. Conservation of energy resulted from BKV's reduction
of fleet (para. 4.06 and 4.10). The road pavement and strengthening component of the project
strengthened capabilities to carry out road maintenance and ultimately reduce the backlog (para 4.07).
The project investments are considered to be economically justified with the tentative exception of the
track maintenance equipment and the railway recycling plant for MAV (paras. 4.36).



v
Project Sustainability
15.   The information technology subcomponents upgraded the transport technology and improved
operation efficiency of MAV, HC and BKV. The benefits derived from the construction of the
bypass should continue over the life of the project. However, the Bank has expressed its concerns
over the future utilization of the rail recycling plant for MAV and the financial viability of the
railways. MAV has a very high backlog of track maintenance (paras. 4.09-4.10). As a result, and
due to safety reasons, speed restrictions have been introduced on 2,600 kIn of the lines (about 34% of
the total network). Given the prevailing financial situation of MAV, it is uncertain that financial
viability of the railways can be restored and sustained. Although it is likely that some level of fiscal
support will continue for passenger rail traffic (as is comnmnon in other parts of Western Europe), we
consider that MAV relied too heavily on Government support to meet overall operating deficit and
service obligations (paras. 4.25 and 4.32). Although a restructuring study has been carried out,
MAV and the Government have yet to agree on a restructuring programn that would adequately
address the railways problems (paras. 4.25-4.26). Full project benefits will not be achieved until the
institutional and financial issues described above, and which virtually no one foresaw in 1988, are
successfully addressed.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
Second Transport Project (Loan 3032-HU)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction
1.01   Transition from a centralized command economy to a market oriented economy, falling trade
within the former COMECON ' countries and civil strife in former Yugoslavia adversely affected the
Hungarian economy. The effects of these changes which occurred after appraisal of the project
resulted in drastic decline in domestic and international freight and passenger traffic levels and in
poor financial performance of the revenue earning entities participating in the Project. These entities
were the Hungarian State Railways (MAV), the Budapest Transport Company (BKV), and the
Hungarocamion International Freight Company (HC). The Ministry of Transport Communication and
Construction2 was responsible for managing implementation of the highway component.
1.01   The transport system in Hungary is diversified, with the railways and roads serving as the
backbone of the system. Together, railways and roads carry about 70% of total freight traffic and
more than 95 % of passenger traffic. Through investments in the transport sector in Hungary, the
Bank supported the Government's efforts to introduce structural change by providing loans in the
amount of US$298.0 million equivalent between 1985 and 1995. The Transport (Rail/Road) Project
(Loan 2557-HU, 1985, US$75 million) provided assistance to the Hungarian railways (MAV),
Hungarocamion (HC), and to the road sector. The high priority investments under this project were
modernization of the marshalling yard and acquisition of track renewal maintenance equipment for
MAV; construction of the first phase of motorway By-pass in Budapest, including two bridges across
the Danube; and acquisition of fuel efficient freight vehicles for HC. The Project - Second Transport
Project, Loan 3032-HU, 1989, with a loan amount of US$95.0 million was a follow-up project and
provided assistance to MAV, HC, BKV and the road sector. The Road Project (Loan 3549-HU,
1993, US$90.0 million) is ongoing and proceeding well. The Budapest Urban Transport Project (Loan
3903-HU, 1995, US$38.0 million) was designed to support the urban transport reforms undertaken by
the city of Budapest and BKV. Discussions are ongoing on two proposed transport projects in
Hungary. The proposed Second Urban Transport Project would support the urban transport policy of
the City of Budapest of strengthening the institutional management of the street system, road
maintenance, planning the tramway system and improving municipal finance. Given MAV's rapidly
deteriorating financial situation, the proposed Railway Restructuring Project would ensure the future
financial viability of the Hungarian rail system at a reasonable cost to the Government.
I/    Council for Mutual Economic Assistance.
a/    Later renamed Ministry of Transport, Communication and Water Management



2
B.  Project Objectives
2.01   The main objective of the Second Transport Project was to reduce transport costs, increase
system-wide operational efficiency and increase foreign exchange earnings. This was to be
accomplished by providing important infrastructure, increasing competition in transport markets and
upgrading transport technology in the areas of management systems and equipment for both
maintenance and cargo handling. The second major objective was to improve the environment in
Budapest city by diverting heavy commercial vehicles from the city to the M-O By-pass. The third
objective was to reduce the backlog of needed periodic maintenance. The financial objectives in case
of MAV and BKV were to increase cost recovery, reduce level of Government subsidies and control
operating costs (paras. 4.24 - 4.27). HC had to maintain freight rates and other charges at sufficient
levels to ensure a reasonable rate of return on net fixed assets in operation (para. 4.28). The project
objectives were appropriate as they supported the Government's transport policy of improving
efficiency through cost reduction, increased competition, pollution control, and promotion of market
oriented pricing.
C.  Achievement of Project Objectives
3.01   The project was successful in achieving its objectives of increasing system operational
efficiency. The construction of the four-lane Budapest By-pass eased the traffic congestion on routes
inside Budapest by about 20% by diverting traffic to the M-O Motorway. As a result, positive
enviromnental impact is already evident in the city of Budapest. Except for the rail recycling plant
for MAV (Phase II), all other major physical components of the project were successfully completed
and put into operation. These components were: (i) road strengthening program and equipment for
the road component; (ii) track maintenance machinery and Transport Management Information System
(TMIS) for MAV; (iii) traffic control system for BKV; and (iv) Development of Integrated
Computerized Information System (ICIS) for HC. Completion of MAV's recycling plant was delayed
due to lack of local funding which partially affected the track renewal activities (para. 4.09).
Completion of these high priority investments increased operational efficiency of the roads and
railway transport sectors, reduced air pollution in the city of Budapest, and encouraged competition
within the four participating entities.
3.02   The three policy-oriented studies were satisfactorily completed (para. 4.40). By applying the
consultant's recommendations MAV implemented its costing system. BKV used the recommendations
as the basis for rationalizing its business activities and began its restructuring process. The results of
the third study confirmed that there was no transport capacity problems on the rivers in Hungary but
there was a definite need to overhaul the existing facilities to accommodate the traffic on technical
grounds and in a cost effective way. The training of the four participating agencies which included
tour studies was accomplished (para. 4.41-4.42).
3.03   The financial position of the three revenue earning entities - MAV, HC and BKV deteriorated
and most targets set in the Project Agreements were not achieved. Economic and political
transformation which has occurred in Hungary since the appraisal of the Project affected traffic
volumes and thereby the revenues for all participating entities (paras. 4.23 and 4.31). MAV's
operating ratio increased in spite of substantial Government subsidies (paras. 4.24, 4.25 and 4.32).
HC's financial results deteriorated due to disruption of international traffic routes (para. 4.28). BKV
achieved the reduction in Government subsidies but failed to meet the operating ratio requirement



3
(para. 4.27). Except for HC, the financial targets were not revised despite the difficult economic
conditions.
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affectng the Project
4.01   Physical project implementation progressed well. The project was 99% completed, except for
the rail recycling plant (Phase 11 rail welding) sub-component which was delayed because of lack of
local financing (para. 4.09 and 8.01).
4.02   Project Costs and Financing. Total project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$250.0
million equivalent, of which US$95 million was foreign component and US$155 million local
component. The actual project cost of about US$285.0 million equivalent was 14% above the
appraisal estimate. The cost for local comnponent increased by about 22% due to introduction of
VAT which did not exist during the appraisal of the Project3. The level of local financing increased
in line with the VAT increase.
4.03   Disbursement. The Loan disbursement as shown in Table 4 was made as provided in the
Loan Agreement. The Borrower established a Special Account which was maintained by the National
Bank of Hungary. Adequate flow of funds was maintained and mnade available to the beneficiaries to
finance eligible project expenditures. Disbursements were also made regularly through use of
Statements of Expenditure. The Loan was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement was made by
January 1996.
4.04   Procurement. No serious procurement problems were encountered during the
implementation of the Project. The implementing agencies were more familiar with the Bank's
procurement guidelines because of experience gained with the first transport project when the
International Competitive Bidding was introduced in the country at the Bank's suggestion. This was
an important breakthrough which influenced the national practice and also facilitated local competitive
bidding.
4.05   Traffic. In general, domestic and international traffic in Hungary declined (Appendix B -
Borrower's Evaluation Summary), mainly due to economic slowdown. Domestic freight traffic
dropped as investments declined (e.g. building materials). Transit traffic was affected by UN
sanctions and decline in trade with the neighboring former socialist countries. International traffic
declined beginning July 1990 when the international fares were aligned with UIC tariffs.
Civil Works, Equipment and Information Systems
Highway Component
4.06 Budapest By-pass. The M-O Motorway was completed and opened to traffic. The traffic
level on the MO Danube bridge increased to 40,000 vehicles per day. This eased the traffic
2/    The VAT introduced in 1992 ranged from 12% to 25% depending on type of capital
expenditure.



4
congestion on the some the routes inside Budapest by about 20%. To facilitate enviromnent
protection, an embankment to contain the highway noise was constructed and is very effective. The
road rehabilitation maintenance, field and laboratory testing equipment were satisfactorily completed
and are in operation. Emergency call system and road maintenance equipment are also in operation.
4.07   Road Pavement Strengthening. Surface treatment was a high priority project component
for all national roads to support the first phase of the Government's efforts to diminish deferred
maintenance backlog. The work was satisfactorily completed and on schedule.
4.08   Road user charges were adjusted (since 1992) to ensure that heavy commercial vehicles
covered 100% of the cost of related road damage. This was accomplished by increasing diesel fuel
price, levy tax on vehicle weight and introducing transit tax for international traffic. During
appraisal, vehicles with axle loads over 10 tons accounted for over 40% of road costs but contributed
only 6% of roads revenues. According to Government Act V of 1995, the vehicle tax on heavy
commercial vehicles is to be paid based on gross weight and not net weight.
Hungarian State Railways (MAV)
4.09 Rail Recycling Plant. The proposed plant was based on: (i) expanding and upgrading a
small existing plant; and (ii) retrofitting used rails (into long-rails) permitting the maintenance of the
track suitable for heavier loads and higher speed on secondary lines. The implementation of the plant
started in accordance with the original design in 1991. Due to financial difficulties (local financing),
MAV management divided the completion of the plant into two phases. The first phase was rail
welding, and the second phase rail recycling (which had to be postponed). Because of the project
revision, the cost estimates for the component were substantially reduced (Table 8A). All equipment
for Phase I, financed by the Bank, were installed, tested and successfully completed. Phase II of the
plant is continuing and is being financed by local resources.
4.10   Track Maintenance and Construction Equipment. The track maintenance machines have a
high priority in the project because of MAV's huge backlog in track maintenance. During the project
implementation, the loan funds for track maintenance machines and the rail recycling plant were
modified and reallocated to the TMIS component due to cost increase (more than planned) and
inclusion of some parts from TMIS Phase H project component. The Bank approved the first stage
(about 70% of the appraisal amount) and all machines were delivered and put into operation as
scheduled.
4.11   The Bank has expressed its concern on the future utilization of the plant and track machinery
due to MAV's unsatisfactory renewal activities (para. 4.36).
4.12 Transport Management Information System (MIS). The TMIS for MAV was the largest
information technology component of the project. This was a procurement under one general
contractor that entailed acquisition of a substantial data network, and major adaptation work on an
existing railway operations system to tailor it to the needs of MAV and move the system onto a
contemporary client-server hardware and software platform. The contractor eventually had to develop
practically all TMIS components from scratch. As for moving TMIS into production and handing it
over to MAV, the plan was to gradually increase the participation of MAV specialists, while
decreasing the involvement of the contractor. The original TMIS contract was amended twice, first
for network additions, second for an increased contractor presence during the last stages of



5
development and roll-out into production. As a result of the investment, MAV now owns a TMIS
that is likely among the most technologically advanced such systems anywhere. MAV has also built
up a considerable number of own and local contractor staff versed in this new technology. At the
same time, however, the TMIS is facing difficult teething problems, and questions remain on the
speed with which it can be introduced from its small pilot area in Miskolc to other and all regions of
the railway network, and the magnitude of effort required to make operation of all functions smooth,
efficient and easily adaptable, as foreseen. At the end of the project, the TMIS stands as a potentially
very valuable piece, but as an investment that requires utmost attention to rounding it out and tuning
it in order to bring it to fruition.
4.13  Initially the project also foresaw in Phase II, the development of an Accounting Systm for
MAV, and of a connection to the European railways data network HERMES by using own funds.
Currently, a procurement effort for both systems is underway.
4.14   Technical Assistance. US$0.4 million was financed from the Bank loan for technical
assistance and training for MAV. About two-thirds of the training program was completed. As a
result of discussions among MTCWM, MAV and the Bank the program was modified and it was
decided to have a study made to deal with the preparation of MAV restructuring. The technical
assistance loan was increased to US$1.05 million, thereby decreasing the training component.
Budapest Transport Company (BKV)
4.15   Automatic Vehicle Monitoring (AVM) system. The AVM system was completed and put
into satisfactory operation. It covers about 10% of BKV's bus lines (250 devices). It is effective and
efficient. With the AVM, BKV finds itself at the forefront of tools at the disposal of municipal
transport operations for rationalizing resources (drivers, dispatchers, busses) and improving service to
the public. BKV has started to expand the system's functionality and plans to extend its coverage to
additional bus line financed by own sources.
4.16   The pilot AVM achieved its objectives so quickly not the least due the fact that it was
acquired as an already existing software package that needed only slight adaptation for BKV's specific
requirements. This approach has also greatly reduced BKV's needs for technical support staff. On
the other hand, BKV is not able by itself to perform further adaptation work on the software.
4.17. Originally, the project also expected to upgrade BKV's information systems for improved
accounting. Related activities were delayed, however, because of the najor reorganization needs of
the company. BKV attempted some incremental enhancements to its computerized accounting system
using own resources. A more systematic approach to improving BKV's financial and other
management infornation, as well as the further expansion of the AVM, will likely be components of
the new Budapest Municipal Transport loan.
4.18   Road Traffic Control System with 90 devices at intersections and 92 detectors together with
cables have been installed and connected to the system. They have been put into full operation. lhe
power control system was installed by the end of 1992 and handling the information data at 30
transformers without breakdowns.



6
Hungarocamion (HC)
4.19   The Integrated Computerized Information System (ICIS) for HC, was the earliest
information technology activity under the loan, and for this reason still much affected by COCOM
export restrictions which prohibited the procurement of more complex system. In contrast to the
AVM for BKV, the ICIS software was developed from scratch, and it was developed by HC's own
staff by combining the original independent sites by data communication network and by increasing
the number of terminals. As a consequence, the software needed time to get completed and parts of
ICIS are still in their introductory production phase. Also, by today's technology standards, the ICIS
hardware, and especially the terminals and the user interface, are not up-to-date anymore. All-in-all,
however, the ICIS has been a highly effective loan component, as it has moved HC from a dismal
state of its information systems to one in which such systems form an integral part of HC's business
operations and provide the basis for developing executive information support.
4.20   Later during the loan, HC acquired a turnkey system for its Distribution Center for HC's
Collecting and Forwarding Unit. While the software for this system was also developed from
scratch, this development was performed by the main contractor for this procurement, a professional
system house, as part of the purchase, and not by HC's own staff. Furthermore, both the hardware
and software of this system represent the current state-of-the-art. At the end of the project, the
system was at the verge of becoming operational.
4.21   HC also procured an upgrade to its data communications infrastructure (CID project). This
procurement comprised high speed communications links, link terminating devices, network
management hardware and software, and Personal Computers. These installations were all completed
by the end of the project, and provide high-capacity, state-of-the-art support for the further
development and use of the ICIS. Additional, HC acquired enhanced data base management software
and software development tools
4.22   As a result of the project, HC has now a resilient, high-capacity information and
communications infrastructure, and application systems that support operations and accounting, of
which some represent the state-of-the-art, and a cadre of in-house specialist experienced in today's
information technology and its management.
Finandal Performance
4.23. The financial statements, including appraisal and actual results of 1987-1994 for MAV, BKV
and HC are shown in Appendix B. The economic transformation during this period which resulted in
major decline in traffic and high levels of inflation have been major factors in the poor financial
performance of the Project entities.
Hungarian State Railways (MAV)
4.24   Under the Project Agreement, MAV was required to increase tariffs and control operating
costs at levels sufficient to achieve an operating ratio of total operating expenses to total operating
revenues of not higher than 95 % for its fiscal year 1990, and thereafter to decline by 1 % per year to
reach 91 % by 1994. MAV achieved minor improvements in operating ratio in 1988 and 1989, but
failed to meet the financial targets from 1990 onwards. The operating ratio (including subsidies)
increased from 98% in 1989 to 111% in 1993, but decreased (improved) to 92% in 1994. The latter



7
improvement was made possible by a one time Governnent support to MAV in form of special
subsidies to cover social security and early retirement payments, severance payments and credit
guarantees. Without this contribution, the operating ratio would have been 127% in 1994. The
operating revenue excluding subsidies was insufficient to meet MAV's operating costs during this
period. Revenue from passenger and freight traffic for 1993 in constant terms decreased by about
51 % compared to 1990. In real terms, the loss was higher than that shown in accounting records,
as MAV failed to adequately maintain its infrastructure and rolling stock (para. 4.09 and 4.10). The
liquidity squeeze on MAV necessitated the Government to take over MAV's debt service obligations.
4.25. In order to promote financial discipline and operating efficiency of MAV, the Transport
Action Plan required MAV to control its operating costs by reducing staff related costs, fuel and
material costs in traffic units by 5 % over the three year period 1989-91. Actual results show that
combined costs per traffic unit for the three major cost categories increased in real terms by about
28%. A major factor was decrease in traffic units by 32% and MAV's failure to reduce costs in line
with the decrease in traffic. While MAV achieved only a 4% reduction in staff during the period
1989-1991, a substantial staff reduction of 40% was achieved during the five year period ending in
1994. At the beginning of the l990s both passenger and freight tariffs were increased in real termns in
order to reduce MAV's losses. Then in 1993, in an endeavor to stop the continued decline in traffic
combined with political pressure, tariffs were increased at a rate substantially less than inflation. This
resulted in a 28% reduction in real revenue per traffic unit in 1994 compared to 1990 (Table 14).
Unfortunately traffic continued to decline and the lower real tariffs exacerbated MAV's financial
problems. In addition to traffic decrease and lack of aggressive management, MAV does not have
the autonomy to close uneconomic lines and decrease passenger service levels in line with fall in
traffic, which made it difficult for MAV to contain operating costs. Another government policy
oriented objective was to reduce the level of passenger transport subsidies by 10% per annum in real
terms (minimum 50% by 1993). Because of MAV's liquidity squeeze, the Government subsidies
increased substantially (para. 4.32).
4.26   With the major decline in MAV's traffic, the Bank's financial covenants were no longer
relevant. The Bank requested that MAV submit a 3-Year Business Plan to establish suitable financial
targets under the new economic conditions which could also act as a basis for revising the Bank's
financial covenants. In the meantime MAV agreed not to submit new procurement contracts for Bank
approval. The plan submitted was not acceptable as it provided for a level of Government support
which was not sustainable. The Hungarian authorities indicated that to achieve the results
recommended by the Bank would require a major restructuring of MAV and that they would require
consulting assistance to assist them in evaluating options. As there was little hope of a short-term
crash program being adopted, the Bank agreed to financing for consulting assistance and to resume
approval of new contracts. A restructuring study carried out by Mercer Management Consulting was
completed in September 1994 (para. 4.14). The study found that the core lines representing 51% of
the network were generating 90% of MAV's revenue and made radical recommendations for
restructuring MAV to improve its financial viability. Some of the recommendations involving line
closures were incorporated in the 1995 budget but have not yet been implemented. The Bank
continues to be involved in discussions on MAV restructuring (para. 9.01).
Budapest Transport Company (BKV)
4.27   BKV achieved reduction in subsidies as required under the Transport Sector Action Plan of
the Loan. As a result of fare increases, total subsidies (comprising passenger subsidies from the State



8
budget and maintenance subsidies from the City Council of Budapest) declined in real terms by about
51 % by 1993, exceeding the Action Plan target of a reduction of 50% over the five-year period 1989-
93. In order to meet covenanted operating ratio of total operating expenses to total operating
revenues not higher than 98%, BKV took measures to reduce administration and operation staff
(other than drivers and maintenance staff who increased to reduce overtime payments), and reducing
the number of vehicles in operation. BKV management also adopted a more aggressive approach to
curb fare evasion by increasing the number of controllers and keeping fares in line with inflation.
BKV met the operating ratio in 1990 (97%). However, from 1991 onwards, the ratio increased from
99% in 1992 to 103% in 1994 compared to the Project Agreement requirement of 98%. In the light
of difficult economic conditions which could not be foreseen at appraisal, BKV's financial
performance must be considered very satisfactory. BKV's financial progress continued, with its cost
recovery in 1994 increasing to 38% compared to 33% in 1993.
Hungarocamion (HC)
4.28   HC, an international freight company, was required under the Project Agreement to earn an
annual rate of return of not less than 22% of the average net fixed assets in operation. HC exceeded
this requirement until 1992, following which it started to experience serious financial problems and
the rate of return on net fixed assets fell from 41 % in 1989 to 2.4% in 1993. HC's financial
situation began to deteriorate mainly due to disruption of international traffic routes caused by UN
sanctions introduced against ex-Yugoslavia and loss of market in Turkey. In the 1980s, HC had
monopoly for international trucking transport. The enterprise was highly profitable and a significant
contributor of foreign exchange. Deregulation and increased competition led to a financial decline of
HC, but also to better and more competitive transport services for the Hungarian economy. During
the period 1989-1993, operating revenues decreased by about 50% in real terms. In addition, HC
revalued its fixed assets in 1992 in preparation for privatization. This resulted in a 125% increase in
value of its fixed assets. Although HC tried to counteract revenue deficiency by taking measures to
reduce operating costs, including reduction of staff (about 29% by 1994), HC was not able to reach
most of the financial and operational targets as planned. For the first time during the implementation
of the Project, HC incurred operating losses in 1993 and 1994. In February of 1994, and in view of
the changing market conditions, the Bank agreed to revise the targets to a 95% operating ratio from
1994 onwards (para. 6.01).
4.29   Privatization. HC's privatization process started in August 1994. However, the three
bidding offers received were rejected by the new management which took over after the bid offers
were made. The compensation offered was considered to be inadequate and a decision was made to
reorganize HC. A restructuring program was carried out and included downsizing both fleet and
staff, selling surplus assets (sites, buildings, workshops) and changing method of operation by
introducing more combined transport.
Economic Reevaluation
4.30   Discussion and Conclusion. At appraisal in 1988, Hungary was at an early stage in its
transition to a market economy. The Government and the Bank agreed to continue implementing an
economic adjustment program, including increasing exports and liberalizing imports to promote
competition. The objective of the project was to support this by reducing transport costs, increasing
operational and maintenance efficiency, upgrading transport technology and improving the
environment.



9
4.31   Major restructuring of the economy began in about 1989. A number of heavy industries were
closed or restructured, trade with COMECON countries was curtailed, foreign trade was reoriented
toward the West, economic growth slowed, competitive regulations favoring the railway were
reduced, and the road vehicle fleet grew rapidly. As a result, traffic levels changed dramatically.
MAV carried 115 million tons of freight in 1987, and it was expected at appraisal that this would
continue at about the same level in the medium term. In fact, railway freight traffic declined to about
44 million tons by 1994, a 61 percent reduction. Railway passenger traffic also declined 30 percent,
Hungarocamion freight traffic 19 percent, and BKV traffic 21 percent during this period, compared to
no change forecast at appraisal. On the other hand, the MO motorway carried 35 percent more traffic
in 1995 than forecast at appraisal due to the rapid growth of motorization.
4.32   As a result of these changes, the environment in which the project was implemented changed
dramatically. It proved impossible for MAV, Hungarocamion and BKV to achieve the financial and
operational targets agreed at negotiations. The cost to the Government of supporting MAV (including
operating losses) increased rapidly, reaching an estimated $820 million (1.7% of GDP) in 1995. It
became increasingly clear that major restructuring or privatization of these organizations was
required. However, this proved impossible to achieve in the medium term, due primarily to public
resistance and institutional inertia brought on by the high unemployment, high inflation, reduced
living standards and budgetary constraints associated with the transition. While the Bank has financed
restructuring studies and taken the lead in discussions with MAV, only partial remedies have been
adopted to date. The Government also attempted to privatize Hungarocamion in 1994, but this
proved unsuccessful; HC now concentrates on downsizing its fleet and staff and selling off surplus
assets. BKV has been recently more successful in commercializing its operations with assistance
provided under the ongoing Budapest Urban Transport Project and related EBRD loan.
4.33   The economic contribution of the Second Transport Project must be understood in this
changed context. The investments in the MO Motorway and pavement strengthening were successful,
with econoniic rates of return (ERRs) calculated by traditional methodology, helping Hungary cope
with traffic growth which was greater than anticipated at appraisal. However, the Government's 1995
road maintenance expenditures were only about one-quarter of the amount required to prevent further
deterioration of the existing road network, or one-half of what is required to catch up with the
maintenance backlog in ten years, due to budget constraints and perhaps too rapid implementation of
the competing motorway program. This threatens the future sustainability of these road investments
unless it is resolved. The investments in track maintenance equipment and the railway recycling plant
for MAV, appear uneconomic pending a significant restructuring of MAV due to the shortage of
funds to implement an adequate track maintenance program. The investments in the MIS systems for
MAV and Hungarocamion, on the other hand, are so critical for their respective operations that they
can be considered to be economically justified even under the present difficult circumstances. The
investment in BKVs AVM system is considered to be economnically justified for the same reason, and
also because BKV has taken significant steps in recent years to commercialize its operations and take
full advantage of the investment. In summary, project investments are considered to be economically
justified with the tentative exception of the track maintenance equipment and the railway recycling
plant for MAV, as elaborated below. However, full project benefits will not be achieved until the
institutional and financial issues described above, which virtually no one foresaw in 1988, are
successfully addressed.



10
4.34   MO Motorway. The 13.8 km section of the Budapest Bypass was constructed during 1990-
94 at a total cost for the highway component of $187.3 million (23% above appraisal estimate) and
opened to traffic in 1994. Traffic reached 15,676 vehicles per day in 1995 including 26% heavy
vehicles (35% above appraisal estimate). The project was reevaluated, as explained in the Borrower's
Evaluation Summary, using the original network model, actual construction costs, revised traffic
forecasts, and revised operating and maintenance cost estimates. Construction of the MO Motorway
was reestimated to have an ERR of 18%, the same as the estimate made at the time of appraisal. The
benefits from higher than anticipated traffic levels offset the additional costs of construction.
4.35   Pavement Strengthening and Maintenance Equipment. PRD has developed its pavement
management system in stages, and now uses the costs from recent contract awards, recent traffic
counts, road condition surveys, and the Bank's Highway Design Model adjusted to local conditions,
to prepare and estimate the ERRs for each road section included in its annual road maintenance
program. Under the 1994 program, which was reviewed by the Bank and is considered
representative of works financed under the Transport Project, estimated ERRs for pavement
strengthening works ranged from 22 to 86 percent, with a weighted average of about 33%. This
compares with an appraisal estimate of 30%, most likely due to the reduction in road maintenance
costs resulting from the introduction of competitive contracting procedures under the project. Road
maintenance equipment financed under the project replaced worn out equipment, and is used for
various maintenance activities which are still carried out by force account. Budgetary shortfalls
primarily affect the volume of contract maintenance, and project equipment is reported to be well
utilized. It is, therefore, assumed to have the same ERR as pavement strengthening works (33%).
4.36   Track Maintenance Equipment and Rail Recycling Plant. MAV estimates it needs to
replace an average 150-200 km of main line, 450 switch sets and 396,000 sleepers each year to
maintain its track infrastructure adequately. However, MAV replaced an average of only 45 kn of
track, 209 switch sets and 91,000 sleepers each year during 1990-94 due to funding shortages. MAV
presently has more than enough track maintenance equipment, including what was financed under the
project, to continue its maintenance program at the 1990-94 level. Gaining full benefit from project
equipment thus depends on increasing the track maintenance budget by resolving MAVs overall
fmancial problems, for which restructuring is required as discussed above. It must, therefore, be
concluded that this the investment is uneconomic unless and until further restructuring of MAV takes
place. The investment in the rail recycling plant also appears uneconomic at this time for similar
reasons. While the present investment can be used to weld continuous rails, the volume of output
appears low due to budgetary constraints and an additional US$3 million investment is required to
recycle rails, as anticipated at appraisal, for which MAV lacks funds.
4.37   MAV TMIS. It is virtually impossible for any railway to satisfy its customers, or coordinate
with other carriers, unless it can track shipments with modem TMIS. At appraisal, MAV paid about
$40 million p.a. to utilize foreign wagons which it could not keep track of accurately. Based on
experience in other countries, TMIS systems improve wagon utilization by about 30%. Considering
the decline in traffic since appraisal, and probable changes in traffic patterns, it is likely that MAV
will be able to save at least $6 million p.a. in foreign wagon costs following introduction of the
TMIS. This is equivalent to an ERR of 17% on the $35 million investment, compared to the 22%
estimated at appraisal. This is a conservative estimate, since MAV, despite its current problems,
would be even less able to compete in a market environment without the TMIS in place.



11
4.38 BKV AVM System. BKV's AVM system was installed during 1992-95 (Table 8A). The
ERR was reestimated by BKV following a one year trial period. Operating and maintenance costs
were reestimated to be HUF 39 million p.a. BKV noted that the system improved the flow of buses
significantly, and estimated that it reduced the size of the required bus fleet by 13 buses (at a cost of
HUF 22 million per bus) BKV also estimated that the system would reduce the cost of operating and
controlling the remaining fleet by HUF 66.5 million p.a. They reestimated the ERR from the AVM
system to be 17%, consistent with experience in other countries, and about the same as the appraisal
estimate of 16%. BKV has taken a number of steps to commercialize its operations in recent years,
including increasing its passenger cost recovery to 34%, and is considered to be in a good position to
take full advantage of the AVM investment.
4.39 Hungarocamion ICIS. As with MAV, it would be virtually impossible for HC to track
shipments and coordinate with other carriers without a modern ICIS. Hungarocamion, despite the
institutional problems discussed above, would be in a significantly worse competitive position without
this investment. The ERR for this project component was, therefore, assumed to be the same as for
MAV's TMIS system (17%).
Technical Assistance and Training
Studies
4.40   Three studies were carried out under the Second Transport Project. They were financed
through EC grants and reviewed by the Bank.
(a)    MAV costing Study. There were two issues to this study which was jointly carried out by
MAV and KTI Consultants. First, the degree to which the system design and implementation
could proceed pending reorganization of MAV under former economic system. The
reorganization could have consequences for the way in which costing data was compiled and
analyzed. Second, the comparative merits of in-house development of the system, compared
to buying and adapting an existing system. The study was successful in specifying the costing
system in advance of any general reorganization of MAV. After completion of the study,
MAV decided to develop the accounting system with own funds instead of including it in the
Transport Management Information System as originally envisaged (para. 4.12)
(b)    Organization and Management Study of BKV. The study was financed by PHARE
and carried out by Hamburg Consult. The study's main objective to identify institutional
changes through which BKV would increase effectiveness and efficiency of its operations was
met. BKV used the study's recommendations as the basis for rationalizing its business
activities to year 2000. This led to restructuring of the institution which started in 1991 and
is ongoing. In addition, BKV has taken the following measures to ensure effectiveness and
efficiency of its operations: (i) reduced number of staff by about 15% (1990-1994);
(ii) terminated low density bus and tram lines or in some cases terminated weekend operations
on some lines; and (iii) operate smaller capacity vehicles during the nights and weekend.
These measures have already given positive results, including increasing BKV's cost recovery.
(c)    River Tansport and Port Study. The study which was carried out by DHV Consulting was
completed in 1991. The objective of the study was to define a program for development and
modernization of Hungary's river transport system in the years 1990-2000 and to determine



12
the technical, economic and financial feasibility of future investments. The results of the
study indicated that: (i) bulk raw material (iron, ore, sand/gavels) amount to 85% of
Hungarian ports traffic; and (ii) even under the best possible conditions and based on traffic
forecasts to year 2000, there was basically no transport capacity problems on the rivers.
There was, however, a definite need to overhaul the existing facilities to acconmmodate the
traffic on sound technical grounds in a cost effective way. The main physical bottleneck to
be removed was to be found along the Hungary/Slovak border on the Danube.
Regarding ports, the study provided for each port improvement, proposals for facilities,
equipment and accesses. MTCWM implemented the study's recommendations by initiating
the process of developing the western connections through the Danube and increasing the
traffic transit operations through Hungary by easing internodal transfers, and above all
implementing this policy in an environmentally friendly manner. The MTCWM
recommended to let private entities handle commercial operations in ports, under a regulatory
framework devised by the Government and monitored by local Port authorities.
Training
4.41   The training component comprised of programs to familiarize staff of MAV, BKV, HC and
the MTCWM with modern developments and trends in organization, network management, planning,
marketing, engineering, operations, traffic safety, maintenance and environment protection. These
training programs, financed under the training and technical assistance component of the Project,
were successfully completed. The training received was applied by each participating agency in
implementing the various components of the Project as indicated below.
4.42   MAV training concentrated in TMIS use and in rail recycling process. This training was
completed at a cost of US$290,000, compared to appraisal estimates of US$420,000. HC's training
was in familiarization with recent developments in strategic planning, marketing and the use of
management information system, including training in maintenance and operation of the ICIS. Total
cost of this component was US$70,000 compared to appraisal estimates of US$100,000. BKV
component included training of staff with recent developments in management and organization
improvement and maintenance and operation of the traffic control system (AVM). Total cost of this
training was US$44,000 against appraisal estimates of US$50,000. Technical training for the
Highway component included tour visits in Hungary and overseas for familiarization with recent
developments and equipment in traffic safety, pavement maintenance techniques, pavement
management and environmental protection. The cost of this component was US$ 1,245,000 compared
to appraisal estimate of US$600,000. MTCWM utilized River Port Study funds financed by PHARE
to carry out additional training.
E. Project Sustainability
5.01   The Project achieved its technical objectives, and these appear to be sustainable. However,
the Bank has expressed its concerns over the future utilization of the rail recycling plant for MAV and
the financial viability of the railways. MAV has a very high backlog of track maintenance, and as a
result and due to safety reasons, speed restrictions have been introduced on about 34% of the total
network. Given the prevailing financial situation of MAV, it is uncertain that financial viability of
the railways can be restored and sustained. Although its is likely that some level of fiscal support



13
will continue for passenger rail traffic (as is common in other parts of Western Europe), we consider
that MAV relied too heavily on Government support to meet overall operating deficit and debt
servicing obligations (paras. 4.25 and 4.32). MAV and the Government have yet to agree on a
restructuring program that would adequately address the railways problems. Full project benefits will
not be achieved until the institutional and financial issues which virtually no one foresaw at appraisal
of the project are successfully addressed.
5.02   Environmental Impact. The completion of the M-O Bypass reduced congestion on the
streets of Budapest, primarily because all heavy vehicles and transit traffic were diverted from the city
streets to a high-speed By-pass. This diversion of traffic is already showing a positive enviromnental
impact. The motorway design provides adequate sound barriers to protect residential areas. The rail
recycling plant will provide the protection of occupational health and safety of workers, air pollution
control and treatment and disposal of plant's wastes. BKV's traffic control system will facilitate
reduction in vehicle waiting time at the traffic lights, reduction in energy consumption, and reduction
in the size of the fleet. Road and rail improvements will provide better service to passengers and
significantly reduce air pollution through development of the national network.
5.03   A key feature of information technology is that it gets enhanced very quickly, i.e.,
investments are subject to rapid obsolescence. Therefore, all project participants should plan to make
available annual resources for the proper maintenance and enhancement of the hardware and the
system and application software. Companies that successfully handle their information technology
typically budget annually 10 to 15% of the original investment for ongoing maintenance and
enhancement. Own staff resources such as for MAV's TMIS and HC's ICIS can obviously be
counted against this prudent annual allocation. The probabilities that this project's information
technology components will maintain achievements in relation to project objectives are:
- BKV's AVM is almost certain to maintain the level of benefits (e.g., reduction in bus
numbers by 5 % or more) it already provides. It can be easily expanded to cover further bus
routes. At relatively modest expense, the AVM's functionality can be further enhanced,
though this process will be a bit cumbersome due to the geographical distance to the producer
of the software.
- The ICS at HC is likely to improve benefits as HC specialists enhance the system. One risk
to avoid will be to let ICIS slip behind the deep organizational changes made at HC. HC also
needs to concentrate on creating the executive level of ICIS (providing support to the
company's top management), and to start planning for enhanced user interface technology.
This step would entail the long-termn replacement of user terminals by more intelligent
devices, e.g. PCs, with a graphical interface. As for the Distribution Center System, the
contractor (or a local contractor with suitable expertise) should be retained until the system is
fully and efficiently functional, and should then be retained for continuous enhancements.
- MAV's TMIS has the capability to not only yield the expected operational benefits, but offers
ample scope to further increasing these benefits. However, much effort must first be
expended to bring the system into full, smooth and efficient production, and do so for all of
MAV's railway network. Contractor persomel should be retained for this purpose as long as
necessary. MAV specialists, now well trained and experienced thanks to the project, will
need to be retained by sufficiently attractive working conditions. Another requirement for
project sustainability will be close coordination between the information technology and the



14
telecommunications cost centers of MAV as the data network might otherwise become an
obstacle to the effectiveness of the TMIS.
F. Bank Performance
6.01   The Bank maintained good relations with the Borrower and the implementing agencies
throughout the execution of the project. The Bank requested that no additional contracts would be
submitted for approval until MAV, HC and MTCWM had reached agreement on a 3-year Business
Plan showing how and under what conditions MAV and HC would be restored to profitability. On
receipt of HC's plan, the financial targets were revised (para. 4.28). The Bank was not satisfied with
the financial plan submitted by MAV. However, the Bank agreed with the Hungarian authorities'
request for financing consultants to undertake a major restructuring study of MAV to outline the
options available. Procurement was also resumed (para. 4.26) as the investments themselves would
increase operational efficiency. The issue of fiscal support to MAV was discussed as part of our
macro-dialogue.
G. Borrower Performance
7.01   The Bank found it necessary to press strongly to try to come to some understanding about the
possible remedial measures to address the deteriorating finances of our borrowers. The Government
showed high level of commitment to the physical implementation of the project. In parallel, the
implementing agencies' performance was highly satisfactory. The participating agencies put together
highly competent technical teams and as a result, the Project investments were successfully completed.
7.02   The Government policy on tariff increases was inadequate which led to progressive weakening
of MAV's finances. In particular, MAV did not have the autonomy to close uneconomic lines and
was therefore unable to contain operating costs on these lines and had to rely heavily on Government
subsidies (paras. 4.25 and 4.32). HC was unable to adjust to loss of traffic and interruption of
international routes and therefore did not meet financial covenant (para. 4.28). HC also made efforts
to privatize (para. 4.29). The Municipality and BKV made efforts to deal with the difficult economic
situation and in part increased cost recovery rate (para. 4.27). Throughout the project
implementation, all implementing agencies prepared and submitted to the Bank, comprehensive
progress and annual reports. Exemplary coordination among the agencies and the Government
(organized by UTIBER) facilitated the Bank in carrying out supervision missions.
H. Assessment of the Project's Outcome
8.01   Overall outcome of the Project was unsatisfactory because of poor financial performance,
despite the fact that 99% of the Project was completed and 100% of the Loan disbursed. Physical
implementation of the Project was satisfactory. Except for the used rail recycling plant which was
delayed, all other project components were completed and are in operation. The reasons for the
delays in the recycling plant were MAV's deteriorating financial situation and the Bank decision to
stop further contract conmmitments until the MTCWM, MAV had reached an agreement on Business
Plan. All Bank financed equipments were supplied and installed.



15
I. Future Operation
9.01   The Bank recently approved the Budapest Urban Transport Project to support the urban
transport reforms undertaken by the City of Budapest and BKV. Satisfactory progress is being made
in improving BKV's financial viability. EBRD, EIB, Phare and the Bank have continued discussions
with the Government and MAV on restructuring of the railways but to date have failed to reach
agreement on a program that would reduce Government support to a sustainable level in the medium
term. The restructuring of railways in Hungary, as in most other countries, continues to be a very
divisive subject involving national, regional, environmental and trade union issues. While the
restructuring is inevitable, the question is whether this can be carried out under a planned program in
the medium-term or continue with the present "muddling through" approach over a long period of
time at substantial additional cost to the country. The Bank is willing to provide financing to support
a medium-term planned restructuring programn but it is unlikely that such a program can be agreed in
the near future. Two other proposed transport projects - Second Urban Transport Project and Roads
Project are under consideration. There are no investment operations foreseen for HC which became a
stock-holding company in August 1994.
J. Key Lessons Learned
10.01 The main lesson learned from the Project is that management and support from the controlling
authority are the critical factors:
(a)   in spite of difficult economic conditions, it is possible to reduce subsidies, when with good
management, appropriate action is taken and supported by its controlling counterpart. This is
illustrated in the case of BKV and the Budapest Municipality which managed to reduce
subsidies despite difficult economic situation. BKV management took aggressive approach to
keep fares in line with inflation, reduce fleet and operating costs which resulted in improved
cost recovery (para. 4.27);
(b)    political constraints and lack of aggressive management in the case of MAV resulted in a
failure to maintain tariffs in real terms and reduce costs in line with decrease in traffic,
necessitating substantial increase in subsidies (paras. 4.25-4.26 and 4.32);
(c)    HC had monopoly for international trucking transport in the 1980s and was highly profitable.
Deregulation and increased competition led to a financial decline of HC, but also to better and
more competitive transport services for the Hungarian economy (para. 4.28);
(d)    a well orchestrated Transport Sector Action Plan can have a major impact on subsidies,
tariffs, environment, road user charges and technical assistance;
(e)   linking training to specific institutional objectives and related technical assistance has a
positive impact;
(f)   in case of rapidly changing economies as was the case in Hungary, provision should be made
for periodic adjustments of targets to reflect changing conditions; and



16
(g)   the Second Transport Project was a complex project with four major elements invoived. This
made it difficult for both the Bank and the Borrower to manage, and follow-up projects for
Roads and Urban Transport were therefore limited to only one element.



PART H: Statisdcal Anne=
Table 1: Summary of Asseusmem
A. Achievement of objectives           subgmanda       raSal       Neidsble  Not aplicable
()            ()            ()            ()
Macro policies                         O0                                        [O
Sector policies                        *             0             E             O
Financial objectives                   O             *             O             O
Institutional development              0             *             O             0
Physical objectives                    *             O             0             0
Poverty reduction                      0                          0 
Gender issues                          0             0             0             U
Other social objectives                0             *             E             0
Environmental objectives               *             E             O             Ol
Public sector management               O             *             O             O
Private sector development             0             *             O             O
B. Eiject suasnabUy                         y                Unlikely            Uncrtain
()                   ()                   ()
MAV                                    E                    *                    O
BKV                                    U                    0                    0
iC                                     *                    0                    0
Highways                               *                                        E
C. Bank performance                    satsfactzx           Safas n               Deficient
()                   ()                   ()
Identification                         0                    O                    o
Preparation assistance                 O                    *                    
Appraisal                              O                    *                    O
Supervision                            O                    *                    O
D. Borrower Rerformance                5atisfactorvxx                             Deficiet
()                   ()                   ()
Preparation                            0                    *                    O
Implementation                         0                    *                    E
Covenant compliance                    0                    0 O
Opwation                               0                    U                    E
Hidhy
E.                                     aa  v                 Srv                  Deficient
()                   ()                   ()
MAV                                    0                    0 O
BKV                                    0                    E                    0
HC                                     0                                        0
Highways                               0                    *                    0



Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan No.             Purpose                                     Year of approval  Status
Preceding operations
1. 2557-HU           First Transport Project.                         1985       Completed
Alleviate critical problems affecting
international/national transport activity, in
particular, physical constraints in
infrastructure, equipment, vehicles and related
maintenance.
FoUowing operadions
1. 3549-HU           Roads Project.                                   1993       Ongoing
Road and bridge rehabilitation, purchase of
road maintenance equipment and carrying out
of annual road safety programs.
2. 3193-HU           Budapest Urban Transport.                        1995        Ongoing
Replacement of worn-out buses with low-
polluting and energy-efficient substitutes,
purchase of maintenance equipment,
rehabilitation of wornout tramway tracks,
technical asistance and training.



Table 3: Prdject Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle             Date planned    latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)
Preparation                                  May 1986           May 1986
Appraisal                                    May 1988           May 1988
Negotiations                                  Febnrary 1989    February 1989
Board presentation                                              March 1989
Signing                                                         July 1989
Effectiveness                                 May 1989          October 1989k
Project completion                           June 1995          June 1995
LAn Closing                                  June 1995          June 1995
1/    Time lag between project appraisal and loan effectiveness resulted from delays in reahing
agreements between the Govenment and each of the participat  entities on the timing and
extent of budget allocations for transport subsidies and the level of tariff increaes for the coming
years. Four entities participated in the Second Trnsport Project: the Hungarian State Railways,
the Budapet Transport Company, the Hungarocion International Freight Company, and the
Road Component which was managed by the Ministry of Transport, Comication and Water
Management.



Table 4: Lean/Credi Disbursemts: Cumulative EAthnated and Actul
(US$ miMons)
FY90    FY91  FY92         PY93      FY94       FY95       FY96
Appal etmate                           21.20    46.70  67.30      84.50      95.00     95.00      95.00
Actual                                 13.76    19.80  37.93      57.21      77.72     91.11      95.0
Actual as % of esainate                65       42     56         68         82        96         100
Do* of final diurmnt Jamary 22, 1996



Table 5: Key Injicators for Project hnpkmentatio
A: Railways (MAV)W
UNIT               1990           12                                       1994
Plne_cta                 iied    Acua   Plamd    ActucPkned   ctul_
1.  OpoWl  Taret
1.  kHng Power Dhigbution in Gross Km:
- Ebctrir Tractiw                                         68        70       69        72       70        73       70       73
- Dicl Traction                                           32        30       31        28       30        27       30       27
Utilization of Traction
2. Aveage Daily Performance of Available
Enaines:                               km/day
a.      Pasger Traffic
Eketrk Lonomdivs               km/day            530      502      540       511      555       505      555      505
Disd Locoatiwvs                km/day           327       310      320       306      315       296      315      303
b.      Fright Taffic
Electric loWtivcs              km/day           360       348      364       393      367       3S7      367      383
Diega LcoInotivcs              km/day            197      18S      200       190      200       1S1      200      186
3. AvabitW
Elcui Lecomots                     S                 32      24.6       t3      73.9       34      75.3       34      75.9
DisslLOMMAdvas                                             s 30   32.0       *1      77.4        32     72.4       32      70.0
4. Uhizaic of Rollin  w Sock  
P ssege -                                                                    38      34.1       40      33.7       40     36.1
Availability   coaches /                                                     90      71.0       91      70.0       91    68.8
Net-ton-km per I ton of cacity                                              9.7       9.8      9.8       9.1      9.8      9.3
Availability I wagons /                                                      89     70.2        91     59.2        91     550
Tum-around time of wagons                                                  4.15      4.95      4.0      5.26      4.0    5.03
S. Staff Productivity - Operational       | TU/empl.-        347      289       348      307       350      311       350     320
flfl_                   93   1109.0        92    110.9        91    92.1
' MAV did not fullfil its opqtional trgets measured in TU mainly due to econonic slowdown resulting in traffic decline of 58%. Some cost reduction
measures sucb as staff reduction of about 25,000 employees or 43% during the period 1990-94 were not sufficient to compensate for loss in traffic.
Tho reduction in the availability of traction units and rolling stock resulted from the fall in traffic and the cocooning of excess units which were no
longer required.
Page I of 3



Table 5: Key Imiieaton. for PNoject      -m ttio
B: H.ung.rocunio  (HC)
UMT         1                199               12                 1                  1"4
Aoal Pknned  Acuda  Pann   Acta  Panned A_   Pand A__                        _
I.      ODeaoa  agt
1.      Vehico anatel           OOOknu/mi         90.9      94.6     94.0      99.5      93.0    103.0       92.0      103     90.3
itilimtion (intenational
2.      Dead mfiogeu            %                   24        20       33        20        10        20       23        20       23
3.      Avemaec btucport        km               1,409     1,450     1,615    1,470     1,775     1,480     1,819     1,480    1,680
4.      Time needed to          days               3.9       3.9       4.2      3.8       4.6       3.8       4.7       3.8      5.0
oompk*e avera
-tspr dxtanos__                                                        _                                   
5.      Revenue per              Aknm             35.0      37.0       75      39.0        45      40.0       29      40.0       32
productiv*  kiIn__
6.      Stff producLivity per   NTKM/aenpl       378.5       385      381       395       336       405       358      405      403
E 1    yaee                                _     _      _
II.     Fmaji1~al u
1.      Operating Ratio         %                 78.3      81.0     91.1      80.0      94.8      80.0      98.6     95.0   102.7"
2.      Rate on return on net                     39.5      22.0      28.2     22.0       9.3      22.0       2.4      22.0      2.4
fixed ass  in
oPeration"
u       Dead nmiea  is equivalent to 100% mninue peroentage of revenue earning mileage to total mikage.
2v      Based on fixed prices (1987).
Decreae fram 1967 due to introduction of VAT and inoome taxes introduced in 1988, and fitber decra  in 1992 and 1993 due to lare inrea  in capital
expendione compard to 1990. Tbe Bank revised the orinl finanil oovenant; a rate of return on net fixed asets of 22% Project Agrement, Section 4.02) to
one opyating ratio of not higher than 95% for 1994 onwards.
Page 2 of 3



Table 5: Key Indicaort for Project Impl t
C: Budapest Transport Compmny (BKV)
UNf .   1917            19.                   1                  193                1994
________   ~AcUal  Planned    Actua   Planned    Actua   Planned    Actual  Plannd   Actual
I. Oprationa Tarods
1.  Average number of pasenger4an    pkm/veh.
per operting vehicles per day:
a)  Tram                                         1,770     1,770    1,791     1,770    1,751     I,770     1,620    1,770    1,676
b)  Bwu                                          1,515     I,530    1,667     1,535    1,528     1,540     1,486    1,540    1,629
c)  Undergound                                   3,715    3,750    3,316      3,760    2,930    3,800      2,778    3,800    2,817
2. Non-avaiabilkty of vehicles:
a)  Tram                                           7.0      6.5      13.0       6.3     13.9       6.3       9.4      6.3      4.9
b)  Bus                                            9.4      8.7       8.1       8.5      6.2       8.5       6.5      6.5      5.7
o)  Underground                                    I5        1.5     14.1       1.5     11.1       1.5      10.9      1.5     11.0
3.  Staff ProductvikyU              pkm/empl.         378       340       313      337       301       338      310       338      328
n. Ej.maLarga
1. Totd Opeaing comb per PKM        PJpinm            1.42     1.46      1.28      1.47     1.26      1.47      1.09     1.47     1.10
2.  Opewraing ratio3                                  96.1      93       96.6       98      99.5        98     101.0       98    103.2
1917 driven bhve had 40-30 hn. of ovatime per month. According to the ILO's recommendations, overime should be reduoed up to 22 hour. per month; this wi1l
increaso the nunber of staff and will also affct staff productivity in the short run.
Fmnj. tagss are bad on contant 1987 prices.
v      a Inc  so  1917 due to VAT and income ta  in 1988.
Pap 3 of 3



Table 7: Studies Iclded in Project
Study             Purpose as defined at appraisal    Status          Impact of Study
1.  River Port and River      Assist the Government in       Completed          Prepared feasibility studies and
Transport Study (MTCC)   defining a program for                             engineering designs for future
development and modenization                     rehabilitation of the existing
of Hungary's nver transport                      facilities.
system in the years 1990-2000.
2.  Railway Costing Study     Formulate a uiiform costing     Completed          MAV has made satisfactory
(MAV)                    system for effective cost control                 progress in development and
and pricing policy.                               implemetation of its costing
system.
3.  Management and             Develop low-cost methods for    Completed         Progress has been made in cost
Organizaion Improvement  increasing operational efficiency                  savings (reduction of staff and
Study (BKV)              and competitiveness                                replacement of fleet). BKV
reorganization began in 1992,
and is continuing.



Table 8k Project Coaft
Appraisal estimate (US$M)   Actual/latest estimate (US$MA)
DroIed Components                                     Local   Foreign     Total    Local  Foreign      Total
qW)I y(MAV) Coir,"_e
Tranpot Managwemnt InformaHon System (TMIS)            20.0      9.9       29.9     39.3     19.5       58.8
Recycingpiantsforusedrailsandswitches                 11.6       8.2      19.8      6.2       3.0       9.2
Trck nalritenancoe and constrlon of machines            2.4      6.5        8.9      2.2      4.6        6.8
Training and Technical Assistancoe                      0.4      0.4        0.8      -        1.1        1.1
3ase Cost                                             34.4      25.0      59.4
Zotingendes                                            4.3       3.1        7.4
Total Cost - Railway                                   38.7     28.1       68.8     47.7     28.1       75.8
4fwigaIcamnI  Conyient
3evekopment of Integrated Computerised System (ICIS) and
Handlng equipment frtransdistribution stores           9.6      8.0       15.6      6.1      6.0      12.1
TrmIning                                                0.1      0.1        0.2      -        0.1        0.1
3ase Cost                                              9.7       6.1      15.8
Zontlngencies                                          1.4       0.7        2.1
Total Cost- Hungarocamion                              11.1      6.8       17.9      6.1      6.1       12.2
Page 1 of 3



Table 8A: Project Cost
Appraisal estimate (US$M)   ActualAatest estimate (US$L)
ct ComnponeS                                    Local   Foreign      Total    Local  Foreign     Total
WWorks -  -O Conhtrucion                          37.6     18.2       55.8     83.9     24.9      108.8
oad Maintenance EquIpmern                              1.5       6.5       8.0      0.8      5.7        6.5
Rord  _wft and surface t_eabnent                  48.4      25.0      71.4    45.7      25.0       70.7
rilinhg and Technical Assistance                       0.5       0.6       1.1      0.1      1.2        1.3
B  cost                                          88.0       50.3     136.3
C    owendes                                        10.2       6.3      16.5
rOs Cost - Hlway                              X  96.2       56.6     152.8    130.5      56.8     187.3
controlRd sy stem                                 7.8       2.7      10.5      5.3      3.9        9.2
rrsnhg and Technilcal AsWsbbr                    0.2      0.3        0.5      -        0.1       0.1
Bcost                                              8.0       3.0      11.0
'Ing                                           1.0       0.5       1.5
r_Cost - S__V                                           9.0      3.5       12.5      5.3      4.0        9.3
osI Coot                                        138.1      84.4     222.5
16.9     10.6       27.5
rOb Precl Cost                                   155.0      95.0     250.0    189.6      95.0     284.6
Page 2 of 3



Tabb 81B: Project Financing
Sources    _________________________ Appraisal estimate (US$M)                    ActualAatest estimate (US$)
IBRD
1. Railways                                                   28.1                         28.1
2. Highways                                                   56.6                         56.8
3. Hungarocamion                                               6.8                          6.1
4. BKV                                                         3.5                          4.0
ota IBRD Flnancing                                               95.0                          95.0
Domestic ContribuUon
1. Railways                                                  38.7                          47.7
2. Hungarocamion                                             11.1                           8.1
3. BKV                                                        9.0                           5.3
4. Govemment - Highways                                      96.2                         130.5
@6.1 Domeetc Financing                                          155.0                         189.6
@6.1 Project Financing                                          250.0                         284.6
Page 3 of 3



Table 9: Reltlimated and Appraisal Ecnomic Rat. of Return
Project Component                  Ap      lERR      Rmnated ERR
_ _ _ _ _ _)_ Pern  Uwomt)
Roads:              MO Motorway                        IS                 18
Pavemnt Strengthening             30                  33
Mantenance Equipment              20                  33
Rail:               ThuS                               22                  17
Rail Recyding Plant               16          unecommic due to
current low level
of maintenance
resulting from
shortage of funds
Track Mint. Equipment             18          unecononic due to
current low level
of maintenance
resulting from
shortage of funds
BKV:                AVM System                         16                 17
X        _.garoain:  ICIS System                       22                 17



Te 10: Sld Of Lqeg Coene
Loan                     Coyenu                  Fti
Number Ted Rh            Cio)            SwuD D                 D           of Cwnewt                            Comerts
OAN 3032-HU        LA 3(a)                         10       C                      P.Wp   nd furrisht1wBr* b12031ofeahyear          Theroadstrangtherftprograrws compe  on
hS1   wkh lhe progra. for rod oha               tm.
h od surmoac truarim wat    to be cd
out drwt the nod ye.
LA. 3.0(b)                     10        CD        12/318a      Wile a du*dy br h id    _        (PutA(5) of     The Rwer Pout end Rber Tranport oudy w_
ni projert) by 12)31M9 a  mie R by 6dM9.        complied   nrswd by 1wk
LA 3.04                        10        CD         G3rW       Acquir  w ld  nd r     hi pet of ld re-           Land aoqLon   c        .
quied hr th M-O Morw.
LA.4.01(b)                      1        C                     HowaooualwihreapttoPutA  of t  pro-             AudlrepousforFY1994r       d.
ct and 1  Speca   Aoowut auwid & th report
fumh wd to 1w Batk
LA. 4.ab)                      5,9       C                     Fuanihb to 1w Bun by 5131 of ech y  a report      The rpt hr 1994 hm ben mod   nd
on rw pu_prgrea ahIe hinheesila ofthe            dleouad wlh 1w Borranr.
Trpot Secbr Pla.
PA (HC) 304                    1,5       CD                    HC il  develop by 12)31M  ad hInpem  by           The PC-bead  coig wn   e bem n moid hi
12r31AQ2 a obead prc_   im.                      aooordamo- wrwh HC'e clangd o_gEln mid is
PA (HC) 4.01(b)                 1        C                     HC lo he 1eoowt & l1o        xnb d                FY 1994 udl repost ha ban    ld wh no
and 1w report fundshd  to 1w Bwl                 reeeulbe,
PA (HC) 4.02a)                  1        NC                    HC ehi echm an iepa       ro no i gdi             1904reauteehwoaerin opin  redo of1a27%.
ie 95%f hr 1994  rrde.                           The cownwt ve not met rrhi  beaue of a
dchi hin    c and an'      I hn pr neouw
hr bed debto
PA (MV) 202tb)                 1,5       CD        12)311M      MAV to' ill - a n*W ooeln dudy (Pwt D(5)         The  toa   Mudy ha ben   ipd   d MoAV is
of 1w promect) by 12/318,  mplie Ik by           n d   slfato  poI p mg    hinr   lo to
12131M0 wd  hiqftamrt   coii eyif lby            oorlnuhigdmlodbpnntdhMvw -wm        ofms
12131M1.                                         coansgyiem.
PopI of 2



Ta   10: Sl o Legal Ccenanb
Original
Lam                      Coveat                  Fulil
A1mwnut             NuffNmr Ted Rferene      Cb     )        Sbs  Deb Da" moir Co aCwt Comm
LOAN 3032-HU        PA. AV) 3.01 (b)                5,9        CP                    MAV to prapm each yew'a prgree report on lie       MAya rearuobAg audy   m oplied. The
Irnpleamelon of le Dalopmnnt Striugy,               poeF   for rebucUlngb un w  reviw by lie
connng 1990.                                      G o      t
PA. (MA) 4.3(9)                  1        C                      MAV to hew acourt en    Ial tEm         aud-      Theauditedreportfor FY1994  e eewe.
lbd and the port eabed to li Buik
PA. ("AV) 4.02()                 2        NC                     MAVto minh an        Hgrio not hher lin           Operatg reo hr 1994 ws 92%, a shortfl dof
95% fhr facel yr 1990,94% for 1991, 93% for       1%. Covernat not medue to a ii hI tiuff
1992, 92% for 1993, 91% for 1994  owde.           bvee hI prvou  ywrs end fae to tout
btrms for hiflon hI 1994.
PA. (BKV) 2.02(b)                5        CD        1231190      BKV to  nbie a mngear  & organition hro-          The stdy hs been comple  and th fi  report.
wrent astudy by 12/31/89, ompllske t by 12f31/90,  together wth the Action Plan, wacceptd by the
& hplem     remmendations within 6 mont  Of       Hungarian authores. BKVs resructuin
the compltion of the tudy.                        proe, whkch be n h 19   s o rn*.
PA. (BKV) 4.0(b)                 1        CP                     BKV to he  accout & financial ste      udl-       Audi report for 1994 reced. Auditor h
ad and the report aubmnitld to th Bbnk            r     _eval    on   wlue dof fbd _seet.
Audios wl cwny out en hIterlm rview of BKVs
accour In Octobr 1995 tbon      a cdanxmt
for 1995.
PA. (BKV) 4.02(a)                2        NC                     BKV to n      *ktai a rsio of tol operating       BKVs opet  ro for 1994 we 103%. The
uqene ttotatml oering  eve       not higher       covet wen not met  to faDlure to hcra
thn 98%.                                          triff hI 1994 h Ikie wit hifliton.
C  -Cm ed wkh
CD  - Compilice fter Deay
NC - Not Corplbd wh
SOON - Complence E cd in Reore   Short Time
CP - Cmed wih Pu*y
NYD - Not Yt Due
Page 2 of 2



Table 11: Complince with Opwaional Manual Statements
No issues of lack of compliance with Bank Operaonal Mnul Statmn  came to light
during the implementation of the Project.



Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                     Acual1
Stage of Project Cycle         Weeks          US$          Weelk           USS
Through Appraisal                   n.a           n.a.        156.7           n.a.
Appraisal - Board                   n.a.          n.a.         25.5           n.a.
Board - Effectiveness               n.a.          n.a.          n.a           n.a.
Supervision                         n.a.          n.a.        178.5           n.a.
Conpletion                         19.2           n.a.         14.3           n.a.
Total                                                         375.0        1072.1
1/    Source: Budget Accounting System (BAS)
XI    Dollar budgeting was only introduced in FY94



Table 13: Be&Rlmurm: Misam
Pefl          Ratig
Number                 SPeadulkd  ~ iwlm.              evlp
9tp of                                  Of          Daysmn  Di ffam          "_F                           Type of
Projet Cycle            MonthiYear       Pegn        Fidd       Iep    u       St                  q;m Pbum
Through Appnria         Marh 199         6           35         ENG(3)FCS,    I                I
Appraisl - Board        June 1989        4           10         EC,PA          1               I
Board - Effectivenu                      -
Supevi                  June 1990        5           25         ENM2),C         I              I
PA,CS
October 1990    3           13          ENPA   EC      1              2            F,T
FA
June 1991       4           12          ENA   BC      1              2            P
PA
July 1991       4           13          ENG,EC,PA    1                2            P
Decenber 1991   3           17          ENG,ECPA    1                 2            F
June 1992       5           1           INO2)BC,    1                 2            F,T
FA,OA
'Febsuay 1993    2          5           ENOPA          1              2            PIT
June 1993       4          .12          ENO(2),        1              3            F,M
PA,OA
June 1994       4           16          ENUPBC,        S              S            PM
PA,LA
November 1994   6           10          ENO(3),        S              S            F,T,M
FA,CS,OA
May 1995         I          5           ENO            U              S            P,T
Septmber 1995   3           3          DNI,PA,CS    U                 S            P,T
Coalpctibo              Sq*eibe 1995   2             2          ENF,PA         U              S             P
ENG   Enginee                    1    PrMan Pm                    p F    pinenal
EC     Beonemin                  2    ModmU. Pnobdm               m      Mmpuzu
PA    Pimeja Anays               3    M%jor Problem               T     T.oluied1
OA   Opmniom Aa.lys              S    S_ikaq
Cs    CoWAr Speoa                U    Unaatay
RA   Risesrb Assimt



Table 14: Tariff Increase
A: BKV Passnger Tariff Increases
Yeer               Month               Tariff Increase
1987
1988
1989
1990           February 1                  85%
1991             March 1                   50%
1992            January 1                  35%
1993               July 1                  23%
1994                                       0%
1995             March 1                   33%
B: MAV Pasnger and Freght Tariff Increase
Passenger                 Freight
Year                        Domestic 11 Internatonal 21  Domestic  Exportflmport
1987                                                         10%          11%
1988                                           50%            7%           8%
1989                              30%           0%           20%          20%
1990                              20%          20%           30%          32%
1991                              80%           0%           46%          80%
1992                              25%           0%           20%           8%
1993                              13%          20%           13%          10%
1994                               0%           0%           20%           0%
1995                              20%          10%           30%           0%
1/       February 1
21       May 1
C: MAV Oporatng Revenue Per Traffm  UnKt
1994 Prices        1990          1901         1992         1993     1994
HUF-
Owarino RnAus Per Unit
RevenuwPwrPassngrKm                            1.69          2.30         2.14         1.96     1.69
Rnwu Pe Freight Ton Km                         6.24          8.61         7.20         5.75     4.78
Revenue Per Traflc Unit                        4.39          5.74         4.77         3.73     3.16
IndeK of Revnnut
Revenu PerPassengerKm                           100          136           127         115       100
Rnvnu PwrFreIghtKm                              100           138          115          92        77
RenuePer TrafficUnkt                            100          131           109          82        72
No:      Inflation as m"sured by tho CPI was 17% In 1969, 29% In 190, 35% In 1991, 23% In 1902,



HUNGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT - LOAN 3032-HU
AIDE - MEMOIRE
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT
BUDST, SEPTEMBR 14, 1995



1.   A World Bank mission comprising Svetislav Orli (Task Manager), Friedrich
Konigshofer, and Njeri Muhoho visited Hungary during the period September 4 to
14, 1995 to supervise and initiate works on the preparing of the Implementation
Completion Report.
2.   In accordance with the Terms of References dated August 15, 1995, the
mission, in addition to the final supervision of the Second Transport Project - Loan
3032-HU, explained the Bank Implementation Completion Reporting Guidelines and
discussed, and supported National Bank of Hungary (NBH), Ministry of Transport,
Communications and Water Management (MTCWM) - as Borrower and all
implementing agencies, Hungarian State Railways (MAV), Road Organization
(UKIG), Hungarocamion (HC), Budapest Transport Company (BKV) and UTIBER
- government coordination agency, in preparing its own contribution to the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
3.   The mission familiarized the Hungarian side with the content and processing
of the ICR; pointing out the parts prepared by them; the Borrower's evaluation
report on the project's execution and initial operation, costs and benefits, the Bank
and Borrower's performance of their obligations under the Loan Agreement and
extent to which purposes of the Loan were achieved.
4.   In addition to these, mission and NBH, MTCWM and agencies agreed to
pre    the following tables:
(a)   Key Indicators for Project Operation - Table 6 (a, b, c, d)
(b)   Studies included in Project - Table 7
(c)   Project Costs - Table 8(A)
(d)   Project Financing - Table 8(B)
(e)   Direct Benefits - Table 9(A)
(f)   Economic Impact - Table 9(B)
(g)   Financial Impact - Table 9(C)
In addition to these tables, the agencies will provide additional financial data for
1987-1995 period on; (i) Income Statement (ii) Balance Sheet and (iii) Cash Flow
Statement.
2



5.   A summary of this report should be ten pages or less and other parts if any,
will be annexed. It was agreed that agencies will prepare their part by mid October.
1295 and MTCWM and UTIBER together with NBH will prepare a summary by
November 1, 1995 and send to the Bank for further processing.
6.   Latest by the end of November 1995, the Bank will transmit draft ICR to the
borrower for comments. The Gray Cover ICR with clearances, including the
comments received, will be completed by the mid December 1995.
7.   The mission provided the borrower with the Operational Policies and Bank
Procedures - Implementation Completion Reporting (OP. 13.55 of April 1995).
8.   Preliminary assessment of the Borrower
The project was started immediately after the signature of the loan agreement
in July, 1989 and completed on time (as June 30, 1995) and basically reached its
objectives. The components represented four rather different areas of the tansport
sector. This way different conditions had to be taken into consideration during the
implementation both by the Bank and the representatives of the Borrower
(MTCWM) regarding the individual components.
Since 1989 significant changes occured both in the political and the
economial environment in Hungary. The function of the state changed and in the
business activities this resulted in the strengthening of the market oriented
behaviour. The World Bank recommended these changes - of course within the
assumed forseeable framework of the 80s - in certain areas even during the
preparatory phase of the loan. In case of Hungarocamion (HC) a detailed study was
prepared to assess and forecast the future of the transportation area. The changes
were in harmony with those recommended by the Bank.
During the implementation the Bank requested a strict discipline regarding
the preparations, implementation and disbursement procedures of the individual
project elements. This resulted in a weli trained staff. The Bank's requirements
could have been applied fully or partly in some other procurements or constructions
in certain cases as well. The Borrower appreciated the Bank's assistance to help the
Hungarian counterparts to find solutions on issues indirectly connected to the
3



successful implementation of the program. Especially in the area of the railway
sector this assistance was really significant. Regarding the effects of the economical
changes the Bank often accepted the requests for a new approach in evaluating the
economical environment of the project elements and was ready to approve certain
modifications in the initially described expectations for the performance. In the
cases of MAV and HC however there were certain delays in the implementation due
to the Bank's reluctance to accept some economically unfavourable results and in
case of these component even the procurements were suspended for about one year
until the business plan of MAV and HC's Action Plan had been adopted.
The Borrower notes that this project provided the first opportunity for EU
PHARE to assist Hungary to develop its infrastructure by taking over the financing
of the three studies defined in the loan agreement. The funds originally allocated for
the studies could this way be utilized for a better performance of the existing
components. The project assisted the Hungarians to complete the second part of the
MO by-pass (the first section was constructed with the assistance of the Bank within
the First Transport Project) and it was put into operation on time. As a result, the
number of heavy vehicles passing through Budapest have been reduced significaly.
This was the first project where EBRD acted as a co-financing partner of the World
Bank (supporting the local component) in the transport sector in Hungary.
Many new ideas have been presented by the Bank regarding further
developments and policy questions both in the road and the railway sectors.
The Bank's experts actively took part in the preparation of MAV's
restructuring and the relevant governmental decrees including the Bank's
recommendations.
A detailed assessment of the whole project's performance will be done in the
Implementation Completion Report.
4



Appendlx I
Borrower's Evakaou Summary



MTCWM DEVZLOPMENT DEPARTMENT / UTIBER
IMPLEMENTATION
C-OMPLETION REPORT
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
HUNGARY
(LOAN 3032-HIU)
OCTOBER 30, 1995



LIST OF CONTENT
Page
INTRODUCTION                                  ...............................................      1
A. ROAD  COMPONENT ................................................3
A. I Construction of Expressway MO  ................................................ 3
A.2 Pavement Strengthening ................................................4
A.3 Procurement of road maintenance equipment .....................................5
A.4 Technical Assistance ................................................S
B. BKV COM1PONENT .................                               .......  .               . 6
Assessment of implementation. Aim  of the project and its realization ....... 6
B.A  Component: AVM  System  ....................                   ............................6
B.B  Component: Road Traffic Control System .........................................6
B.C  Component: Development of Power Transformation ..............                       ...........7
B.D  Component: Training, Education Program  ........................................              7
General Evaluation ................................................7
C. HIUNGAROCAICON COMPONENT. .. .                                                    ........8
C. 1.A. Integrated Computer Infonnation System   ....................................8
C. I.B. Collecting Forwarding Unit ...................................8
C. 1.C. CID  Project ..................................8
C.2 Technical Assistance ...................................9
Evaluation of the Company's Output ..................................9
D. MAV COMPONENT .......................... .                            . ......                 10
D. 1 Transport Control System  (TMIS) .............                       ..................... 10
D.2 Procurement of Track Maintenance equipment .................................. 10
D.3 Rail Renewal Plant ...................................11
D.4 Technical Assistance ................................... 11



ANNEXES
A. I Follow-up Efficiency Analysis of MO Expressway Section I/A
A.2  List of Equipment Procured Under Cat 1C
D. 1 Implementation of the TMIS
D.2  List of the Track Maintenance Machines Procured by MAV
D.3  Utilization of Truck Construction Machines
TABLES
6.   Key Indicators for Project Operation
6.A MAV Component
6.B BKV Component
6.C Hungarocamion Component
6.D Road Component
7.   Studies Included in Project
8.A   Project Costs
8.B   Project Financing
9.A   Direct Benefits
9.B   Economic Impacts
9.C   Financial Impacts
APPENDICES
Appendix 1: Financial Tables of BKV
Appendix 2: Financial Tables of HC
Appendix 3: Income Statement of MAV
Appendix 4: Road Component - Maximum Acceptable Traffic Volumes
Appendix 5: Road Component - Data on Road Network
Appendix 6: Road Component - Highway Expenditure Plan



INTRODUCTION
Since the project appraisal camed out in 1988/89 basic changes occurred in Hungary both in the sense of
politics and society as well as economy all of which pointed to the same direction of changes as the one having
taken place in the Central-Eastern European region. These changes had a significant effect on the firms
participating in the Project and also on its implementaion.
In the political field essential movement occurred from the one-party the so-called people's danocratic social
system towards the pluralistic parliamentarv democracv while accordingly in the economic field: instead of the
socialistic type planned economy towards the free market one. The function of the state has been basically
modified. The domination of the state and clear ownership ceased and the strengthening of the private ovnership
became, by means of the privatisation of state properies and the ranoval of limitations of the private
enterprises, the stated strategy of the economic policy.
The economic processes have been essentially influenced by the dissolution of the CMEA which provided the
primary framework for the economic cooperation of the region and the new forms of economic links have
developed gradually based on the market mechanisms. The strong orientation towards and dependency on the
one-tme Soviet Union of the national economies of the region were replaced genemaly by a demand of approach
towards the advanced countries and their integration organisations, within tbem especially to the European
Union. Our trade with the former CMEA countries has gray decreased both from the aspects of value and
volume as well as its composition has been significantly modified The decrease of traffic which has been
particularly great as far as the large volume traffic demanding goods were concerned, significantly affected the
performance of highway and railroad transportion companmes.
The regular problems caused by the economic transition have been aggravated by the fact that all these have
taken place under the conditions of a slow-down penod of the world economy.
Among the enal factors affecting the Hungaran ecnomy the wartine conditions prevailing among the
successor states of the former Yugoslavia and within them soultd be mentioned with particular importance. Tbe
war raging near the Hungarian border meant not only the loss of a safe and signifcant market of Hungarian
products but also resulted in the discouaging foreign investors, the legthemng of transit routes of our export
goods to the East and the alteration of Hungary's transit role for freights and passenger.
The war and the iternational embargo ordered as a coansquc resulted in a decrease of the transt demand
towards the successor states of former Yugoslavia to its fraction. Also considerably decreased the transit traffic
towards South-Eastern Europe or the Middle East previously passing thrugh both countnes which was, in part,
relocated to other routes or found other modes (e.g. Mediteranean shipping). On the other hand, the summuner
highway transit of Turkish migrant workers employed in Germany greatly increased: they used to avoid
Hungary before the war to pass through Yugoslavia. Now this transit means a seasonal load of extreme strain
on the Hungarian road networlc
The years of transition have also been chacteizd by grat and ever increasing problems with the central
budget. On the expenditure side the heavy burden of debt services, while on the revenue side the reduced remnue
producing capacity of the economy have been noticeable. The budens on the expenditure side are aggravated bv
the demand of capital for infrastructure resulting from the previous unsatisfactory developments which have
been unable to meet the requirements of transport demands generated by the economic structure. The inherited
underdeveloped infrastructure netwvork has been unable to mect even the minimum conditions of the country to
join Europe. In order to reduce the role of the state and the great budgetary deficit the consumers price support
was decreased and later (with a few exceptions) wholly terminated All price supports connected to the highway
and railway freight transportations were terminated, too, while these subsidies remained for the passenger
transportation (in a greater rate for railways and in a lesser one for the highways).
Due to the liberalization of import, the foreign investments appearing in Hungary in an ever increasing number
and the rapid spreading of private enterprises, the number of participants of the competitive market considerablv
increased in the field of highway freight transportation and also in certain segments of passenger transportation.
The internal market decrease resulting from the high inflation and reduced real wvages cut dowvn the selling
possibilities of companies established for the old economnic structure. A significant part of the large state
companies lost their markets and were dissolved, or reorganized financially and prmatized which has been
facilitated by the wish of the government to put the state companies into private hands.



Domestic resources are insufficient to cover the capital cost of structural changes needed for the transition to
nev markets and to develop the infrastructure which is inadequate both in quality and quantity and almost
preventing the development of the economy. Hence the involvement of foreign capital both m the form of loans
and working capital is indispensable for this purpose. To attract foreign capital into the country, preferably as
workcing capital, has been an outstanding aim of the governments in power. Mainly in the fields of highway and
railway transportation significant development projects have been implemented with the support of international
fuincial or grant institutions (IBRD, EIB, EBRD, PHARE, etc) or from intergovernmental credits but in some
fields (e.g. road and bridge constructions in concession) even the attempts to involve private capital were
successful.
The economic political steps aiming to manage with the problems of transition set as goal in the mid-term to
facilitate the change of ownership, the reaching an equilibrium in the outside and inside economies. the
establishing an enterprise-friendly environment and the founding of a long-term economic growth.
Some steps were taken even before 1989 to prepare for the market conditions by the modermization of the price
policy, the implementation of the two-level banking-system, the gradual introduction of the free enterprise and
the taxation reform. Since 1990 the government has been supporting privatisation by soft loans and by
providing the legal and institutional conditions for the inflow of foreign capital.
On the financial side extremely severe budgetary expenditure and demand restriction has been exercised to stop
the high inflation which greatly spoiled the calculability for enterprises thus discouraging foreign capital. The
continuous and announced devaluation of the Hungarian Forint (to avoid its revaluation in real terms by
considering the inflation) and the planned modifications in the currency policy contribute to keeping the export
profitability and the restrain of the import. These measures constitute a significant step.towards convertibility.
The Second Transport Project provided a significant help to Hungary in this transition period in the field of the
development of transportation infrastructure and, to some extent, in its restructuring.
Proect implementation conmmenced immediately after the signing of the Loan Agreement in June, 1989 and was
completed by the closing date. The Project reached the essential aims. The components represented four
particularly different fields of transportation thus as the Bank as the Borrower (MTCWM) had to consider
different conditions during the implementation relative to the different components due to the above described
riacro-economic developments.
The Bank stipulated strict rules for the implementation process of the Project, the preparation of each project
elements, the procedure of implementation and disbursement which could be used partly or wholly for other
procurement or construction operations.
Implementation of the project thus brought about the enhancing of expertise every organization concerned with
the project. Experiences gained from bidding, for example, have been applied in the preparation of the Public
Procurement Act approved in 1995.
The Bank provided many new suggestions concerning the problems of continued developments and sectorial
policv in the aspects of both highway and railway sectors.
Related to the effects of economic changes, the Bank frequently accepted and applied a new approach to the
assessment of the altered economic environment of the project elements and they were readv to accept certain
modifications as against the original stipulations.
This project offered the first opportunity for PHARE to participate in Hunganan infrastructure developments by
taking over the financing of three studies prescribed in the Loan Agreement. One of the present Project's
components (construction of the MO expressway) was the first Hungarian project in the transportation sector the
EBRD participated as co-financing partner in (bv providing the local resources). The pavement strengthening
program gave outstanding assistance to the systematic rehabilitation of the existing elements of the Hungarian
road network and set a precedent for the implementation of further similar programs supported also by other
intenational financial institutions.



A. ROAD COMPONENT
A.1. Construction of expressway MO
The section of expressway MO included in the Second Transport Project (about 13.8 km between trunkroad
No.6 and motorways MI-M7) is the second construction lot of the beltway planned to by-pass Budapest (the
entire ring would be about 90 kan long). On the first stretch from Sta 13.8 to 28.1 two major bndges and five
inportant interchanges are located which were contained in the Bank's First Transport Project (Loan 2557-HU).
In the lack of a by-pass the streets and particularlv the Danube bridges were congested in the down-town area
causing serious environment pollution. The remedv of this situation was the main goal of the expresswav MO
construction. On the first sectuon a traffic increase of 50% was forecast for the completion of the second stretch.
Based on the traffic estimates for 1987 a traffic of 7000 to 12000 vehicle/day was calculated on the southern
section of the exprewssway after its completion so that about 20% of this traffic would consists of heavy trucks,
tractor-trailers, trucks and buses. The forecasts considered a traffic increase of 10% per year at the beginning
and in the following 20 years some 3-5 % a year. The quanbtative benefit contains mainly the savings resulting
from the avoided traffic jams and are composed in pail by the running costs of vehicles and in part the time
savings of business trips. The savings of running costs of vehicles realize some 40% of the entire benefit bv
neglecting the time-savng of the travellers. The rate of return resulting from the proposed investments was
calculated for about 15%.
The construction was completed in the planned form in October 1994 to the foreseen deadline. Deadline of the
supplementary works ordered later was May 31, 1995.
The Employer and the Contractors agreed in staged opening to traffic in order to reduce the serious environment
pollution caused by the road traffic in the downtown of Budapest as soon as possible. Deadline of the staged
opening to traffic was May 2, 1994 which ensured that the significant transit trafEic, mainly the heavy traffic
avoided the downtown of Budapest half a year earlier as planned.
During June-July 1994 the wearing course missing at the time of the staged opening to traffic vas completed
and in the months August and September the interchanges vere completed to their final state. Based on the
above the planned period from the handing over the Site (September 1, 1991) to the total completion of
construction (October 31, 1994) was 38 months but the actual opening to traffic occurrcd aLready six months
earlier.
The opeung to traffic of the entire southern section of expressway MO permitted the banishing of transit trucks
from the downtown of Budapest thus the population living along the routes used by the previous transit traffic
has beea relieved from considerable environment pollution. Experiences gained from the time of opening to
taffic justified the exptons, the traffic unnming on the new section is even greater than the forecast one. It
reached on Section I/A a value of 15.000 vehicle/day in 1995 containing 25% heavy traffic thus the value
coner%ted into PCU exceeded the 24,000 PCU/day value. The traffic increase is particularly significant on the
Section I/B after the opening the nev section to traffic. On the Danube bndge the traffic exceeded the 44,00(
PCU/day value in 1995.
Tbe Contractors were selected by ICB in accordance with the sfipulations of the Bank.
Following the detailed evaluation of bids the contract was given to the joint venture of three firms (Magyar
Aszfalt Kft, Betonutepit6 Nemzetkozi tplt6ipan Rt. and Hidepito Rt.) as prime contractor under the leadershup
of the Magyar Aszfalt Kit.
The component cost increased against the planned one by some 1.5 billion HUF based on 1991 prices (from 4.4
billion HUF to 5.9 billion HUF) due to several reasons (e.g. construction of unforeseen additional technical and
safety facilities, extra quantities, staged construction, etc.). The price difference from the prices of the year 1991
amounts to 5,653 million HUF thus the total construction cost is 11,586 billion HUF.
The inplemented expressway will meet the main aims with geat probability even in the future, that is to reduce
the transit traffic in downtown Budapest thus to improve the environment conditions.
Further increase of the trafric will require the development to a 2x3 lane motorway. It is planned to install an
up-to-date traffic control system to raise the level-of-service which will increase the efficiencv of expressway
MO bv connecting to the traffic control center of Budapest.
The implementation of the whole beltway is an important aim. The current task is to build the next section after
the southern one (the northem section).



Dunng the implementation of the contents covered by the Loan Agreement the cooperation with the Bank was
undisturbed and, m the realization of the component, the Bank assisted the program by helpful and quick actions
in every aspect. Suggestions made by the Bank's representatives provided great help in the increase of the level-
of-service of the Project.
Aims set by the Loan Agreement were basically correct and were inplemented. The traffic surveys camed out
in 1995 proved that the traffic utilized the newv road more than it was forecast thus its effect to relieve the
downtown area has been realized better. Accordingly, the transit, mainly long-distance, traffic decreased in
downtown Budapest which contributed to the reduction of the emission of environment polluting materials and
to the improvement of the capital's atmosphere and, at the same time, reducing the noise and vibration impact on
the environment. From this aspect the six month earlier opening to traffic should be regarded a significant result.
In spite of the higher construction costs partly resulting from the earlier opening to traffic the rate of return
calculated from the actual traffic data is more favourable (17.9%) than the estimated 15% and by taking into
account the time costs it is even better, reaching 23.1%. (Detailed efficiency calculation attached.)
Summarizing the above based on the achieved results the component can be generally classified as successful.
A2 Pavement Strengthening
The condition of the Hungarian road network had, due to the growing backlog in road maintenance, seriously
deteriorated by the mid-80s. Some 13,000 kIn of pavement required strengthening. On the other hand.
continuously growing demands were faced in road transport. Unsatisfactory road conditions resulted remarkable
losses for the entiretv of national economy. These factors all called for a comprehensive program of pavement
strngthening and repair to address these problems, which was given priority within the Government's strategy in
the sector.
The Government's intentions were also justified by the Bank's appraisal. Hence a component of road
strengthening was designed within the Second Transport Project In order to ease the shortage of available
funds, of the load proceeds USD 25 million was allocated to this purpose to cover 40% of the costs of the
approved prograwn.
Tbc program was designed to achieve, in a co-ordinated and cost effective mamier, the following specific
objectives: (i) to diminish the backlog in maintenance, (ii) to reduce vehicle operating costs, (iii) to reduce the
ext  of the damage to roads resulting from severe winters; and (iv) to prevent future needs for reconstruction
%xbich would multiply in the lack of sufficient maintenance.
OThe proposed list of facilities and schedule of work was submitted in a yearly breakdown to the Bank. For the
purpose of elaborating the yearly programs, the Road Directorate for Management and Coordination,
unrtang overall coordination for the strengthening program, collected and assessed, considering priorities
and returns, the proposals made by the Road Directorates. The scope of work comprised pavement
srengthening and, in certain cases, widening to complement routine maintenance by the Directorates. The
proposal for the subsequent yearly program was submited to the Bank each year by December 31.
The approved work was contracted out thrugh local competitive bidding. Competition, being a brand newv
element in this area, brought about undoubtedly positive results primarily through saving costs but also through
precise and normative specification of the expectations. A set of standard bidding documents was prepared for
the purpose of competition. The contmcts, in line with the outcome of evaluation and pursuant to approval by
the Bank, were executed by the successful bidders and the Road Directorates. The process of bidding, with the
Bank's valuable contribution, was continuously improved through the course of program implementation.
Total yearly efforts by the Road Directorates and the Motorway Directorate under the program were as followss:
Year         Total length of concerned          Total costs
sections          (at current prices, net of V. A.T.)
Ian                      HUF billion
1989                  265                          1.16
1990                  276                          1.33
1991                  235                          1.34
1992                  187                          0.96
Total                 963                          4.79
4



lmplementation of the Bank-supported maintenance program concentrated for the first years of project period
and was already completed in 1992. Of USD 25 million of loan proceeds allocated to this category, USD
24,994,778 was disbursed, the balance being re-allocated to an other category within road component.
The program can be evaluated as successful in respect of achieving the objectives. It contributed a lot to
diminishing the backlog of road maintenance and, through the provision of improved transport infrastructure
and reduction of vehicle operating costs, allowed benefits for the entire economy. Further the program also
brought about indirect environmental benefits and contributed to preventing the multiplied needs for road
reconstruction in the future.
The program constituted the first phase of a comprehensive and coordinated series of action which has been
designed to stop further deterioration of the road network representing a considerable national value.
Sustainability of the results X ill be provided for by the Government attaching higher prionty to maintenance as
against development.
This is also reflected by a similar follow-up project of enhanced technical content that has been set in motion on
the basis of the experiences gained in the implementation of the pavement strengthening program.
Efforts by the Bank were considered as valuable both in preparation and implementation. The recommendations
and comments by the Bank experts as well as their flexible attitude greatly contributed to the success of the
program.
A.3 Procurement of road maintenance equipment
The program component contained the procurement of road maintenance equipment, axle load weighers and
quality testing devices as well as facilities for the emergency telephone systen of expressway MO. The program
was implemented with the defined content. If is to remark that the financing of the purchase of axle loan
balances had to be solved within the framework of the Road Project due to the difference between the closing
date of the Second Transport Project and the timetable of realiution.
The program component served sectorial policy aims i.e. the provision of adequate equipment for road
maintenance and operation. Also the procurement of facilities for the emergency telephone system of
expressway MO had to be solved within the framework of this program component.
The ains were realized entirely. The attached table presents an account of the equipment purchased within the
framework of this program. (Annex A2)
With the Bank's experts useful and constructive consultations were held as in the preparation period as during
the implementation.
The signing of contract had been delayed at one occasion only due to a difference of opuuon *vith the Bank's
experts concerning the result of a bid evaluation. By considering all these the Bank's performance can be
classified as satisfactory.
Performances of suppliers can be judged mainly as very satisfactory or satisfactory.
The component is completed with a very satisfactory result.
A.4 Technical Assistance
In the framework of subcomponent B.4. of the Loan Agreement USD 1.300.000 were available basically for the
aim to help the highway experts to leam about and to introduce the methods of preparation of road projects
according to international standards, the bidding process and the introduction and application of their required
documents, to studv the issues of traffic safety, strategy of transport safety, road maintenance, network
development and environment protection. As the financing of the port development studv was taken over by
PHARE the 200.000 USD fund allocated for this purpose was used to cover the costs of study tours concerning
the topic of "Sectorial development". Implementation of the program commenced in 1989. In this framework
mainly study tours and discussions abroad were organized, In some cases professional seminars and discussions
were held with the participation of foreign consultants in Hungary.
A total of some 55 studv-tours were organized mainly to European countries but in some cases to North-
Amencan and Far Eastern countnes. These study-tours brought the anticipated results and the aims were
realized or in some cases thev have been continued within the follow-up Road Project. In addition to the study-
tours a condition surve)y of the Hungarian road network was carried out in the frame work of the training
program with the cooperation of the Swedish RST company and also the Hunganan road data bank was
5



reviewed with the assistance of Danish experts. In order to raise the level-of-service of our training program a
computerzed projector was purchased and also a few engineering publications were ordered.
The training program of the road component can be called generally a success. Our initiatives were supported
by the Bank with constructive cooperation although in some cases, in our view, unnecessary explanations and
justifications were required. However, we must accept as justified comment that some study-tours were closed
with meaningless and/or belated reports.
The fund of the component was used up totally. In addition to the hard currency some HUF fund was used by
purchasing the air tickets for HUF not charged against the loan in order to allow the organization of more
training possibilities from the available hard currency. These supplementary costs for tickets amounted to the
use of about 10 million HUF of local fund.
B. BKV COMPDNENT
At the BKV the implementation of the Second Transport Project commenced immediately after signing the
Loan Agreement on June I1, 1989. It can be stated the most of the aims set in 1987 have been realized.
Asesament of inplementation. Aim of the component and its realization
The aim of the component set in the project appraisal was the improvement of the economic and operating
efficiency of the company. The Action Plan of the project set out that the subsidy of passenger transportation
should be reduced at the BKV from the level of the year 1987 by 10b/o everv vear. The company achieved by
1993 a subsidy reduction of 51% in real value which is considered a significant success in meeting the expected
reqirement.
Other requirement set in the Action Plan was the keeping of the BKVs tariffs and operating costs at proper level
so as to achieve an operating ratio of 98% per year by a 50% decrease of the subsidy of passenger
transportation compared to the 1987 level. The company was able to meet partly the expected requirements till
1992 (beween 96 and 99%) but due to the inadequate increase of tariffs since 1993 the operating ratio exceeded
100% and by 1994 it fall behind by 5% from the set value.
Tbe decisions to raise tariffs belong to the Municipality of Budapest thus at the discussions of each proposal
political and social aspects were raised. Till 1989 price subvention by the state covered all of passenger
transportation, however, since 1990 it covered only preferential tariffs (for pensioners, students etc.). Since the
reveues from the tanffs and the subsidies from the state do not cover BKVs operating costs, the difference has
to be met by the Municipality of Budapest. Howvever, this support has not covered the technically justified
expenditures of the company. Therefore the company closed the years of 1993 and 1994 wvith losses.
Sustainability of the main aims of the component can be assumed as probable bv the fact that the EBRD's
"Rehabilitation Program of the Budapest Mass Transportation" and the "City Transportation Program" of the
World Bank financed under HU-3903 stipulates for the company a further increase of the cost recovery index
and the financing of the entire operating costs by the Capital.
The BKVs traffic control system consists of three subcomponents:
Component B.a:      AVM system
As it was required by the Bank's rules the company called an open international bid (ICB) for the selection of
the most suitable system. The contract was signed in September 1991. Installation started on November
30,1993 by setting 250 devices on vehicles, two radio stations and the central computer system. The Conditional
Acceptance Certificate was issued on January 31, 1994. The official one year trial operation started on
February 15, 1994.
The firrn implementing the system generally fulfilled the expected requirements hence the company issued the
Final Acceptance Certificate on May 4, 1995 and thereby the component was closed. Sustainability of the
results is assured by the company bv purchasing and installing currently further 40 devices for vehicles. On the
company's initiative the implementation of Stage 11 of the AVM system is part of the Urban Transportation
Programs signed by the World Bank as well as the Municipalitv and the BKV.
Component B.b:       Road Traffic Control System
The company called an open international bid (ICB) for the implementation of the system and its evaluation has
been accepted bv the Bank. The trafTic control center of North-Budapest was commissioned on April 22, 1992.
At the moment 90 de%ices at intersections and 92 detectors have been connected to the svstem wshich had no
6



break-down so Ar. As part of the control system about 35 kIn long cables and about 68 km long telephone
cables were constructed, too.
For the sake of sustainability of the results, the Municipality takes particular care to the development of the
control system and it is erpected that from 1996, on the control area of the sub-center would bz enlarged.
Component B.c:      Development of power transformation
In the framework of component C I the remote control of 100 contact breakers and in component C2 that of the
transformer stations were realized. Also for this component an open international bid (ICB) was called by the
company. AfRer the evaluation, the contracts were signed in August, 1991. The vacuum breakers were installed
by March 31, 1993 and since that time the devices have been operating practically without defect. The remote
control was installed by the end of 1992 and the system has been handling the information data of 30
tansformers at the moment The feeding of additional information data is underway. The svstem has been
operating without break-down.
Sustainability of the achievements is likelv because the existing system can be developed into a directorate-
bound network in accordance with the real development trend of the system.
Component B.d       Training, education program
As the main element of the component, the company's Organization and Management Study was completed. It
resulted in proposals prepared by the Consultant in cooperation with the company's experts concerning the main
directions of the reorganization, the distribution of tasks within the company, the change of the company's form
and the regulauion of the external connection system and the financing conditions. Financing of this study vas
taken over by PHARE from the Bank loan, so this amount could be used for procurements also. The company's
management has elaborated the concept of modernization of the company and its implemntation program by
takg into consideration the recommendations of the study. The program was reviewed and approved by the
consutants and the Mayor' Office accepted it. The restructuring of the company has commenced on the basis of
this program and has been underway even at this moment. First stage of the restructunng was completed and the
implementation of the tasks of the second stage has started
General evaluation
Susnabiity of the aims is assured by the fact that the EBRD and PHARE defined in their further programs
the setting of the company to commercial bases and the separation of non-core activities as well as the
privatisation of certain lines.
The performance of the Bank's representatives was very satisfactorv in the defnition, the preparation. the
assessment of the component and during the supervisions. They showed a flexible attitude in reviewing the
cowditions of the periods in accordance with the changes in the economic environment and made their
suggestions accordingly.
The success of the connection between the Bank and the company is indicated by the agreements of the parties
concerning additional loans. Due to the result of cooperation it was possible to find mutually acceptable
solutions to the problems having occurred during the realization, of the sub-components.
At each component the firms executing the component carried out their duties according to the contract, at high
level and to the deadlines. By the closing date of the project no serious operating problem occurred.
During the analysis of the advantages provided by the component it has been found that the BKV components
vielded an estimated rate of return (ERR) of about 15% versus the 12-20% assumed by the World Bank dunng
the loan assessment thus they also justifv further developments.
As a result of the open international bidding favourable proposals were received allowing the implementation of
the BKV component for an amount of about 25% less than its original cost estimate.
Plans were elaborated for the operation and development of the results in the future and thev have been
discussed with the Bank.
Since the established svstem covers onlv about 10% of the total network of BKV therefore it is advisable to
further extend the system in order to utilize maximally its advantages. The Bank's supertision mission suggested
to install the svstem on addition bus lines and to enhance the passenger information which raises the level of
service of the mass transportation. In order to further increase the economic and operating benefits, the functions
of the AVM svstem should be extended. The Bank suggested for the sake of future operation to maintain the
s,vstem continuouslv and to carrv out minor development.
7



The component is a good example for purchasing an already existing system and adapt it to satisfy the
company's special demands. This solution resulted in economies in time and expenditure.
At the same time the project allowed the company the learn about the rules and procedures of the Bank which
allow the monitoring of a complex project and its successful and economical implementation. The use of th;
Bank's guidelines of bidding and rules of procedure permitted for the company to conclude contracts for other
projects with advantageous conditions. The efficiency analyses allow the selection of the most suitable
alternatives and making the decisions in planning an investment.
During the implementation of the components the requirements set by the Bank revealed the steps to be taken
which allow for the company to start towards the establishing an efficient servicing companv of urban mass
transportation in spite of the unfavourable economic and social circumstances.
C. HUNGAROCAMION COMPONENT
Fmgawocamion modenized its vehicle fleet by means of a Bank loan in the framework of the First Transport
Prject in the second balf of the eighties. In order to improve the utilisation of vehicles as well as the efficiency
of operation it commenced to establish a computerized information system.
By the end of the eighties an already systemwide obsolete machinerv base developed consisting of one pc and
vel umall devices which was unable to provide the required services. The start to establish an up-to-date
information infrastructure became possible in the framework of the Second Transport Project.
The aim was to procue and operate four independent mainframe for the four plants of Budapest. At that time
the COCOM restrictions prohibited the purchase of a complex system of more advanced integration but
HuPrOCamion indicated its intention to combine the originally independent sites by means of a data
comunication network and to increase the number of terminals from the original 330 to 700.
One of the Hungarocamion's business branch of strategic importance is the transport and forwarding of piece
goods which particularly requires the computerized data handling due to the complexity of services. According
to the original ideas the updating of the Budapest distribution center hence the updating of the warehouse
dmandig  ss invement has been realized by its own resources, and the Bank loan has been used to improve
the information system of the goods collcting activity.
The establishing of Hungarocamion's information system has been facilitated bv three interrelated and
consecutive components at a total value of USD 12.1 million (USD 6.1 million from domestic sources and USD
6 million from the Bank loan proceeds).
C.1A. lhtegrated Computer Information System (USD 3.2 million)
The fist component launched in September 1990 resulted in the establishment of the company's computer
infrastrucure although the local infasiructure and the COCOM restrictions prevented the application of the
currt statofthef ant and limited the total capacity of the devices.
C.I.B Collecting Forwarding Unit (USD 1.8 million)
The second bid called for the delivery of a turn-key operation system to the Collecting-Forwarding Unit in
September 1992. This unit of Hungarocamion used to operate precedinglv in an obsolete svstem. The
installation of the system was delayed and was completed oniv in June 1995.
C.I.C. CID Component (USD 1.0 million)
Due to the previous COCOM restrictions the successively developed applications could not be connected
electronically to each other and they practically served the demands of the given site. In the connection of the
different various systems the unreliability of the network caused difficulties. That was mainly the reason why
Hungarocamion called the third bid when the cancellation of the international restrictions alreadv allowed it
This solved satisfactorily the communication among the different Hungarocamion sites and the external world.
The most critical sites of Budapest have been connected by large capacity parallel cables providing high
reliability and capacity. Also an office system. the Team Office, has been purchased. Finall% the companv
purchased for its offices country-wide and abroad pc's and data transmitting devices as part of the network open
to the external world.
8



C2 Technical Asistance
Of the loan proceeds USD 0.1 million was earmarked for financing technical aisne (largely study tours) in
the issues of improving the managent system. However, the poess was delaved by the difficulties faced in
finding counterparts for the training. Altogether five study tours were conducted with European and North-
American desinations at a total value of USD 70 thousand.
Evaluation of the company's output
The economic environment the Hungaroamion operated in at the beginning of the Project and which was
anticipated to prevail, has changed drasticallv in the meantime. Changes occurred both in the international
relations if the country and in the number, composition and capacity of the Hungarian firms and raised
consequent financial difficulties for Hungarocamion. The aims set in project appraisal have not or just partly
been realizd. The company's size has been decreased due to the shortage of investment resources and the
tecnmical condition and the utilization of its vehicle fleet worsened. Since 1992 the company has sbown a deficit
and the loss of capital reached its sag in 1994.
Howeer, it can be considered as an important result that Hungaocmi  contrary to the majoritv of the
Hungarian road transpotation firms survived under the deteriorating economic circumstances and was able to
keep the lvel of service. The modemization of the information system has played a paramount role in this.
Hungrocamion computerized seveal adrministrative procedures. The computeized administration resulted in
savings i labour costs. In spite of an increase in the number of clients to five-fold from the start of project
(from 7.500 to 37.800), the administrative staff could be decreased in certain fidds (altogether by 232) bringing
about savings of HUF 514 million.
An additional result of the devdlopment is that invoicing is camed out by computer. The time elapsed from the
performance of service to the sending of the invoice dereased frm  21 days to 11 days. This improvenent
considerably le   the financial problems of the company and yearly brings to some HUF 40 million.
The increa in the munber of clients makes unavoidable to handle their documents by computer. The cornpany
anticipates real benefts in the future from the establishment of an observation svstem concerning the solvency of
customers and a banbuptcy regt. It can be assumed that some 50% of such losses (about 100 million HUF a
year) might be avoided.
Following the hstallation of the ICIS basic systems the development of the controlling information system
ceDing to the currnt requirements. The development from which the company's executive expects faster
rection possibility and better preparation of decisions, commenced in the second half of 1994.
In connection with the component Hungarocnion joined the satelite tracking system. At present every seventh
vehicle has been equipped with the necessary devices. The linking of branch offices abroad into the company's
information network also has start   Although it is rather difficult to quantify the benefits of improving the
level of service, direct benefit is provided by the improvenent of efficiency in the piece good collecting activity
which might result in an additional profit of 50 million HUF a year.
By considering all these effects the inernal rate of return of the Hungarocamion comnponent is 20% based on the
infornation available upto the closing date of the Prject, which is near to the estimate (22%). Every admantage
of the modernization of information will be realized only in the lng term; the calculated pay-back penod of the
development is 9 years.
Bv implementing the different components Hungarocamion obtained an open developable hardware base, a
large-capacity, reliable data transmitting network, developing devices, and application softvare packages.
Beside the project a team for application development and operation has been established wvhich has the
necessary computer technical know-how, knows the local demands occurring in HC, developed the majority of
business and accounting progam systams opeating in HC, further integrated them into a complex application
system together with the purchased and adapted ones.
The devices procured under the project are suitable for the latest technologies. Tbe present netnvork is able to
integrate anv possible platforms. The alreadv operational applications and existing databases have bee installed
u,ith interfaces which are capable to receive data and to transmit them to other applications, even to ones to be
developed in the future.
9



D. MAV COMPONENT
As indicated i the imnrction the changes havi  occurred at the tum of the decade patly effected the
Unsmpotatin sector including also the railway transport. Due to the economic changes the danand for MAV's
sewiceswas considerably reduced. MAV has attempted to trace the polidcal and economic changes with
or$niorA and structural revisions as well as reductions. In this frmework by tai  ito accoilnt the
nhled lea conditions, MAV has been turned from a state company unto a ta  owned comnpany lImited by
jur  and withim the company the so-called "railway infrastructure" and the "commercial railway" have bee
separated The developments and the modifications resulted in significant personnl reduction and thus in
svmup. The developments included in the Second Transport Project as continuation of the First Transport
Prject fit well n the development trend. Tbe elements of the railway component were the foltowing i)
Tnsport Management Information System, ii) Procurement of track maintenance equipment, iii) Development
of a rail recycling plant and iv) Trainin
D.1 Tranport Management Information System (TMIS)
MAV decided in the middle of the eightes to establish a management informaton system. The pnmary aim was
te updating of the technological process of railway operatons and the efficiency of trffic operaion. The most
imporant expectation was the more efficient utiliation of the 60 000 freight wagons and the saving of 3e00
wagons. Based on the study eaborated in 1987 the estimated cost of the component amounted to HUF 3.1
billion with a pay-back period of 6-8 years.
Exeaoion of TMIS commenced in 1990 by signng a contract (USD 16.5 million) bv MAV with Andesen
Conultn Co. The contract was awarded by ICB. The main part of the component (about 70%) wvas of the
_abliumet of a suitable data tansfr ntwork. The set aums have been saisctorily realiud by taking into
acowunt the execution period of several years and the various rviews and variations as shown on Annex D. 1.
Realizadon of the component was unfavourably affected by the development of the DEM-USD exchange rate.
Th   ain abiltv of the results and the further developments will be ensured by the strategic advantages of the
TMIS bocause it is a strategic tool for MAV to improve their position on the domestic and international
mts. It facilitates the unprovement of the quality of freight transportation services, the extension of freight
tnumportatio srvices and the increase of their level as well as the faster supply of more accumte, more deailed
nd reliable information on the railway operations and commerce for the management.
In addtion that TMIS is an individual system adapted to MAV's demands it permits the connection to other
inteational sysm. Excellent opporunity is provided for it by HERMES, the unified intenational data
trnsfer network, wbose connection possibility has been included in the TMIS progam. Additional important
extension will be provided by the direct connection of the huge forwarding companies permitting the direct
communication with TMIS by means of a teminal through phone lines.
D.2 Procurement of track maintenance equipment
Frnm the middle of the eighties MAV put great emphasis on the improvement of the quality and efficincy of
the track construction and maintenance activities. Within this vanous track construction and maintenance
machinery were purchased under the Firt Transport Project dunng 1986-1987 raising the qualit level of
maiemwc but failing to ensure the proper capacity for the construction demands. It was the reason that MAV
decided to purchase further track construction and maintenance equipment under the Second Transport Project.
At the time of appraisal MAV planned to procure various track construction machinery at a total amount of
USD 6.5 million. However, at the implementation of other components some funds were modified (MAVs
TMIS cost considerably more than assumed during appraisal) thus only track construction machinery costing a
total of USD 4.6 million was purchased (Details see in Annex D.2). The procurement of equipment allowed the
laying of rails without deformation, the substitution of manual work with machines, the realization of fast
working methods and local repair of defects. Utilization of the track construction and maintenance machinery is
demonstrated in details in Annex D.3.
In the field of track construction and rehabilitation the backlog against the technical demand increased
drstically according to the financial opportunities because the actual performance gradually decreased and
remained significantly below the demands. This process reached its lowvest point dunng 1992-93.
The cumulative deficit of developments resulted in senous wearing out of the permanent tracks. The
repknishing of wearing outs cannot be performed with the existing machinery, even if sufricient funds were
provided, because, beside the equipment procured in the frameworks of the preiious projects, MAV has no up-
10



to-date high capacity track construction equipment. It is deemed necesary to purchase new machinery if an
eventual new loan package would be negotiated.
D.3 Rail recyding plant
The Staff Appraisal Report indicated two basic aims for the development commenced in 1990 the renewal of
the worn-out rails regained from the track and the technological upgrading of the related long-rail production.
The results to be obtained would be the possibility to produce quality long-rails permitting the construction of
high speed (160-200 km/h) tracks and the benefits of rail recycling. Bv recycling the quantity of new rails to be
purchased could be decreased and the length of tracks having long-rails could be increased. With the
implementation of the plant the staged rail management could be established and its economic advantages would
ensure a fast return from the savings obtained at track construction.
By the start of design and execution activities in May 1991 the completion was set to December, 1994. The
forecast total value of the component was HUF 1.4 billion (share of the World Bank: USD 6.5 million).
Implementation of the rail recycling plant started in accordance with the original aims in 1990-91. Due to
fincial difficulties the sub-component had to be divided into two stages. The first one consisted of the
implementation of a welding machinery to a forecast cost of HUF 955 million. The second stage (the
establishment of rail recycling technology) had to be postponed. Based on these the aims of the orginal
component can not be considered as completed with the present investment.
The modified new cornponent (implementation of the welding machinery) will be terminated in December,
1995. Only complementary activities will be carried out in 1996.
The financial fund was used up according to the new program of 1992. Due to the significant devaluation of
HUF and the repeated rescheduling of the own resources, the cost of investment increased. The machine
procurements financed by the World Bank were completed to an amount of about USD 3.0 million. The local
part related to the construction and laying of tracks will amount probably to 680 million HUF including the vear
1996. The expected total expenditure is HUF 1.05 billion.
Implementation of the original component has been signififantly influenced by the above mentioned financial
problems. The current financial problems were reduced by the decrease of technical content and the
postponement or cancelling of certain parts but the plant established by this way is nothing but a more modern
version of the old one working at a higher technical level. The rail renewal as introducing a new technology has
been cancelled or postponed. The suspension of the World Bank loan for one year resulted in a significant
rescheduling of the entire sub-component.
The investment program modified in 1992 was fullv implemented. MAV regards this component as the first
stage of establishing the plant to be followed by the originally decided second stage. Thus the plant N%ill be
completed when the rail renewal machinery (Stage H.) has been installed which might improve the utilization of
the presently superfluous capacity. By considering the recent and the present years this value can be expected to
be at max. 30%.
Bv implementing the rail reneval plant the conditions have been established in Hungary for the higher quality
long-rail production and its welding. Taking into account the possibilities for investments and rehabilitations
MAV intends to improve its performance and result. However, the actual results can be considered in details
only after the 1996 performances have been known.
D.4 Technical assistance
As part of the loan MAV separated a sum for training and technical assistance (0.3 million USD). The training
program started in 1991. As the result of discussions among MTCWM, MAV and the Bank the programn was
modified and it was decided to have a studv made to deal with the preparation of business plan instead of the
training (studies by MERCER Consulting's, Stages I and 11.). The program value was increased to USD 1.05
million but the training part decreased thus the originally decided training program could not been realized.
11



ANNEXES-
A.1  Follow-up Efficiency Analysis of MO Expressway Section I/A
Al2  List of Equipment Procured Under Cat IC
D.1  Implementation of the TMIS
D.2   List of the Track Maintenance Machines Procured by MAV
D.3   Utilization of Truck Construction Machines



/-
Annex A.1
Follow - up Efficiency Analysis of
M O Expressway Section l. / A
Based on data of Year 1995



Project Number: 50.349/104
CONTENTS
Page
1.    Prelirinarles                                         2
2.   Genoral condtions of the
economic calculabon                                    2
3.   Specific costs of road
traffic                                               4
4.   Results of the eownomic
calcution                                             5
5.   Valuation                                              6
Annexes:
1.   Tabulatod Computer Output
ao Economic Calculation with
Time-Cost
2.   Tabulated Computer Output
of Economic Calculation
without Time-Cost



2
Project Number:   50.349/104
Subject:          Follow-up Efficiency Analysis
of MO Expressway Section VA (0.0-13.9 km),
based on data of Year 1995.
1. Prellminaries
Prior to commencing implementation of the MO expressway section VA, in August 1987
an Efficiency Analysis had been prepared by UVATERV, as a preparatory material for
the World Bank Load Cooperatfon.
Using the road network model of this former analysis in combinabon with the actual
traffic data of year 1995 concerning the MO expressway, we have carried out a post-
implementaton traffic investgaton, for which purpose the traffic data were supplied by
'KOzut Beruhaz6 Kft' over telefax. The updated traffic investgaffon served as a basis of
the post-implementation effifiency calculation which was performed under contract with
'Kozuti Beruhaz6 Kft. Again, the actual capital costs of the implementation were taken
into consideration according to the data supplied by 'Kozuti Beruhdz6 Kft', revalorizing
these data to the price levels current in year 1995 in the course of the economic
calculabons. Exception was rnade for the use of land, as it comprised a state
commitment Save for this, all of the input data of the economic calculations were used
at the price levels of year 1995. Both of the Traffic Survey and Efficiency Analysis were
performed by using the same computer programmes at the time of the updating, as
previously.
2. General conditions of the economic calculation
Project implementaton:              1990-1994
Year of opening:                    1994
Investigated time horizon:          1995-2015 (21 years)
Base year of the economic calculabon
(price level):          1995
Rate of discount:                   12% (i - 0.12)
Induced traffic volume:             20%
Actual traffic data in year 1995:
(ADT - Average Daily Traffic, in vehicles per day)
Tractor-
car         Bus        Ught        Lorry       trailer      Mkp
____tr_ tuck                combination
10092         46         1507        1910        2109         12



3
Overall traffic:              15 676 veh/day
Including all lorries:        5 526 veh/day
Overall motorized traffic:    15 676 veh/day, or 24 032 pcu/day
Including all heavy veh.traffic:  4 065 veh/day, or 10 163 pcu/day.
2.1 Capital costs of Investment
Main data of the facility opened up in year 1994:
______ ______ ______ ______ ___   __ ______ _____(In     m illi  n     H U F
Components in year 1995       Price level     Actual      Price level
1991          costs         1995
- Substructure: 4400 thousand m3    1448                         3310
- Pavement:  499 thousand m2         922                         2108
- Bridges: 41 31500 m2              1920                         4389
- Other constructions:              1065                         2435
- Public utilities:                  578                         1321
Total:                              5933                        13563
Use of land (actual cost):     _                   1896
By yearly outlays, in million HUF/year:
Outlay/     1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995         All
years     _        _               _
Prices of 1991:    -    40      1275    1864    2475    279        5933
Prices of 1995:    -    91      2915    4261    5658    638    13563
Cost of land:   221    556       838      126       80      75     1896
Price index numbers:   . 1990/1987   . 1.36
1991/1990   . 1.31
1992/1991   - 1.26      1995/1991  2.286
1993/1992   . 1.23
1994/1993   , 1.18
1995/1994   - 1.25
2.2. Remainder value
For the last year of the invesbigated period the remainder value was calculated
according to the following formula:
M-(1 -N/90).Ai..(1 -N/36).P+(1 -N/1 00).H+(1 -N/45).T-E+(1 -mN-1 5/.1 /36).F,
where:



4
M - remainder value (million HUF)
N - number of years in the investigated period
A = value of substructure
P . value of pavement
H = value of bridges
T - value of other constructions
E - value of land at acutal prices
F - road renewal
Result of the calculaton:
M - 10 705 million HUF.
2.3 Road renewal
Specific cost in year 1995 for expressways: 18 million HUF/km
For MO expressway Section i/A (14 km):    252 million HUF/occasion.
2.4. Maintenance. oReration
Specific cost in year 1995 for expressways: 1.740 million HUFlkn
For MO expressway Section I/A (14 km):      24 million HUF/year
3. SReclflc costs of road traffic
The specific costs below were calculated:
- vehicle operating costs
- time-costs of travel and transport
- costs of accidents
3.1. Specific vehirle operating costs
3.1.1 Performance-dependent light-weight vehicles (cars) HUF/veh, km
Components:                        Gross         Tax/customs          Net
Fuel, lubricant                     8.62            5.60             3.02
Tyre                                0.68             0.17            0.51
Parts, repairs                      6.10             1.53            4.57
Amortization                        8.87             4.87            4.00
Total:                             24.27            12.17            12.10



5
3.1.2. Performance-dependent heavy-weight vehicles (lorries), HUF/veh, km
Components:                        Gross         Tax/customs          Not
Fuel, lubricant                    22.10            14.37            7.73
Tyre                                3.33             0.83            2.50
Parts, repairs                     16.00             4.00           12.00
Amorfization                       18.25            10.08            8.17
Total:                             59.68            29.28           30.40
3.1.3. Performance-lncependent, HUFNeh, km
Vehicle class                      Gross         Tax/customs          Net
Ught-weight vehicles (cars)        12.95             3.87            9.08
Heavy-weight sehicles (lorries)    29.50            11.08           18.42
3.2. SpeIfIc timfecosts of travel/transport. HUF/veh. hour
Vehicle class                                     Weekdays         Weekends
Ught-weight (cars)                                   373              314
Heavy-weight (lorries)                               882
3.3. SpecIfic costs of accidents
Million HUF/persons                    (Number of casuales)
Type of accident                                    Million HUF/person
- fatal                                                8.10
- serious                                              1.49
- slight                                               0.55
4. Results of the Economic Calculation
The rates of efficiency computed on the basis of the analysis are as follows:
- Net Present Worth (NPW)           (million HUF)
- Benefit/Cost Ratio (BCR)          (  -      )
- Internal Rate of Return (IRR)     (   %    )
- Immeodate Efficiency (IE)         (         )
-Time of Retum (TR)                 (  years  )
The efficiency rates were calculated for two different cases, such as:
- according to all of the specific cost components of road traffic, and
- without the time-costs of travel and transport.



Taz: 50 349 1 104.
Annex I
Tabulated Computer -Output of Economic
Calculation with Time - Cost
Based on data of Year 1995



U V A T EI   V                       EFFICIENCY ANALYSIS OF ROAD INVESTKENT                                   1. PAGE
COST, BENEFIT                                             DATE:95.1
DESC3LCPT:              NO WuT0PALYA 1/1 SZAFAS2
ITER OF ECONOKIC DEVELOPMDULASSU
ACCIDENT-=OST
YEAR OF DISCOUNTING: 1994                                            DISCONTING FACTOR:  12 S        FATAL: 8.10 HILLIC
DURATION OF ANALYSIS: 21 YEAR                               FACTOR OF INDUCkTED    TRAFFIC: 1.10         HEAVY: 1.49 NIL
YEWRS BEFORE OPENING:   4 YEAR                                                                        LIGHT:  .55 HILLIC
TRAVEL-TIME COST
VEICLE OPERATING              COST            WEKLY PASSENGER CAR:373.0 HUF/V.HoUR  PERCENTAGE       TO DIFFER
VW  lFFECED BY NUIa$=E,CLR  : 9.08 KGT/V.KK            WEEDZI CkR:314.0 ElUFV.IOGR                5 HIY.:100 S
JOJ AFFECTZD BY NILUAGE,TRDCK: 18.40 BUF/V.KN                TRUCK:882.0 lUF/V.H0GR              10 KIN.:100 %
AFFECTED BY RILZAGE,CAR       :12.10 IUFIV.KM                                                    15 MIN.:100 %
AkFnEED BY XILEG!,TRU(X    :30.40 BUF/V.JN                                                       20 HID.:100 %
DI"F COST OF XMAlTlNCE     COST OF INVESTMENT
AND DIWROVEKENT       /NILLION EUF/             SALVAGE       VALUE
YEAR      /MILLIOM HUF/        1.       2.      3.      4.    /MILLIOW EBU/
1990            0              0        0       0       0
1991            0             91        0       0       0
1992            0           2915        0       0       0
1993            0           4261        0       0       0
1994            0           5658        0       0       0
1995            0            638        0       0       0
1996           24              0        0       0       0
1997           24              0        0       0       0
1998           24              0        0       0       0
1999           24              0        0       0       0
2000           24              0        0       0       0
2001           24              0        0       0       0
2002           24              0        0       0       0
2003          252              0        0       0       0
2004           24              0        0       0       0
2005           24              0        0       0       0
2006           24              0        0       0       0
2007           24              0        0       0       0
2008           24              0        0       0       0
2009           24              0        0       0       0
2010           24              0        0       0       0
2011          252              0        0       0       0
2012           24              0        0       0       0
2013           24              0        0       0       0
2014           24              0        0       0       0
2015           24              0        0       0       0           10705.
WITHOUT CASE:1995-2015  INTERPOLATIONS BElIEEN COST OF TRAFFIC ON NETNORKS
WITH CASE:1995-2015  INTERPOLATIONS BETWEEN COST OF TRAFFIC ON NETWORKS



UVATE RV                           EFICIEICYAJALYSIS OF ROAD IIESTNU                                  2. PAG
COST, BENEFIT                                          DATE:95.1l
DESCRIPTION:           NO AUTOPALYA 1/A SZAASZ
ITD( Of OMONIC DEVEWPKErTlASS
ICCIDErT-COsT
TU1 OF DISCOUNTING: 1994                                         DISCNTING FACTOR: 12 S        PFTAL: 8.10 NILLIO
DURATION OF ANALYSIS: 21 YER                             FACTOR OF INDCATED    TRAIC: 1.10         DAVY: 1.49 NIL
YEARS BEMe OPEtING:  4 YEAR                                                                     LIGT:  .55 NII.L0
TRAVEL-TIIE COST
VMICLE OPRATIN              COST          WEMY PASSEGDR CAR:373.0 UF/V.lDUR  PERCTIGE    TO DIIPP
NO  AFFECTED BY MILEGE,CR  : 9.08 HUF/V.J(          WEEKEND CAR:314.0 KUF/V.HOUR            5 MNI.:100 I
RN AUED  BY MILEAGE,TRUC: 18.40 lUF/V.IN                  TRUd:882.0 HUP/V.bOUR            10 HNI.:100 %
AFFCTD BY NILEAGE,CLR       :12.10 NlF/V.I                                                 15 KIN.:100 s
AFFEC?ED BY MILEAGE,TROCK   :30.40 HUT/VIKM                                                20 MIN. :100 %
WITO0UT CASE                        VITH CASE                         SAVING  oF
VEHI.OPER. TRAVEL-TINE  ACCIDUNT    VEH.OPER. TRAVEL-TINE ACCIDENT    VEKI.OPER. TRAVEL-TINE ACCIDENT
C OS T S                         C O S T S                          C O S T S
YEAR                    MILLION HOF                        MILLION NUY                       MILLION HUFF
1995          217313.500   48673.750  10712.81  215753.100  48069.560  10498.440    1560.359    604.191    214.365
1996          222917.300  51776.450   10970.95  221209.900  51081.400  10744.020    1707.438    695.055    226.933
1997          228521.300   54879.160   11229.09  226666.700  54093.240   10989.590    1854.547    785.922    239.499
1998          234125.100  57981.860   11487.23  232123.500  57105.080   11235.160    2001.625    876.785    252.066
1999          239729.000   61084.570   11745.37  237580.300  60116.920  11480.730    2148.719    967.648    264.634
2000          245332.900  64187.270  12003.51  243037.100  63128.760   11726.310    2295.813    1058.516     277.200
2001          250936.800  67289.980  12261.65  248493.900  66140.590  11971.880    2442.891    1149.383    289.767
2002          256540.700  70392.680   12519.79  253950.700  69152.440   12217.450    2589.984    1240.242    302.334
2003          262144.600   73495.380   12777.92  259407.500  72164.270   12463.020    2737.078    1331.109    314.900
2004          267748.500  76598.090  13036.06  264864.300  75176.120   12708.600    2884.188    1421.969    327.468
2005          273352.400  79700.800  13294.20 270321.200  78187.950  12954.170    3031.250   1512.844        340.035
2006          278956.300   82803.500   13552.34  275778.000  81199.800  13199.740    3178.344    1603.703    352.603
2007          284560.200  85906.200   13810.48  281234.t00  84211.630   13445.310    3325.438    1694.570    365.169
2008          290164.100   89008.910   14068.62  286691.600  87223.480   13690.880    3472.531    1785.430    377.736
2009          295768.000  92111.610   14326.76  292148.400  90235.310   13936.460    3619.625    1876.297    390.304
2010          301371.900  95214.310   14584.90  297605.200  93247.160  14182.030    3766.719   1967.156    402.870
2011          306975.800  98317.020   14843.04  303062.000  96258.990   14427.600    3913.781   2058.023     415.438
2012          312579.700  101419.700  15101.18 308518.800  99270.830  14673.170    4060.875   2148.898       428.004
2013          318183.600  104522.400   15359.32  313975.600  102282.700   14918.750    4208.000    2239.758    440.570
2014          323787.500  107625.100  15617.46  319432.400 105294.500  15164.320    4355.063   2330.625    453.138
2015          329391.400  110727.800  '15875.60  324889.200 108306.400   15409.890    4502.156    2421.484    465.705



U V A T E R V                        EFFICIENCY ANALYSIS OF ROAD IVESTMENT                                    3. PAGE
C0ST, BENEFIT                                            DATE:95.10. 9.
DMSCIPTION:              NO AUTOPALYA 1/A SZAASZ
ITEH OF EC4NOHIC DEVELOPKENTLSm
ACCIDET-ST
YEAR OF DISCOUNTING: 1994                                             DISCDNTING FACTOR: 12 t        FAT.AL: 8.10 KILLON 3UF
DORATION Or A2LYSIS:  21 YEA                                 FACO  OF IDTM          TRAFIC: 1.10         iAv'Y: 1.49 MILLION It
YEARS BEFORE OPENDG:   4 YEAR                                                                         LIGET: .55 HILLION OF
TRAVEL-TIME COST
VEICLE OPEATING               COST            NXMY PASSENGER CAR:373.0 HUF/V.HOUR  PECDTAGE          TO DIFF'UCE Of
log AM=   BY KILEAGE,CAR  :9.08 HUF/V.FK               WEEKUD CLR:314.0 lUFJV.lOUR                5 KII.:100 S
ION  IFFE=     BY NILEAGE,TRD(K: 18.40 RU/IMN                 TRUC:882.0 lUF/V.BOUR              10 KNI.:100 
AFFECMS BY NILEAGE,CIR        :12.10 HUFYV.XK                                                    15 NIN.:100 %
IFFECD BY NILEAGE,TROC    :30.40 BAH/ViM                                                         20 1IM.:100 %
SAVIIG  OF
VEEI.OPER. TRAVL-TIME  ACC IDEN. AVER.DIFF.   FACOR                  MODIFIED   DSCDIfM                DISCOUNTED  IVDIFII
C  0  S  T  S             TRAVEL-                                      OD1IF             MST      COST    BUEFI
YEAR            MILLION SOF                TINE(MIN)               BET   BDEIT          BEEFIT                             COST
1990                                                                 .000       .000       .0         .0         .000        .000
1"9                                                                  .000       .000       .000    91.000    127.848    -91.000
1992                                                                 .000       .000       .000   2915.000   3656.576  -2915.000
1993                                                                 .000       .000       .000   4261.000   4772.320  -4261.000
1994                                                                 .000       .000       .000   5658.000   5658.000  -5658.000
1995    1560.359    604.191    214.365       3.441      1.000   2378.916   2616.805   2336.435    638.000    569.643   1978.808
1996    1707.438    695.055    226.933       3.740      1.000   2629.425   2892.367   2305.778      24.000     19.133   2868.367
1997    1854.547    7t5.922    239.499       4.039      1.000   2879.963   3167.965   2254.895      24.000     17.0t3   3143.965
1998    2001.625    876.785    252.066       4.338      1.000   3130.477   3443.524   2188.422      24.000     15.252   3419.524
1999    2148.719    967.648    264.634       4.636      1.000   33t1.001   3719.101   2110.318      24.000     13.618   3695.101
2000    2295.813   1058.516    277.200       4.935      1.000   3631.528   3994.681   2023.830      24.000     12.159   3970.681
2001    2442.891   149.383    289.767        5.234      1.000   3832.040   4270.244   1931.642      24.000     10.856   4246.244
2002    2589.984   1240.242    302.334       5.533      1.000   4132.561   4545.817   1835.979      24.000      9.693   4521.817
2003    2737.078   1331.109    314.900       5.832      1.000   4383.0St  4821.397   173t.644    252.000       90.t74   4569.397
2004    2884.1U8   1421.969    327.468       6.131      1.000   4633.624   5096.986   1641.093      24.000      7.727   5072.9S6
2005    3031.250   1512.844    340.035       6.430      1.000   4884.129   5372.542   1544.477      24.000      6.199   534U.542
2006    3178.344   1603.703    352.603       6.728      1.000   5134.649   5648.114   1449.730      24.000      6.160   5624.114
2007    3325.438   1694.570    365.169       7.027      1.000   53t5.177   5923.694   1357.558      24.000      5.500  599.694
2008    3472.531   1785.430    377.736       7.326      1.000   5635.697   6199.267   1268.493      24.000      4.911   6175.267
2009    3619.625   1876.297    390.304       7.625      1.000   5886.226   6474.848   1182.931      24.000      4.385   6450.848
2010    3766.719   1967.156    402.870       7.924      1.000   6136.745   6750.420   1101.140      24.000      3.915   6726.420
2011    3913.781   2058.023    415.438       8.223      1.000   6387.242   7025.967   1023.292    252.000      36.702   6773.967
2012    4060.875   2148.898    428.004       8.521      1.000   6637.777   7301.555    949.491      24.000      3.121   7277.555
2013    4208.000   2239.758    440.570       8.820      1.000   6t88.328   7577.161    879.760      24.000      2.787   7553.161
2014    4355.063   2330.625    453.138       9.119      1.000   7138.t25   7852.708    814.065      24.000      2.488   7828.708
2015    4502.156   2421.484    465.705       9.418      1.000   7389.346   8128.280    752.350      24.030      2.221   8104.280
TITAL   : 63656.420  31769.610   7140.737                          102566.S00 112823.500  32690.320  14499.030  15059.870  98324.450
SALVAGE VALUE:       10705.000       DISOIMT3 SALVAGE VALUE   :           990.851
NOIUT-W T    RTIO       :       2.324     TDIE OF RT     RYEA: 6.85    SECTION OF        OPIMAL YER             I     TE
ITnUN   RWTE Of        R             23.065 %                               I STM              OF ORnIG               E aCIE
lET PlMEllT ROMT?       :  18621.300                                        1               1995                    .18
PUCRITGCE OF TDM  SAVDIG COST FRON  TOTAL B3EFI?:         30.975t



Tsz: 50 349 1 104.
Annex 2
Tabulated Computer . Output of Economic
Calculation without Time - Cost
Based on data of Year 1995



U V A T E R V                        EFFICIECT ANALTSIS OF OLD IIESlTRf                                         1. PACG
CO6T, BEXUUI                                               DATE:95.:
DESCRIPTION:             No ACTOPULY1 1/A SZAKASZ
ITEK OF ECONONIC DEVEL PnUTlSSU
ACCIDENT-COST
YEAR OF DISCOONTrHG: 1994                                             DISCONTING FACTOR,  12 S         FATAL: 8.10 KILLII
DURATION OF ANALYSIS:  21 YEAR                               FACTOR OF INDUCATED    TRAFFIC: 1.10          EEAVY: 1.49 NI]
YZARS BEUORE OPENING:   4 YEAR                                                                          LIGHT:  .55 NILLfl
TRAVEL-TIRE COST
VEEICLE OPELATIRDG             COST           UEY PASSENGER CAR:373.0 KUF/V.HOCR  PERCENTAGE           TO DIFFE
NY AFFEE  BY NILEAGE,CAR  : 9.08 WU?/V.AH               WEMD CA1.314.0 IUF/V.BOUL                   5 NIF.:  0 %
MN1 lFFlFED BY NILEIGE,TRUCK: 18.40 IUFJV.03                  TRCK:u82.0 IUfV.HOUR                 10 KIN.:  0 %
AFFECTED BY KILEAGE,CIR       :12.10 HUF/V.KN                                                      15  INI.:  0 %
AFFEBCT) BY NILEAGE,TR(CK    :30.40 HUF/V.IN                                                       20 KIN.:  0 %
DIF  COST OF rMAlICE        CDST OF  NVESTKENT
AND DaPTDVDDT          /KILLIO Kar/            S1LVAGE        VALUE
YEAR      /xILLIO   Byl/       1.      2.       3.      4.     /NILLIO1   EUF/
1990            0               0       0        0       0
1991            0              91       0        0       0
1992            0            2915       0        0       0
1993            0            4261       0       0        0
1994            0            5658       0       0        0
1995            0             638       0       0        0
1996           24               0       0       0        0
1997           24               0       0       0        0
1998           24               0       0       0        0
1999           24               0       0        0       0
2000           24               0       0        0       0
2001           24               0       0        0       0
2002           24               0       0       0        0
2003          252               0       0       0        0
2004           24               0       0        0       0
2005           24               0       0       0        0
2006           24               0       0       0        0
2007           24               0       0       0        0
2008           24               0       0       0        0
2009           24               0       0        0       0
2010           24               0       0        0       0
20U           252               0       0        0       0
2012           24               0       0        0       0
2013           24               0.      0        0       0
2014           24               0       0        0       0
2015           24               0       0       0        0           10705.
WITHOUT CASE:1 "15-2015  INTD2POLATIONS BETWEEN COST OF TRAFFIC ON NETWORKS
WITH CASE:1995-2015  INTERPOLOTIONS BETWEE COST OF TRAFFIC 01 NETiORKS



O V I T I I V                       EFTICIUCT AALYSIS OF ROAD rHVESTNET                                   2. PAGE
COST, BEUEFIT                                           DATE:95.10
DESTCPTIO:              NO AUTOPALYI 1/A SZAKASI
ITEM OF ECODM0IC DEVMEWPTLASSU
ACCIDENT-C0ST
TEAR OF DISCOUNTING: 1994                                          DISC0NTING FACTOR: 12 %        FATAL: 8.10 MILLION
DCJATION OF ANALYSIS:  21 YEAR                            FACTOR OF INDOCATED   TRAFFIC: 1.10         HEAVY: 1.49 KILL
YEWRS BEFORE OPENING:   4 YEAR                                                                     LIGHT:  .55 MILLION
TRAVEL-TIME COST
VEICLE OPERATING             COST           RElCY PASSENGER CAR:373.0 BUF/V.BOMR  PERCENTAGE    TO DIFFERE
WOE  FFLTH  BY KILEUGE,CAR: 9.08 WF/V.>K             WEDE   C&R:314.0 EUF/VJ10R                5 IID.: 0 S
110 MUJCD DY NIILEAGE,TRUC: 18.40 lUFIV.K                 TRUC:882.0 WF/V.IOUR               10 KIN.:  0 s
AfETD  BY  MILEAGE,CAR       :12.10 HUT/ViXM                                                  15 KIN.:  0 t
AIFCTT  BY  LAGE,TRUDCT    :30.40 HUT/Vi.                                                     20 KMI.:  0 S
W I T 1 0 U T  C A S E               W  I T I C A S E                   5 k V I N G   OF 
VEII.OPER. TRAVEL-TINE ACCIDENT     VE.OPER. TRAVL-TIM  ACCIDENT        VENI.OPER. TAVEL-TINE  ACCIDENT
C O S T S                          C O S TS                            C O S T S
YEAR                    NILLIONW HUE                         ILLION BP                          MILLION HUF
1995           217313.500   48673.750   10712.81  215753.100   48069.560   10498.440    1560.359    604.191     214.365
1996           222917.300   51776.450   10970.95  221209.900   51081.400   10744.020    1707.438    695.055     226.933
1997           228521.300   54879.160   11229.09  226666.700   54093.240   10989.590    1854.547    785.922     239.499
1998           234125.100   57981.860   11487.23  232123.500   57105.080   11235.160    2001.625    876.785     252.066
1999           239729.000   61084.570   11745.37  237580.300   60116.920   11480.730    2148.719    967.648     264.634
2000           245332.900   64187.270   12003.51  243037.100   63128.760   11726.310    2295.813    1058.516    277.200
2001           250936.800   67289.980   12261.65  248493.900   66140.590   11971.880    2442.891    1149.383    289.767
2002           256540.700   70392.680   12519.79  253950.700   69152.440   12217.450    2589.984    1240.242    302.334
2003           262144.600   73495.380   12777.92  259407.500   72164.270   12463.020    2737.078    1331.109    314.900
2004           267748.500   76598.090   13036.06  264864.300   75176.120   12708.600    2884.188    1421.969    327.468
2005           273352.400   79700.800   13294.20  270321.200   78187.950   12954.170    3031.250    1512.844    340.035
2006           278956.300   82803.500   13552.34  275778.000  81199.800   13199.740    3178.344    1603.703     352.603
2007           284560.200   85906.200   13810.48  281234.800   84211.630   13445.310    3325.438    1694.570    365.169
2008           290164.100   89008.910   14068.62  286691.600   87223.480   13690.880    3472.531    1785.430    377.736
2009           29576t.000   92111.610   14326.76  292148.400   90235.310   13936.460    3619.625    1876.297    390.304
2010           301371.900   95214.310   14584.90  297605.200   93247.160   14182.030    3766.719    1967.156    402.870
2011           306975.800   98317.020   14843.04  303062.000   96258.990   14427.600    3913.781    2058.023    415.438
2012           312579.700  101419.700   15101.18  308518.800   99270.830   14673.170    4060.875    2148.898    428.004
2013           318183.600  104522.400   15359.32  313975.600  102282.700   14918.750    4208.000    2239.758    440.570
2014           323787.500  107625.100   15617.46  319432.400  105294.500   15164.320    4355.063    2330.625    453.138
2015           329391.400  110727.800   15875.60  324889.200  108306.400   15409.890    4502.156    2421.484    465.705



B V I T E R V                        EFFICIENCY ANALYSIS OROlD   EThAIf                                       3. PAGE
00ST, BENEFIT                                             DATE:95.10. 9.
DESCRIPTION:             No AUTOPALYA 1/A SZKSZ
ITEN OF ECNCC DELO3MENTLASSU
ACCIDEIT-COST
YEAR OF DISCOMIlTG: 1"4                                              DISCONTIN  FACTOR:  12 S        FATAL: t.10 MILLION RFU
DURATION OF ANALYSIS:  21 YLAR                               FACTOR OF DIATED    TRAFFIC: 1.10           EAVY: 1.49 NILLION EU
YEARS BEFORE OPlItNG:   4 YEAR                                                                        LIGRT:  .55 MILLION MY
TRAVEL-TrE COST
V}CLE OPINATING                COST           WEY  PASSER   CLR:373.0  U/V.HOUR  PWCTAGE             TO DIFFEENCE OF
NON AFFE     BY NILEAGE,CAR: 9.0t BUF/V.KH               U.D   CAR:314.0 BUF/V.MR                 5 BN.:  0 %
NON AUCD  BY MILEAGE,TRUC: 18.40 HU?V.KN                     TM:882.0 UFPJV.O                    10 KIN.:  0 %
AFFECTED BY MILEAGZ,CAIR      :12.10 IUF/V.CN                                                    15 KIN.:  0 %
AFECTED BY NILEAGE,TRUCE    :30.40  UF,/V.K4                                                     20 N.:  0 %
SAVING  OF
VEHI.OPER. TRAVEL-TINE  ACC IDD. AVER.DIFF.   FACTOR                 NODIIIED   DISCONTED              DISCONTED  IDDIM
C  0  S  T  S             TRAVEL-                                     NODIFID           COST      OST    B3lEFIT
YEAR             ILlION  UF                TIME(MIN)              BENEFIT   BIIEFIT    BENEFIT                              CXT
1990                                                                .000        .000       .000       .000        .000       .000
1991                                                                .000        .000       .000     91.000    127.148    -91.000
1992                                                                 .000       .O0        .O0   2915.000   3656.576  -2915.000
1993                                                                .000        .000       .DO0   4261.000   4772.320  -4261.000
1994                                                                .000        .000       .DOD   5658.000   5658.000  -5658.000
1995    1560.359    604.191    214.365       3.441        .000   1774.725   1952.197   1743.033    638.000    569.643   1314.197
1996    1707.438    695.055    226.933       3.740        .000   1934.370   2127.807   1696.275     24.000     19.133   2103.807
1997    1854.547    785.922    239.499       4.039        .000  2094.046   2303.450   1639.551      24.000     17.083   2279.450
1"9     2001.625    876.785    252.066       4.338        .000   2253.691   2479.061   1575.488     24.000     15.252   2455.061
199     2148.719    967.648    264.634       4.636       .000   2413.353   2654.6u   1506.341       24.000     13.618   2630.688
2000    2295.813   1058.516    277.200       4.935        .000   2573.013   2830.314   1433.925     24.000     12.159   2806.314
2001    2442.891   1149.383    289.767       5.234        .000   2732.657   3005.923   1359.727     24.000     10.856   2981.923
2002    2589.984   1240.242    302.334       5.533       .000   2892.318   3181.550   1284.975      24.000      9.693   3157.550
2003    2737.078   1331.109    314.900       5.832       .000   3051.979   3357.177   120.631    252.000       90.874   3105.177
2004    284.188   1421.969    327.468        6.131       .000   3211.655   3532.121   1137.474      24.000      7.727   3508.821
2005    3031.250   1512.844    340.035       6.430       .000   33n.285   3708.414   1066.080       24.000      6.899   3684.414
2006    3178.344   1603.703    352.603       6.728       .000   3530.946   3884.041    996.937      24.000      6.160   3860.041
2007    3325.438   1694.570    365.169       7.027       .0o0   3690.606   4059.667    930.371      24.000      5.500   4035.667
2008    3472.531   1785.430    377.736       7.326       .000   3850.268   4235.294    866.625      24.000      4.911   4211.294
2009    3619.625   1876.297    390.304       7.625       .O0   4009.929   4410.922    805.859       24.000      4.385   4386.922
2010    3766.719   1967.156    402.870       7.924       .O0   4169.589   4586.548    748.165       24.000      3.915   4562.548
2011    3913.781   2058.023    415.438       8.223        .O00   4329.219   4762.141    693.579    252.000     36.702   4510.141
2012    4060.87S   2148.898    128.004       8.521       .000   4488.179   4937.767    642.105      24.000      3.121   4913.767
2013    4208.000   2239.758    440.570       8.820       .000   4648.570   5113.427    593.704      24.000      2.787   5089.427
2014    4355.063   2330.625    453.138       9.119       .000   48.200   5289.021    548.296        24.000      2.488   5265.021
2015    4502.156   2421.484    465.705       9.418        .000   4967.861   5464.647    505.806     24.000      2.221   5440.647
TOTAL   : 63656.420  31769.610   7140.737                          70797.160  77876.880  22984.940  14499.000  35059.870  63377.880
SALVAGE VALUE:       10705.000       DISNTC   SALVAGE VALUE   :          990.851
BUEIT-T ST RATIO        :       1.634     TINE OF RET1      YEUR:10.37    SECTION OF     OPTIMAL YEAR           INKEDIATE
NTDIL RATE OF           II    :      17.864 %                                NVPSTMDT          OF OPUNG               E CICID
NEU  PREST   ODTE       :   8915.921                                       1                1995                    .13
PECETAGE Of TINE SAVING COTFUC  TOTAL BMFIT:              44.874%



AnnRc A.2
Second Transport Project - Road Component
List of equipment procured under Cat IC
Denomination.                                    Pcs
High performance salt Spreading Equipment
9
Vibratory Rollers                                                   13
Multipurpose Cross Country Vehicles                                 7
FreezingfThawing Test Apparatus                                     6
Ultrasonic Electr. Instr.                                           I
Blaine Air Permeability App.                                        3
Test Hammer Type 'N" 3.822                                          8
Proctor Test App.                                                   a
RAM Concrete Testing App. 59,486                                    1
Cassagrande App. 2,689                                              7
Proformeter Depth Sond.                                             7
Mobile Dryer Drum Asphalt Mixing Plants (set)                       3
Ditch Diggers                                                       4
Wheel Loaders                                                       4
Back-hoe loader                                                     16
Marshall compactor machine 
Automatic binder cxtractor                                          2
Rock crashing machine                                               2
Core drilling machine                                               2
Fraas breaking point apparatus                                      I
Los-Angeles abrasion machine                                        I
Sleeve shaker                                                       I
Load and tensile penetrometer PNR-20                                I
Force ductility test machine                                        I
Hand operated penetrometer                                          2
Skid resistance testr (SRT)                                         3
Falling weight deflectometer                                        5
Carry-Mad GSL Rheometer                                             I
Microscope system Bx                                                I
Quality Control Equipment
Nuclear moisture/density Sauge MC3                                  I
Slop motvers for UNIMOG for                                        41
U-900 - U-1550
Salt spreaders                                                      33
Emergencv call svstem for MO (set) purchased by                     I
Motorwvav Directoratc



Annex D.1.
TMIS 1. Installation of telex centers and Development of rooms for telex centers to be
establishing data transfer routes        delivered according to the contract signed
78,858 thousand HXUF          with the SAGEM firm within the frame work
of the World Bank loan, installation of power
supply and transfer devices.
TMIS 2. Network control and developing Exchange of central computers, developer's
devices (terminated)                     PC   system,  central  computer  room,
194,000 thousand HLTF          rehabilitation  of power supply  and  air
conditioning.
TMIS  3.  Computer  network  at  the Establishing  LAN  networks at Szolnok
marshalling yard of Szolnok              marshalling  yard  (first marshalling  yard
24,000 thousand IIUF           system with PCs).
TNMS 4. Construction of data transmission Construction of local cables, installation of
network at Budapest Directorate.        short-term  analog  and  digital  transfer
284,350 thousand HUTF          technical systems, power supply equipment,
fiu-ther analog and digital data transfer
instruments.
TAUS  5/a  Construction  of trunk  cable Laying of optical cable between Budapest-
network at Miskolc Directorate.         K6banya Telecommunication Plant (KM)
763,907 thousand IHUF          and Miskolc.
TMIS  5/b Construction of data transfer Construction of local cables, installation of
network at Miskolc Directorate          data  transfer  system  on  optical  cable
319,000 thousand HUF           Budapest-Miskolc, installation of short-term
analog and digital transfer technical systems,
power supply equipment, cable maintenance
and data transfer instruments.
TMIS  6. Construction  of data transfer Installation of short-term analog and digital
network at Debrecen Directorate         transfer technical systems.
55,791 thousand HUF
TMIS 7. Establishing TESZI devices and Architectural arrangement of TESZI machine
repair bases                            rooms (suspended), purchase  of power
135,563 thousand HUF           supply, fire fighting and air conditioning
equipment, arrangement of repair bases at
directorates,  construction  of  TMIS   0
networks.



TMIS   8.  Procurement  of  additional MAV-AC contract (central computer, PCs,
equipment, their installation           basic software, user's software, elements of
2,414,940 thousand HUF          data  transfer network  included  in  the
package), MAV-SAGEM contract, duty and
fee on the two contracts, X.25 package
related data transfer network extension
contract (data switches and modems),
supplementary   application   development
contract, supplementary computer technical
software, power supply equipment, MAV
mounting works, use of brain capacity,
activation of personal work of MAV staff,
location of development office, fees for
engineers and import agent.
TMIS  9. Construction  of data transfer Construction of local cable, installation of
network at Szombathely Directorate      short-term  analog  and  digital  transfer
152,470 thousand HUF           technical system, power supply equipment,
152_47 t n Hinstruments.
TM1S  10. Construction of data transfer Construction of local cable, laying optical
network at Szeged Directorate           cable Szeged-Bekescsaba and execution of
581.124 thousand HUF           transfer technical system, installation of short-
term  analog and digital transfer technical
systems, power supply and instruments.
TMIS  11. Construction of data transfer Constructions of local cable and short-term
network at Pecs Directorate             line cable, installation of short-term analog
92,370 thousand EHUF           and digital transfer technical systems, power
supply equipment, instruments.
TMIS 12  Installation of PCs at Zahony Purchase of PCs and printers, modification of
Operational Directorate                 existing PCs, modification of LAN network
275,000 thousand HUF           of Zahony to ensure connection to TINS,
construction of local cable and installation of
transfer technical equipment.
TMIS  IL  Connection of TN]S II. and Extension of C.25 data transfer network (data
HERMS                                   switches and modems), equipment and tools
693,431 thousand HUF           necessary  to  start and  operate  TNJS,
purchase   of  maintenance   equipment,
instruments training PCs, V-SAT network,
HERMES connection.



Annex D.2.
MAV procured the following equipment during the Second Transport Project:
Denomination of the            Aquisition costs (USD)            Delivery
equipment                                                    date
I pcs switch changing machine                           375,000        1992
group (with 4 PUM)
2 pcs 09-16 CSM levelling tamping                      2,278,000       1993
machine
3 pcs sleeper changing machine                           405,177       1992
90 pcs power wrench machine                              268,851       1992
40 pcs abrasive rail saw                                  60,475       1992
30 pcs hydraulic rail tightening                         169,475       1992
machine
10 pcs hydraulic rail-end bending                         59,703       1992
machine
6 pcs rail point grinder                                  31,549       1992
5 pcs power track lifting machine                        104,645       1992
1 pc welding robot                                      213,296        1992
200 pcs radio transmitter and                           248,988        1992
receiver
Total                                                  4,215,132



Annex D.3.
Utilization of track construction and maintenance machines:
1 9 9 3
Denomination                Days of      Hours of       Performance
operation    operation
Levelling tamping machine    (1)      78           434           347.5 km
Levelling tamping machine    (2)      80           414           350.8 kam
Switch changing machine group  (1)    77           352           58 group
Sleeper changing machine    (1)       28           99           1467 sleeper
Sleeper changing machine    (2)       2             15          182 sleeper
Sleeper changing machine    (3)       19           68           680 sleeper
1 9 9 4
Denomination                Days of      Hours of       Performance
operation    operation
Levelling tamnping machine   (1)     155           1011          780.8 km
Levelling tamping machine    (2)     154           1016          784.9 km
Switch changing machine group  (1)   120           648           95 group
Sleeper changing machine    (1)       30           63           1094 sleeper
Sleeper changing machine    (1)       19           41           720 sleeper
Sleeper changing machine    (3)       39           109          1962 sleeper
First half of 1995
Denomination                Days of      Hours of      Performance
operation    operation
Levelling tamping machine   (1)       79           532           422.7 km
Levelling tamping machine   (2)       94           533            424 km
Switch changing machine group  (1)    58           646           90 group
Sleeper changing machine    (1)       -             -
Sleeper changing machine    (2)       4            22           240 sleeper
Sleeper changing machine    (3)       11           62           432 sleeper



Operation and maintenance costs of track construction and maintenance machines
(thousand HUF)
SUMMARY
1 993
Denomination               Operation   Maintenance         Total
costs        costs
Levelling tamnping machine  (1)      5398         714.5           6112.5
Levelling tamnping machine   (2)     5556         606.6           6162.6
Switch changing machine group  (1)   4021          1211            5232
Sleeper changing machine     (1)     370            37             407
Sleeper changing machine     (2)      30            13              43
Sleeper changing machine     (3)      147          7.2             154.2
1994
Denomination               Operation   Maintenance         Total
costs        costs
Levelling tamping machine   (1)      6106          7830            13936
Levelling tamping machine   (2)      5527          5835            11362
Switch changing machine group  (1)  12803          5180           17938
Sleeper changing machine     (1)     246            27             273
Sleeper changing machine     (2)      77            34             111
Sleeper changing machine     (3)     194            16             210
First half of 1995
Denomination               Operation   Maintenance         Total
costs        costs
Levelling tamping machine   (1)      3885          1925            5810
Levelling tamping machine   (2)      4456          1185            5641
Switch changing machine group  (1)   7620          3016            10636
Sleeper changing machine     (1)      -             -
Sleeper changing machine     (2)      18            16              34
Sleeper changing machine     (3)      55            32              87



Operating cost per performance unit (HUF rail-meter; group; sleeper)
Denomination                 1993      1994       1995        Comment
Levelling tamping machine    (1)       17.58     17.84   13.74
Levelling tamping machine    (2)       17.56     14.47   13.30
Switch changing machine group  (1)   90206.89  188821.05 118177.77  with self-loading
unit since 1994
Sleeper changing machine    (1)      277.43     249.54     -
Sleeper changing machine    (2)      236.26     154.16   141.66
Sleeper changing machine    (3)      226.76     107.03   201.38



Performance in track maintenance
1990       1991       1992        1993       1994
Track changing (km)         136         44         9.1        22.4        11.7
Switch-group changing       297        237 .       180        154         175
Sleeper changing           134.3       132.7      69.1        52.9       67.1
(thousand pcs)
Cummulative maintenance backlog as against the demands in 1993
Structures      Yearly quantities to   Cummulative             Value
3___ -___-___|_____      be replaced           backlog           HUF. billion
Track                      400 kmn            2,869 km               71.7
Switches                 600 groups          2.024 groups             8.1
Sleepers                 396,000 pcs       1,410,000 groups           2.8



T A B L E S
6. Key Indicators for Project Operation
6.A    MAV Component
6.B    BKV Component
6.C    Hungarocamion Component
6.D    Road Component
7. Studies Included in Project
8.A    Project Costs
8.B    Project Financing
9.A    Direct Benefits
9.B    Economic Impacts
9.C    Financial Impacts



Page 1 of 4
HUNGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
HUNGARIAN STATE RAILWAYS (ZAV)                                 Table 6A
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
(FOXint3 BillioI13)
ACTUAL
Fiscal Year Ending Decenber 31st                    1997         1998       1989       1990        1991       1992        1993       1994
PASSENGER REVENUE                                        4,955       4,742      5,743       6,821     10,579     11,756      12,298      12,597
I increaae/(decrease)                                       -       -4.3%      21.1%       18.8%      55.1%      11.11        4.6%        2.41
FREIGHT REVENUE                                         29,031      29,638     33,201      37,029     47,297     42,819      32,089      32,354
I increase/(decrease)                                       -        2.1%      12.0%       11.5%      27.7%      -9.5%      -25.1%        0.8%
OTNER REVENUE                                            7,239       6,949      8,114      12,235     14,471      21,761     31,820      26,444
I increase/(decrea3e)                                       -       -4.0t      16.89       50.9%      18.31      50.4%       46.2%      -16.91
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE(excluding subsidies)            41,225      41,329     47,058      56,085     72,347      76,336     76,207      71,395
* increase/ (decrease)                                      -        0.31      13.91       19.2%      29.0%       5.5%       -0.2%       -6.3%
GENERAL GRANT SUBSIDIES                                   2760       4,562      4,969       4,048      2,917       2,450      3,980       9,632
I increase/(decrease)                                       -       65.3%       8.9%     -18.5%      -27.9t     -16.0%       62.4%      142.0%
PASSENGER SUBSIDIES                                      1,175       1,321      1,726      2,290       3,714      5,536       6,156       6,687
I increase/(decrease)                                       -       12.4%      30.7t       32.71      62.2%      49.1t       11.2t        8.6%
TOTAL SUBSIDIES 3/                                       3,935       5,883      6,695       6,330      6,631       7,986     10,136      49,472
* increase/(decrease)                                       -       49.5%      13.8%       -5.3t       4.6%       20.4%      26.9%      388.1%
TOTAL SUBISIDIZED OPERATING REVENUE                     45,160      47,212     53,753      62,423     78,978      84,322     86,343    120,867
* increase/(decrea3e)                                       -        4.5%      13.9%       16.1t      26.5%        6.98       2.4%       40.0%
REVENUE PER UNIT:
________________
PASSENGER REVENUZ/1000 PASSENGER KHS                     442.2       416.1      488.2       603.7    1,083.4    1,304.7    1,457.4    1,537.2
* increase/(decrease)                                       -       -5.9%      17.31       23.7%      79.4%       20.41      11.7%        5.5t
FREIGHT REVENUE/1000  ON MKHS                          1,357.4    1,429.2    1,700.2    2,231.7    4,054.6    4,391.7    4,306.7    4,346.9
I increase/(decrease)                                       -        5.3t      19.0%       31.31      81.7t        8.3%      -1.9%        0.9t
PASSENGER & FREIGHT REVENUE/1000 TRAFFIC UNITS         1,042.7    1,070.0    1,244.6    1,572.2    2,700.7    2,909.1    2,793.5    2,874.5
t increase/(decrease)                                       -        2.6%      16.3%       26.3%      71.8%        7.71      -4.0t        2.9t
LABOR PRODUCTIVITY & WAGE COSTS:
_______________________________
NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES                                    125,656    124,806    121,615    121,615    117,182        99,716     77,120      72,429
I increase/(decrea3e)                                               -  0.7%    -2.6t        0.0%      -3.6%     -14.9%      -22.7%       -6.1%
OPERATING REVENUE PER EMPLOYEE (Ft 1,000)                  359         378         442        513         674        846       1,120      1,669
I increase/(decrease)                                       -        5.3%      16.8%       16.11      31.3%       25.5%      32.4%       49.1%
SALARIES PER EYPL4YEE (Ft 1,000)                         115.1       134.7       168.8      211.9      281.9       402.9       488.7      614.9
I increase/(decrease)                                       -       17.11      25.3%       25.5%      33.0t       42.9%    .21.3%        25.89



Page 2 of 4
SECOND TRANSrORT PROJECT
IIUNGARIAN STATE RAILWAYS (HAV)
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
(Forints Billions)
ACTUAL
1987        1988        1989       1990        1991        1992        1993       1994
OPERATING PERFORMANCE:
_____________________
OPERATING COSTS AS A I OF OPERATING REVENUE
HATERIALS  SUPPLIES                                       19.7%        19.1%      16.8%       13.1%       12.1%      20.6%        19.5%      17.9%
FUEL 4 ELECTRICITY                                         12.8%       13.1%       11.2%       13.6t       12.8%      12.3%       10.9%        8.3%
ELECTRICITY                                                 0.0%        0.0%        0.0%        0.0O        0.0%       0.0O         0.01       0.0%
SALARIES & RELATED COSTS                                   32.0%       35.6t       38.2t       41.3t       41.89      47.61       43.71       36.81
STAFF SOCIAL TAX                                            0.0%        0.0%        0.0%        0.0%        0.0%       0.0t        0.0t        0.0t
OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES                                   17.0%       14.9%       17.4t       19.5t       20.9%       17.7%      28.2%       22.9%
TOT.OPER.EXPS-DEFORE DEPRECIATION                          82.41        82.08      83.61       87.5t       87.7t       98.3t     102.2%       86.0t
PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION                                 15.7%       15.7t       14.1%       12.4t        9.9t      10.8%        8.5%        6.21
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES (OPERATING RATIO)                 98.11        98.5t      97.7%       99.9%       97.5%      109.0t      110.8t      92.1%
OPERATING RATIO EXCLUDING SUBSIDIES                       107.5%      1lZ.5%      111.6t      111.2%      106.5%     120.41      125.5%      156.0%
TRAFFIC VOLtUE
PASSENGER-MIL.DKS                                        11,206      11,395      11,763      11,298      9,765       9,010       8,430       8195
I increase/(decrease)                                        -        1.7t        3.2t       -4.0t     -13.6%       -7.71       -6.31       -2.9%
FREIGHT-MIL.NET TON 1O4S                                 21,387      20,737      19,528      16,592     11,665       9,750       7,451       7443
% increase/(decrease)                                        -       -3.0%       -5.8%     -15.01      -29.7%      -16.4%      -23.6t       -0.1%
TRAFFIC UNITS-MIL.                                       32,593      32,132      31,291      27,890      21,430     18,760      15,889      15,638
I increase/(decrease)                                        -       -1.4%       -2.6%     -10.9%      -23.2%      -12.5%      -15.3%       -1.6%
STAFF PRODUCTIVITY
__________________
PASSENGER KHS(1000)|/EHPLOYEE                              89.2        91.3        96.7        92.9        83.3       90.4       109.4       113.1
t increase/(decreasel                                        -        2.4t        5.9t      -4.0%      -10.3%        8.4%       21.1%        3.4%
FREIGTr TON-KS (1000)/EMPLOYEE                            170.2       166.2       160.6       136.4        99.5       97.8        96.6       102.8
t increase/(decrease)                                        -       -2.4%       -3.4%     -15.01      -27.0%       -1.8%       -1.21        6.4%
TRAFFIC UNITS(1000)/EMPLOYEE                              259.4       257.5       257.3       229.3       182.9      188.1       206.0       215.9
I increase/(decrease)                                        -       -0.7%       -0.1t     -10.9%      -20.3%        2.9%        9.5t        4.8t



liUNtARY                                           Page 3 of 4
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
IIUNGARIAN STATE RAILWAYS (MAV)
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
(Forints Billions)
ACTUAL
Fiscal Year Ending December 31st                    1987        1988       1989       1990       1991        1992       1993        1994
OPERATING EXPENSES,REVENUE, & SUBSIDIES AT 1987 PRICES;
MATERIALS 6 SUPPLIES                                    8,914       9,038      9,041       8,195      9,584     17,368      16,841     21,655
% increase/(decrcase) -year                                -        1.4%       0.0%      -9.4t       16.9%      81.2%      -3.01       28.6%
-over 1987                         -        1.4%       1.4%      -8.1%        7.5%      94.86      88.9%      142.9%
FUEL  ELECTRICITY                                      5,794       6,199      6,003      8,511      10,091     10,401      9,429      10,023
t increase/(decrease) -year                                -        7.0%      -3.21      41.8%       18.6t       3.1%      -9.31        6.3%
-over 1987                         -        7.0%       3.6%      46.9%       74.21      79.5t      62.7%       73.0%
SALARIES & RELATED COSTS                               14,462      16,817     20,527     25,771      33,038     40,176     37,689      44,534
t increase/(d.crease) -year                                -       16.3%      22.11      25.5t       28.2%      21.6%      -6.2%       18.2%
-over 1987                         -       16.3%      41.9%      78.2%      128.4t     177.8B     160.6%      207.9%
OTNER OPERATING EXPENSES                                8,032       7,035      9,360      12,162     16,531     14,928      24,307     21,687
% increase/(decrease) -year                                -      -12.4%      33.0%      29.91       35.91      -9.7%      62.8%       13.9t
-over 1987                         -      -12.41      16.5%      51.4t      105.8%      95.9%      202.6%     244.7t
TOTAL OPERATING EXPS.-BEFORE DEPRECIATION:             37,202      39,089      44,931     54,639     69,244     92,873      88,266    103,899
% increase/(decrease) -year                                -        5.1%      14.9%      21.6t       26.7%      19.71        6.5%      17.7%
-over 1987                         -        5.1%      20.8%       46.91      86.1%     122.81      137.3%     179.3%
Ft.HlL.PER 1000 TRAFFIC UNITS                    1,141       1,217      1,436      1,959      3,231       4,418      5,555       6,644
I increa3e/(decrease) -year                         -        6.6%      18.0%      36.4%      64.9%       36.7%      25.7%       19.6%
-over 1987                  -           -      25.8%      71.61     183.1%      287.0%     386.71      482.1%



HUNCARY                                               Page 4 of 4
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
HUNGARIAN STATE RAILWAYS (HAV)
PERFORMANCZ INDICATORS
(Forints Billions)
ACTUAL
1987        1988        1989        1990       1991        1992        1993        1994
PASSENGER REVDIUE -BEFORt SUBSIDIES                       4,955       4,742       5,743       6,821      10,579     11,756      12,298      12,597
% increase/(docrease) -year                          -       -4.3%       21.1%       18.8%       55.1%       11.1%       4.6%         2.4%
Ft.Hil.PER 1000 PASSENGER KXJ.                            442         416         488         604      1,083       1,305       1,457       1,537
1 increase/(decrease) -year                          -       -5.9%       17.31       23.7%       79.4%      20.4%       11.7%        5.5%
-over 1987                           -5.9%       10.4%      36.5%      145.0%      195.1%      229.6%      247.6%
FREIGHT REVENUE -BEFORE SUBSIDIES:                      29,031       29,638      33,201      37,029     47,297      42,819      32,069      3Z,354
t increase/(docrease) -year    *                     -        2.1t       12.0t       11.5t       27.71      -9.51      -25.1         0.8t
Ft.Mil.PER 1000 NET-TOM Kis.                            1,357       1,429       1,700      2,232       4,055       4,392       4,307       4,347
% increase/fdecrea3e) -year                          -        5.3%       19.0%       31.3%       61.7t       8.31       -1.9%        0.9%
-over 1987                   -        5.31      25.3%       64.4t      198.7%      223.5%      217.3%      220.2%
TOT.PASSENGER & FREIGHT REVENUE-BEFORE SUBSIDIES    33,996           34,380      36,944      43,050     57,876      54,575      44,387      44,951
% increase/(decrease) -year                          -         1.2%      13.3t       12.6%       32.0%      -5.7t      -18.71         1.3%
Ft.Mil.PER 1000 TRAFFIC UNITS                           1,043       1,070       1,245       1,572      2,701       2,909       2,793       2,874
% incxease/(decrease) -year                          -         2.6t      16.3%       26.3t       71.8%        7.71      -4.0t        2.91
-over 1987                   -        2.6t       19.4%      50.8%      159.0%      179.0%      167.9t      175.7%
STATE SUBSIDIES -GENERAL GRANT: 1/                        2,760       4,562       4,969       4,048       2,917      2,450       3,980       9,632
t increase/(decrea3e) -year                          -        65.3%       8.9t      -18.5%      -27.91     -16.01       62.4%      142.01
Ft.Mil.PER 1000 TRAFFIC UNITS                            84.7       142.0       158.8       145.1      136.1       130.6       250.5       615.9
% increase/(decrease) -year                          -        67.7%      11.6%       -8.6%       -6.21      -4.1%       91.8%      145.91
-over 1987                   -       67.7%       87.5%      71.41       60.7%       54.2%      195.8%      627.41
STATE SUBSIDIES -PASSENGER TRAFFIC: 2/                    1,175       1,321       1,726       2,290       3,714      5,536       6,156       6,687
% increaae/(decrease) -year                          -        12.4%      30.7%       32.7%       62.2%       49.1%      11.2%         8.61
Ft.Mil.PER 1000 PASSENGER KVm.                          104.9       115.9       146.7       202.7      380.3       614.4       729.5       816.0
% increase/(decrease) -year                          -        10.6%      26.6%       38.1%       87.6%       61.5t      18.7%        11.9%
-over 1987                   -       10.6%       39.9t      93.3%      262.7t      486.0%      595.7%      678.2%
TOTAL SUBSIDIES: 3/                                       3,935        5,883      6,695       6,338       6,631       7,996     10,136      49,472
% increase/(decrease) -year                           -       49.5%      13.8t       -5.3%        4.6t       20.4t      26.9%      388.11
Ft.MIL.PER 1000 TRAFFIC UNITS                           120.7       183.1       214.0       227.2       309.4      425.7       637.9    3,163.6
% increase/(decrease) -year                           -       51.6%      16.9%        6.2%       36.2%       37.6%       49.9%     395.91
-over 1987                   -       51.6%       77.2%      88.2t      156.3t      252.61      428.4%    2520.3%
1/ Subsidy from state budget to cover part of the lo3s on passenger operations, excluding
lost revenue due to difference between regular full fares . concessional fazes covered by passenger subsidy.
2/ social cost representing difference between full fares & concessional faxrp  f-r                .s -        -



Table 68
Hungary / Magyarorszhg
Budapest Traraport Company (BKV)
Second Transport Project I 11. KbzAeked6si Program
1937                  13S                   1533                  16                    1,1
Key operalg kdcaIr     hi SARfes  Repo1          Unk         Esirn e     Acbua      Euims   |  Actud      Estimate    Actual    Esdibme    Actul      Ed |mate    Actal
._______________________________    Egysag        B.cS*       Tin       Demo        Tiny      Becs(L11    Tiny       BecsO1     Tin    | cCi           T|nY
operainlTargets                            -_____          r____           --__
Ar    namber Of p_ulan p    h.Msy            p_s_ _h.
Allagos uta rzn /l/mGd I                                                -a=                                =__==_
cJ Tram             iMM)                                      1 770,CID    1  89    I t0 I0 18918                    1 871,     1        j1 70,       1 770,C    1814,
bJ Bus          (AtAbz)                                      1 515,      1  590.70    I 5.OD   1 5B1,X0   1 520,     1 599,4C    1 530     1 667,3    1 530      1 35
c J Underground    (LMk6.MFAV)                               3 715,m    390,        3 735,CID    3 892,80            30,2C    3 75D,0    3316,20    3  750,00   3117,2D
Non avaabuy of vde                                                               _        
Rendelkeziwe nan  6 jkm0vek                 tartal.h ok .             .
aJ Tram         IViiN )                                          7,00       6,90       7,0        7.80        7,a       9,6C       6,50      13O          6,5       16,30
bJ Bus         IAUt6buRz                                         9,40       3,4D      94          4,S        9,4C       6,10       a,         810        8D
ci Underground    lMeu6)                                         i 5C       690        150         73t        1.        76C        151        141         15D       9.
Stan Prod& #.y
Szem&dyzet produkldlvltlh                   uknAlhtszJm         387.01)    397,20     34D,00     390.40     340,Cc     391,70     34O,00     371,70     30         36790
______                               fun%iszArn                  1  282,7   2___       194,_1                1 274,                1 226,2_              I 20D_30
FhiancW Targets                                                          _
Phnzagvl ctZok.
Total Operat  Cost                            HUFpikm                            _          _                                                ___                      -
Teijes UzmuneItos kltN Id  Ftlutam                                1,42       1,421   1j46          1,         1,46       1,,                              1,46j      2,78
Opeafin  Ratio                           I                      s   I                                                                             I          I
Ozarnaftef6sl rhta                       I______                 _6_10      __ 6A06~ -9,64         719p2                                      ne l       n          09



Table 6 I
1392                 "a6                    166                   116
E 1i       Acha      Esurs       Ackal    Edn           Adad      Eslh Fnid
8ecaL       Tdv1     Becl        Tb         Bs          Ti         SOW        V
1 770,    1751       1 770        68 1 61 191720I                             17742
I 5"       I         IX,<  1    141         15x74    1 6.7            7        1718
_  __  __~~_________ __)I
376        23        380D         778       270M       2816         2707       2731i
6,3a      13,     -    M        9j. zoo                47          14 1,4
8,5a   6NC  8a       6,          062       5.70        7.9        6X8
-,!x1  11,1C   1>   10,90    10       11          13,411     13,66
337                  3.27       3.                                  70. .
1g 34                 1 335.7   12404    1j =.e1    124877
- .D



Table 6C: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Hunigarocanion
(international transport)    000 km    90.9        90.3      92.8      95.1               99.8     94.6      97.0               6.
Dead mileage                               .        28.7       .       22.6               22.4       .23.0                       23.9
Average transport distance   km          1,409    1,409    1,410    1,491                1,503    1,40    1,568                 1,570
Time needed to cou lete
average transport dletance   days          3.9       3.9      3.9       3.7                3.5       3.9       3.6                3.8
Revenue per productive km    Ft/km        35.0      50.5     35.7      49.0               56.4      37.0      60.3               85.2
Staff productivity
per employee                   km/a.    378.s    378.6    380.0    40S.S                 408.8    365.0    380.9                359.8
II.Financial targets
Operating Ratio                t          78.3      78.3     83.0      86.8      82.4     84.7      81.4      91.1               92.4
Rate of return on net
fixed assets in operation    %            39.5      39.9     30.5      28.5      31.3     40.3    31.0        27.0               25.1



1992              1993           1994        1995
Unit    Estimate  Actual  Estimate  Actual    Actual    Forecast
1. Operational tarQets
Vehicle annual utilization
(international transport)    000 km    99.5       96.3    103.0      95.2       90.3       94.8
Dead mileage                              .       22.5               25.6       22.3        22.0
Average transport distance   km         1,470    1,775    1,480    1,819       1,680       1,680
Time needed to complete
average transport distance   days         3.8      4.6       3.8      5.0        4.6         4.5
Revenue per productive km    Ft/km       39.0     92.1      40.0    110.3      139.5       171.0
Staff productivity
per employee                  km/e.    395.0    340.7    405.0    357.9        403.4       406.6
II. Financial targets
Operating Ratio                          80.0     94.8      80.0     98.6      102.7        98.9
Rate of return on net
fixed assets in operation    5           28.0     11.8      29.0      2.4       (S.5)       2.9



Table 6.D: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Road Component
Operational Targets
Appraisal                                        Actual
Design    Lane width  Minimum   Maximum         Design    Lane width  Minimum   Maximum
Speed        m        horizontal    grade       Speed        m        horizontal    grade
km/h                   radius        %          km/h                   radius        %
m                                              m           __
Principal Highway Design Standards
Motorways
Flat    120        3.75         750         4.0         120        3.75         750         4.0
Rolling    120        3.75         750         4.0         100        3.50         500         5.0
Mountainous     100        3.50        500          5.0         80         3.50        300          6.0
Residential Areas  80                      300         6.0       100-80       3.50       500-300     5.0-6.0
Main Trunk Roads
Flat    100        3.50         500         5.0         100        3.50         500         5.0
Rolling   100-80      3.50       500-300       6.0       100-80       3.50       500-300     5.0-6.0
Mountainous    80-60     3.50-3.25    300-150       7.0         80         3.50        300          6.0
Residential Areas   80-50   3.50-3.25    300-100       8.0        80-60       3.25       300-150     6.0-7.0
Secondary Roads
Flat   80-60     3.50-3.00    300-150     6.0-7.0       100        3.50         500         5.0
Rolling    60-40    3.50-3.00     50-60      7.0-9.0       80         3.50         300         6.0
Mountainous    40-30     3.25-3.00    60-30      9.0-10.0       60         3.25        150         7.0
Residential Areas   70-40   3.50-3.00    200-60      6.0-9.0      70-50       3.25         100       6.0-8.0



Table 6.D: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Road Component
Financial Targets
Key indicators                               1989               1990                 l               1992               1993         1994      1995
Estimate  Actal  Estimate  Actual  Estimate  Actual  Estimate  Actual  Estimate  Actual   Actual  Forecast
a) Road uscr charges for heavy trucks %   40       100      60       100       74.      100      n.a      100       100      100      100      100
b) Incrcasc runds for road maintcnlacc %  10       100      10       172       50       115      50       138       50       143      142       90
Key indicators                                        1989          1990          1991           1992          1993          1994          1995
Actual        Actual        Actual        AcIuJl        Actual         Actual       Forecast
ad/a Fces irom ovenveight vehicles  (USD million)      251           272           291           303           255            254           280
ad/b. Maintcnance Cxpendilures      (USD million)     3,196         5,487         6,329         8,749         12,539         17,814        16,000



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study               Purpose as deflned at                Status                  Impact of study
appraisalredefined
MTCWM
1. Study on River Port  Preparation of a study to develop a   Completed.         The recommendations of the
and River Transport  master  plan  for  the  funher                            study  were  adopted  to  the
Development         expansion of river transport and                           definition of the river transport
ports.                                                     development concept.
BKV
1. Study on           Preparation of a management and Restructuring    of   the The concept and schedule of
Organization        organization improvement study to company  has commenced restructuring was elaborated on
and Management    develop       low-cost    methods and is currently underway the   basis  of  the   studv
(preferably    not    involving on  the  basis  of  the recommendations
investments)    for    increasing recommended action plan.
operational  efficiency,  revenue- The first phase  of this Results achieved so far:
earning capabilities, competitiveness process was completed and - Distribution of tasks between
and market-responsiveness,      implementation   of  the  the central and branch
second has started.        directorates. Separation of
To this end:                                                non-core activities.
- Recommendations for                                      - Utilization of assets, steps
- the main directions of                                    towards improved market-
reorganization                                            responsiveness.
- distribution of functions within                         -Establishment of a system of
the company,                                              arrangements maintaining
- re-shaping the company,                                   operation
- control of extenal relations and
financial conditions.
MAV
I.Railway Costing     Assessment  and   analysis  of Phase  I  of  the  study Route-bound         base    cost
Study               operation costs, supporting decision- (elaboration of a method for calculation was introduced in a
making by the management and route-bound   base   cost pilot scheme for a reference area
revealing the possibilities of cost calculation) was completed then for the whole nets ork.
saving,                          in   co-operation    with
consultants   Management,
Planning   and   Research
GmbH and KTI (Institute
for Transport Sciences)
Phase 2 (establishment of
renewed data collection and
accounting in response to
the new act on accounting)
was   commenced    but
suspended to be replaced bv
the  studv  of  a  more
comprehensive    financial
model to be applied to the
business plan. This subject
was reviewed in the frames
of an other study.
2. Business Plan      Elaboration of a business plan which The study was conducted by Although  the  new  economic
would serve as the basis for MAVs Consultant     MERCER  environment  brought  about
management.                      Several   versions   were remarkable changes also  for
elaborated under Phase 1. MAV,          the       study
Then. under Phase 2, the recommendations. duly adapted.
preferred one was detailed can be considered as a useful
furLher,                  starting point for developing a
business plan and management
I strategv.



Table 8.A: Project costs
Appraisal estimate               Acual/latest estimate
(USD million)                     (USD uilllon)
Project Component       Local costs   Foreign     Total    Local costs   Foreip     Total
costs                             costs
ROAD COMPONENT
1. MO Construcion                37.6        18.2       55.8       83.9        24.9       108.8
2. Pavement Strengthening        46.4        25.0       71.4       45.74       25.0       70.74
3. Road Maintenance Equipment     1.5        6.5         8.0        0.8         5.7        6.5
4. Technical Assistance           0.5        0.6         1.1        0.1         1.3        1.4
Physical Contingencies      4.0         2.7        6.7         -
Price Contingencies         6.0         3.6        9.6         .           .
Total for Road Component:        96.2        56.6       152.8      130.54      56.9       137.44
BKV COMPONENT
I. Traffic Control Syacm          7.8        2.7        10.5        5.25       3.95        9.20
2. Technical Assistance           0.2        0.3         0.5                   0.05        0.05
Physical Contingencies      0.3         0.2        0.5
Price Contingencies         0.7         0.3        1.0          -
Total for BKV Component:          9.0        3.5        12.5        5.25       4.00        9.25
RC COMPONENT
1. ICIS                           5.0        5.0        10.0        6.1         6.0        12.1
2. Handling Equipment'            4.6         1.0        5.6
3. Road Maintenance Equipment     0.1        0.1         0.2         0.0        0.1         0.1
Physical Contingencies      0.7         0.3        1.0 .
Price Contingencies         0.7         0.4         1.1
Total for HC Component:           11.1        6.8        17.9        6.1        6.1         12.2
MAV COMPONENT
I.TMIS                            20.0       9.9         29.9       39.29      19.40       58.69
2. Rail Rec.cling Plant           11.6        8.2        19.8       6.24        2.98        9.22
3. Road Maintenance Equipment     2.4         6.5        8.9        2.23        4.57        6.80
4. Technical Assistance           0.4         0.4        0.8                    1.05        1.05
Phvsical Contingencies       1.3        0.7         2.0         .
Pnce Contingencies           3.0        2.4         5.4
Total for MAV Component:         38.7        28.1        66.8       47.76      28.00       75.76
TOTAL:                            155.0      95.0        250.0      189.65      95.0       284.65
This sub-component was orrulted in 1991 miih the sun reallocated to ICIS



Table 8.B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate              Actual/latest estimate
(USD million)                    (USD million)
Source          Local costs  Foreign     Total   Local costs   Forei4      Total
costs                             cots
1. IBRD                               95.0       95.0         -         95.0        95.0
2. Government              96.2                   96.2      130.54        -        130.54
3. MAV                     38.7                   38.7      47.76                  47.76
4. Hungarocamion           11.1         .         11.1       6.1          .          6.1
5. BKV                     9.00                   9.0        5.25                   5.25
Total                     155.00      95.0       250.0      189.65      95.0       284.65



________________Table 9.A: Direct benefits
Appraisal estimate                       Actual
BKV COMPONENT |                                     __ I
Traffic Control      Expted benefits:                    Actual benefits:
System               -improved adherence to schedule;    - fleet capacity relieve(5%/6);
- shortened turn-round time;        - saving in operation costs;
- decrease of vehicle fleet;        - saving in labour costs;
- saving in operation costs;        - saving in capital costs due to reduced
- saving in energy costs;            vehicle needs;
- increased reliability;            - increased performance capacity;
- flexible traffic control;         - improved quality parameters
(reliability, balanced schedule of
vehicle running, etc);
- faster remedy of defects;
- improved operational safety;
- enhanced mechanical life time;
- reduced need for maintenance;
- co-ordinated traffic light control
depending on traffic flowv.
HC COMPONENT                               .
Decreased of office                  27%                                 22%
staff
Decrease  of  vehicle               8-10%                                22%
fleet
Increased   invoicing             16-18 nap                             10 nap
speed
MAV COMPONENT
D. 1. TMIS           By means of a high-level information MAV have established a technical basis
system, improving  the utilization  of for improving their internal technological
existing   MAV    capacity  through process and efficiencv of operations.
improving   wagon   and  locomotive
utilization, operations planning and
performances   at   terminals   and
marshalling yards.
D.2  Rail  recvcling Avoiding the needs for nev rails and A recycling plant to perform welding and
plant                switches by efficient rail and switch long rail fabrication of improved level,
recvcling.                          could be developed.
D.3 Procurement of    More efficient maintenance through the By mechanization of the most demanding
track maintenance    extension and replacement of the obsolete tasks  of  track   maintenance  and
equipment            maintenance equipment fleet.         construction, the necessar) capacities can
be proiided.



Table 9.A: Direct Benefits
(Road Component)
Actual (HUF million)
1989         1990         1991         1992         1993          1994         1995
Vehicle operations costs    1,000        1,600        2,200        3,000        3,200         3,000        2,500
Futitre needs for           800          1,000        1,500        2,000         1,500        1,500        1,500
reconstruction             ((160)        (250)        (400)        (750)         (900)       (1,200)
Valuie of the public road  2,000         3,000        4,000        5,000        5,000         4,000        3,500
network                    (400)         (750)       (1,200)      (2,200)       (3,000)      (3,200)
Note: discounted figures (1995). Figures in parentheses show yearly nominal values.



Table 9.B: Economic Impacts
Economic rate of return %
-           --    - Appraisal estimate    1           Actual
ROAD COMPONENT
MO ConstMuction                            15                     17.9 (23.1)')
Pavement Strengthening                     30                          32
BKV COMPONENT                   _          .
Traffic Control Systems                    16                         15.3
HC COMPONENT
ICIS                                       22                          20
MAyV COMPONENT
TD (S                                      22                         24.9
Rail Recycling Plant                        16                         162)
ai rdt; ;i,kik,T,i,zuR.u             ~      i             1^
I)Figure in parentheses show ERR also considering time costs.
2) Latest estimate.
3) ERR can not be quantified due to inadequate volunme of track maintenance and construction.



-H
-  '9
a ~-L
*U 
-i _



Table 9.C: Financial Impacts
(MAV)
D.1 TMIS                              Forecast benefits subsequent to TMIS
introduction in the period 1996 to 2005
Tariffs                                     HUF million 1,353,150
Saving in wagon purchase                    HUF million 3,410,000
Saying in wagon maintenance                 HUF million 6,062,500
Revenue                                     HUF million 5,320,109



APPENDICES
Appendix 1:  Financial Tables of BKV
Appendix 2:  Financial Tables of HC
Appendix 3:  Income Statement of MAV
Appendix 4:  Road Component - Maximum Acceptable Traffic Volumes
Appendix 5:  Road Component - Data on Road Network
Appendix 6:  Road Component - Highway Expenditure Plan



AppendiX 1
Second Transport Project
Budapest Transport Coepeny (BIKV)
.Income Statement
(Forints millions)
1967              1998                     1989                    1990                     1991                     1992                     1993              1994
Fiscal Year Ending December 31st            Actual      Actual   Estimate       Actual   Estimate        Actual   Estimate        Actual    Estimate       Actual   Estimate       Actual   Estimate        ACtual
OPERATING REVEMJE:
PASSENGER TRAFFIC                                 2,040       2,015       2,053       3,156       4,123        4,368       4,206        5,609        5,462       6,635       5,534       7,334        6,568       8,381
OTHER OPERATING INCO4E                            1,153       1,163       1,099        1,711       1,099       1,109       1,099        1,122        1,099         689       1,100          753       1,100       2,442
TOTAL OPERATING RIVUWEZ                           3,193       3,379       3,152       4,867       5,222        5,477       5,305        6,731        6,561       7,523       6,634       8,087        7,968      10,623
STATE SUBSIDIES -MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM            4,993       5,246       5,iso       5,920       5,155        8,720       5,155        9,580        5,150      11,500       1,305      11,377          329      11,250
-PASSENGER TRAFFIC             4,387       5,168       4,595       4,250       2,529        2,477       2,449        3,214        1,336       4,403       5,140        4,940       5,140       5,835
SALES TAX                                            (1)          (1)         (11         (1)         (1)                     (1)        (159)           (1)                    (1)                       (1)
TOTALL SUBSIDIZED OPERATtNG REVUNIE              12,572      13,591      12,896      15,036      12,905       16,674      12,908       19,366       13,046     23,426       13.078      24,404       13,136      27,908
OPERATING EXPENSES:
MATERIALS 4 SUPPLIES                              4,392       4,462       3,710        4,683       3,690       4,230       3,667        4,735        3,674       6,416        3683        6,806       3,705       7,238
PURL a ELEZCTRICITY                               1,340       1,571       1,353       1,546       1,350        2,398       1,340        3,115        1,355       3,327       1,360       3,203        1,368       3,909
SALARXIES A RELATED ODSTS                         3,190       3,810       3,841       4,966       3,842        6,437       3,642        8,619        3,870      11,206       3,880      12,533        3,900      15,148
COST oF SALES OF RESALE PRODLMTS                    636         746          637         923         637         446         639           77          637          55         637           69         638         118
OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES                            673         783       1,022          765       1,022         670       1,032        1,037        1,032 I    1,204        1,033        1,118       1,033       2,473
WORKS CAPITALIZED                                                                                                                                               (2,614)                  (3,203)                 (4,466)
OPERATING EXPS.3E9ORE  MCPRIECIATICG             10,233      11,374      10,563      12,883      10,541       14,161      10,520       17,583       10,568      19,594      10,593      20,926       10,644      24,420
PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION                        1,844       1,629       1,900       1,882       1,925        1,946       1,949        2,153        2,034       3,715       2,040       3,717        2,045       4,381
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSELS                        12,077      13,203      12,463      14,765      12,466       16,107      12,469       19,736       12,602      23,309      12,633      24,643       12,689      28,801
NET OPERATING INOMIE                                495         388          133         271         439         567         439         (370)         444         117         445         (239)        447         (893)
INTEREST ON LOANS                                    15          24           15          30          51          39          51          160           89          31          18           19          15          17
NET INCOE BEFOREt TAXES                             480         364          418         241         388         528         388         (530)         355          86         427         (258)        432        (910)
TAXON PRtOFITS                                       49           36          40          62          27          58          22           17            15         39           7            0            7           0
NET INDU4E AFTER TAXELS                             431         328          378         179         361         470         366         (547)         340          47         420         (258)        425         (910)
.. . .            - - -        . ..        - - -       . ..        . ..         - - -       ....          -    .     . . . .-.                 . ..       . . .
OPERATING RATIO - ACTUAI.S                         96.1%       97.1%       96.6%       98.2%        96.6%       96.6%       96.6%       101.9%        96.6%       99.5%       96.6%       101.0%       96.6%      103.2%
- ODVENANT                                              98.0%       98.0%        98.0%       98.0%       98.0%        98.0%A       98.0%       98.0%       98.0%        98.0%       98.0%       98.0%



APPENDIX 1
Hungary I Magyarorszig
Budapest Transport Company (BKV)
Second Transport Project / II. KOzlekedesi Program
Balance Sheet
(Forints Millions)
Assets                Tenv    BecsOlt I Teny   Becsult | Tiny   BecsOlt | Teny   BecsOlt |  Teny
(Forints.Millions)      Actual   Estimate  Actual Estimate  Actual Estimate| Actual Estimat1  Actual
:              T        I        I        I       r        I       r I 
Fiscal Year Ending Decernber 31st.  1987         1988              1989             1990              1991
Fxes Asset in Operation          43 542  44 522  47 163  -45 622  48 735   52 672   49 749  53 700    57 235
Provmion for Deprscation          13 422   14 300   17 333  15 200   18 603   16 300   19 955  17 100   21 577
Not Fixed Asawts In Operatlon    30 120  30 222  29 830  30 422  30 132  36 3721  29 794  36600    35 658
Work-"rogreas                       738      750    1 047     750    1 389      750    1 140    750        943
Total Net Fixed Assets            30 858  30 972  30 877  31 172  31 521  37 122  30 934  37 350    36 601
Other Non-Current Assets             628     650               670               680              680
Curreni Assets:
Cash& Bank                 _728              6001    431       450       96      520      181     420        61
Short-term Deposit           _                 181      a       86        0      144        0     191         0
Accounts Receivable                  398     400      420      405      491      405      521     405       812
Inventories                        2 646    2 650   2 900   2 660    3 326    2 680    3 980   2 710      3 304
Other Current Asses                  168      168     846      172      704      172     717      174     2 692
Total Current Asets                3 940    3 836   4 597    3 773    4 617    3 921    5 399   3 900     6 889
Total A"ets                         35 426  35 4581 35 474   35 615  36 138  41 723  36 333  41 930    43 470
UiablIgie & EcuidItx Lono -ite,  Iibht
Long-term Lowas                        0 L              0      36        0       72        0     183        31
ProvieaonsLOtherNon-Current Debt     152      160o      0      170        D      170        0     180         0
Total Long-temi Uabimles            1152      160        0     206        0      242        0     383        31
Cunent labilip                            |        |        
Accounts Payable                     662      5001    712      500      697      450      334     450       149
CutTent Portion Of Long-term DeDt  |   0        0]       0       0        0        0        0      10         0
Short-trm Loan S Credits              0        0        0             148                 5                 0
ProvisonlorTaxesonIncome             (98)   (110)1  (323)   (110)   (144)   (110j   (252i   (110i          (81
Other Crerit Liabilites              123      100j    5881    100       509      100      853     100      1 129
Accau  Expenss                       236      2401    289      240        13     240      112     245        20
Total Current Uabllthes              923      730    1 266     730    1 223      680    1 052     695      1 217
Total Labilltles                     1 075      8901   1 266     936    1 223      922    1 052   1 058      1 248
Reserve Fund                           0        01       0        0        0       0        0        0         0
Cter Funds                        33 924  34 1901 34 191   34 318   34 914   40 435  35 078  40 532    42 149
Net Income Curfent-Year              427      3781      17     361         1     366      203     340        73
Total Rqufty                      34 351   34 568  34 208  34 679   34 915  40 801   35 281  40 872    42 222
Total LlabIlitis & Equtty           35 426   35 4581  35 474  35 615   36 138   41 723  36 3331 41 930    43 470
PKI                                                                                              1995.10.13



APPENDIX 1
Becsult | Tenv   Becsult |  Teny    Becsolt |  Tenv
Estimate   Actual Estimate|  Actual   Estimate   Actual
1992             1993                1994
54_750  65 533  55 800    69 136   44 522    74 707
18 000  26 621   18 950    29925    14 300    33 558
36 750  38 912  36 850    39 211    30 222    41 149
750    1 150     750     1 391      750      2 238
37 500  40 062  37 600    40 602    30 972    43 387
690              690                650
450     131      520        78      600        ,25
346       0      351         0        18         0
410     666      410       324      400        733
2 710    3 355    2 710    3 075    2 650      3 205
174     914      174       537      168       530
4 090    5 068    4 165    4 014     3 836     4 593
42 280  45 128   42 455    44 616    35 458    47 980
123     174       99       325         0       627
170       0      170         0       160 .__
293     174      269       325       160       627
400    1 075     500       499       500     1 t3169
10       l     24         0l       0 
______ I 398 L___203                               660
I (t110)   (255)   (110)    (407)     (98)     (154)
100     895      100       878       123     1 267
245      75      245        61       236       240
645   2 088      759     1 234       761     3 388
938    2 262    1 028    1 559       921     4015
0      21        0        23         ol       86
j    0922  42 7591 41 002    43 293    33 924    44 789
4201     861    425       (259)      427      .910
41 3421 42 866  41 427    43 057    34 351    43 965
42 2801 45 128  42 455    44 616    35 272    47 980
PKI                                                                                            1995.10-13



Hungary / Magyarorszig
BKV
Second Transport Project / II. Kczleked6si Program                   APPENOIX 1
Statement of Source & Applications of Founds
(Forints Million)
Teny      Becsult t    Teny   Becsult |  T6ny    Becsilt    Teny    Becsllt    T6ny        Becsult I  TUny
Actual    Estimate   Actual   Estimate   Actual   Estimate   Actual   Estimate   Actual   Estimate | Actual
Fiscal Year Ending December 31st.  1987           1988                1989                1990                1991                 1992
Suo   i lFunds                _   =    =    =                                                          __ =_
Operating Income                    495       433       388       439        271       439       567       444      (370)      445        117
Add. Depreclation                 1 845      1 900     1829      1925      1 882     1 949     1 946     2 034      2 153     2 040     3 715
Less. Taxes on Income               (53)      (40)      (36)      (27)      (62)       (22)      (58)      (15)      (17)       (7)        0
Total Infernal Funds Generation   2 287     2 293      2 181     2 337     2 091     2 366     2 455     2 463      1 766     2 478     3 832
Word Bank Loan                        0         0         0         36         0        36         0        71        31          0       143
Long-lerm Loans-Domestic Corrency     0         0         0          0         0         0         0        50         0         0          0
Other Sources                       557       660        83        772       150       627        32     1 179       754       706        995
Total External Source of Funds      557       660        83       808        150       663        32     1 300       785       706      1 138
Tolal Source of Funds               2 844     2 953     2 264      3 145     2 241     3 029     2 487     3 783     2 551      3184      4 970
A       &falion o f  .Mi       _                                                                        _
Capial Expendltwe                 1 925      1 880     1 724     2 000     2 296     2 010     1 491     2 030      1 944     2 000     3 399
Loan Irdefest Chuged to lncome       15        15         0         51         0        51         0        89          1        18        26
Repayment of LT Loan Princlpa         0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0       60           0
Dept Service                         15        15         0         51         0        51         0        89          1        78        26
Cash 6 Bank                          68      (128)     (297)     (150)      (335)       70        85      (100)     (120         30        70
Short-lesm Deposis                    0        18          0        68         0        58         0        47          0       155         0
Other Curcent Assets                188         6          0        19         0        20         0        32          0         5          0
Short Temr Loans A Credis             0         0          0         0         0         0       1SO         0          5         0       114
Other Curtert Liabllies           (518)       193       465         0        (79)      50        344                 276        50       224
Worklng Capial IncrDecr           (262)        89       168        (63)     (414)      198       579       (26)      161       240       408
Other Applicallons:               I_ ___                      _
TransferstoStatoBudgel               72       330        148       250         5       170         5       105        159        30       388
lncerdive Fund Paymenis              99         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
Other Appicalmons                   995       639       224        907       354       600       412      1 565       286       836       749
1 166      969       372      1157        359       770       417      1 670       445       866     1137
Total Applications of Funds         2 844      2 953     2 264     3 145     2 241     3 029     2 487     3 763      2 551     3 184     4 970
PKI                                                                                                                                               1995.10.16



APPENOIX I
Becsuit |  Teny     T6ny
Estimate   Actual    Actual
1993          1994
447     (239)    (893)
2 045    3 717     4 380
_ (7)     0         0
2 485     3 478    3 487
0       87        74
0        0       435
728      457      1 499
728      S44      2 008
3 213    4 022     5 495
2 000    2 230     2 321
15       50        70
10        0        18
25       SO        88
70      (53)       4
5        0         01
0        0         01
0      398       186
(100)     (83)      289
(25)     262       522
30      575       573
0        0         0
1 183      905     1 991
1 213    1480      2 564
3 213    4022      5495
PKI                                                                                                                                         1995.10.16



Hungary I Magyarorszag
Budapest Transpod Company (BKV)                                                         APPENDIX  1
It. Transport Project 11. Kozlekeddsi Program
Investment Plan
(in million HUF)
19___-_16-90                     131144                    1995
._____________________  .Eshnste                    Actusl           Pln            Actual            Plan
Construction                         Ept4s                  Thv              Ttr             Terv             T6y              Terv
_, awps                TIos                                12.177                            53D.1            4965             407,
Traffic lacuies             Forgah iltesflnmnwek                  24               35,9            28.3             24,5             12
Oth facUmies               Vegyes Lteffstnryek                  EE,8             OW0O            389.7            3976              87.7
Track                       Pay.                                2104,3           24D77           2235,4           2198,2            1 0.0
Cable construction          Khbe"                                245,8            12381            85,5              9               168
Ttoldy-wire con5.           FebRvezetk                           250,8            250,8           166.7            177.8             20,0
Other                       Eg01b                                133.8              0.0            81.6             895              105
Subtotal constr.            Osszesen                            4683.2           5137.8          35173            3443.4            714,4
Machinery                              Gdp
Power iMcWJ*"
transfornws                 Ero Es dramMabkh6k                   227.1            114,9           845,5            85e.4             48,
Signakig and safl           JeMM ds bWosk6ber.                   252,0            213.9            2107            181,4             61.2
Comnwdusncon svst.          Hirkaziff                            233,7             47.6            749.2           671,             231 4
orrce eq. comPulrs          irodgipek, komniperek                147.0            231.2            134.4           164.5             24.8
Vehikce                     JinmOvek                             170.0            128 4            274,             45 14,t          37.5
0her                         X*yb                                40l        .        ._962 s                                        253.9
011w ~~~~~~~L440.0                                                         560.0           833.3                              239
Suitul machInery           _________                            1489,8           1296.0           3D44.5          2981,7            6668
Fleet replacement          Jilrmo                               3524,5           280684           2827.7          2371,6            581!.
Techkal Dev. Fund           K + F                                100.0             71.3            191.2             4.7             10,1
Conlingenciks               KeetitMds                                                               98.3            34.2             15.
WO loan dept.               VB hel lad_.                                                            10.5             0.0             37.0
Free sm fof branchs         Azad szabadkeae                                                        101.7             0.0             784
Grand Total                 Mindosszesen   _9777.                                9111,5           9791,2           8353.6          2093,1
PKI                                                                                                                                                                 1995.10.13



APPENOIX 2
SECOND TRANIPC'RT PROJECT - NMNQAROCAx3IOU
Income statement
(Forints millions)
1987               1988                1989                1990                1991
estimate actual  estimate  actual  estimate actual estimate  actual  estimate  actual
OPERATING REVENUE
INTERNATIONAL TRANSPORT           5,833    S,033    5,874    7,070    6,121    8,684    6,451   10,113    6,747   11,129
OTHER OPERATING INCOME               367      367       472      403      480       679      491       969      502       955
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE           6,200    6,200    6,346    7,473    6,601    9,363    6,942   11,082    7,249   12,084
flS.=S  =sfls*flflfflC        sSaw    =fl*    *S-flXS  floWS    WO               =5=5    005    5=05    = ===    ==5
OPERATING EXPENSES
MATERIAL & SUPPLIES                 910      910    1,089       882    1,128    1,298    1,179    1, 535    1, 230    1,403
FUEL                             1,003    1,003        948    1,178      981    1,338    1,025    1,941    1,070    2,521
SALARIES & RELATED COSTS            836      836    1,118    1,181    1,159    1,479    1,190    1,747    1,227    2,024
DRIVER ALLO'4ANCES                  446       446      447       599      463       660      484       820      SOS       783
FERRY FEES                          159      159       159      260       165      246       172       207      180      239
TRANSIT FEES & TAXES                536       399      538       546      557       396      582       532      608       818
COST OF SALES OF RESALE PRODUCTS               e1                160                303                530                396
OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES             295      350      298       958      296    1,392       297    1,954       298    1,736
OPERATING EXPS. BEFORE DEPR.    4,085    4,084    4,597    5,654    4,749    7,102    4,929    9,266    5,118    9,920
PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION           767      767       670      830      693       832      724       833      756      1246
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES          4,852    4,851    5,267    6,484    5,442    7,934    5,653   10,099    5,874   11,166
NET OPERATING INCOME              1,349    1,349    1,079        989    1,159    1,429    1,289        983    1,375       918
INTERESTS ON LOANS                  136       136      148      207       231      219       274      272       315       381
NET INCOME BEFORE TAXES           1,212    1,213        931      782      928    1,210    1,015        711    1,060       537
TAX ON PROFITS                      892       892      465       345      464       698      507       290      530       141
NET INCOME AFTER TAXES              320       321      466       437      464       512      508       421      530       396
DIVIDENDS
, 5,.= .........................   ......... ........, .....    ........ ..... ,, .......,,,,,,,,=,=, 
OPERATING RATIO                   70.3%    78.2%    83.0%    86.8%    82.4%    84.7%    81.4t    91.1t    81.0t    92.4t
RATE OF RETURN ON NFA              39.5t    39.9t    30.4t    28.9%    31.3%    41.0t    31.2t    28.2%    27.6%    27.1t



APPENDIX 2
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJICT - HUNGAROCANION
Income statement
(Forints millions)
1992               1993          1994       1995
estimate  actual  estimate  actual    actual  forecast
OPERATING REVENUE
INTERNATIONAL TRANSPORT           7,053   11.595    7,378   11,175    13,B08   16,214
OTHER OPERATING INCOME              513    1,687       526    2,819      1,856    2,142
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE           7,566   13,282    7,904   13,994    15,664   18,356
................--.....-.. ....-.....  .....              ...=.    .....  ...* t .....
OPERATING EXPENSES
MATERIAL & SUPPLIES               1,285    1,728    1,344    1,626       1,054    1,204
FUEL                              1,118    2,424    1,169    2,494       2,881    3,447
SALARIES & RELATED COSTS          1,242    2,352    1,248    2,739       2,732    2,601
DRIVER ALLOWANCES                   528       see      552       942     1,115    1,323
FERRY FEES                          188       246      197       234       390       399
TRANSIT FEES & TAXES                635       773      664       835       871    1,277
COST OF SALES OF RESALE PRODUCTS              517              1,240     1,336    1,314
OTHIER OPERATING EXPENSES           297    2,892       298    2,787      4,646    5.474
OPERATING EXPS. BEFORE DEPR.    5,293   11,620    5,472   12,897    15,025   17,039
PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION          790       775      826       90S     1,066    1,113
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES          6,083   12,595    6,298   13,802    16,091   18,152
NET OPERATING INCOME              1,483       687    1,606       192      -427       204
,= ... .. .. . ... ........ ... ........... . .... .. . . . .   . ...
INTERESTS ON LOANS                  334       549      277       709       878       802
NET INCOHE BEFORE TAXES           1,149       138    1,329      -516    -1,305      -598
TAX ON PROFITS                      574         0      664         0
NET INCOME AFTER TAXES              575       138      665      -516    -1,305      -598
DIVIDENDS                                      65                  0
.....    .....    ..... .=..           ....= .   s...
OPERATING RATIO                    80.4t    94.89    79.71    98.6%    102.7*    98.9%
RATE OF RETURN ON NFA              27.1%    14.5%    28.6%       2.4%     -5.5t      6.2%



..i9s ~a,iu.wFiJI vMuJlr4 - aUlUAM(J.A4UN
Balance Sheet
(Forints millions)                                         APPENDIX 2
1987               1986               1989               1990              1991
estimate  actual  estimate  actual  estimate  actual  estimate  actual  estimate  actual
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION                 5,976    5,977    6,251    8,046    6,140    8,321    6,950    8,607    7.711   86976
PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION                2,599    2,599    2,5S4    4,576    2.440    4,819    2,397    5,132    2,302    5,669
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -                        -  - -   - - -    - ----       -      - -                - -       - -
NET FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION             3,377    3,378    3,697    3,470    3.700    3,502    4,553    3,475    5,409    3,307
ASSETS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                    25       25         0       59         0       61         0      256         0      271
TOTAL NET FIXED ASSETS                    3,402    3,403    3,697    3,529    3,700    3,563    4,553    3,731    5,409    3,578
OTIIER NON-CURRENT ASSETS                    19       19        19        0        19        0        19         0       19         0
CURRENT ASSETS 
CASH & BANK                                 607      607       364      169       364      536       364       162      364      137
DRAFTS                                       50       50        51        0        53        0        55        0        So       20
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE-TRADE                 1,165    1,165    1,170    1,419    1,211    2,092    1,266    2,473    1,321    3,422
EMPLOYEE LOANS                              136      138       168      267       166      271       166      265       168      235
RECEIVABLE FROM STATE BUDGET                381      381         0        2         0      169         0       77         0        76
INVENTORIES                                356       356       315      431       327      SOS       340      604       354      739
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS                        110      110        50      644        45      633        40       492       35       924
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                      2,807    2,807    2,118    2,952    2,166    4,206    2,233    4,153    2,300    5,553
-- - - - - - - - - - --                    --      -- -     -  --     -- -     - - - _-     -      - -       - -      - -       - -
TOTAL ASSETS                                  6,226    6,229    5,834    6,461    5,887    7,769    6,605    7.894    7,728    9,131
......... A..                                 ....a  .. ...                                                      ..... .. ........    .. .. l
I.lABll.ITIES
L.oNG TER14 LIABILITIES
LONG TERM LOANS                             613      613       522    1,014       514      929       614      418    1,217       772
OTIIER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES               91       91        60        0        60        0        80         0       s0         0
-- -- -- -- - -- -- -- --:-         ----      --- -    --  -     --- -    -- ---    -  -----           --  -    --  -     ----
TOTAL LONG TERM LIABILITIES                 704      704       602    1,014       594      929       694      418    1,297        772
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - -  - - - - - ---  - - -    - - -    - - -     - - -              - ----       -
CURRENT 1I1IBILITIES
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                            920      920       543      431       543    1,196       543    1,233       543    2,269
CURR.PORTION Or LONG TERM DEBT              208      208       490      367       563      441       416      643       467       220
Sl1O0T TERM LOANS & CREDITS                  33       33         0      331         0      265         0      266         0       421
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -      - - -     - - --               - -    -  - --      - --      - --     - ----          --  -
TOTAI. CURRENT LIABILITIES                1,161    1,161    1.033    1,129    1.106    1,902         959    2,144    1,010    2,910
- -   - - - - - - - - - - -                                          - - -     - - -    - - - --   - - -_-    -       - -      -  -
TOTAL LIABILITIES                         1,865    1,865    1,635    2,143    1.700    2,831    1,653    2,562    2,307    3,682
EOU1TY
RESERVE FUND                                626      626         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0
OTIIER FUNDS                              3,417    3,417    3,733    3,901    3,723    4,426    4,644    4,901    4,891    5,053
NET INCOME CURRENT YEAR                     320      321       466      437       464      512       50S      421       530       396
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - -  -- -     -- -     -- -      -- -     -   ---      ---       -----  --           -
TOTAL EQUITY                            . 4,363    4,364    4,199    4,338    4,167    4,938    5,152    5,322    5,421    5,449
TOTAL. lIABILlTIES L EQUITY                   6,228    6,229    5,034    6,481    5.8817   7,769    6,805    7,884    7,728    9,131
=4=3cm            ~~~~~~     ~~....S  ....  ....  ....   ...      ...       .....     ....      ...       ..
RATIO OF DEBT TO DEBT.EQUITY t                 12.3%    12.31    11.1%    18.9%    10.9%    15.8%    10.6%         7.3%    18.3%    12.4Tr
CUIRRENT RATIO                                  2.4      2.4       2.1       2.6      2.0       2.2      2.3       1.9      2.3       1.9



Balance Sheet                                            APPENDIX 2
IForints millions)
1992              1993          1994      1995
estimate  actual estimate  actual    actual  forecast
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION               7,565    8,410    7,905    8,945      9,625     9097
PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION              2,044       396   2,195    1,195      2,146     2599
NET FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION           5,521    8,014    5, 710    7,750     7,479    6,498
ASSETS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                   0        90        0      138       165       100
TOTAL NET FIXED ASSETS                  5,521    8,104    5,710    7,898    7,644    6,598
OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS                   19        56       19       98       113       217
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH & BANK                               364       373      364      243       362       402
DRAFTS                                     61        35      63        28        28         0
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE-TRADE               1,381    3,291    1,444    3,696      3,088    2,692
EMPLOYEE LOANS                            168       248      168      206       19S       150
RECEIVABLE FROM STATE BUDGET                0       160        0      293        74       100
INVENTORIES                               368       542      383      439       372       305
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS                       30       843       30    1,704     1,478    1,474
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                    2,372    5,492    2,452    6,599      5,597    5,123
TOTAL ASSETS                                7,912   13,652    8,181   14,585    13,354   11,938
an= Ss                                                :   = =w =x =.  ===== ...  .... ...
LIABILITIES
LONG TERM LIABILITIES
LONG TERM LOANS                           530    1,177       130    1,070     1,418    1,022
OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITrES              s0         0       80        0         10        0
TOTAl. LONG TERM LIABILITIES              610    1,177       210    1,070     1,418    1,022
CURRENT LIABILITIES
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                          543    2,243       543    3,379     2,613    3,035
CURR.PORTION OF LONG TERM DEBT            776       234      600      511       589       699
SHORT TERM LOANS & CREDITS                  0       561        0      717       753       250
-- - - - -- - - -  - --  -              - - -      -                  -
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES               1,319    3,038    1,143    4,607       3,955    3,984
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -       - - - --            --- -
TOTAL LIABILITIES                       1,929    4,215    1,353    5,677      5,373    5,006
EOUITY
RESERVE FUND                                0        56        0       62       551       100
OTHER FUNDS                             5,408    9,361    6,163    9,363       9,831    7,430
NET INCOME CURRENT YEAR                   575       20      665      (517)   (1,401)    (598)
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -              - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - --- -
TOTAL EQUITY                            5,983    9,437    6,828    8,908       7,981    6,932
.......*............ .... * *****  .. *---- *----a*---...- ... ..           -s..        .....a
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY                   7,912   13,652    8,181   14,585    13,354   11,938
,,. .as                                      ...      .s.s     .....    ....       .....    .....
RATIO OF DEBT TO DEBT+EQUITY X                8.1%    11.1%     1.9%    10.7%      15.1%    12.8%
CURRENT RATIO                                  1.8      1.6      2.1      1.4        1.4      1.3



SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT  -  HUNGAROCANION                                 APPENDIX 2
Statement of Source & Application of Funds
(Forints millions)
1987               1986               1989               1990                1991
estimate  actual  estimate  actual  estimate  actual  estimate  actual  estimate  actual
SOURCE OF FUNDS
OPERATING INCOME                          1,348    1,349    1,079        989    1,159    1,429    1,289         983    1,375       918
ADD: DEPRECIATION                           767       767      670       830       693      932       724       833      756    1,246
LESS: TAXES ON INCOME                      (892)    (892)    1465)    (345)    (464)    (696)    (507)    (290)    (530)    (141)
-             ------               ---  -    -   -     -
TOTAL INT. FUNDS GENERATION               1,223    1,224    1,284    1,474    1,398    1,563    1,506    1,526    1,601    2,023
LONG TERM LOANS                              19        19      399       752       555      356       516       133    1,070       578
OTIIER SOURCES                                          0                  0                  0                   0                  0
_- - - -   - - - - - - - -    _-      - - --   - - - -   - - -    - - -                                  - - - -   - - - - __ _-_ _-_- -__ _
TOTAL EXTERNAL SOURCE OF FUNDS               19        19      399       752       555      356       516       133    1,070       578
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --  - -- --  - - --     - - -      -- -     - - --               - -     - - -    - -  -
TOTAL SOURCE OF FUNDS                     1,242    1,243    1,683    2,226    1,943    1,919    2,022    1,659    2,671    2,601
.... 5=   a==  -sT R= .. ......            ..       =....    .....     .....              ..sf s=.  =.=..     .....    .s==s     .....
APP1,ICATION OF FUNDS
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE                         265       265       965    1,424       696      959    1,577        996    1,612    1,101
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -                    -  - -    -  --    - - -
LOAN INTEREST CHARGED TO INCOME             136       136      148       207       231      219       274       272      315       381
REPAYMENT OF L.T. LOAN PRINCIPAL            360       360      209       192       490      367       563.      441      416       647
-- -- -- -- - --    -          -----     --  -     --- -     -- -     -  --     -- --    - - -     -----        -      - -
DEBT SERVICE                                496       496      356       399       721      586       837       713      731    1,028
CASH & BANK                                 224       224      (243)    (417)        0      347         0      (375)        0      (25)
OTIIER CURRENT ASSETS                       203       203      (446)     583        50      907        65       322       67    1,425
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                           (377)    (377)       37"      489         0      (765)       0       (37)        0   (1,036)
SHORT TERM LOANS & CREDITS                  133)      (33)       33        0         0         0        0         0         0     (203)
-
WORKING CAPITAL INCR/(DECR)                  17        17      (279)     655        50      489        65       (90)       67      161
-----------------   -
OTIIER APPI.ICATIONS
TRANSFERS TO STATE BUDGET                   305       303       274      193       131        17      257        72       154       60
INCENTIVE FUND PAYMENTS                      38        38       44         2        45        7        46        10       48        58
OTIIER APPLICATIDNS/(SOURCES)               121       122       323     (447)      300       (38)    (760)      (42)       59      193
464      465       641      (252)     476       (14)    (457)       40       261       311
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS               1,242    1,243    1,683    2,226    1,943    1,919    2,022    1,659    2,671    2,601
= =   .... .... ...   ......             .....     .....    *      a s  .. *    .... =a=l          =*= .....  .....  .....  .....  .....
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE (TIMES)               2.5       2.5      3.6       3.7       1.9      2.7       1.8       2.1      2.2       2.0



SECOND TRUUBPORT PROJECT  -  NUNAROCANIAP I
APPENDIX 2
Statement of Source L Application of Funds
(Forints millions)
1992               1993           1994      1995
estimate  actual  estimate  actual    actual  forecast
SOURCE OF FUNDS
OPERATING INCOME                          1,483       687    1,606        192      (427)      204
ADD: DEPRECIATION                            790      775       826       905     1,066    1,113
LESS: TAXES ON INCOME                       (574)       0      (664)        0          0        0
TOTAL INT. FUNDS GENERATION               1,699    1,462    1,768    1,097          639    1,317
- - - - -- - -- - - - - - - - --_      -- -     - - -     - - -     - - -     --  -     - - - --  __  
LONG TERM LOANS                               89      666       200      411        616       700
OTHER SOURCES                                           0                   0          0        0
TOTAL EXTERNAL SOURCE OF FUNDS                89      666       200       411       618       700
_- - - -  - - -- -  - - - -               --  -     --- -     ----      -- -      --  -     -----_ _ __
TOTAL SOURCE OF FUtDS                     1,788    2,128    1,968    1,506        1,457    2,017
................ a.................................  .....    ........ M.....  ........ .....    ........... .................
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE                         902       917    1,015    1,025       1.233    1,333
LOAN INTEREST CHARGED TO INCOME              334      549       277       708       878       802
REPAYMENT OF L.T. LOAN PRINCIPAL            467       221       776       290       607       640
DEBT SERVICE                                801       770    1,053        998     1,485    1,642
CASH & BANK                                    0      236         0      1130)       119       40
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS                         72      (297)      80    1,237    11,121)       (514)
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                              0        26        0   (1,136)        766      (422)
SHORT TERM LOANS L CREDITS                     0      (135)       0      (109)        6S      347
----------------------- --~_ -       - ----    - - -     -- -     _r - --      --       - -
WORKING CAPITAL INCR/(DECR)                  72      (170)      60      (138)      (151)    (549)
-------------------------~~~ ~~~~-   --- -    -- -_-       -      -  -       - -       - -
OTHER APPLICATIONS
TRANSFERS TO STATE BUDGET                     59       20       142         2          1         0
INCENTIVE FUND PAYMENTS                       48        0        48         0          0        0
OTHER APPLICATIONS/(SOURCES)                (94)      591     (370)    (379)   (1,111)       (409)
13      611     (180)    (377)   (1,110)    (409)
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS               1,788    2,128    1,968    1,508        1,457    2,017
D .EBT*S...       **. ..........            2.        .9    .....         1.1 ....          ..
DEBT SERVICE COVIERAGE (TIMES)               2.1      1.9       1.7       1.1        0.4      0.8



Appmdx 3
Second TraNspon Project
Hunprin Stae Railways (MAV)
l     Semem
(in million Forints)
1987            1988                  1989                   1990                   1991                   1992                   1993              1994
F c2J Year EF  December 31st           Actual    Estine       Aawal    Esute         ALlua     Esummc       Acal    Esimat         AcUal    Esfire       Acal    Esima          Acua        Ada
Operngq R nvem:
Paseu   Saviccs                      4.955       4.895      4.742       6.364      5.743      6,799       6,821      7,453      10,579      7.858      11,756      8,612     12,298      12,597
Fregh Opparm                        29.031      29,310     29,637     29,350      33.201     29,586      37,029     29,592      47.297     30,311     42,819      30,732     32,089      32,354
Odaer                                 1,055      1,025        885       1,025      1.103       1.025      1.207       1,065      1.432      1.065       1,866      1,120      2,054       2.011
Non-Bui Actvkies                     6,1S3       6,235      6,064      6,225       7.011      6.435      11,028      6,410      13,039      6.530      19.895      6.575     29,766      24.433
Total Operig Reve.an                  41,224      41,515     41.328     43,024      47.058     43.845      56.065     44,590      72.347     45.764     76,336      47,039     76,207      71.395
General GOs                           2.760      3.910      4,562       2,796      4,969       2.351      4.048       1.977      2.917      1.662       2,450      1,398      3.980       9.632
Puseg Tralk                           1,175                  1.321                 1,726                  2.290                  3,714                  5,536                 6.156       6.687
Socil Secuty & Eary Pemaon                                                                                                                                                               16,200
Ckuiig of Crea                                                                                                                                                                           16.215
Odw (sdff                                                                                                                                                                                  738
Taotl 9*hbud OF,0     Reem            45,159      45,425     47,211     45,820      53,753     46,196      62.423     46,567      78,978     47,426     84,322      48,437     86.343     120.867
OpeF  Ezpcmc:
M    Ae &  wlim                       8,914      8,845      9,038       8,695      9,041       8,547      8.195      3,403       9,584      8.403      17.368      8.403     16,841      21.655
Pad&E ariaiy                          5.694      5,755      6,199       5,657      6.003       5,562      8,511      5.467      10.091      5.467      10.401      5,455      9,429      10,023
Sdwes A Rdoed Coss                   14.462     14,330      16,817     14,067     20527       13.848     25.771     13.614      33,038     13,614      40.176     13,600     37.689      44,534
lovstinew by Own Winb                 8.016                 7.075                  9,360                 12,162                 16.531                 14.928                24.307      27.6s7
Odur                                             8,025                  7,832                  7.730                 7.630                  7.630                  7,630
Op eratin   P   beAur D      yreciion  37.086     36,955     39.129     36,271      44,931     35.687      54.639     35.114      69.244     35.114     82.873      35.068     88,266    103.899
Proviumn for Deprecq_om              7,107       7,199      7,402       7,391      7,596      7,783       7,728      8,193       7,781      8,613      9,067       9.038      7,378       7,459
Total Opeing Espa                     44.193      44,154     46,531     43,662      52,527     43,470      62,367     43,307      77,025     43,727     91,940      44.126     95.644     111.358
NetOpeing Ince                           966       1,271        680      2,158       1,226      2.726         56       3.260       1.953      3.699     (7.618)      4,311     (9.301)      9,509
IlteutonLoan                             353        300         545        500         674        723       1,414      1,004       1,826      1,286      3,498       1,527      5,197       5,850
Netl co:BefldormTas                      613         971        135       1,658        352      2,003      (1.358)     2,256        127       2,413    (11.116)      2.784    (14,498)      3,659
Taxes                                    120          97         29        829          72       1.001         0        1,128         4       1,206                  1,392                    12
NalotneAftrTaxes                         493         874        106        829         280       1.002     (1,358)     1,128         123      1.207    (11,116)      1,392    (14,498)      3.647
OperaingRatio - Acua                   97.9%       97.2%      96.6%      95.3%       97.7%      94.1%       99.9%      93.0%       97.5%      92.2%      109.0%      91.1%     110.8%       92.1%
- Covena                                                                                   95.0%                  94.0%                  93.0%                 92.0%       91.0%
Rut ofReturnonNaPimud Asns               1.2%       1.8%       0.3%       3.0%        1.5%       3.6%        0.1%       4.2%        2.4%       4.7%       -9.4%       5.4%      -2.2%        2.2%



Seconid Trantsport Project                                                                Appendix 3
Hungarian State Railways (MAV)
Balanc Sheet
(in million Forints)
1987             1988                    1989                    1990                    1991                    1992                           1993       1994
Fiscal Year Ended Decemnber 3 1st         Actual    Estirate      Actua      Estimiate     Actua     Estimate      Actua     Estimae      Actua    -Estimtate     Actual    Estinmae       Actual     Actual
Asscts:
Current Assets:
Cash                                     1,058       1.100         550       1.120         865       1,140        1,630      1.160       2,120        1,180      2,842       1.200       4,264       5,035
short-term Deposits                          0       1.363                   3.509                   5,800                   8.008                   10.210                 12,443
Accounts Receivable                      3.951       4,000       6,964       4,080       9.140       4,160      13.086       4,240       23795       4.320       30855        4410       22778       21251
InvenEories                             11,379      11.000      11.313      11,440      13.013      11.900      14,681      12,380      16,680      12.880       6.364      13,400       5.207       5.708
othier CuffentAssets                       565         580                     590                     600                     610                     620                     630
Total Curreiit Assets                    16,953      18,043      18.827      20,739      23,018      23,600      29,397      26,398      42.595      29.210      40.061      32.083      32.249      31,994
Financial Investments                     2,309       2.360         332       2.410         489       2,460         485       2,510        1.397      2.560       9,624       2.610       9.858      11.088
Fixed Assets:
Fixed Assets in Operation              175,585     175,585     201,454     184,929     207.574     194,730     211.560    204,944      217,413     215,212     221.908     225,676     427,876     450.124
Less Accurmulated Dep)reciation         97,210     104.409     120,513     111,800     126,876     119,583     132.862     127,776     136,946     136,389     140.608     145,427       3.288      10,440
Net Fixed Assets                         78,375      71.176      80,941      73.129      80,698      75,147      78,698      77,168      80,467      78.823      81.300      80.249     424,588     439,684
Assets Under Construction                 5,822      15.166       5.560      15.623       5,824      16,036       7,172      16,090       4,788       16,286      7,299      16,014       9,319      13,256
Total Fixed Assets                       84,197      86.342      86,501      88.752      86,522      91,183      85,870      93.258      85,255       95,109     88.599      96,263     433,907     452,940
Total Assets                            103,459     106.745     105,660      111,901     110,029     117,243     115.752     122,166     129,247     126,879    138,284     130,956     476,014     496,022
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabgiites:
Bank Loans                               1,231                     331                   1.000                   2,500                   2.566                   8,360                  23,720       7,509
Curre.  Portion of Long-Tenm Debt                      116                     584                     964                   1,366                   1,720                   2,200
Accmszt Payable                          3,399       1,4.40      7.381       1,480       9,091       1,520      13,532       1.570      25.006       1,620      30.087       1.670      35,192      23.730
Accrued Expenses                                     1,390                   1.450                   1,510                   1,570                   1,630                   1,700
Otber CurrenLiabitities                                110                     110                     110                     110                     110                     110
Total Current Liabilities                 4,630        3,056       7,712       3,624      10,091       4,104      16.032       4,616      27,572       5,080     38,447        5,680      58.912      31.239
Long-Term Liabilities:
Regular                                    835       3,365       1,827       4.908       2.007       6,407       2,091       7,412        1,675       8,182      7,669       7,964       11,350     34.650
Odher                                      425         450          75         470         578         490         388         510          24         540          45         570           0       6.609
Tosa Long-Term Liabilitics                 1,260       M185        1,902       5,378       2,585       6.997       2,479       7,922       1,699       8,722       7,714       8,534      11.350      41.259
Equity:
Capital                                 92,359      99.000      92,359     102,070      92,359     105,240      92.359     108,500      92,359     111,870      92.359     115,350     188.000     18it,000
Retained Erning (Dericit)                5,210         874       3,687         829       4,994       1.002       4,882       1.128       7,617       1,207        (236)      1,392     217.752     235.524
Total Equity                              97,569      99,874      96,046     102.899      97.353     106,242      97,241     109,628      99.976     113,077      92,123     116,742     405,752     423,524
Total Liabilitie and Equity              103,459     106,745     105,660     111.901     110.029     117,243     115,752     122,166     129,247     126,879     138.284     130.956     476,014     496,022
Current Ratio                               3.7         5.9         2.4         5.7         2.3         5.8         1.8         5.7         1.5         5.8         1.0         5.6         0.5         1.0
DdbtEquity Ratio                            0.6        0.7          1.0        0.9          1.3         1.0         1.9         1.1         2.9         1.2         5.0         1.2         1.7         1.7



AppendLr 4
Second Transport Project - Road Component
Maximum Acceptable Traffic Volumes
(PCU/hour)
Road Type                  Rural sections              Urban sections
Motorways
Two lanes: one-way taffic               3,000                       3,600
Three lanes: one-way traffic            4,500                       5,400
Four lanes: one-way traffic              6,00                       7,200
Other main roads
Two lanes: for two-way traffic          1,400                       1,600
Two lanes for one-way traffic           2,800                       3,000
Three lanes for one-way traffic         4,200                       4,500



Second Transport Project - Road Component                                             Appendix 5
1989             1990              1991             1992              1993             1994
Length of road network
NATIONAL ROAD NETWORK
- Motorways                                       218 (100.0)       269 (100.0)       269 (100.0)      269 (100.0)       269 (100.0)      293 (100.0)
- Scnii motorways                                  118 (100.0)       82 (100.0)        82 (100.0)       82 (100.0)        82 (100.0)       85 (100.0)
- Main trunk roads                               6,368 (100.0)    6,385 (100.0)     6,394 (100.0)     6,407 (100.0)    6,407 (100.0)     6,425 (100.0)
- Main roads                                     6,704 (100.0)    6,736 (100.0)     6,745 (100.0)    6,758 (100.0)     6,758 (100.0)     6,803 (100.0)
- Secondar) roads                                22,896 (98.2)    23,006 (98.2)     23,151 (98.3)     23,192 (98.4)    23,205 ()8.4)     23,228 (98.5)
Total for national roads                         29,600 (98.6)    28,742 (98.6)     29,896 (98.7)     29,950 (98.8)    29,963 (98.8)     30,031 (98.8)
LOCAL PUBLIC ROADS
- Budapcsi  strects                               4,270   (67.2)                    .... _       _  _.   ,.  .  ....               __:.    __:1 _.... .___._..__
- Town streets                                   14,336 (59.1)   .PlDATED             NT NOT                          AVAILABLE
- Villa ec  streets                              27,942  (39.8)    _            ____  _  _  _  _  __g   p-  -__  _  _  _  .  :
- Rural slrccis                                   29,135 (5 6)                      UIJPDATED              DATA               NOT       AVAILABLE
Total for local public roads                     75,683 (31.8)                                   _________.._      .::
AGRICULTURAL AND FORESTRY ROADS_
- Agricultural roads                             47,136 (28.6)    47,136 (28.6)     47,823 (28.5)     48,000 (28.5)
- Forcstrv road                                   4,780 (51.4)     4,843 (51.5)      4,888 (51.5)      4,919 (51) G
Total for agricultural and forcstry roads        51,916 (30.7)    51,979 (30.7)     52,711 (30.7)     52,919 (30.6)
GRAND TOTAL                                     157,199 (44.0)    157,404 (44.0)    158,290 (44.1)    1I58,552 (44.1)  158,565 (44.1)    158,633 (44.1)
Length of national public roads                                                                                      .
A BY TYPE
- First class main roads, of which                      2,217            2,236             2,382             2,386            2,379             2,420
- Molonvay                                               218               269               269              269               269               293
- Semi-molonvay                                          118                82                82               82                82                85
- Second class main roads                              4,487             4,500             4,363             4,372            4,379             4,383
- Connecting roads                                     17,424            17,527           17,710            17,784            17,837           17,843
- Approach roads                                        4,809            4,811             4,778             4,754             4,729            4,709
- Olhcrs                                                 663               668               663              654               639               676
TOTAL                                                  29,600           29,742            29,896            29,950            29,963           30,031
B BY PAVEMENT
-Stonc and concrete                                      172               172               181              181               164               164
- Asphalt and surfacc dressing                         29.010           29,152            29,323            29,399            294249           29
- Unpaved                                                418               418               392              370               370               355
TOTAL                                                  29,600            29,742           29,896            29,950            29,963            30,031
Figiircs imi p;rcijilicscs sholm ilic ratio or pavcd roads



AppendLx 6
Second Transport Project - Road Component
Highway Expenditure Plan
HUF million
|  1989 |   1990  |  1991   |  1992   |  1993   |  1994   1 1995 plan I
TOTAL         9,257 J  11,576  1 11,854    2 1,346  1 35,217  | 49,320  1 38,874  1






IBRD 27534
H U N G A RY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
TRANSPORT PROlECT                                              E TISTING RAIL.AY NETICORK
ON GOING MOTORVAP CONSTRUCTION TFIRSI PHASEI  :'. -.   .       DOUBLE TRACKS
____  PROPOSED CONSTRUCT ON ISECOND PHASE)             -. -..: I     SINGLE TRACKS
__   PLANNED EVENTUAL CONSTRUCTION                             -  -   PRIVATE TRACK QGUSEV,                                                      SLOVAK REPUBUC
TMS TRIANSPORT MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM MA 9       C ,    MARSHALLING -RDS
POVVERFUL MAINFRAME COMPUTER INSTALLED IN BUDAPEST          CONTAYNER TER.I"AS
*     COMMUNICATION CONCENTRATORS                                    2 U0 40 TONS
.   TELEPHTONE LINES                                         *    5 TONS                                                                                              F0-...
*    USED RAIL RECYCLING PLANT                                                                                                                    -    v                                                   / |,
_   EXISTING MOOR-2wASI                                                               ,.                               . 
HC   HUNGARO CAMLON S EDP CENTERS ICIS                               E-N  M                                                                                              r                 ,
_BSTACO S  MOTORWAYS UNDER CONSTQUC ION                                                            -        I                             Y      *               UKRAINE
& - y   8KVS TRAFFIC CONTROL SYSTEM                                  MAIN NATIONAL ROADS
PRO6 TRY RAILWAY INVUTAENr PLAN                          _        SECONDARY NATIONAL ROADS                                  /      .'.  /T 
DOUBLE TRACK ELECTRELICATION                                                                                                                                                             Fpn5EIT[L    .o
NATIONAL CAPITAL
-1--1-DOUBLING OF EXISTING TIACKS
--INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                    }     .                                               -\        /.  
-t-t  TRACK REHARILITATION                                                f                                                S J\O-AIEY    e     L_ //, \<
A                     IZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iJA nBpno
AUSTRIA                 S                    \                                                                         _           _                t                                                                               0            o
J  * _oIoeger,~eg                                                                                                      t                                                                                                           of any  R..oAAOM N
Logyk -    OP                                                                                                                                                                                                   BUDAPEST
Vesz ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Pn                                                                                                       OS   T                ae.
T~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T  .






IbKfu 2/zxS-'
H U N G A R Y 
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
THE NETWORK OF THE BUDAPEST
TRANSPORT  COMPANY  (BKV)                                                  -      UNDERGROUND LINE
LOCAL TRAIN LINE
TRAMWAY LINE
BUS LINE
-- TROLLEYBUS LINE
&                         pi  ~~~~~~~~~EDP CENTER
01 234 5   6  7  B  910  KILOMETERS                      CZECH REP.,,/  /        
I                                                                  --I-        S, iL6VAK  REP.
0    1    2    3    4    5  MILES                                     TKR 'J N -           /       -
AUSTRIAx        ,     '                   W
j         aB~~~udapost
The boundaries, colors.                                                                            H    BARY          /
denominations and any                                                                              HU   ARY 
other information shown                                                                                                  OMANIA
on this map  do  not                                                                   A
imply, on  the port of up ,                                                            .
The World  Bank Group.t                                                                              'r^
any judgment on the legal
status of any  territory,                                                                                       50  100 KILOMETERS
or any endorsement                                                                                 _            5       K
or acceptance of such                                                                   CROATIA                I      I
boundaries.                                                                                            (    a     50   100 MILES
NOVEMBER 1995









IMAGING
Report No:      15445
'lype: ic1



