Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CA/ 3&32-AHU
Report No. i90-HU
7390
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIUNGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
MARCH 1, 1989
Country Operations Department IV
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY IEDIVALENTS
(as of Deceuber 31, 1988)
Currency Unit                  - Forints (Ft.)
Forint I                       - US$0.0192
Forints 52.0                   a US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                       US System
1 meter (s)                          * 3.2808 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)                     - 0.6214 dile (mi)
I square kilometer (km2)             a 0.3861 square mile (mi')
I metric ton (m ton)                 a 0.98e2 long ton (ig ton)
1 kilogram (kg)                      = 2.2046 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS
BKV      -     Budapest Transport Company
BPI      -     Bit per inch
CHEA     -     Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
COCOM    -     Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Exports
CPU      -     Central Processing Unit
ECE      -     Economic Commission for Europe
EDP      -     Electronic Data Processing
ER       -     Economic Return
FYR      -     First Year Return
GDP      -     Gross Domestic Product
GTKm     -     Gross Ton Kilometer
HC       -     Hungarocamion International Freight Company
INS/KIN  -     Lines per minute
IBRD     -     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB      -     International Competitive Bidding
ICIS     -     Integrated computerized information system
KTI      -     Hungarian Institute of Transport Science
LCB      -     Local Competition Bidding
LIB      -     Limited International Bidding
MA8ART   -     Hungarian Shipping Company
tMAV     -     Hungarian State Railways
KALEV    -     Hungarian Airways Company
MBYTE    -     Mega Byte
YIPS     -    Mega Instructions per second
HIS      -     Marketing Information System
MCC      -     Maintenance Coordination Centers
tOF      -     Ministry of Finance
MTCC      -    Ministry of Transport, Communication and Construction
MSC      -     Maintenance Sub-centre
M-O      -     Budapest by-pass (motorway)
NEN      -     National Bank of Hungary
NPO      -     National Planning Office
NtKm     -     Net Ton Kilometer
PKim     -     Passenger Kilometer
Pd Km    -     Productive kilometers
PRD      -     Public Roads Department of MTCC
PRMC     -     Public Road Management Centers
PTT      -     Post and Telegraph Co.
RF       -     Revolving Fund
SCD      -     Supervision and Control Department
SDB      -     State Development Bank
SOE      -     Statement of Expenditures
TDD      -     Technical Development Department of MTCC
TEM      -     Trans-European Motorway
TMIS     -     Transport Management Information System
TU       -     Traffic Units
UIC      -     International Railway Union
UTITORM  -     Government Mechanical Branch
UNDP     -     United Nations Development Program
VOLAN    -     Domestic and International Freight Company
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
MUNGARY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR                                           1
A. The Transport System                                        I
B. Transport Planning, Policy
and Coordination                                        2
C. Sectoral Adjustment in Progress,
Major Issues and Action Plan                            3
D. Bank Group Transport Sector
Operations in Hungary                                   8
II. TRANSPORT SUBSECTORS                                            I
A. Railways (MAV)
1.  General                                              9
2.  Traffic                                              9
3.  Organization                                        10
4. Railway Property                                     11
5. Operations                                           12
6.  Track Maintenance                                   13
7.  Staff and Productivity                              13
8.  Development Strategy                                13
9.  Tariffs, Accounts and Audit                         14
10.  Investment Plan                                     15
B.  Highways                                                  17
1.  The network                                         17
2.  Road Transport and Traffic                          18
3.  Traffic Regulation and Safety                       19
4.  Organization                                        20
5.  Planning                                            20
6.  Engineering                                         21
7.  Construction                                        21
8.  Expropriation and Environmental Protection          22
9.  Maintenance                                         22
10.  Equipment and Workshops                             23
11.  Highway Investment Plan                             24
12. Accounts and Audit                                   26
This report is based on the findings of missions to Hungary in November
1986, May and November 1987 and May/June 1988 composed of S.B. Orlic
(Senior Railway Engineer), W.S. Matthey (Senior Highway Engineer), M.K.
Ganguli (Consultant, Transport Economist), J. Creasor (Financial Analyst),
Slobodan Mitric (Senior Urban Transport Specialist) and N. Skorc
(Consultant, Computer Specialist). N. C. Yucel (Principal Transport
Economist), Michel Ray (Highway Engineer) and Friedrich Konigshofer (Senior
System Analyst) assisted in the preparation of the report. Ms. N. Muhoho
(Research Assistant) assisted in the preparation of cost tables.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Itg contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



- ii -
Table of Contents
(cont.)
Page No.
C.  HUNGAROCAMION (HC)                                         26
1.   Organizaticn                                         26
2-   Operation and Fleet                                  27
3.   Investment Plan and Development Strategy             27
4.   Pricing ar.d Finance                                 29
D.  BUDAPEST TRANSPORT COMPANY (BKV)                           30
1.   General                                              30
2.   Institutional Relations                              30
3.   Operational Characteristics                          30
4.   Fricing, Development Strategy and
Investment Plan                                      31
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Background                                                 34
E.  Objectives                                                 34
C.  Description                                                35
D. Engineering                                                 41
E.  Cost Estimate                                              41
F.  Financing                                                  44
G.  The Loan, The Borrower and Beneficiaries                   44
H.  Implementation                                             45
I.  Procurement                                                46
J.  Disbursements                                              50
K.  Reporting, Accounts and Audit                              50
L.  Environmental Impact                                       51
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION                                            52
A.  General                                                    52
B.  Project Costs and Benefits                                 52
C.  Economic Return (ER)                                       53
D.  Project Riskts                                             59
V.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION                                           60
A.  General                                                    60
B.  Hungarian State Railways (MAV)                             60
C.  Hungarocamion International Freight Company                67
D.  Budapest Transport Company (BKV)                           72



*4i. -iii -
Table of Contents
(cont.)
Page No.
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                          79
ANNEXES                                                            82
1. Financial Analysis                                         82
2. Salient Details of Ecunomic Evaluation                     94
3. Transport Management Information System (TMIS),
Railway Component                                       102
4. Integrated and Computerized Information System (ICIS)
for Hungarocamion                                       113
5. BKV'S Traffic Control System                              117
6. Railway Costing Study                                     124
7. River Transport and Pcrt Study                            127
8. BKV's Management and Organization Improvement             134
study
9. Related Documents and Data Available in the
Project File                                            137
TABLES                                                           139
1. Freight Traffic by Itode of Transport.                    139
2. Public Passenger Transport,                               140
3. Number of Different Types of Motor Vehicles,              141
4. 1986-90 Transport Investment Plan                         142
5. Railway's Freight and Passenger Traffic Plan 1988-93    143
6. Goods Transported by Containers by MAV                    145
7. Selected Operating Statistics for Hungarian State
Railways                                                146
8. Railway Staff and Productivity                            147
9. Comparison with Selected other Railways                   148
10. MAV Commodity Analysis                                    149
11. Railway Investment Plan 1986-90 and 1991-93
estimate                                                  152
12. Length of Road Network                                    153
13. Length of Public Roads by TYPE                            154
14. Ownership of the Truck Fleet                              155
15. Axle Overload Fee Scale                                   156
16. Maximum Acceptable Traffic Volumes                        157
17. Principal Highway Design Standards                        158
18. Past and Projected Road Expenditures                      159
-19. Vehicle Fleet of Hungarocamion                           160
20. Main Types in the Truck Fleet (HC)                        lSl
21. Average Annual Utilizatiout of Vehicles (HC)              162
22. Selected Operational and Financial Statistics
of Vehicles (HC)                                        163



- iv -
Table of Contents
(Cont.)
Page _.-
23. BKV's Vehicles Fleet, Traffic and Employees                164
24. BKV's Operational Performances                             165
25. Planned Investments of BKV                                 166
26. Outline Training Program Proposed by MTCC                  167
27. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                        170
28. Operational and Financial Data (1987) and
Targets 1988-1993 period (MAV, HC and BKV)                 173
29. Procurement Plan                                           174
30. Railway Component - Implementation schedule                177
31. Hungarocamion Component  - Implementation Schedule         177
32. Highway Component - Impleme.tation Schedule                179
33. BKV component - Implementation Schedule                    180
CHARTS
Chart 1 - Organization of Ministry of Transport,
Communication and Construction (MTCC)                181
Chart 2 - Organization of Hungarian State Railways (MAV)    182
Chart 3 - Organization of Hungarocamion (HC)                   183
Chart 4 - Organization of BKV                                  184
MAP - IBRD 20795; Hungary - Second Transport Project              185
IBRD 20796; Hungary - Network of BKV                        186
4076V/I1-1o



UUNGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Hungarian People's Republic
Beneficiaries:     Hua.gariai: State Railways (MAV), Hungarocamion International
Freight Company (HC), and Budapest Transport Company (BKV).
Amount:            US$95.0 million equivalent.
Relending Terms:   US$28.1 million would be onlent to MAV, US$6.8 million to
HC and US$3.5 million to BKV all for a period of 15 years
*ncluding five years of grace, and at a rate equal to at
least the Bank rate plus a 20% markup which includes a fee
for the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower,
or the NBH's refinancing rate whichever is higher. The
remaining of US$56.6 million equivalent would be expanded
by the MTTC for highway works and equipment.
Project Objectives
and Description:   The proposed project is designed to reduce transport costs,
increase system-wide operational efficiency and increase
foreign exchange earnings, through providing important
infrastructure, increasing competition in transport markets
and upgrading transport technology (mainly in the areas of
management systems and equipment for both maintenance and
cargo handling). The project is also designed to improve
the environment in Budapest city due to diversion of heavy
commercial vehicles from the city to the M-O by-pass and in
the next 2 years halt further accumulation of a backlog of
needed periodic maintenance. The project would include high
priority investments covering railways (transport
management information system (TMIS), recycling plant for
used rails and modernization of track maintenance);
highways (construction of the next priority section of the
Budapest bypass (M-O motor-!ay), part of which is under
construction with assistance from the first transport
project, as well as a program of periodic maintenance
comprising pavement strengthening and surface treatment and
provision of road maintenance and testing equipment);
integrated computerized information system (ICIS) and
freight handling equipment for Hungarocamion; traffic
control system for BKV and related technical assistance and
training. The project consists of high priority items in
the approved Seventh Five vear plan and is economically
sound.



Justification
and Risks:         The Government intends to continue a policy of encouraging
free market competition, while fostering energy
conservation. The main policy instruments are to be
pricing measures. Its main investment priority is to
remove bottlenecks, especially where this would promotc
international and transit trade and to reduce the backlog
in road maintenance. The transport industry is a major
foreign exchange earner in Hungary and, as such, should
continue to receive support particularly in view of the
critical balance of payment problems. The Government 45
now favoring a structural change in transport undertakings
from the point of view of both ownership and size of
undertakings to achieve efficiency gains and increased
competition.
Based on the most probable estimates, the pronosed
investments on different project components produce
economic returns (ERs) ranging from 151 to more than 30X,
with an overall weighted ER of 201. Even under unfavorable
assumptions (151 higher construction/equipment costs
combined with a 15 reduction in benefits), the ERs remain
acceptable within the range of 14X to 191.
Risks from inadequate project implementation are minimal as
the physical components of the project are essentially a
complement to the ongoing transport project on which
implementation performance has been excellent. The project
is relatively insensitive to traffic growth and focuszs on
cost reduction measures. There remains the possibility of
a change in the present political environment leading to a
reversal of the ongoing reform process which could be a
potential risk for implementation of the policy reform
measures associated with the project. However, since the
Government is firmly committed to reform, these risks are
minimal and acceptable.



Estimated Costs:
Local      Foreign       Total
US$ millioDs
Railway Component                        35          25          60
Highway Component                       86           S0         136
Hungarocamion (EC)                       10           6          16
BKV                                      8            3          11
Total Base Cost                   139           84        223
Physical Contingencies                   6            4          10
Price Contingencies                     10            7          17
Total Project Cost                155           95        250
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign       Total
US$ millions----
World Bank                                _          95          95
Government                              96           -           96
Railways                                39            -          39
Hungarocamion                           11            -          11
BKV                                      9            -           9
Total                             155           95        250
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD FY       1990    1991    1992   1993    1994
Annual                         21.2    25.5    20.6   17.2    10.5
Cumulative                     21.2    46.7    67.3   84.5    95.0
Economic Rate of Return: about 20X
Appraisal Report: No. 7390-HU, dated March 1, 1989
Map No. 20795 and 20796



HUNGARY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport Systcm
1.01     Hungary has a diversified transport network to integrate its 93,000
sq. km of territory and to serve the needs of its population of about 10.7
million. As a landlocked country, trunk routes and inte:-national connections
are of special concern because Hungary has borders with five countries (see
IBRD Map 20795) and aims to improve its integrat-on into the world economy.
1.02     The transport system in Hungary consists of about 8,000 km of rail,
30,000 km of nato.onal roads, 1,300 km of regularly navigable rivers and
canals, one international airport and a fairly large oil and gas pipeline
network. Railways and roads are the backbone of the transport system and
together carry about 70% of total freight traffic and more than L5% of
passenger traffic (Tables 1 and 2). The railway network has the crucial
responsibility for moving traffic over relatively long distances. Road
traffic, which is 'ncreasing fairly rapid'y, functions mainly as a short-haul
mover. Whereas in 1960 the railways carr'.ed 80Z of total freight (in ton-km),
in 1987 its share had declined to about 45% (Table 1) with all other modes
registering an increase. Water transport, mainly on the Danube, has retained
an important and competitive place as a carrier of bulk materials over long
distances (Table 1). The railway's former dominance in public passenger
traffic passed to roads in the early 1970s and the current rail/road share is
about 271 and 69% respectively (Table 2). The railways also carry a sizeable
volume of commuter traffic, to and from large cities. Public transportation
within cities is provided by bus, tramway and trolley bus networks.  Budapest
is the hub of the country's rail, road and air systems.  The number of
passengers per tram in Budapest ranks among the highest in the world and the
capital is served also by an underground railway system. One of the most
conspicuous transport de-elopments during the last fifteen years has been the
rapid gr3wth of private transport. The number of passenger cars has increased
about six-fold during this period reaching about 1.5 million level in 1985
(Table 3), and is expected to reach the 2 million level in the early 1990's.
1.03     The slackening of world economic growth, including that of Hungary,
caused traffic to decline in the early eighties kTables 1 and 2); however,
growth has now resumed. Foreign trade activities are of vital importance for
the Hungarian economy and in the 1980's, of the total transported tonnage of
about 350 million per annum1-', export/import trade accounted for more than
30 million tons per annum (excluding pipeline traffic)
1/ In public sector transport.



and was carried predominantly by rail. Furthermore, the country's location
results in considerable additional east-west and north-south transit movements
(more thai 20 million tons per annum).  The Hmngarian railways rank among the
leading transit enterprises in Europe. Road transit traffic is sizeable also
with about 170,000 foreign trucks crossing Hungary annually. The transport
sector contributes a significant share to the foreign exchange earnings of the
national economy . Out of the gross foreign exchange currency revenue in the
transport sector of about Ft 10 billion (about US$ 200 to 250 million) per
annum in the 1980's about 66-68% is generated by transportation of goods,
about 17-192 from passengers and the balance due to other activities, such as
train car rent fee, foreign tourism, etc. Approximately 70X of the total
foreign exchange earnings of transport enterprises is in non-rouble currency.
At present, the principal task for the seLtor is to develop transport
primarily on the trunk routes and remove crucial bottlenecks including arrears
in road and track maintenance, particularly those which affect international
and transit trade to which the Government attaches high priority.
1.04     Transport investments in the public sector accounted for about 14% of
Hungary's total investments in the last two decades, and are expected to
remain At about the same level during the Seventh Plan period (1986-90).
Investments in the road and rail sub-sectors accounted for about 85-90% of the
sector total during 1980-84, the balance being made up of river port,
shipping, aviation and pipeline investments, and the same pattern is expected
to cou,tinue through the 1986-90 plan period. Investments in the transport
sector, if well directed, would contribute to three major objectives of
development strategy: (a) improvement of foreign exchange earnings, (b)
increaset operational efficiency and reduction of unit costs and (c) energy
conservation. A continuous review of sector investments will be part of the
on-going dialogue between the Government and the Bank.
B. Transport Planning, Pblicy and Coordination
1.05     A governmental reorganization in 1988 merged three former Ministries
into a single Ministry of Transportation, Communication and Construction
(MTTC) which no has overall responsibility for transport regulation, and
exercises control of public transport through its approval of the annual
investment and operating plans of self-dependent transport companies, which
are also required to submit annual performance and financial reports. The
Hungarian State Railways (MAV) is responsible for all rail transport
operations (internal and international). Similarly the Hungarian Shipping
Company (MAHART) is in charge of all river ports and of the Hungarian river
fleets on the Tisza and Danube rivers. The Hungarian Airline (MALEV) flies
solely on international routes. Freight and passengers are carried by both
public road transport companies and by "own-account" trucks and buses of
industries and cooperatives. About half of the annual ton-kilometers moved by
road are carried by public transport companies, namely, Hungarocamion (HC),
specializing in international trucking, the Volan trucking group, handling
about 251 of domestic road transport and six smaller, specialized carriers,
together performing about half of Volan's volume. Most of the remaining road
transport is divided almost eqwil.ly between the "own-account" fleets of
enterprises (both public and private) and the fleets owned by agricultural
cooperatives and state farms (para. 2.29). About 802 of bus
passengers-kilometers a :e carried by state-owned companies operating in urban
centers and between towns and cities with the balance carried out by
"own-account" bus fleets (para. 2.32).



1.06     The transport planning structure conslcts of tne National Planning
Office (NPO), the planning units of Ministries, loca' governments/
municipalities, and enterprises. Transportation projects included in the
Five-Yeer Plans originate both at the micro-level through the industrial
enterprises and county authorities (especially for o.anicipal and local roads)
and at the macro-level through NPO. The demands for transport by the economic
enterprises and sectors are reconciled by NPO with the existing capacities and
expansion plans of the transport enterprises and with the Government's policy
objectives.
1.07     Hungary's principal transport policy objectives, approved by
Parliament and most recently updated in 1988 are the efficient provision of
services with the complementary development of different modes. Specifically,
they are to:
(i)    develop freight transport facilities in a harmonized maaner, in full
cooperation with the producing, warehousing, and forwarding units and
the users, which implies that the transport technology of bulky
goods, as well as the other goods suited for the formation of
unit-loads such as palletization, pre-slinging, and containerization,
should be modernized;
(ii)   encourage the development of private transport enterprises and
competitive market conditions in the sector;
(iii)   encourage the use of mass public transportation primarily in urban
areas and also for inter-city travel;
(iv)   in the next two years halt further accumulation of the backlog in
aeeded pavement strengthening and perio.ic maintenance and increase
resource allocation thereafter with the objective of eliminating any
backlog during the next decade;
(v)   emphasize the development of international transport, principally
transit traffic by rail, exploiting the advane'ages inherent in the
country's geo-political situation;
(vi)   allocate traffic among different transport modes mainly by economic
criteria (e.g. tariff policy, energy efficiency, manpower needs,
(vii) etc.) and in case of necessity, by administrative measures; and
I(vii) promote and strengthen the transport companies' self-financing
I    .            ~~~~~.spabilities.
1.08     Tansport policy goals .:e implemented through innual and five-year
plans whi4n are enacted by Parliament. The cornerstones of transport policy
will continue to be conservation of energy and improving efficiency through
increased competition between transport agencies with the main policy
instruments being transport investments in different modes including foreign
exchange allocations and promotion of market oriented pricing.
C. Sectoral Adiustments in Progress, Major Issues and Action Plan
1.09     Innovations and adjustments, mainly through increased competition, to
keep the transport industry dynamic and cost-effective, are considered urgent



-4-
in Hungary. The Government is now favoring a structural change in transport
undertakings from the poilt of view of both ownership and size of
undertakings. The number of small and medium sized undertakings has been
increased, large monopolistic organizations are being split into smaller
vigorous units to make them more cost-effective. The direct involvement of
MTCC in the management of transport enterprises and services is being
gradually reduced. Three big organizations (Trusts-Auto Maintenance
Industrial Trust, the Volan Trust and the Road Construction Trust) which
formerly managed the activities of nearly 60 enterprises in the fields of
repair of road vehicles, road passenger and goods transport and road
construction, have been dissolved recently. Enterprises are now free to
choose and diversify their activities. The overwhelming majority of transport
enterprises now elect a Company Council and a Director (formerly appointed by
the Ministry), who are authorized to determine the strategies of the
enterprise and play a decisive part in all measures related to management.
1.10     A relatively new development is that, within the framework of the
Government decision to legalize the second economy, private taxis and private
haulers are increasingly being licensed (about 8.000 private taxis and about
20,000 privately owned trucks licensed so far representing about 102 of the
total truck fleet).  The former monopolistic situation'' in international
freight forwarding has also been removed, with the rights of a fully licensed
forwarding agency being given to several companies.
1.11     The railway managers have now increased freedom to implement
innovations in marketing and traffic operations. The railway operations are,
in consequence, increasingly being concentrated on those services in which
they have inherent advantages. In keeping with this aim, about 1,500 km of
railway lines have been closed dusing the last 15 years and the handling of
freight transport at about 300 railway stations has been redirected and
concentrated at about 60 suitably equipped main and district rail stations
during the same period. A total saving of about Ft 1 billion (US$ 20-25
million) has been effected so far on account of these changes. As the
structural changes of the MAV have proceeded on a step-by-step basis, the
number of railway personnel has been reduced from about 150,000 in 1970 to
about 133,700 in 1986 and about to 128,400 in 1987.
1.12     With the recent introduction of a two-tier banking system, access to
credit, including that for the transport sector, will be improved. Also, the
Government is waiting to see and review the reaction of the transport industry
to recent changes in the legal framework (including a bankruptcy law).
1.13     The Hungarian price system (and the transport pricing system
operating within this) is aimed at stimulating the producers and crnsumers to
nake sound economic decisions in conformity with the targets of the national
economic plan (para. 1.08). In the transport sector a mixed price mechanism
prevails where in certain areas the right of pricing (e.g. official prices)
l/ International freight forwarding was previously in the hands of a single
company, namely MASPED. Now similar rights have been given to
RAABBERSPED, INTER LIGHTER, HUNGAROSPED, VOLAN, MAHART, etc.



-5 -
belongs to state organs such as the National Office of Materials and Prices
and the authorized ministries and in other areas (e.g. free prices) this right
belongs to the enterprises. Official prices can be fixed, maximized or
limited. In the case of the latter the lower limit appears as a measure to
protect producers. Within the transportation system, fixed prices are used in
the majority of passenger transportation services.  The Government also
prescribes tariff ceilings to protect customers in outlying areas. The
maximized prices form includes domestic railway and public road transportation
of goods. Prices for international transportation of goods (railways, public
road, water and air), taxi transportation and the tariffs of port and loading
activities are determined by free functioning of market forces.  While 90
percent of the prices changed by MAV and Volan are regulated (the majority is
!maximized), a significant part of prices charged by enterprises such as
MAHART, MALEV and Hungarocamion involve "free" enterprise prices.  Today in
the commodity producing sectors, less than one-third of the prices are
!"official", while about two-thirds of the prices in transportation are still
"official" and the Government is exploring the possibility to allow greater
freedom to the transport enterprises for evolving effective tariff policies.
1.14     During the first transport project at the Bank's suggestion, the
country introduced International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for major highway
civil works (Budapest bypass with two major bridges on the river Danube).
This was an important breakthrough, the prequalification and bidding process
serving as a learning process. For the first time, a comprehensive set of
Hungarian specifications for road and bridge construction were assembled.
This is expected to influence favorably the national practice and also
facilitate local competitive bidding on pavement strengthening and maintenance
sealing contracts financed under the proposed loan.
1.15     There are several major issues in the transport sector.  While
considerable progress has been achieved towards introducing competition for
road freight transport, the same cannot be said for public passenger transport
(excepting taxis). Furthermore, while goods transportation in all modes is
self-financing, that is revenues from freight traffic cover all related
costs,1' as a matter of socio-economic policy, the Government has not set
urban/suburban passenger fares at the level which would recover all costs.
Consequently, the Government pays an enormous subsidy (about US$ 200-250
million per annum)1' to the public transport agencies to cover the
difference, mainly to safeguard the standard of living of poorer sections of
the community and to avoid urlan congestion. A reduction of subsidies by 50S
1/ Costs include operating and maintenance costs, overheads and debt service
or depreciation, whichever is greater.
21 The approximate distribution of subsidy amongst the different modes of
transport is currently estimated as: (i) metro about 30X; (ii) city buses
about 35%. (iii) trams and trolley buses about 10-15X; and (iv) suburban
railway passenger about 20-25X.
At present, on the average 4-5 Fts of subsidy are granted per 1 Ft earned
by metropolitan surface (above ground) transportation, while 20 Fts per 1
Ft are given from the budget as a metro subsidy.



-6-
over the next five years would be a sound objective, since at that point the
full marginal costs would be recovered and the level of subsidy would be no
greater than that prevalent in most European countries. In addition,
transport technology and demand have changed so much that, in some areas where
railways exist, they should in fact be closed and/or services appropriately
reduced. Furthermore, the study on road user charges, initiated at the
instance of the Bank, has highlighted that heavy commercial vehicles do
significant damage to the road infrastructure, but do not pay adequately in
proportion to the damage caused by them. A reform package covering all road
users has been recommended in this study. Implementation of appropriate
recommendations contained in the study report will form an important part of
the proposed action plan of the Government.
1.16     The Government is keen to follow-up its efforts in the transport
sector to tackle these major issues with the assistance of the Bank so as to
improve competition and operational efficiency and to increase market
responsiveness. Clearly, Hungary's passenger transport subsidies will need to
be maintained for some time though the Government committed to reduce the
subsidies progressively. Following discussions between the Government and
Bank missions, it has been agreed that this matter will have to be tackled on
several fronts simultaneously as no single action will be adequate to mitigate
the problem. Possible steps include introducing competition and
complementarity in this sub-sector through the enlistment of skills and
resources of the private sector. Private mini-buses and shared taxis may
offer a quality of service which is not available at present and might result
in considerable relief to the continuously increasing demand for Government
subsidized services. Furthermore, instead of a blanket subsidy to run a large
bus network, the Government may choose to explore, on a pilot scale, how to
obtain best value for money and may require local authorities to invite
prospective operators (including different Volan enterprises) to tender for
contracts to run specialized passenger services. Subsidy can be used more
efficiently if there has been a competitive bid for it and the purpose for
which it is paid and amount provided are made clear. Ways and means to better
direct subsidies to target groups, rather than to all users of public
passenger transport, will also be investigated. Given acute fiscal pressures,
the Government anticipates approaching the problem from several angles such as
selective fare increases, improvement of efficiency and reduction of costs
through effective competition.
1.17     The Government is also keen to continue reducing MAV's uneconomir
activities and is taking specific actions, line-wise, based on the recent
study recommendations on uneconomic railway lines (about 600 km). Freight
charges have been increased by 222 on January 1, 1987 on six low density
railway lines and services on some other lines are being reduced to industrial
sidings with restructured tariffs. For the remaining uneconomic lines,
negotiations regarding cost recovery are in progress with the municipalities
served. The total loss on account of these uneconomic railway lines is now
estimated to be only Ft 40 million (less than US $1 million) which is a
relatively small amount compared to MAV's total anauoal revenue of about Ft 40
billion (about USS 900 million). During appraisal assurance was obtained that
MAV would continue to carry out and monitor effectiveness of the measures
already introduced under its program and make such adjustments as necessary to
prevent losses from uneconomic lines from increasing. These assurances were
confirmed at negotiations.



- 7 -
1.18     Policy improvements would be an essential element of Bank activities
in the transport sector. In this context a transport sector action plan was
prepared jointly with the Govermnent during May 1987 as part of the definition
of the transport sector strategy. The key policy measures for the Government,
MAV, RC, and BKV were agreed at negotiations and are listed below:
(a) MAV should eliminate steam traction by 1990.
(b) Combined tariffs for multi-modal services should be introduced
in 1990;
(c) MAV and HC should establish and introduce cost-based pricing
systems by 1991;
(d) Government should implement a program for the private
enterprises and transportation companies to provide specialized
transport services (minibuses, shared taxis, etc.) on a pilot
basis by 1989;
(e) Reduction of transport subsidies, by about 50% during the years
1988 to 1993 compared to 1988 at constant prices;
(f) Government would take further measures, based on the
recommendation of the road user charges study, to ensure that by
1993 the heavy vehicles contribution reflects the damage they
cause to the roads;
(g) Investments on railway electrification, new lines and track
doubling should not exceed 10% of MAV's total investment
expenditure in the 1989-95 plan. The proposed investments by
BKV in the extension of the Budapest metro blue line, to replace
in the early l990's the rapid tramway system should be deferred
until completion of the Project after March 31, 1994;
(h) The funds available for highway maintenance would be increased
compared to 1988 by 102 in 1989, 10% in 1990 and by 502 or more
in real terms in the following years to eliminate the
accumulated backlog of maintenance within a decade; a long-term
road maintenance policy, determining optimum funding levels,
financing strategies, and technical specifications will be
formulated by December, 1990;
(i) MAV should reduce the total of staff, fuel and material
costs- by 5X (in real terms) per unit of output during
1989-9';
(j) MAV woild increase tariffs and control operating costs to
achic-,; a maximum operating ratio of 95% in 1990, reducing it by
I% each year thereafter up to and including 1994;
1/ In 1987 staff, fuel and material costs per transport unit (pass. km and
ton km) were estimated as 0.43 Ft, 0.17 Ft, and 0.26 Ft respectively.



-8-
(k) HC would maintain freight rates and other charges at a
sufficient level and control operating costs to ensure a rate at
return of not less than 222 on average net fixed assets in
operation of the years from 1989 to 1993;
(1) BKV would maintain tariffs and control operating costs at levels
sufficient to achieve a maximum operating ratios of 98% in each
of the years 1989 to 1993; and
(m) The Government would annually review with Lhe Bank the progress
made on policy and institutional matters and in investment and
expenditure and take steps to meet the agreed targets.
1.19     At the beginning of 1987 heavy commercial vehicles in Hungary
particularly diesel driven ones were paying only 15 to 20% of the road use
costs attibutable to them. The increase in July 1987 and again in July 1988
of diesel tax from Ft 2.55 to 5.85 per liter I' will go a long way to
mitigate the previous shortfall of contributions by heavy commercial vehicles
towards the costs of the damage they do to the roads.  The appropriate levels
of cost recovery from heavy vehicles, in the light of the findings of the
study report were further discussed at Loan Negotiations and assurance was
received that further measures would be taken in the coming years to ensure
that the road user charges imposed on heavy vehicles reflect the damage they
cause to the infrastructure by 1993.
D. Bank Group Transport Sector Operations in Hungary
1.20     The Bank has so far participated in one multi-modal (rail/road)
transport project (Loan 2557-HU), scheduled for completion in December 1990.
Project implementation is satisfactory and is even ahead of schedule in
respect of some major components. The arrangements for project management and
co-ordination are functioning well and disbursements are also ahead of
appraisal schedule.
1/ Fuel price (Hungarian Ft per liter) as in July 1987: gasoline regular
20.50, out of which tax is 15.30; diesel oil 9.75, out of which tax is
4.55. In July 1988 gasoline and diesel fuel tax was further increased by
Ft 2 and Ft 1.3 per liter respectively.
507SO/9-2 1



-9-
II. TRANSPORT SUBSECTORS
A. Railways
General
2.01     Hungary has a centralized railway system.  Trunk routes and
international connections are of special concern, because of the
considerable railway transit movement of about 16 million tons ?er annum
(in average). About 402 of the railway network handles the entLre
(transit, export and import) international traffic. Out of the total
foreign exchange earnings of the transport sector, the railways contribute
452. Besides carrying the bulk of freight traffic and a considerable
amount of passenger traffic over relatively long distances, the railways
also deal with a sizeable volume of commuter traffic, around large cities.
Traffic
a. Freight Traffic
2.02     Total freight traffic, which had been steady up to 1980 fell from
129.1 million tons and 24.0 billion ton-kms in 1980 to 114.7 million tons
and 21.4 hillion ton-kms in 1987, representing a total decrease, during
this period, of 92 in ton-kms, while average hauls remained unchanged at
about 186 km. International traffic, slightly larger than domestic traffic
(about 552 in Nt Km), during the same period dropped about 9.02 (Table 5).
2.03     Traffic declined as a result of the slackened economic growth of
the country and its trading partners. However, MAV's share of the total
traffic compared to road traffic remained stable, at about 462 and 252
respectively. International transit traffic fell, because of the downturn
of the Middle East trade. However, import-export traffic increased by 102
during the same period and this trend is forecast to continue through the
duration of the project. MAV's container traffic showed a satisfactory
yearly increase of about 10X, carrying about 2.6 million net tons in 1987
(Table 6) mostly high rated goods. Traffic is presently restricted by
inadequate border facilities, which result in an inability to schedule
trains to carry all the offered traffic. It is, in consequence, either
delayed or transferred to other modes. However, completion of ttte Yugoslav
border station at Subotica in the near future is expected to greatly
facilitate import/export and transit traffic by rail, with and thruugh
Yugoslavia.
2.04     The most important group of commodities, in terms of tons, carried
by MAV consists of mineral products, which represented 37.42 of total
volume in 1987 as compared to 39.72 in 1980. The second important group of
commodities is intermediate industrial products (cement, fertilizers,
sugar, petrochemicals, steel and etc.) which represented 26.52 of the total
domestic freight traffic in 1987 as compared to 27.82 in 1980.



- 10 -
Agricultural products represented 7.52 and other commodities 28.61 in 1987,
an increase compared to 5.8% and 26.71 in 1980, respectively. The main
commodities carried in 1987, in terms of the tonnage, were coal (14%),
petro chemicals (5%), iron ore (51), steel products (5%), fertilizers (5X),
wood (5X), stone (42).  Petroleum products, increasingly carried by
pipelines, have declined in terms of the total tonnage of MAV's traffic
(8.2 million tonnes in 1980 to 6.2 million tones in 1987). However, coal
carried by railways during the same period has increased from 14.9 to 15.7
million tons, or about 5% (Table 10). Freight traffic is forecast by MAV
to increase by 1.12 per annum in volume (NTKM) over the 1988-93 period.
b. Passenger Traffic
2.05     In the last eight years, passenger traffic has declined by about
3% p.a., from 282.4 million passengers in 1980 to 226.9 million in 1987.
The decline in terms of passenger-km has been proportional also averaging
3% p.a. during this period (Table 5). The decline in passenger traffic can
be attributed in part to the expansion of public road transport and of
private automobile ownership.
Traffic Forecast
2.06     MAV is determined to make marketing efforts to increase its
international passenger traffic (about 101 of total PKms last year) with
the formation of MAVTOURS which is establishing offices in foreign centers,
working closely with hotels and other tourist centers. Passenger traffic
over tne 1988-93 period is forecast by MAV to show no variation from those
of 1987.
2.07     MAV will conti.'ue to devote its marketing efforts to retaining the
commodities it presently carries while attracting irternational
containerized freight and trying to regain some transit traffic which has
been lost to rail. However, taking into account recent trends in rail
traffic volumes it is more realistic that the project should be based on
figures which do not assume any traffic growth.
Organization
2.08     During 1986 and 1987 MAV has revised its organization (Chart 2) to
better achieve major objectives of railway operations and productivity.
MAV has the legal status of a "self-dependent enterprise", headed by a
general manager, who is appointed by the Minister of Transport
Communication and Construction% It is divided into six regions. The
general manager, assisted by four deputies,
is responsible for the efficient management of the railways, for planning
its development and is the chairman of the Management Council, consisting
of the deputy managers, regional directors, division chiefs and trade union
representatives. This council is responsible for determinIng railway
policy, for establishing railway's development plans within the framework
of the state plan and for control of operations. Government approval of
the Management Council's proposals is required for major matters such as
large investments (infrastructure), tariff changes, or foreign resource
requirements for MAV's development. The Council meets one or two times
each month.



e 11 -
Railway Propertv
2.09     Track - MAV operates 7,619 km of line (IBRD Map No. 20795) of
which 97% is standard gauge, 15% double tracked, and 26% electrified
(Table 7). Rail traffic density in the country is relatively high but is
concentrated on about 30% of the network which carries about 70% of freight
traffic, with the heaviest traffic in the northern industrial part of the
country. The track is mainly 48-54 kg/m rail with welded joints, laid on
monoblock, reinforced concrete sleepers (68%) or wooden sleepers (32%), all
with crushed stone ballast. About 67% of the network (standard gauge) is
suitable for axle loads of above 20 and 22 tons per axle, about 40% is
suitable for speeds of 100 km/hr and more. Average rail life is about 22
years. Track is generally in good condition, although the very high
traffic density limits the time available for maintenance and track
overhaul; shortage of heavy duty track mainterance equipment compounds the
problem.
2.10     Signalling and Telecommunications - About 30% of the open lines
are equipped with automatic-line-block signalling, although only 5% of the
lines have centralized traffic control. The telecommunications system on
main lines is modern and adequate for present needs. There are also radio
communication with most main line locomotives and automatic train stops on
many main lines.
2.11     Traction and Rolling Stock - The proportion of traffic hauled by
electric traction rose from 51% of gross-ton-km (GTKm) in 1980, to 63% in
1987, while diesel traction decreased from 42% to 34% during the same
period. Steam traction will be phased out completely by 1990. The main
types of traction are presently about 470 electric and 1,100 mainline
diesel electric locomotives of whic'i about 65% and 70% respectively are
about 15 years or older. Locomotive maintenance facilities are relatively
good and the standard of repairs is high.  Total capacity of the freight
wagon fleet is about 2.5 million net-tons with average wagon capacity of 36
tons. More than 53% of the fleet is less than 20 years old, 46% is between
20 and 40 years old and only 1% of the fleet is over 40 years old.  The
fleet is in relatively good condition.  The passenger fleet, with total
capacity of about 235,000 seats, of which about 90% consists of four-axle
coaches, has an average age of about 16 years.
2.12     Marshalling Yards - There are 17 marshalling yatds, four of which
are major mechanized yards but with obsolete equipment.  Even in the three
large yards which comprise the Budapest junction and handle 80% of the
total traffic volume, or about 5,000 wagons a day, skids are still used
instead of secondary retarders. The brake systems in the yards have
frequently been defective leading to damage from runaway wagons and
accidents. The marshalling yard Budapest-Ferencvaros, a part of this
junction, has a key role in the Hungarian railway transport system and is
being improved and modernized as part of the on-going project financed by
the Bank. This will substantially increase its capacity and reduce the
usage of the other yards. MAV has prepared a master plan study for the
further concentration of marshalling activities, by reducing the number of
yards and through modernization, and reconstruction of the remain
marshalliag



- 12 -
yards. The program for implementing this plan is expected to be started
during the 1991-1995 investment plan.
Ope ations
2.13     The level of the Hungarian state railways operationai performance
in 1987 remained relatively high inspite of a slight deterioration when
compared to recent years mainly due to dropping traffic. Performance and
productivity ratios are reasonable co.mlpared to other railways. Utilization
of electric locomotives (measured by engine-km per engine day) has
increased during the 1980-87 period from 495 km/day to 500 km/day for
passenger traffic and from 324 km/day to 332 km/day for freight :raffic,
while utilization of diesel locomotives dropped slightly for frelght
traffic only. The lower diesel utilizatirn is due to the elimination of
diesel traction on long haul main trunk routes, while it continues to be
used on shorter and lower density secondary lines and for stand-by purposes
(Tables 7, 8 and 9).
2.14     Availability of traction and rolling stock, which gives an
indication of maintenance efficiency, declined sin:e 1980 to unsatisfactory
levels. This is influenced by the comparatively low availibility of the
diesel fleet. The main reasons for the decline were: (a) shortage of spare
parts (especially those requiring foreign exchange); (b) the shortage of
qualified staff and modern workshop equipment; and (c) an inefficient
system of spare parts stock control. MAV is presently initiating a study
involving in depth analysis of the above problems. Based on the study
recommendations, MAV will take appropriate actions to resolve the problems.
2.15     Utilization of wagon capacity during 1980-87 remained stagnant
(about 9,900 NTKM per ton of capacity). Turnaround time for wagons has
increased from 3.89 days in 1980 to 4.49 days in 1987. Analysis shows that
while this increase stemmed in part from longer times in marshalling yards
due to inadequate yard capacity, the principal cause was longer terminal
times. Increased wagon holding times at terminals (for loading and
unloading operations) resulti-d both from legislation shortening the working
week in Hungary, which reduced weekenid loading and unloading, and from a
lack of adequate equipment and facilities in major stations and terminals.
The government has started to implement measures to remedy this situation
by authorizing bonus payments for weekend loading and unloading, also
heavier penalties for wagons which are held over for more than permissible
periods. This is expected to improve wagon turnaround time during the
project period. The proposed project supports the installation of a
management information system that will help improve yard handling time,
and the introduction of a computer based monitoring system for traffic,
operational and maintenance activities, to help improve utilization of its
traction and rolling stock.
2.16     Container Traffic.  Development of railway container traffic
started in 1969. To date, MAV has 39 railway stations suitable for
receiving and loading containers, among which 12 are suitable for handling
large conLa ers used in international traffic. In 1987 MAV transported
2.6 millior! aet tons in containers (Table 6) mostly of expensively rated



- 13 -
goods.  MAV places a great emphasis .- the expansion of its container
traffic in conjunction with other transport modes: and plans to increase
traffic volumes carried by container to about four million tons by 1990.
Modernization of container transport was assisted by the Bank, through the
ongoing (Rail/Road) Transport Project.
Track MaitLitenance
2.17     Track is generally well maintained, but a lack of sufficient
modern track maintenance and renewal equipment makes it increasingly
difficult to keep up this standard. Most of MAV's track machinery has
outlived its normal useful life. The ongoing project financed the
acquisition of 17 track rehabilitation machines and the proposed project
would provide additional equipment (para. 3.03), as well as staff training
by the manufacturers, to help overcome the problem.
Staff and Productivity
2.18     The management and staff of MAV are technically well-qualified and
competent, but there is a shortage of qualified skilled staff and
technicians, particularly where new skills are required. The total number
of staff was reduced by about 4% from 133,718 in 1986 to 128,450 in 1987
during the last reorganization. Productivity measured by traffic units per
employee increased during the same period by about 3.5Z, principally
because of the staff reduction. The figure of 338,700 traffic units per
operational employee in 1987 compares favorably with most other railways.
Planned staff reduction together with the projected flat traffic forecast,
should give an additional increase of about 12% in productivity by 1993
(Tables 8 and 9).
Development Strategy
2.19     MAV's development strategy for .he 1991-95 period takes into
consideration the aims of the country economic policy which require MAV to
raise its operational performance and efficiency so that it can carry all
the traffic being offered at an economic cost in competition with other
modes. These include organizational, planning, financial and marketing
obje:tives, as well as improvements in technical and operational
performance.
The measures and activities, which would be required to achieve
the planned targets are as follows:
(i)    reorganization to further its decentralization, staff
reduction and employee incentives increase;
(ii)    improvement of the utilization of the traction and rolling
stock (by the introducing of TMIS);
(iii)    operational cost reduction by means of improving the
organization of traffic operation and quality of service;



- 14 -
(iv)    increasing flexibility in responding to transport demands by
emphasizing the commercial approach with particular reference
to developing integrated trans 'ort at an accelerated pace;
(v)    review and rationalize the existing marshalling Yard System
and container terminal network;
(vi)    investments should be properly oriented to meet national
requirements and be economically and operationally sound.
MAV will carry out a critical review of its operational efficiency
and take medium term measures to reverse the deterioration trend in
operational performance. The medium term measures for 1991-95 and 1989-93
targets (Table 28) were discussed with and confirmed by tne Borrower during
loan negotiations. MAV and MTCC will annually keep the Bank informed of
progress in achieving planned improvements.
Tariffs, Accounts and Audit
Tariffs
2.20     MAV as a public enterprise is expected to sustain itself by cost
recovery through tariffs. The tariffs are subject to approval by the
Government Board of Pricing. Presently, revenue from freight traffic
covers all related costs, while revenue from pas;enger traffic does not.
In 1987 passenger traffic revenues covered only some 352 of the related
costs. The Government compensates the railway for specific cases where the
under-recovery of costs is on account of Government regulations and social
policies, such as concessionary fares for the military, students, senior
citizens, etc. and high-volume, low-tariff commuter services wh ch are
maintained specifically at Gove.nment request.  In 198i such subsidies
covered only 28% of the total passenger service costs, leaving an
unrecovered balance of some 38X. The total revenues for both freight and
passenger costs covered some 96% of the costs which when aggregated with
the passenger service subsidy, has resulted in a surplus of some 3X. The
Government's policy is to move towards reduction of the passenger service
losses and to decrease the subsidies starting by a combination of
increasing operational efficiency (paras. 2.15 and 2.19) and progressively
increasing fares (para. 1.18). As part of this policy, long distance
passenger railway fares were increased in January 1989 by about 301 local
by 67% and freight by 20Z.
Accounts
2.21     All enterprises maintain their accounts in accordance with a
standard chart of accounts classifications, which facilitates the national
consolidati a of accounts while allowing for appropriate variations for
each business sector. Under this system the railways have their own chart
of accounts. MAV's accounting system, apart from recording transactions,
also aims at the establishment of net income as a tax base and
appropriations to three basic funds: (a) the Reserve Fund for covering
losses, (b) the Incentive Fund for rewarding staff for high performance,



- 15 -
and (c) the Development Fund for financing working capital and
investments. The accounting system is generally satisfactory, but it does
not adequately provide data for the analytical methods and procedures
required for the effective operation of a cost accounting system. This
deficiency is expicted to be corrected under the technical assistance
component of the proposed project which includes a traffic costing study
for the railways. A recent edict has clarified the concept of cost and
cost calculations, as well as the development of balance sheet and a
balance sheet reporting system.
Audit
2.22     Financial statements under the Hungarian accounting system are
based mainly on tax requiremexits which means they are voluminous and
sometimes difficult to interpret. In this circumstance, the Government has
agi 2ed with the Bank to submit annual financial statements (income
statement. cash flow and balance sheet) in a format which is easily
understood and capable of reflecting international accounting standards and
formats for financial statements and operating financial ratios. The
General Banking and Trust Company which had been responsible for auditing
financial statements was reorganized in January 1989 and its auditing
department was separated from the company to form a new company, Audit Rt.
Under the new arrangements auditing functions will be carried out by Audit
Rt. which is acceptable to the Bank. Under the ongoing project, the
audited financial statements are due at the Bank within four months after
year end; but because of translat: n and mail delays, the submission will
be extended to six months after 3_ar end under the proposed project.
The Railway's Investment Plan (1986-90)
2.23     The principal components of MAV's 1986-90 Investment Plan are
given in summary in Table 2.1 below, with greater detail provided in
Tatle II. It is primarily a rehabilitation plan which concentrates on
operating cost reduction and on safety oriented investments, rather than on
investments in capacity expansion, traction and rolling stock. Of the
total planned railway investment (US$ 934 million equivalent) about 62Z
(US$ 581 million equivalent) is allocated to renewal and rehabilitation of
the existing network and 382 (US$353 million equivalent) for modernization,
procurement of maintenance equipment and rolling stock replacement.
Railway investments are expected to acrount for about 45% of tthe total
investments in the transport sector during the plan period (Table 4).
Emphasis is initially on early completion of ongoing projects, while only
later in the plan period will new projects be undertaken, mostly track
renewal, signalling with telecommunications and electrification of
high-traffic- density main lines. Investment cost estimates are based on
prices of manufactured goods in Hungary and border prices (1987) for
imports. Estimates include a physical contingency allowance of about 52
for infrastructure items and price contingencies based on official
escalation factors of 52 per annum. Unit prices for infrastructure items
are generally in line with international prices but prices for rolling
stock, all of which will be procured from eastern European countries, are
lower than world prices, by 30% or more.



- 16 -
2.24     Track rehabilitation and junwtion reconstruction represents about
38S of the total planned investments. Track to be rehabilitated includes
ten high priority lines. These have kts average age of superstructure of
about 21 years and have carried a cumulative total gross-tonnage (since the
last track overhaul) of 100 to 370 million gross tons. This work is
essential for the efficient utilizati4tn of traction and rolling stock.
Proposed investments for the modernizktion of signalling and
telecommunications, which represent about 102 of the Investment Plan, will
eliminate serious bottlenecks by rept4cing equipment which is obsolete and
inadequate for the efficient operation of important stations and
junctions. Proposed investments in rdilway electrification comprise about
6S of the investment plan and include a significant portion of the main
line from Budapest to Gyekenes (near the Yugoslav border) where traffic
density is about 30 million gross tonr per year. Other short sections
proposed for electrification have beeh selected to improve the integrity
and continuity of the electrified network, thus avoiding uneconomic changes
of traction. Less than 201 of the total investment costs are for traction
and rolling stock. Capacity expansion investments, consisting of line
doubling on short stretches (9 km) and by-pass and cut-offs (about 2 km),
represent less than 12 of the propose4 investments and will relieve
congestion on main lines. The propos1e; are economically and operationally
sound.
Table 2.1: SUMMARY OF RAIL4AY INVESTMENT PLAN (1986-90)
Ft. mill.   US$ mill.   2 of Total
(1) Rehabilitation of Existing
Network
-Track rehabilitation (1,015 km)       10,674        224.2        24.0
-Electrification of lines (372 k0)    2,836           59.6         6.4
-Signalling and Telecommunicatioh
(430 km)                            4,549          95.6        10.2
-Reconstruction of junctions and
stations                            6,212         130.5        14.0
-Computer facilities                    1,338         28.1         3.0
-Bridges, sidings, substructures
and other                           2.041          42.9         4.6
27,650        580.9        62.2
(2) New lines (2 km) and line
doubling (9 km)                         105          2.2         0.2
(3)  Traction and rolling stock             8,679         182.3        19.5
(4)  Container handling equipment              480         10.1         1.1
(5) Other capacity modernization
(workshops, loco-depots,
maintenance equipment, etc.)         7.537         158.3        17.0
Total                               44,451         933.8       100.0
Source: MAV and MTCC



- 17 -
2.25     The railway investment program based on the annual average amount
of about US$187 millions is responsive to the country's needs. MAV is
currently completing a thorough study of its future needs (including
consolidations of marshalling yards, signalling and telecommunications,
electrification and further containerization, etc) particularly in the
light of emerging patterns of freight traffic and coupled with a study of
requirements in terminal facilities. The study, once it has been reviewed
and accepted by MTCC, is intended to serve as the basis of future
investment plan design. Full implementation of all study recommendations,
however, are likely to be constrained by the Government's and MAV's
financial resources.  The focus of ths next plan is expected to continue to
be further operating cost reductions with annual investments during the
1991-1993 period expected to be about $165 millions per year.  The Bank,
MTCC .ind MAV have agreed to continue to maintain a dialogue on the subject
so that the Bank's views may be taken into consideration when plans for
implementing the study recommendations are presented to the Government for
approval.
Financing Plan
2.26     Except for a small Government loan (about 12) and the proposed
Bank loan (about 2X), funds for MAV's .nvestments through the period
1988-93 about 20% will be provided by suppliers' credits and about 77X from
MAV's internal resources, entirely generated from depreciation provisions
(para. 5.14).
B. Highways
The Network
2.27     The total Hungarian road network in 1985 (Table 12) is divided
into: (i) National Roads (about 30,000 km, mostly paved), which are the
responsibility of the MTCC's Public Roads Department (PRD); (ii) Local
Public Roads (about 65,000 km and 321 paved), which are the responsibility
of county councils; and (iii) Agricultural and Forestry Roads (about 50,000
km and 30X paved), which are the responsibility of state farms,
agricultural cooperatives and forestry organizations. The length of paved
roads (excluding urban streets) has increased only slightly between 1980
and 1985 (Table 13).  Priority has been given to widening narrow pavements,
geometric betterments, pavement reinforcement and similar modernization
works on the existing road network. Even so the rate of modernization and,
in particular, pavement strength4ning and sealing has not kept pace with
the usage demands of the growing vehicle fleet. The main roads of the
national road network radiate from Budapest (IBRD Map 20795), where six of
the eight highway brWdges across the Danube in Hungary are to be found.
The steady growth of in-city traffic and transit traffic across the river
has led to rapidly growing congestion in the city. Construction of the M-0
motorway ringroad (IBRD Map 20795), the first 14 km of which is currently
under construction with Bank financing under the (Rail/Road) Transport
Project (Loan 2557-HU), is expected to help alleviate this problem. The
M-0 will connect the motorways M-1, M-5 and M-7, bypassing south of



- 18 -
Budapest and providing an additional highway bridge across the Danube
river. All these motorways are importan' links in the IEM system, which
wi'l eventually connect western and northern European countries with the
Balkans and Middle East. The Bank is providing financial assistance for
construction of other sections of the Trans European Motorways (TEM)
network in Yugoslavia, Turkey and Romania. For international traffic using
the network, passage through Budapest is considered to be one of the most
critical bottlenecks.
Road Transport and Traffic
2.28     Since 1970 the importance of road transport (public and private)
has grown rapidly in Hungary. Freight traffic moving on roads more than
doubled by 1985, while public passenger transport (passenger-kilometers)
rose about 60Z in the same period. The rapid growth of individual
motorization, however, has been the most conspicuous transport development
of the 1970's (para. 1.02).
2.29     Freight (13,580 million ton-kilometers in 1987) is carried both by
public transport companies and the "own-account" fleets of industries,
cooperatives (both business and agricultural) and state farms. Table 14
gives data on the ownership of the truck fleet which shows that in 1986 the
state owned transport companies, specifically: Hungarocamion handling
international trucking; Volan group hauling general freight; and six
specialized carriers (ore, cement, agricultural products, etc.) accounted
together for about 52Z of the annual ton-kilometers moved by road.
"Own-account" fleets of state and privately owned industries carried about
221-241 of the road freight moved, while agricultural cooperatives and
state farm fleets carried another 181-201 of the total. Privately owned
transporters carried about 61 of total traffic. The role assigned to the
private trucks has been that of filling "gaps" to meet all transport
demands.
2.30     Over the past fifteen years, there has been an effort to encourage
increased efficiency (first through improved load-factors, more recently by
increased competition) in the road-transport sector. Private trucks,
although registered in a county for purposes of taxation, are free to
operate anywhere in the country. "Own-account" fleets are also authorized
to haul for others once they meet the demand of the parent organization, so
as to reduce empty backhauls. Recent, deregulatory measures aimed at
further increasing competition and efficiency have split up the Volan
group's branches into separate transport companies free to compete against
each other, against the private trucker and "own-account" backhauling
truckers. Volan is also authorized to compete with Hungarocamion and
foreign truckers for international cargos, while Hungarocamion is planning
to start competing for in-country traffic. Freight tariffs, which are cost
based and competitive, are negotiated and favor clients who can assure
return loads. Special agencies help locate and assemble loads in order to
minimize empty trips and conserve energy. The Government prescribes tariff
ceilings to protect customers in outlying areas, but there is no freight
allocation in the transport sector. Shippers make their own choice between
modes and exporters or importers may choose between domestic or foreign
carriers.



-19 -
2.31     Truck sizes were also subject to some indirect control, through
control of imports and of national manufacture. Volan's fleets typically
were in the 8 to 9 ton range, privately owned trucks in the 5 to 6 ton
range, while "own-account" trucks are smaller, roughly 3 ton size. The
present truck sizes, and a possible slight skewing of the rate structure to
make short-haul road movement more profitable, have served to intensify
road competition with rail within a range of about 50 miles. With
Hungarocamion entering the internal haulage market with larger trucks,
those no longer considered competitive for international routes, this area
of competition is likely to expand in the near future.
2.32     Road passenger transport is handled by 25,900 buses of which about
402 are state-owned. These operate in Budapest, other urban centers and
between towns and cities and carry 82% of all bus passenger kilometers.
The other 182 of bus passenger kilometers are carried by 60% of the bus
fleet (generally smaller busses) belonging to state companies and
cooperatives. In addition, there are about 1,540,000 cars, of which about
1,500,000 are privately owned, while the balance belongs to Government
organizations or commercial authorities. Among the latter are 3,610 state
owned taxis. In addition about 8,700 privately owned taxis are also
licensed.  572 of the total passenger-kilometers in Hungary are travelled
in automobiles and taxis.
j   2.33  There is no government subsidy of the bus service provided by the
approximately 14,000 "own-fleet" buses nor of intercity bus services.  only
.he urban portions of the services provided by four major municipal
authorities (Budapest, Miskolc, Szeged and Pecs) and by Volan companies in
!        ~~the smaller towns, receive an indirect subsidy, mostly through subsidized
season tickets issued to old people and students.  The urban buses must
meet the total passenger demand which is expressed by centrally established
timetables and routes, but have the flexibility to decide on the type and
size of vehicles to use.
2.34     Private taxis are regulated through licensing requirements
governing type of vehicle, driver's record and psychological testing. Each
city can set its own rates and larger taxis are permitted to charge more.
They are also permitted to carry passengers between cities.
Traffic, Traffic Regulation and Safety
2.35     Traffic data for planning and design is collected by annual
programs of volume counts and periodic origin-destination censuses.
Traffic censuses were started in Hungary in the 1950's with about 100
census stations manned and operated on a regularly basis, complemented,
each five years, by a larger census (4,600 stations) to cover all roads.
Since 1980, more modern equipment has been introduced and a rotation system
of counting on a third of the network each year has been adopted. On new
motorways, loop-counting equipment is being built into the pavement to
provide added data on vehicle speeds and spacing.
2.36     MTCC operectes weight control stations at points of entry into
Hungary and on motorways as well as operating mobile weight control teams
within the country. Allowable axle loads and maximum truck weight conform
to the TEM Council requirements, while maximum vehicle dimensions conform



- 20 -
to European cotuicil standards.  Trucks operating with higher axle loads pay
a fee (Table 15) and are restricted to assigned routes.  MTCC is currently
reviewing the level and structure of surcharges imposed on trucks exceeding
the legal axle-load limit to discourage overloading. MTCC collects and
analyses accident statistics. Hungarian accident rates are at about the
halfway mark for a group of European comparator countries (close to the
United Kingdom figures) but with total accidents substantially above the
best road safety records. Under the ongoing transport project, Hungarian
specialists are reviewing measures being taken by other countries to reduce
accident rates.
Organization
2.37     MTCC has both oversight responsibility for all transport modes and
sole responsibility for road standards, road transport regulation (apart
from police enforcement responsibility) while also managing the design,
construction, maintenance and operation of the National Road Network. Its
branch offices assist lnval authorities in the construction, improvement
and maintenance of ruraL, municipal, agricultural and forestry roads. The
newly consolidated MTCC's headquarters internal organization of the new
ministry is still being defined. However, the main departments responsible
for roads and their relationship to the decentralized external
organizations responsible for managing and executing roadwork (shown in
Chart 1 in relation to the former Ministry of Transport) are expected to
remain largely unchanged. Three departments, Public Roads (PRD), Technical
Development (TDD) and Supervision and Control (SCD) share responsibility
for national infrastructure. The PRD oversees inter alia national road
maintenance and operation activities which are directly managed by nine
Public Road Management Centers (PRMC) and nineteen subordinate Maintenance
Coordination Centers (MCC) throughout Hungary. The TDD reviews all
investment proposals, contracts detailed engineering services and engages
an investment management firm or a PRMC to contract the works and supervise
execution. The SCD ensures quality control, of both maintenance and
construction work, through seven regional laboratories.
2.38     The PRD is also charged with motor-vehicle traffic regulation, the
TDD with road design standards (materials specifications and drainage
standards are controlled by other organizations) and coordination with
local councils, while the SCD also acts as an internal control, reporting
directly to the minister in this capacity. The Transportation Department
(TD) oversees the state-owned passenger and goods transport enterprises and
the regulation of transport. There traditionally have been no accounting
or cashier organizations within line ministries, their functions being
carried out by the Banks through which their budgets were coursed.
Planning
2.39     Highway planning responds to both the road transport demands
expected to be generated by the Government's five year plans and the road
improvements needed to achieve and/or maintain desired levels of services
to adequately handle the growing traffic volumes. Traffic forecasting and
assignment is performed on a computer model which is multi-modal, using
growth assumptions which are realistic. A road inventory and sufficiency
survey, which was first taken in 1979 and which has since been updated and



- 21 -
improved, serves as the basis of a program of maintaining road sufficiency
including widening and pavement-strengthening, which together with road
maintenance, accounts for the greater part of road expenditures.
Nonetheless, recent surveys indicate that arrears have been accumulating in
this program, and reversing this trend has become a leading priority in the
road sector (para. 2.45). Other road improvements are part of the fourth
long-term development program, whose underlying rationale is to support
energy conservation by (i) upgrading capacity on existing roads (adding new
traffic lanes and constructing bypasses at larger villages and towns), (ii)
constructing high speed motorways on routes carrying international traffic
(once traffic volumes justify such construction), and (iii) constructing
some "short-cuts" where there is sufficient traffic demand. The latter has
assumed increasing importance in cases where traffic can be diverted from
overcowded highways, to ease the maintenance work requirements and costs,
given the current financial constraints (para. 2.45 and 2.48). Capacity is
calculated in terms of passenger car units (pcu) with heavy vehicles
assigned a weight of 2.5 pcu's. Maximum acceptable traffic volumes are
given in Table 16. Design traffic is taken as the 50th or 100th highest
hour of forecast weekday traffic, depending on the importance of the
road.-" More frequent weekend traffic congestion generally is considered
acceptable, however, the proposed interchange at the M-0 and M-7 junction
would have ramps designed for heavy weekend traffic. Completion of the M-0
motorway (Budapest ring road) is a high priority improvement in this latest
long-term plan.
Engineering
2.40     For over 20 years, all motorway and highway bridge engineering in
Hungary has been performed by a major engineering enterprise under contract
to MTCC. The quality of its highway engineering work is up to
international standards and the company has considerable experience, both
in Hungary and abroad. A number of smaller highway design offices
throughout the country deal with local roads. Table 17 presents main
geometric standards in use. Those for motorways conform to or surpass
requirements established by the TEM council for the TransEuropean
Motorways. Pavement design methods are up to date and bridge design
loadings conform to European practice. Interchanges for limited access
highways are conventionally designed in accordance with western European
practice to minimize land acquisition. Technical specifications for
construction and materials were extracted from a 17 volume set of national
standards and assembled as a single et of specifications for road works
and bridge construction for the first time, under the ongoing transport
project and are satisfactory.
Construction
2.41     Four major state-owned construction firms have built most of the
major roads and bridges in Hungary and a fifth major firm (specialized in
metro construction) is considered to have the capability for large
1/ Design hourly traffic represents a number of vehicles per hour which is
expected to occur (statistically) during a certain number of hours each
year. The 50th highest hours traffic volume is expected to be exceeded
during 49 hours each year.



- 22 -
projects. About 12 smaller contractors handle local, rural and urban road
projects. Operational control of these companies is fully detached from
MTCC. The work quality is good (contractors are held to a three-year
guarantee period on motorway construction) and prices are competitive, as
evidenced in ICB against foreign firms under the ongo:ng transport
(rail/road) project. The Hungarian companies also compete for jobs outside
the country against international competition.
2.42     MTCC contracts management and supervision of large construction
projects to UTIBER, an investment management company which specializes in
transportation projects. UTIBER's responsibilities include all fieldwork
in connection with expropriation and land acquisition, control of
zonformity with plans, specifications, measurement of work quantities and
approval of contractors invoices for payments. UTIBER also provides
financial management md is responsible for keeping project cost under a
stipulated limit (102 contingency). Within this limit, it is authorized to
make minor design adjustments.
Expropriation and Environmental Protection
2.43     Obtaining local views as a part of land acquisition for new roads
is a lengthy procedure ir. Hungary. Approval is required from local
councils, who consult their constituency, and also from a special branch of
the Ministry of Agriculture, if agricultural lands are affected.
Expropriation cannot start unless these conditions have been met. Payment
must be made to the Ministry of Agriculture and in case of building
demolition to comhunity councils as well as to owners. Displaced owners
have the choice of having the authorities find new land and/or housing or
receiving money to find new property for themselves.  After land is
expropriated there remains a period of five months for the former owner to
complete his use of the land (crops to harvest, etc...).
2.44     Hungary's environmental protection requirements have been even
further strengthened recently. The requirements cover the aspects of sound
control, protection of agricultural crops from vehicle fumes and aesthetic
considerations. In matters of drainage there has long been strict controls
tied into flood control policy and reclaimed (flood protected) land. In
addition, when groundwater is tapped for water supply purposes,
restrictions are imposed on land use and waste disposal in areas
surrounding the wells. Construction specifications, in addition, have
stringent requirements for daily cleaning of haul roads and dust protection
during construction operations.
Maintenance
2.45     Maintenance of National Roads is effectively organized and well
managed. Maintenance of local roads is dependent on the allocation of
resources by each local authority and is less standardized. The
traditional road maintenance practices have depended heavily on
preventative measures, particularly timely overlaying, sealing, and
strengthening of surfaces which is performed mostly by contractors. On the
motorways, providing for safe vehicle operation is also highly stressed and
patrolling inspection vehicles keep constant radio contact with a motorway



- 23 -
maintenance center. One inspection trip per day is used to note urgent,
unscheduled tasks which then become part of daily work programs of crews
and equipment assigned for minor repairs. Other crews work on pre-planned
preventive maintenance or major repair works. The-e is a similar but less
intensive program of regular inspections of other national roads. Since
1983, however, there has been a decline, particularly in real terms, in the
level of funds provided for road maintenance and pavement strengthening.
In face. Gf continuously growing traffic and steadily rising costs of
maintenance operations, PRD's maintenance managers are concentrating
resources on the most heavily travelled roads and seeking lower cost, but
possibly less durable, solutions as stop gap measures, until more resources
can be provided. Four test sections of thin overlays using different new
techniques have recently been constructed in Hungary, in search of overlay
cost reductions. Also, as part of the training program under the ongoing
transport project, PRD technical staff are making visits abroad to
familiarize themselves with state-of-the-art progress in pavement
management and recent development of improved maintenance techniques. From
the updated road sufficiency survey results (1987) sufficient information
is available to determine policy options and costs to counteract the
accumulated effects of the insufficient budgets. A special study and
analysis of estimated road maintenance needs, in the medium term, was
undertaken for MTCC by the Hungarian Institute of Transport Studies (KTI)
based on the 1987 survey results. Those showed that for about 40% of the
road networks, the pavement bearing capacity or strength could be at the
end or beyond its theoretical design life.  Of this about 5,500 km, or
about 20X, has a pavement surface state which has become unacceptable due
to cracking and rutting, above the level at which research has shown
pavement strengthening to be required. In addition about 4,000 km of
national roads are subject to load restriction during the spring thaw. The
proposed project would supr?ort an accelerated pavement strengthening and
sealing program in parallei with analyses on possible improvements in
optimizing the use of road maintenance resources.
Equipment and Workshops
2.46     MTCC's equipment inventory lists about 9000 units of equipment,
plant, vehicles, attachments and tools of which about a third are road
vehicles and another third are equipment and attachments used mostly for
routine road maintenance and winter operations. There is a heavy
dependence on machines from western European countries to deal with
disruptions caused by winter weather conditions, particularly on the more
densely travelled roads and motorways. Because of serious winter
conditions in recent years, PRD has acquired higher-powered machines, with
Bank financing, to serve at strategic locations from which they are capable
of moving quickly to provide emergency ice and snow removal assistance.
There is a good system of record keeping concerning equipment age and usage
upon which a program of regular renewal of aged equipment is based.
However, as maintenance requirements and costs are rising due to both
increased traffic volumes and more kilometers of aging pavements, MTCC is
also giving priority to obtaining more efficient equipment. In addition
attention is being given to replacing old axle-load weighing equipment due
to their significant role in extending pavement life.



- 24 -
Highway Investment Plan (1986-90)
2.47     Proposed development investments (excluding maintenance and
pavement reinforcement) on roads in Hungary during 1986-90 are summarized
in Table 2.2 below and given in more detailed in Table 18. The average
total investments for roads is about 4.18 billion Forints (US$85 million)
per year during the 1986-90 period with funds divided in a 45:55
proportion, between National Roads (30,000 km) and local council roads
(65,000 km) respectively. The plan's investments are all need based but
about 30% below the original 5-year plan figures. The proportion of
allocation between national and local roads appears reasonable, based on
HUngary's past experience.
Table 2.2: PROJECTED ROAD EXPENDITURES
(Current Prices)
1986-1990
Plan Totals             X of total
Description                 Fts. m.    US$ m.
National Highways
(1) Road Construction or             9.630      193.8             14.1
Improvement
- Motorways - new construction       6,950      139.9
- Other Roads of which:              2.680      53.9
n new construction               1,450       29.2
modernization (betterments)    1,230        24.7
(2) Pavement Reinforcement          11,890      239.3             17.5
(3) Maintenance                     15.710      316.1             23.0
Total (1+2+3)         37,230     749.2              54.6
Local Roads
(4) Construction/Improvements       11,280      227.8             16.6
(5) Maintenance/Modernization       19.530     394.5              28.8
Total                 30,810     622.3              45.4
Grand Total                 68,040   1,371.5             100.0
2.48     The proportion of funds allocated to new construction and
improvement of national roads, compared to road maintenance and pavement
reinforcement (Table 18) stands at about 25:75 during the plan period. The
average annual maintenance and pavement reinforcement allocation during the
1986-90 period provides about Ft 184,000 (US$3,700) per kilometer each year
for these operations, which the KTI study (para. 2.45) estimates to be



- 25 -
about 63f  of the requirement to effectively meet both road deterioration
and traffic (capacity) - suiJiciency needs. Even without any pavement
widening the sum would only Reet 78% of che requirement for maintenance and
pavement strengthening. Pavement strengthening, a key element in Hungary's
strategy both for progressive road improvement and maintenance, suffered
the least funding reduction during the 1984-85 period and has continued at
much the same level (in nominal terms) during the 1986-88 period. This,
however, has not kept up with rising costs of maintenance operations and
increased road traffic needs. The KTI study estimated that keeping abreast
of annual road deterioration and the needed capacity increases on the
existing national road network, which eliminating the accumulated backlog
of deferred work, in a five year period, would require annual budgets of
8,700 million HUF (1987 prices), compared to about 5,200 million HUF
allocated in 1988. Faced with general decreases in public expenditures,
which is being pursued as part of Hungary's structural adjustment effosts,
MTCC has nonetheless obtained the Government's support for the first phase
of a two-phase strategy namely: (i) halting the accumulation of deferred
maintenance backlog in the 1989-1990 period, and (ii) eliminating the
backlog entirely over the next decade. With the Bank's proposed assistance
under the project, MTCC obtained a 102 increase in the pavement
strengthening and maintenance budget for 1989 and has been guaranteed at
least 8X-12X increase for 1990. Thereafter substantial increases in real
terms would be sought to carry out phase (ii) of the strategy.
Concurrently, a synthesis and further analysis of existing and amplified
maintenance studies would be undertaken with a view to optimizing resource
utilization. In addition, the effect of proposed improvement in competive
bidding of strengthening and maintenance works on costs would be closely
monitored. The policy and objectives are well thought-out, responsive to
the needs of the national road-network and deserve support.
2.49     Financial constraints during the second half of the Sixth Plan
Period (1981-85) obliged the Government to sharply reduce the investment in
new road construction, including motorways. In the 1986-90 period the
Government resumed investment in the motorway system (Table 18) while still
keeping other road improvements at a rather low level. Planned increase in
budgets for road modernization in the latter years of the plan period will
not actually take place. The motorway program now comprises only
completing the M-0 motorway between the M-1 and Rte No. 6. The first
portion of the M-0 (Rte 6 to M-5) including the major bridges across the
Danube river's two channels, is currently under construction with financing
provided under the ongoing project from Loan 2557-HU. The construction of
the next 13.9 km of the M-0 bypass would immediately increase the traffic
volume on the first section by about 50X. Bank missions emphasized, and
the Government appreciated, the urgency to speed up the construction of the
next stage, on sound economic grounds, however, the additional investment
funds which would have been needed during 1988-90 for this purpose, cannot
be allocated.
2.50     Construction of the complete Budapest ringroad will take a long
time.  However, the M-1 to M-5 link, on which work would be complete under
the proposed project, is the section most important to east-west



- 26 -
international traffic (TEM route). Also the Danube river bridges, whieh
were included in the first phase, are the most complex and costly works of
the proposed system which will serve to eliminate the most critical
bottleneck in road transport in Hungary.
2.51     The road modernization program, which includes construction of
bypasses around towns, improvement of at-grade road junctions, construction
of grade separations at railway crossings as well as improving road
alignments and adding lanes to urban and rural sections of the national
roadnet, was substantially cut back in 1984 and would continue at reduced
levels until towards the end of the 1991-95 period (i.e., until work on M-J'
motorway is terminated).
2.52     The rtt3tive priority of this type of work has not been assessed
by an overall economic study but, viewed pragmatically. the strategy would
appear sound, particularly when considered jointly with the allocations
proposed for pavement strengthening. The motorway program is aimed at
diverting long distance traffic from the most crowded main roads and will
benefit the traffic which will not divert to the motorways as well as the
diverting traffic. Constrvction of bypasses and grade separations, which
will continue at a reduced rate in the coming years, both further help
decongestion.
Accounts and Audit
2.53     Accounts are maintained for MTCC by the Banks through which funds
are channelled. Separate accounts are maintained for each project. For
the proposed project, accounts will be kept cumulatively and by year
showing the receipts and expenditures for the project c 'ponents, as well
as showing separately funds from Bank loans and other financing from the
Government with details of expenditures by categories and sub-categories.
The foregoing receipts and expenditures accounts would be audited annually
by the Audit Rt (para. 2.22) and a statement --"bmitted to the Bank. Under
the ongoing project the audited project accounts are due in the Bank within
four months after year end; but because of translation and mail delays the
submission will be extended to six months after year end under the proposed
project.
C. Hungarocamion
Organization
2.54     Hungarocamion (HC) was established on January 1, 1966, to provide
domestic and foreign customers with quick, efficient and reliable
international road transportation. The company is headed by a Generai
Manager who oversees four line departments (operations, technical,
financial and personnel) as well personally controlling the operations of
the International Relations and Legal departments (Chart 3). The company
has two affiliates in Europe, namely, the Pelkar Transport GmbH in Austria,
and Eurocar Spa in Italy, nine offices at different Hungarian border
crossing points and has representatives in 20 big cities of 16 countries.



- 27 -
It is currently expanding the number of foreign offices, has strengthened
the staffing of these offices and is seeking additional affiliates in other
European countries.
Operation and Fleet
2.55     HC has gone through a dynamic development period during its 21
year life. At the time of its establishment HC possessed only 357 small
capacity vehicles (Skoda, Csepel, Saurer). Today, the truck fleet has more
than quadrupled (Table 19) and its capacity has increased six times during
this period by adding to the fleet higher capacity modern units (Table 20)
suited for international freighting. . The average annual vehicle
utilization is high and has shown a gradual improvement over the years
(Table 21 & 22). In recent years, due to Europe's economic stagnation and
decreased middle east demand, there has been a marked falling off in HC's
traditional markets as well as increasing competition, which resulted, in
1986, with a loss of about 50% of traditional trade. HC has had to
restructure their operations by increasing their volume of haulage to and
from European sources. They have been able to do so successfully, in spite
of a substantial loss of agricultural exports in early 1986 due to the
Chernobyl disaster, with new, larger capacity, lighter weight trucks
purchased with financing provided under the ongoing transport project.
However, fleet replacement, particularly of Raba-Man models has not kept up
to original plans. HC has detached about 100 vehicles, which are no longer
considered competitive on international runs, to form an in-country
trucking service which would, inter alia provide pick-up and delivery
services to their customers.
2.56     RC established a computer center in 1980 to start introducing
computerized control of movements of cargo and vehicles but mainly utilized
the computer for accounting and payroll purposes. Under the ongoing
transport project, HC has engaged consultants to review their computerized
operations in the light of providing management information, assistance to
marketing as well as possible operational improvements. Based on their
consultants' recommendations, HC now intends to expand their
computerization as part of an Integrated and Computerized Information
System (ICIS) which would include both a marketing and various management
sub-systems, for all management needs, from a single data bank. Expected
advantages include more efficient procedures, more rapid invoicing and a
reduction in office staff. The consultants also recommended that HC
intensify its efforts to form additional affiliates and joint ventures.
Investment Plan and Development Strategy
2.57     Investment policy of HC in recent times has been primarily aimed
at achieving two main objectives which are to increase foreign exchange
earnings through the development and modernization of its vehicle fleet and
to increase operational efficiency by making fleet and infrastructure
improvements, including electronic information and control systems,
maintenance shop modernization, inventory control system and additional
container handling equipment. The HC's investment plan (Table 2.3) for
augmenting the vehicle fleet and infrastructure facilities took into



- 28 -
account market structure, likely growth of Hungarian exports (especially
food stuffs, live animals, clothes and furniture), unfavorably road
conditions, especially in the Middle East, fuel efficiency and optimum
utilization of loading capacity.  It has been prudently revised and updated
annually to reflect the effects of changing demands and markets.
Table 2.3: HC'S INVESTMENT PLAN (1986-90)
Replacement      Development            Total         Total
No. of   Costs   No. of   Costs   No. of    Costs    Costs
units      tm     units    _im      units      $m       Ft.m.
Items            (approx)           (approx)          (approx)
Vehicles
of which:
Refrigerated       750      41.0     550     38.5    1,300      79.5      3,785
Specialized           -        -     190     16.2       190     16.2         770
Normal Tilted      750      41.0     275     15.7    1,025      56.7       2,700
Equipment               -      2.9       -      0.9        -       3.8         180
Others                  -      0.4       -     15.0        -      15.4         735
Total                  85.3              86.3              171.6      8,170
Source: Hungarocamion, July 1987



- 29 -
2.58     RC's draft investment plan for 1990-1992 forsees continued fleet
development but stresses technological improvement of the fleet during
renewal in addition to growth. In particular, HC anticipates increasing
the units suitable for intermodal operations, and stressing
interchangeability of body superstructures to be able to meet changing
demands. About 400 of nationally manufactured trucks would be replaced
(out of a total 695) and about 440 western European models would also be
replaced while about 200 new units would be added. The plan is responsive
to the critical need for improving inier-modal balance and competitive
strength in international trade.
Pricing and Finance
2.59     RC is an enterprise which is free to fix its rates according to
market forces in order to compete successfully in t.e international freight
haulage market. 1985/1986 traffic figures show thaL the most important
tr8afsport activities of HC consist of export, import and transit traffic
from the Federal Republic of Germany and transit trtffic to Iraq and
Turkey. Lately, the West European trade is showing an increasing trend
whereas Near/Middle East activities of HC are declining. Actual costs of
most regular journeys of HC are calculated at least quarterly, by the
Financial and Costing Department, taking into account weight and distance,
the type of load, standard of roads traversed, frontiers crossed (with
consequent waiting time), international charges to be met, terminal times,
etc. Rates are determined by the Commercial Department and are varied by
back-haul possibilities or agreements, while back-haul rates themselves are
carefully calculated to keep empty-runring to a minimum and to take
ad-Aazage of any suitable traffic which may be available. Much of the
transit traffic carried by HC from Western Europe to the Middle East
originates as back-haul. HC attaches great importance in having Bank
assistance in implementing the ICIS which is currently being proposed and
introducing any complementary institutional changes.
2.60     HC, formerly responsible to MTCC for safety and the operation of
its business is now independent on operational and financial matters.
Safety is still overseen by MTCC. HC's internal resources are adequate for
the f:nancing of their replacement vehicles and for most other capital
expendliture needs. However, to retain and expand their market share in the
highly competitive international freight business, HC borrowed their
convertible currency needs to purchase more fuel efficient, lighter and
larger trucks (para. 2.35) from NBH, who received financing under the
ongoing transport project and a complementarl B-loan.  In accordance with
arrangements made under the ongoing project, HC is repaying on-lent funds
from the NBH over a seven year period. NBH is committed to relending any
portion of these funds not needed to service debt, under Ln 2557-HU to HC,
During the proposed project period there would only be a limited need for
further vehicle financing, which should be obtainable through supplier
credits. HC is a profitable company which during recent years has
maintained a pre-tax profit of about 202 and an operating ratio of about
802 (para. 5.19). It also has a keen interest in Bank assistance to
improve inter-modal operations both at home and abroad.



- 30 -
D. Budapest Transport ComPanY (BKV)
General
2.61     Public transport services in Budapest are provided by a multi-modal
municipal company, The Budapest Transport Company (BKV). This company was
established on January 1, 1968 by the merger of then exsiting seven transport
enterprises dealing with bus, tram trolley bus, local railway and passenger
boat, to operate an integrated public transport service for Budapest. BKV
operates under the joint oversight of the City Council and the MTCC. The
BKV's 1,000 Km service network (Map IBRD - 20796) features street buses,
metro, tramways, trolley buses and suburban trains. Services are extensive
both in time and space and reasonably fast with an average operating speed of
about 18 km/hr. The Company employs a staff of about 24,6G0 and has a fleet
of aobut 3,800 vehicles and carries in excess of 5 million passengers per day
(Table 23).
Institutional Relations
2.62     Budapest is governed by a 151-strong Municipal Council, drawn from
its 22 districts, headed by a 15-man Executive Committee of the Council.
Concerning urban transport matters, staff functions for the Committee are
performed by Budapest Transport Administration (BTA). The BTA has the
administrative authority over the BKV and its 40 staff concern themselves with
matters such as transit routes and stops, traffic and parking management,
vehicle and driver licensing and longer term development of transport services
and the road networks. The functional authority over the BKV belongs to MTCC,
whose transportation Department oversees operations of all public transport
enterprises.
2.63     BKV went through several cycles of development, from greater
independence of modally defined units (metro, tramway, bus, trolley bus,
local train etc) to a highly centralized system and now again moving towards
decentralization. The current organizaiton is shown in Chart 4.
Operational Characteristics
2.64     According to the traffic census of 1980, about 4.5 million
(origin-destination) motorized trips are made in Budapest on an average vork
day, of which about 83X are internal to the area, the balance being external
and through trips. Modal split for motorized trips is about 80% by public
transport and about 20% by car; this is as much a result of an extensive and
low-fare public transport system (paras 1.07 and 1.15) as of a low
car-ownership (about 170 cars/1000 population in Budapest compared to similar
sized western European cities such as Berlin or Stockholm with about 315 and
250 cars/1000 population respectively). Two-thirds of all trips are work
related.  In 95% of the city area the maximum t'-at people have to walk to the
nearest bljs, tram or metro stop is 400 metres. BKV's traffic is expected to
remain more or less at the same level over the next decade.
2.65     Crowding is common in peak hours.  The operational capacity of BKV is
estimated as about 28.7 billion space-km (seats and standing places) wherein
different types of vehicles contribute approximately as follows: 42Z bus, 3%



-31 -
trolley bus, 202 tramway, 20% metro, 152 suburban railway.  The fleet
availability for service is about 811 and the average operating speeds (25.8
km/hr for metro, 18.3 km/hr for buses, 15.3 km/hr for the tramway) are
reasonable (Table 24). As for staffing, aggregate staff of BKV per equivalent
bus is 3.9, which is reasonable, taking into consideration long hours (14-16
hours a day) of operation and frequent services, although the number of
non-operational staff (about 5,500) appears to be relatively on the high
side. The management and staff of BKV are technically well qualified and
competent and have been quick to grasp Bank-style cost-benefit analysis.
Pricing, Development Strategy and Investment Plan
2.66     BKV's fares are low vis-a-vis operating  costs (paras 1.15 arc  1.21)
and at present cover only about 28% of total costs of BKV o eracions.  The
fare system is simple: a single blue bus ticket costs Ft 3 and the yellow
ticket (for tram, trolley bus and metro) costs Ft 2; these are valid for given
lines only, independent of its length. Besides there are concessional monthly
tickets widely us d by the public. What BKV revenues do not cover is made up
from two sources, in accordance with orescribed formulae, designed as
incentive to performance; a "supply" subsidy from Budapest City Council,
Ft 160 for each space-km put into service, and a "demand" subsidy from the
State, amounting to over 2 Ft for each Ft of traffic revenue earned. In the
years 1986 and 1987 the range of Government subsidy per annum stood at Ft 7-8
billion (or US$ 165-170 million).
2.67     Modernizing traffic operations and organization of the in'egrated BKV
network are the critical tasks of BKV. In the face of stagnant traffic, BKV
attac'.es a special emphasis on improving the quality of service. One of the
most important tasks is to maintain the speed of the commercial vehicles at
least at the same current level, inspite of continuously increasing
motorization (including private transport) in the urban area. BKV's main
focus is therefore, on cost-reducing and increased productivity-oriented
investments. Towards this objective, traffic management has been pursued
actively in Budapest. Some 470 intersections are inter-connected and
controlled by a central computer. Limited stops and express bus services are
being introduced to make the system more cost-effective. Introduction of
one-person operation (eliminating conductors altogether) for bus and tram
traffic has been of great significance as it released about 7,500 operational
staff from the system. BKV intends to introduce the one-person operation
(discontinuing the service of guards) on the metro and on the suburban railway
also, in a phased manner over a longer time period depending on the
availabilitvr of resources needed for the high-price equipment for operation of
such systems.
2.68     The BKV's own investments in the Sixth Plan (1980-85) period were
about Ft 7.3 billion (about US $150 mill). In addition, the Government gave
capital grants for all metro and tramway construction. In the Seventh Plan
(1986-90), BKV's own investments are expected to increase to about Ft 9.8
billion (about US $200 million - Table 24). Track rehabilitation and workshop
facilities acccunt for a major share of the investments, which are
need-based. The following table 2.4 gives annual investment figures for the
ten-year period 1983-1993 for BKV indicating, in addition, the capital
expenditures (actual and planned) for all metro in the Budapest region during
the same period.



- 32 -
Table 2.4: BKV's Investments
actual and planned)
1983-1993
(in current prices)
in FT mi'l  aL
Total                                    o f  w h I c h                                   State
Investments         Vehicles              Construction           Workshops / Depots         Grants
Year  of 0KV  deeIln"taaint /total        develD/ maint/ total    devela/ maint / total         Metro
1983  2045.0       -    593.2    593.2    190.0   760.1   950.1   105.8    45.3   151.1           1581.0
1984  1822.2       -    453.3    453.3    123.8   701.3   825.1    87.4    58.3   145.7           1688.0
1985  1798.6       -    586.0    586.0       35.4   671.8   707.2    45.8   183.1   228.9        1648.0
1986  2009.9       -    476.2    476.2    148.0   779.1   927.1   147.5    98.3   245.8           1373.0
1987  2259.5       -    571.6    571.6    226.9   907.9  1134.8   100.6   100.6   201.2           1584.0
1988  2264.9       -    504.1    504.1       84.5   973.8  1058.3   165.8   165.7   331.5         1188.0
1989  2378.1       -    866.2    866.2       86.5   995.5  1082.0   115.1   172.7   287.8         1500.0
1990  2497.0       -    795.4    795.4    115.0  1034.8  1149.8    89.0   200.7   289.7           1600.0
1991  2746.7       -    944.9    944.9       99.9  1149.9  1249.8   103.0   229.3   332.3         1800.02/
1992  2801.6       -    963.8    963.8    140.2  1134.5  1274.7    98.3   240.7   339.0          2500.02
1993  2857.7       -    983.0    983.0    130.0  1070.2  1300.2   103.7   242.1   345.8          3500.02
il       Indicates negligible
2/       Includes 1200, 2500 and 3.500 nill.Ft investments on the extension of blue line H3 metro to
replace the existing rapid tramway system.



- 33 -
2.69    On the whole the transport sector investment plan is need-based, and
economically and technically sound. While a substantial portion of the
investments is for efficient maintenance of the system, it is also evident
that a considerable sum is being planned for investment in the early 1990's
for the extension of the metro's blue line to replace the existing rapid
transit tramway. In view of severe resource constraints, the priority of that
investment needs to be carefully evaluated. At negotiations an agreement were
reached that a detailed feasibility study will be carried out to assess the
economic viability of the extension of the metro's blue line and that the
project will be undertaken only if it is found to be economically justified.
5076UV/ 1-43



- 34 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.01     Given the present trend of Hungary's economic adjustment programs,
which emphasize increased exports and liberalized imports to promote
competition, a higher premium is being placed by the country on the more
efficient operi,tion of those existing transport assets carrying significant
volumes of foreign trade and on investments designed to remove critical
bottlenecks in international and transit transport. Hungary's transport
sector provides significant export services, earning substantial foreign
exchange (para. 1.03). More than one-fourth of the gross production value
of transportation enterprises as a whole is generated from international
activity. The proposed transport project, as a follow-up of the first
transport project, would address the major problem areas in ongoing
operations as well as many of the transport sector policy issues
(paras. 1.14-1.20).
B.  Objectives
3.02     The proposed project is designed to reduce transport cost,
increase system-wide operational and maintenance efficiency, increase
foreign exchange earnings, increase competition in transport markets,
improve the environment in Budapest and upgrade transport technology.
It includes appropriate action plan, highlighting policy improvements
necessary to mitigate the present deficiencies, with a time phased
implementation schedule.
3.03     To achieve these objectives, the proposed project would
specifically seek to:
(a) increase economic and operational efficiency as well as
increasing foreign exchange earnings, in the transport
sector, through selective investments on transit facilities,
management information reform and technology transfer;
(b) accelerate and expand the national program of pavement
strengthening and sealing;
(c) increase maintenance cost effectiveness and efficiency
through selective investments on plant and equipment;
(d) ease critical transport bottlenecks by construction of an
important missing link on the Budapest bypass and upgrading
the service level of railway track, both of which inhibit
transit and international transportation; and
(e) improve sector policies through a constructive dialogue
between Bank and responsible transport authorities on
transport pricing, users' contributions, transport
regulation, and transport investment, including treatment of
uneconomic railway lines.



- 35 -
C. Description
3.04    The project components are suimmarized below and described
subsequently in more detail. All are high priority items included in the
on-going Investment Plan. They comprise:
(1) Railway Components MAV
(a) computer-aided wagon and locomotive control systems, as well
as freight and financial management systems;
(b) recycling plant for used rails; and
(c) track maintenance and construction machines.
(2) Hungarocamion Components - HC
(a) integrated and computerized information system; and
(b) handling equipment for transit distribution stores.
(3) Highway Components
(a) construction of the second segment (13.8 km) of the new,
four-lane Budapest bypass (M-O motorway) between highway No.
6 and the M-1 motorway;
(b) engineering supervision and project management;
(c) M-O motorway emergency call system;
(d)  a program of periodic maintenance of national roads, to
accelerate pavement strengthening and surface treatment;
(e) road maintenance equipment and axle-weighing scales; and
(f) field and laboratory testing equipment.
(4) Budapest Transport Company - BKV
(a) traffic information and control system.
(5)  Training Program and Technical Assistance
(a)  training of personnel to familiarize them with recent
developments and trends in organization, network management,
planning, marketing, engineering, operations, traffic safety,
maintenance and environmental protection; and
(b) training of staff in operation and maintenance of
computerized management information systems.
(6)  Studies
(a) railway costing study;



- 36 -
(b) river transport and port study;
(c) a study of management and organization improvements for BKV;
and
(d) a synthesis of road maintenance study findings.
Railway Components
3.05     Transport Management Information System (TMIS)  (Annex 3), would
optimize MAV's existing capacity through improved: (i) wagon and locomotive
utilization; (ii) operational planning; and (iii) terminal and marshalling
yard management. The TMIS would concentrate particularly on:
-    locomotive and wagon control;
-    management of marshalling yards;
-    distribution of empty wagons;
-    customer information, including freight loading and unloading
information;
-    data collection from stations (using the intermediate point
system);
-    container and piggy-back traffic; and
-    border station information system (existing system would be
adapted to MIS principles).
A passenger traffic control system and independent workshop system will be
inter-connected later and eventually TMIS will be connected to the
Internationai Railway Unions (UIC) information system HERMES.
3.06     The proposed TMIS will be a hierarchical system developed in
accordance with the organizational structure of MAV and is based otn two
identical main frame computers. One of them will control and manage all
the teleprocessing system and store information from the regional computers
and the other one will perform back-ground and batch processing including
MAV's existing batch applications with the possibility, in case of a
failure, that either computer could quickly replace the other. The
regional computers will run as independent systems, and will be
interconnected through a central main frame computer. MAV has developed
it's own application software for central main-frame computer, which should
be adapted, but for regional computers they are going to buy an application
package, which should meet their regional demands. MAV's existing data
trensfer network will have to be extended to meet TMIS needs. The proposed
loan would finance the direct foreign exchange cost of the computer
hardware, software and related communication equipment. The bidding
documents will emphasize the performance specifications needed from the
proposed systems ano the bidders will have the flexibility to submit
alternative cost-effective solutions for the related equipment and will be
fully responsible for obtaining the required export licence (COCOM)".
This arrangement was discussed and agreed during the loan negotiations.
1/ The coordinating committee for Multilateral Export. (This is a
Paris-based body which controls the transfer of sensitive technology
from the Western countries to the Eastern Block).



- 37 -
3.07     Recycling Plant for Used Rails (Tables 29 and 30).  The proposed
plant would expand and upgrade a small existing plant, which is limited to
butt-welding selected short rail sections, so as to efficiently recycle
used rails and switches, salvaged from track renewal and during routine
maintenance of main lines, sidings and station track. The re-profiled
rails (long-welded 120 m) would be suitable for the heavier loaded and
higher speed secondary lines. The plant would reduce the required supply
of new rails, would increase the quantity of rails for track maintenance
while reducing foreign exchange costs (imported energy and iron-ore). The
plant construction would consist of: (i) extension of the track network
sarving the existing plant; (ii) improving and extending the rail handling
system; (iii) providing new machines for the rail re-profiling process;
(iv) providing other related equipment; and (v) extending the existing
plant building itself. Bank financing would cover the direct foreign
exchange costs of rail handling system and machines for the rail re-cycling
process.
3.08     Track Maintenance and Construction Machines (Tables 29 and 30).
MAV's fleet of track maintenance machines is becoming obsolete (more than
50% have out-lived their normal useful life). Further replacement and
modernization of old, low-efficiency, limited capacity, track equipment is
a high priority item in the on-going five-year plan. MAV needs sufficient
capacity to annually reconstruct about 150-200 km of mainline, check anid
correct track alignment and profile on about 4,800 km of track and replace
about 450 switches. During the proposed project MAV intends to continue
its modernization program of track mechanization through: (i) increasing
capacity of the switch changing fleet; (ii) replacing obs!lete, medium
capacity tamping machines; (iii) installing work-site and local radio
networks; and (iv) acquiring additional tools for track maintenance as well
as automatic welding equipment. The Bank would finance the direct foreign
exchange costs of equipment imported from eligible countries.
3.09     Training Program (Table 26).  To ensure that the objectives of the
project are attained, complementary training and assistance will be needed,
in particular for both TMIS use and for the rail recycling process.
Assistance, which would be financed by the Bank under the proposed project,
provides for about 62 man-months of railway middle management and
specialist training estimated to cost about US$420,000.
3.10     Railway Costing Study (Annex 6).  The purpose of the study is to
formulate an efficient costing system for MAV, so as to make available to
MAV's management the data needed for the continuous analysis, comparison
and control of costs. The system would also provide the basis for
determining freight rates and passenger fares and for comparing costs with
thosc of other transport modes. Outline terms of reference for the study
(Annex 6)
were discussed and agreed during the negotiations. Agreement was reached
with the Government, during negotiations, that the study would be carried
out by competent consultants and would be initiated not later than December
31, 1989 and completed by the end of 1990. The study is estimated to
require about 25 man-months. The recommendations of the study will be
discussed with the Government together with a time-table to implement the
agreed recommendations of the study.



- 38 -
Hunsarocamion Components
3.11     Integrated and Computerixed Information System (ICIS) (Annex 4)
would allow Hungarocamion to improve its performance and operational
efficiency, maintain and try to enlarge its share of the international
transport market and thereby improve the country's convertible currency
earnings for transport services. The ICIS system of interrelated hardware
devices and software programs would support RC through: (i) changing manual
procedures and reducing the number of processes (ii) reduction of staff
involved in the inform-tion flow and (iii) improving the administrative
information flow. The hardware solution proposed by HC's consultants is
based on using computers which would be installed at four main HC's
branches, and will be connected by PTT's telephone lines. The proposed
loan would finance the direct foreign exchange cost of the computer
hardware and related communication equipment. The bidding documents will
emphasize the performance specifications needed from the proposed systems
and the bidders will have the flexibility to submit alternative
cost-effective solutions for the hardware and related system, within the
COCOM constraints, making bidders fully responsible for obtaining the
required export licence. This arrangement was discussed and agreed during
loan negotiations.
3.12     Handlins Equipment for Transit Distribution Store (Tables 29 and
31). Equipment to facilitate rapid loading and unloading, to weigh
packages and to speed up related operations in the exis:ing transit
distribution facility. The rapid transit distribution of packages and
high-valued freight to the customer's door produces increased foreign
exchange earnings and HC plans to substantially increase the volume
handled. The Bank loan would finance the direct foreign exchange cost of
imported equipment.
3.13     Training Program (Table 26).  HC has prepared a training program
of about 7 mall-months which is estimated to cost about US$80,000. This
program will include the familiarization with recent development in
strategical planning, marketing and the use of management information
systems, including training of staff for operation and maintenance of the
ICIS.
gighway Components
3.14     M-0 Motorway (Tables 29 and 32).  Construction and related
engineering services for the 13.8 km extension of the M-0 motorway, between
route 6 and both the M-7 and M-1 motorways, including four major
interchanges and a number of overpasses has very high priority in the
highway investment plan. Completion of this motorway section would serve
to substantially decrease through traffic and congestion in the center of
Budapest, and would also permit greatly increased use of the new Danube
river bridges and 14.2 km M-0 motorway section presently under
construction, resulting in substantial additional savings to road users.
The proposed loan would finance the estimated direct foreign exchange
component of the construction contracts and of related engineering
supervision.
3.15     M-0 - Emergencx Call System (Tables 29 and 32).  Roadside
telephone equipment connected to a central emergency station in the
motorway maintenance center (presently under construction) would complement
motorway



- 39 -
construction and would be included wider the proposed project, with the
loan financing the direct foreign exchange cost of these items.
3.16     Pavement Strengthening and Surface Treatment Programs
(Tables 29 and 32). Construction and related engiieering for
annual programs of pavement st;engthening and surface treatment, to
complement and accelerate the PRD's 1989-1991 periodic maintenance program
for all national roads, is a high-priority project sub-comiponent which
would support the first phase of the Government's effort to eliminate the
deferred maintenance backlog. The proposed loan would finance the
estimated direct foreign exchange component of agreed programs of
maintenance ccntracts.
3.17     Road M intenance EquipE2.it (Tables 29 and 32).  Systematic renewal
of worn-out and sometimes technically obsolete equipment is basic to
effective maintenance of the road network. The project would include, for
financing under the loan, that portion of MTCCs' 1989-1992 renewal program
which requires convertible currency expenditures. Included in the renewal
program would be axle-load weighing devices while the added capability
category would include field testing and laboratory equipment destined to
improve the present pavement management system and to expand maintenance
quality control to the entire public road network.
3.18     Training Program (Table 26).  The proposed training would provide
technical staff with visits outside of Hungary, for familiarizatiorn with
recent developments and equipment in the fields of traffic safety, pavement
maintenance techniques, pavement management and environmental protection
problems. The Bank loan would finance direct foreign exchange costs (about
US$400,000) of sending Hungarian technicians abroad (about 19 man-months)
for short programs of study.
3.19     Synthesis of Road Maintenance Study Findings.  MTCC will have the
PRD prepare a synthesis of the findings of existing studies on road
maintenance in Hungary, complementing these with percinent international
experience, including that gathered in the course of overseas visits
financed under the ongoing project, with the objective of formulating
longer term maintenance and financing strategies. In parallel, ano in part
as input for strategy formulation, it will closely monitor the effect of
expanded competitive bidding for maintenance contracts on maintenance costs
and efficiency. During negotiations, the Government agreed that it will
review with the Bank, from time to time, the progress made in these
evaluations so as to agree with the Bank by December 1990 on appropriate
policies, including funding levels, to rehabilitate and thereafter
adequately maintain the national road network.
Budapest Transport Company (BKV) Component
3.20     The Traffic Control System of the Budapest Transport Company (BKV)
(Annex 5), would optimize BKV's existing capacity and influence on
operational cost reduction. BKV's operations will be improved by:
-    improvement in keeping time-tables;
-    reduced waiting time at traffic-lights;
-    reduced fleetsize;



- 40 -
-    reduced energy consumption in Budapest generally; and
-    better service to passengers.
3.21     The Traffic Control Stystem will consist of three interrelated
sub-systems:
Sub-system 1 will improve vehicle dispatching and control by
automatic vehicle mo:itoring. A modern radio conmunications
network (about 300 radio stations) will be installed to enable
communications between vehicles and dispatching center.
Sub-system 2 is a computer aided traffic-light control system
based on information coming from the sub-system 1.
Sub-system 3 will be a computer aided power control system.  This
system will control proper operations of electric supply network
and it will influence electric consumption based on data coming
from sub-system 1.
The p--curement of hardware and related system will be carried out
on similar lines as TMIS of MAV and ICIS of HC.
3.22     Training Program (Table 26).  The proposed training program woild
familiarized BKV's staff with recent developments in the fields of the
management and organization imw)rovement and results of the computerized
traffic control system applications. The Bank assistance provides about 9
man-months of BKV's management and specialist training estimated to cost
about US$50,000.
3.23     BKV's Organization and Management Improvement Study.  The
objective of the study is to identify non-investment and/or low cost
methods, particularly the institutional changes through which the BKV would
increase effectiveness and efficiency and become more competitive and
market responsive. The study, which would be carried out by consultants
acceptable to the Bank, is estimated to require about 30 man-months, and
the Bank assistance would be about US$200,000 to meet all direct foreign
exchange costs. The study would be initiated no later than December 31,
1989 and completed by the end of 1990. Outline of terms of reference for
the study (Annex 8) were discussed and during loan negotiations it was
agreed that they would be finalized after consultation with the Bank. The
recommendations of the study will be discussed with the Government together
with a time-table to implement the agreed recommendations of the study.
River Transport and Port Study
3.24     The economic role of river transport and river ports in Hungary
and their future development need to be assessed in the light of various
factors: completion of the Danube-Black Sea Canal, completion in 1991 or
1992 of the canal linking Rhine and Danube, the policy of the European
Community to protect river transport operators in member countries of the
community against outside competition, the aging of existing river port
facilities in Hungary (in particular Csepel Port). The study would in a
first phase collect and review existing information and studies in the



- 41 -
above areas, both inside and outside Hungary, and would on this basis
outline alternative scenarios for river transport development in Hungary.
Environmental considerations would be addressed by the study. A detailed
work program comprising feasibility studies and detailed engineering would
be drawn up on the basis of the findings of this first phase. The study
would be carried out by a joint venture of expatriate and national
consultants, would be started by December 31, 1989 and completed by June
30, 1991. The study will be supervised by the Bank and its findings will
be discussed with the Government. Outline terms of references for the
study (Annex 7) were discussed and agreed with the Government during the
negotiations. The recommendations of the study will be discussed with the
Government together with a time-table to implement the agreed
recommendations of the study. The study is estimated to require about 30
man-months, at an estimated cost of about US$300,000 of which all direct
foreign exchange costs (about $US200,000) would be financed from the loan.
Transport Sector Development Strategy
3.25     The proposed project will continue the Bank's efforts initiated
under the first transport project to further improve the efficiency in the
Sector. Specific policy reforms (para 1.18) will be an integral part of
the proposed project. Assurances satisfactory to the Bank were obtained
from the Government during negotiations on the key elements, such as
reduction in passenger transport subsidies, introduction of cost-based
pricing, rationalization of road user charges etc. (para. 1.18 (a) through
(h)).
D. Engineering
3.26     Detailed engineering for railway works and detailed preliminary
engineering for highway works is substantially complete and is satisfactory
for establishing project costs. Designs for the recycling plant (for used
rails) were prepared by MAV's planning institute, which prepares all
detailed engineering and studies for MAV. Detailed engineering for the
motorway and overpasses is substantially completed (para 2.40). The
timetables for finalizing all engineerings were discussed and agreed during
loan negotiations. Both organizations are well staffed by competent
professionals.
E. Cost Estimate
3.27     The total project cost (including contingencies, taxes and duties)
is estimated to be about US$250.0 million with a foreign exchange component
of US$95.0 million or 38% of the total project cost suitable for Bank
financing. Cost estimates were prepared by the agencies concerned and
consultants to NTCC, on the basis of engineering quantity estimates and
unit prices for similar works, updated to end 1988 prices. The direct and
indirect foreign exchange component for civil works was estimated at 452 of
the contract cost while the cost of direct imports alone at international
prices was estimated at about 35% of total cost. This is consistent with
the values for similar civil works on the on-going M-0 motorway project.
Project costs by components are summarized in Table 3.1. The project cost
per component (with training, technical assistance and contingencies
included) is estimated for the railway component at US$66.8, road transport



- 4 -
at US$17.9 million (HC), highway component at US$152.8 million, and urban
transport (BKV) at US$12.5 million. Physical contingencies of 15% of the
costs have been calculated for civil works, 2% for the rail recycling
plant, 5% for TMIS and BKV traffic control system and lOS for ICIS. Taxes
and duties were estimated to amount to about2OS and are consisting
principally of duties on imported equipment. VAT ranging between 10X and
20X have been calculated and showr in local costs in the table attached.
Price contingencies are based on cost escalation as shown in footnote to
Table 3.1.
3.28     The proposed Bank loan of US$95.0 million would finance: the MAV's
direct foreign exchange cost of the railway equipment and training (US$28.1
million); 35X of the highway civil works and road strengthening and surface
treatment costs, and the full direct foreign exchange cost of the hignway
maintenance, telephones, exle load control, quality control, pavement
management and laboratory equipment, training and technical assistance
(US$56.6 million); the full direct foreign exchange cost of the
Hungarocamion sub-components including training (US$6.8 million); and
Budapest Transport Company (BKV) component including training and technical
assistance (US$3.5 million). During negotiations the project cost
estimates and the Bank financed project components were confirmed with the
Government.



- 43 -
Table 3.1:  HUNGARYX
PROPOSED SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
(End 1988 prices)"
Suitable
FEC X   for Bank
Forints millions            USS mtillions          of    Financing
Proaect Comnmcnents                           Lgan*1    Foretan  Total   Local  foregtn  Total   T,otal  IUStiiljonn
A.  Railway Comonent
1. Transport management
information system (THIS)         1.040     S1S    1.SSS       20.0     9.9    29.9      33.1        9.9
2. Recycling plants for used
rails and switches                  603     427    1,030       11.6     8.2    19.8      41.4        8.2
3. Track maintenan'e and
construction machines               125      338      463       2.4     6.S      8.9     73.0        6.5
4.  T-aintng and TA                         21     .1         42      0.4      0.4    0.8       50.0        0.4
Base Cost                       1.789   1,301    3.090       34.4    25.0    59.4      42.1       25.0
Physical contingencies                     67       35       102      1.3      0.7     2.0      35.0        0.7
Price contingenctes                      0A5       296      701    -3 0        2.4 _Z 5A        44.4        2.4
Sub Total (A)                   2.261   1.632    3.893       38.7    28.1    66.8      42.0       28.1
3.   Hunuarocamitn
1. Dev. of Integrated computerized
information system (ICIS)           260     260       520       S.0     S.0    10.0      SO.0        S.0
2. Handling equip. for
transit dist. stores                239       52      291       4.6     1.0      5.6     17.8        1.0
3.  Training                                S        S        lo      0.1     o 1      0.2     50.0        0.1
Base Cost                         504     317       821       9.7     6.1    15.8      38.6        6.1
Physical contingencies                     36       16        52      0.7      0.3     1.0      30.0        0.3
Price contingencies                     __2         60       162      0.7      0.4     I,1      3fi.4       0.4
Sub Total (8)                     642     393    1.035       11.1     6.8    17.9      38.0        6.8
C.   Highwav Comoonent
1. Civil works                          1.737      936    2.673      33.7    17.7    51.4      35.0        17.7
2.  Engineering and project               203       26      229       3.9    OS       4.4      11.3       0.5
management
3.  M-0 Emergency call system              21       31       52       0.4     0.6      1.0     60.0        0.6
4. Road Maintenance Equipment.             47      213      260       0.9     4.1      S.0     80.4        4.1
S.  Field and Lab. testing Equip.          10       94      104       0.2      1.8     2.0     90.0         1.8
6.  Road Strengthening and surface    2.418   1.302    3.720         46.4    25.0    71.4       35.0      25.0
treatment
7.  Training and TA                        26       32       58       0.5      0.6     1.1   _54.5         0.6
Base Cost                       4.462   2.634    7.096      86.0    50.3   136.3       36.9       50.3
Physical contingencies                    208      140      348       4.0     2.7      6.7     40.0        2.7
Price contingencies                       765      470    1235    6.0         3.6      9.6     37...5     3.62
Sub Total (C)                   5.435   3.244    8.679      96.2    56.6   152.8       37.0       56.6
0.   BKV Cooonent
1. Traffic control system                 405      140      545       7.8     2.7    10.5      26.0        2.7
2.  Training and TA                         o 0     I 6    __26    0.2        0.3      0.5     60.0        .3
Base Cost                         415      156      571      8.0      3.0    11.0      27.3        3.0
Physical contingencies.                 16       1Q       26       0.3     0.2      0.5     40.0        0.2
Price contingencies.                    92       33      12S       0.7    _.3       1.0     30.0        0.3
Sub Total (D)                     523     199       722      9.0      3.5    12.5      28.0        3.5
Total Base Cost                         7.170   4.408   11.578    138.1    84.4   222.5        37.9       84.4
Physical contingencies                    327      201      528       6.3     3.9    10.2      38.2        3.9
Price contingencies3'                   1364   __859    2223         10.6     6.7         17.3  29.2       6.7
TOTAL                          8tjj6   S-468   14  329    15i.0          95.0   250.0  3a.0       9S.0
J/  Exchange rate of US$1.(= Forints 52.00.
2J Custom duties and taxes were included;
3 Based on the following annual inflation rates (in % terms) of:
1a   1Ma  199-93
Local costs      10.0   8.5    7.0
Foreign costs    3.0   3.0    4.0
507U.P.53



- 44 -
F. Financing
3.29     The estimated costs of the project together with proposals for the
Bank financing are summarized in the table below:
Table 3.2: Project Financing
Proiect Cost             Source of Financing
Prolect Component        Local  Foreien  Total   Bank Loan  Balance of Funds
Required
Own
Gov't. Resources
--US$ Million-----------
Railways                 38.7      28.1    66.8     28.1          --      38.7
Highways                 96.2     56.6   152.8      56.6        96.2
Hungarocamion            11.1       6.8    17.9      6.8          --      11.1
BKV                       9.0       3.5    12.5      3.5          --       9.0
Total:              155.0     95.0   250.0      95.0        96.2     58.8
3.30     The balance of US$38.7 million (local costs) required for the
railway component of the project will be met from railway's own internally
generated resources. No financing gap exists for the railway component.
For the highway component the Bank will finance the direct foreign exchange
component of the total costs. The Government will finance the local cost
component of the highway program (US$96.2 million equivalent). For the HC
and BKV components of the project, the Bank would finance the direct
foreign exchange costs, while the remaining gap of US$11.1 and US$9.0
millions (local costs) would be financed, either entirely by their own
resources, or by a combination of own resources and domestic bank credits.
During negotiations, the above project financing details were reviewed and
confirmed with the Government.
G. The Loan, the Borrower and the Beneficiaries
3.31     The Borrower for the proposed loan would be the People's Republic
of Hungary. The beneficiaries of the project would be MAV (railway
component), HC (international trucking company component) MTCC (highway
component including River transport and port study) and BKV (Budapest
Transport Company component). MTCC, as a governm-ent ministry, would
receive project funds through normal channels. The Bank would enter into
Project Agreements with MAV, HC, and BKV to whom the Government would
on-lend loan funds. Onlending terms would be for a 15 year period which
woLld include a grace period of 5 years. The onlending rate of interest
will be at the Bank's rate plus a premium of 20% or in accordance with the
Monetary Credit Policy Guidelines, adopted each year by resolution of the
Government's Council of Ministers, whichever is higher. The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by the Government. These arrangements were
confirmed with the Government during negotiations. Signing of subsidiary
loan agreements between the Government and MAV, HC and BKV, satisfactory to
the Bank, would be a special condition of loan effectiveness.



- 45 -
H. Implementation
3.32     Qualified consultants would be engaged by MTCC to provide overall
coordination of all project related activities, to monitor progress and
ensure that the various executing agencies comply with reporting
requirement and schedules. Such coordination, on the first transport
project, is generally functioning well but the consultant's role would be
slightly strengthened to permit them to exercise quality control of bid
document, reports, etc., on behalf of MTCC. During negotiations
confirmation of this arrangement was obtained from the Government as well
as confirmation that each executing agency (MAV, HC, BKV and MTCC) would
appoint an officer to be responsible for all project related matters of
their component and to serve as counterpart to consultant's staff. This
would be a special contdition of loan effectiveness.
3.33     Railway Component.  MAV would be responsible for implementation of
all railway related activities. Its Material Supply Organization would
procure the track renewal and maintenance machinery, material and equipment
for the rail recycling plant and TMIS's equipment, eligible for financing
under the loan. The construction works for the rail recycling plant would
be carried out, by MELUEPITO, an independently managed enterprise which
customarily executes all railway construction works. The supervision and
acceptance of the work would be the responsibility of MAV'S Investment
Institute (MAV BERUUAZASI-IRODA) which is well staffed with experienced
graduate engineers and technicians.
3.34     Road Trucking Component.  HC's Technical Directorate would be
responsible for preparation of technical specifications and for arranging
for procurement of equipment, including manufacturer's assistance in
installation thereof. Construction of the additional new transit
distribution store would be undertaken by local contractors.
3.35     Highway Components.  The Ministry of Transport, Commnication and
Construction would be responsible for managing implementation of the
highway components. The investment management company UTIBER--' would be
engaged by MTCC to directly manage civil works construction of the M-O
motorway, including preparation of bid documents, providing assistance to
MTTC in contractor prequalification and bid evaluation in addition to
normal site supervision. PRD, with assistance f consultants when
necessary, would oversee and coordinate the PRMC's in engineering and
prioritizing the road sections to be strengthened or sealed as a part of
annual programs of contracts which would be eligible for financing under
the proposed loan. The 1989 program will be prepared for review by the
Bank by March 31, 1989.  For subsequent years the proposed programs would
be sent to the Bank not later than December 31st of the preceding year.
The arrangements (in paras. 3.32-3.35) were confirmed during loan
negotiations.
I/ UTIBER is customarily employed by MTCC to manage and supervise major
civil works contracts (para. 2.42).  It is staffed by competent
professionals who have satisfactory experience in all aspects of
contract management, and has fulfilled this role well on the ongoing
project.



- 46 -
3.36     Road maintenance equipment would be procured by an agency
specializing in heavy equipment purchase, which would prepare the bid
documents and generally manage the bidding procedures on behalf of MTCC.
The equipment service (UTINFORM) of MTCC would be responsible for preparing
equipment specifications and evaluating bids. A similar arrangement would
app'y in connection with procurement of instruments and testing equipment.
These arrangements, which provide a satisfactory blend of procurement and
technical expertise, were confirmed at the time of negotiations.
3.37     Budapest Transport Company (BKV) Component.  BKV's Technical
Department would be responsible for implementation of all project related
activities, including engineering, bidding process with procurement and
installation, with testing.
3.38     Draft bidding documents, including outline technical
specifications for items to be procured were discussed in general terms
with the Governnient during loan negotiations.
Project Implementation Schedules
3.39     Most project components are scheduled to be com 'leted by 1992,
except the M-0 motorway civil works sub-component which will not be
finished until 1994. The project completion date would be December 31,
1994 and the loan closing date would be June 30, 1995. Allowing for some
slippage, this would allow sufficient time (over six months) for the
release of security deposits on supply contracts where performance
guarantees are specified, and for effecting final payments for civil
works. Project implementation schedules, shown in Tatles 30, 31, 32 and
33, were confirmed during negotiations.
3.40     Land acquisition is a lengthy process in Hungary, and has been
started in early 1989. The Government has stated that every effort would
be made to ensure that all land has been acquired by the time that
construction contracts are let and we do not expect any problem. During
negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government, that all land
needed for the project works would be acquired not later than mid 1991.
3.41     Progress made in implementation of the policy and institutional
reforms incorporated in the proposed project will be monitored through the
Bank's usual supervision activities and annual reports to be prepared by
the Government. These reports which will cover all policy and
institutional reforms included in the Action Plan will be reviewed by the
Bank. The format of these reports were discussed and agreed during
negotiations.
I. Procurement
3.42     The M-0 motorway construction contract and paverant strengthening
contracts estimated to cost more than the equivalent of US$3 million "
1/ The same threshold as is used on similar projects in neighbouring
Yugoaslavia



- 47 -
would be awarded to prequal.ified contractors after International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines.
Pavement strengthening and surface treatment construction contracts,
estimated to cost less than the above threshold, would be awarded to
qualified contractors using locally Advertised Competitive Bidding (LCB)
procedures, also in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. The
geographical scattering and small size of such contracts would make them
uninteresting to foreign firms who, nonetheless, would not be excluded from
competing in accordance with HungarLan procedure should they wish to.
Hungary has previous experience with ICB for civil works which was used to
contracts road and bridge construction under the ongoing Transport
Project. Hungary has also been evolving the use of LCB for some of the
larger Government financed road works. During negotiations the Government
agreed that the proposed annual programs of pavement strengthening and
sealing contract, which would be reviewed by the Bank, would include the
estimated contract costs as well as the proposed schedules and organization
for inviting and evaluating bids.
3.43     Procurement of high-technology computer hardware for MAV's
proposed TMIS and HC's proposed ICIS and BKV's traffic control system
requires particular attention, on the part of these agencies, to obtain
up-to-date technology through ICB which nonetheless conforms to COCOM
restrictions. For this reason bidding procedures, in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines, have already been initiated. Since all agencies are
deeply interested in having their systems installed as soon as possible, no
substantial delay to the project is anticipated.
3.44     All railway equipment will be procured through ICB.  The list of
equipment and materials agreed between Government and Bark for financing
under the Loan, which are shown in Table 29, are almost entirely
unavailabie from local manufacturers. However, should domestic
manufacturers participate in the bidding they wouli be accorded a
preference of 15%, or the applicable customs duties, whicitever is lower.
3.45     Highway maintenance equipment, (Table 29) axle load scales,
roadside telephone system and traffic counting equipment would also be
procured through ICB. Laboratory and field testing equipment, not
exceeding a cost of US$ 150 thousand per contract, would be procured
through International Shopping due to the limited number of suppliers of
the required items, with at least three suppliers from three different
countries invited to bid, or through direcc contracting, if the equipment
is proprietary in nature. International shopping is expected to be limited
to an aggregate of about US$ 2 million, however, in keeping with a broad
agreement between the Bank and the Government to standardize loan
conditions, an aggregate limit of about 152 of project cost would be
reflected in the loan agreement.
3.46     Hungarocamion's equipment would also be procured through ICB.  The
list of equipment agreed between the Government and the Bank for financing
under the loan (Table 29) are considered unavailable from local
manufacturers. However, any domestic manufacturers who might participate
in the bidding, would be accorded a preference of 152, or the applicable
customs duties, whichever is lower.



- 48 -
3.47     All ICB for procurement of goods or works would be in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines. The M-0 motorway construction contract, the
first three contracts for pavement strengthening or sealing and all
contracts for bidding lots of goods of US$1.0 million equivalent or more
would be subject to prior review by the Bank. This would include an
estimated 40 contracts for goods, amounting to 90 2 of the total cost of
equipment and materials financed by the proposed loan. Contracts for lesser
amounts and the subsequent road maintenance contracts would be subject to
ex-post review. Procurement of consulting services including training
would also be in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
3.48     The procurement arrangements described above (paras. 3.42 through
3.47) were agreed with the Government during negotiations. Table 3.3
provides a summary of the type of procurement which would apply to goods,
works and services included under the project.



- 49 -
table 3.3: PROCUREMENT METHOD"
(US$ Million)
a,               I/    Not    V.
A. Railway
THIS                               11.2    -        -        19.6        3.2        34.0
(11.2)    -       --)-                           (11.2)
-Rail recycling plant              9.4    -         -        11.0        1.6        22.0
(9.4)   -        -                               ( -  9.4)
-Track maint.machines              7.0    -         -         1.8        1.2        10.0
i7.01                     (-_  _7.01
Sub Total (A)               27.6      -      -        32.4        6.0        66.0
(27.6)    -       -        C-)        (-)        (27.6)
B. Hunnar.ocami.en
ICis                               5.6    -         -         4.3        1.2        11.1
(S.6)   -        -        (-)        (-)        (M.O)
Transit distribution stores         1.1    -        -         4.9        0.6         6.6
LID)   _                 L_i        L1         (LLU
Sub Total (a)                6.7    -        -         9.2        1.8        17.7
C. HjahwaXs           (6.7)                       )                    (-)  6.?)
C. linwx
-Civil works                      53.0              -         -         13.5       66.5
(23.0)   (-)      -        (-)        (-)        (23.0)
-Engineering and
project managt.                    0.5    -        -         4.0        0.2         4.7
(0.5)   -        -        t-)        (-)         (0.5)
-Road strengthening and
surface treatment5               -        -       71.4      -          -         71.4
C-)     (-)    (25.0)   (-)          (-)       (25.0)
-H-0 emergency call system          0.8    -        -         0.3        0.1         1.2
(0.8)   -        -        (-)        (-)         (0.8)
-Road maint. equipt.               4.7    -         -         0.4        0.2         5.3
(4.7)   -        -        (-)        (-)         (4.7)
-Field & lab test. equipt.        -         2.2    -          -          0.2         2.4
--I      If2.0)            l-           I         (2,01
Sub Total (C)               59.0      2.2    71.4      4.7       14.2       151.5
(29.0)   (2.0)  (25.0)   (-)          (-)        (56.0)
Traffic control                     3.1    -        -         8.1        0.9        12.1
(3.1)   (-)      -        (-)        (-)         (3.1)
E. Services3
-Railway (Training)                 -      -        -         0.8      --            0.8
(-)     (-)      -        (0.6)      (-)         (0.6)
-Hungarocamion (training)         -        -        -         0.2      (-)          0.2
(-)     (-)      -        (0.1)      (-)         (0.1)
-HTCC (for highway training
and river transp. study).       -        -        -         1.3      (-)           1.3
# ;  ( )  -       ~~(0.6)     (-)         (0.6)
-BKV (study & training)            -       -                  0.4      (-)           0.4
Sub Total (E)                -        -                2.7       (-)          2.7
LW      LI               iiI6.        I6
96.4     2.2    71.4    57.1         22.9       250.0
GRAND TOTAL                I6.41   L2.D0  L2L.0J  (L1.E          Li=        192L1
1/  Costs include: contingencies, taxes and duties;
2/  Either international shopping or direct contracting.
3/  Training. TA. and other local costs;
4/  Taxes and duties;
5/  A portion of these contracts may be let through ICS (para 3.42)
Mote: Figures in parentheses are respective amounts financed by the Bank Loan.
S07osu,s



- 50 -
J. Disbursements
3.49     Disbursements will be made to cover:
(a) 35Z of total expenditures for civil works, road strengthening and
surface treatment contracts; and
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures (C.I.F.) and 100l of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) for railway equipnent and materials, road
maintenance equipment, laboratory and testing equipment, HC's and
BKV's equipment;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for technical licenses, consultants'
services, and training.
With the exception of contracts valued at the equivalent of US$300,000 or less
all withdrawal applications will be fully documented. Disbursements against
contracts valued at $300,000 or less would be made on the basis of statements
of expenditures (SOE). Documentation to support expenditures financed under
SOE would be maintained by the Borrower in one location and made available for
review by Bank representatives upon request in addition to being audited by
auditors acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.52). During loan negotiations
confirmation were obtained of the foregoing arrangements.
3.50     To maintain an adequate flow of funds available to the beneficiaries
to finance eligible project expenditures (para. 3.28) with a minimum of
administrative delay, the Borrower will establish a Special Account (revolving
fund) at the NBH sufficient to cover up to 4 months of project expenditures
(i.e. about US$6.0 million). Records of the Special Account proceeds and
outlays would be available for review by Bank supervision missions and subject
to annual audit (para.3.52). During negotiations confirmation was obtained of
the foregoing arrangements.
3.51     Based on the loan becoming effective in 1989, a schedule of estimated
disbursements has been prepared and is shown in Table 27.  This schedule,
which is based on the same assumptions as were used on the ongoing First
Transport project, indicates a 5 years disbursement period which is close to
average disbursement profile for projects in Hungary.  The schedule was
discussed and confirmed during loan negotiations.
K. Reporting. Accounts and Audit
3.52     The methodology for the preparation of progress and financiai reports
and the need for a completion report within six mnnths of the loan closing
date were discussed and agreed with the Government during the negotiations and
reflected in the agreed minutes.  It was agreed that separate accounts would
be used to record all project funds and expenditures and that the accounts
relating to the highway component of the project, as for MAV, RC, BKV and the
Special Account would be audited each year by Audit Rt (para. 2.22).  The
accounts and the auditors report thereon would be provided to the Bank within



- 51 -
six months from the end of the fiscal year. These arrangements were discussed
and confirmed during negotiations.
L. Environmental Impacts
3.53     The project, as a whole, is expected to have a beneficial
environmental impact, reducing air pollution and accidents particularly in
Budapest. Road and rail improvements will significantly reduce fuel usage and
air pollution through reduction in vehicle waiting times. The motorway design
provides adequate sound barriers to protect residential areas. The
regulations concerning land acquisition and compensation for expropriated
property owners were reviewed and are satisfactory. The design of the rail
recycling plant is in accordance with the country's environmental protection
Law and provides: (i) protection of the occupational health and safety of the
workers and (ii) air pollution control, as well as treatment and disposal of
the plant's wastes. In addition the river transport study would include an
assessment of environmental effects. Assurance on these points were obtained
during negotiations.
50?7SV44-6 1



- 52 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATIONS
A. General
4.01     An efficient and effective transport system is vital for Hungary
which attaches a very high priority to the improvement of the external
trade routes carrying about 50 million tons of freight traffic (import,
export and transit) per year (para. 1.03). The Government is keen to make
all transport operations competitive, cost-effective and energy efficient.
Many important links in the transport network are at times overloaded,
creating bottlenecks whose elimination is urgent for the Government.
Because of the high volume operations on a limited portion of the railway
network, railway investments in Hungary are focused primarily on those main
lines with particular potential for improved international services, so as
to avoid dispersal of effort over a large national network. Within the
highway system, radial roads spanning the country from Budapest to its
borders are principal traffic arteries and are of international
significance.  At present mat-gement information systems in transport
operations are particularlv weak.
4.02     The proposed project components are expected to address all these
important aspects: provide better information for management through
computerized wagon and locomotive control systems, divert heavy through
road traffic away from Budapest city, enhance international competiLivet!ass
of HC's foreign trade services through the development and implementation
of an efficient marketing and incentive system, facilitate technology
transfer to MAV for recycling salvaged material (used rail) and improve
BKV's transport service quality with the introduction of a computerized
traffic control system, which is in keeping with the Bank's country
assistance strategy. The pritcipal beneficiaries of the propoF ,d project
would be users of railway and highway freight services and Budapest public
passenger transport services, who due to the diversity of traffic using the
transport network, come from a wide range of sectors and income groups.
The important commodities that would be particularly affected by the
proposed modernization and improvements are raw and processed industrial
materials as well as agricultural and animal husbandry products. By
reducing costs and improving efficiency of transport, the project will also
help to make Hungarian goods more competitive in the world market with
beneficial effects on the balance of payments. The Budapest by-pass, in
particular, would reduce congestion costs significantly and support
Hungary's efforts for energy conservation.
B. Project Costs and Benefits
4.03     The economic evaluation of the different subprojects is based on
the feasibility studies undertaken by MAV, UVATERV, RC and BKV, which are
in the project file (Annex 9). These studies were reviewed and discussed
with the concerned agencies and a number of marginal subprojects were
reformulated or postponed while more economically viable components were
included as a result of the review.



- 53 -
4.04     The traffic projections for the different subprojects are based on
past traffic trends, origin-destination studies and planned increases in
production and consumption in the zones of influence. Accordingly, in case
of MAV and BKV the traffic has been assumed to remain at the same level
during project life. The traffic forecasts for M-0 by-pass take into
account normal traffic growth and, wherever appropriate, the additional
traffic generated by the proposed project over the normal project life.
4.05     For calculating the economic benefits and costs, international
prices were used for imported equipment, materials and other tradeable
commodities. As regards the latter, prices of mainline locomotives and
shunters produced in Hungary are significantly below the international
price and have been adjusted accordingly. Land and other non-tradeable
items like unskilled construction labor have been valued at local prices.
Economic costs net of taxes were estimated for all investment costs,
maintenance costs and operating costs.
4.06     The quantitative economic analysis for the improvement of MAV and
HC's management information system and BKV's traffic control system takes
into consideration the major benefits from the better utilization of the
existing assets, reduction of empty haulage, improvement of loading of
MAV's freight trains and turn around time and better load factor for BKV
transport services, so that the system will be consuming less and producing
more. Expected benefits from the railway recycling plants include
reduction of expenses on new rails due to the use of salvaged material
(used rail). The economic benefits from the project road sections take
into account savings in vehicle operating costs due to reduced congestion,
improved road surfaces and reduced travel times. Expected benefits from
the track and road maintenance equipment include reduction in maintenance
expenses of track, rolling stock and vehicles due to reduced wear, savings
in manpower, i  operating expenses (due to improved infrastructure
facilities) and increased productivity. Benefits from improved environment
in Budapest city, due to diversion of heavy commercial vehicles from the
city have not been quantified. Similarly benefits due to enhanced quality
of service and customer satisfaction due to improved management information
system have not been taken into account.
4.07     In selecting the proposed project components, several alternative
solutions were evaluated such as construction of roads on different
alignments or by stages and development of management information system
for priority tasks in stages. For each project alternative, the most
economic solution has been adopted. Salient details of economic evaluation
are given in Annex 2 and detailed cash flows, traffic configurations around
Budapest by-pass and other related details are available in the project
file (Annex 9).
C. Economic Return (ER)
4.08     Based on the most probable estimates of construction and equipment
costs, operating and maintenance costs, the proposed investments on
different project components produce economic returns (ERs) ranging from
15-22% (Table 4.1). All investments would yield first year benefit



- 54 -
ratio (FYR) of 102 or more, indicating that they should be made as soon as
possible. The weighted ave:age ER of all civil works and equipment
components, which account for about 98% of total project cost is 20%. The
above ERs understate the full benefits of the project by excluding
environmental improvements, quality of service and customer satisfaction,
comfort and convenience of travellers on the improved facilities.
Sensitivity analyses were carried out to test the effect of variation in
construction and equipment costs and users' benefits on the above
estimates. Even under the unfavorable assumptions of 15% higher
construction/equipment costs combined with a 15% reduction in users'
benefits, the ERs remain acceptable within the range of 12% to 22% with an
overall weighted ER of 16%.
Railway Components
4.09     Transport Management Information System (TMIS).  MAV's proposed
TMIS covers primarily three areas, namely, wagon management, locomotive
management, and marshalling yard operation and inventory control. The TMIS
will be an online, real-time system that will record movement and status
data about all railway wagons and locomotives on MAV's network by 1993.
The system will be gradually de-eloped and by 1990 about 2/3 of the MAV's
traffic will be covered by the system concentrating mainly in the three
railway regions Budapest, Miskolc and Debrecen. Improving the availability
and utilization of wagons and locomotives by knowing their locations and
status of loading/unloading of wagons with the aid of computers is the
principal focus of the system. The computer assisted control system would
help reduce wagon turn around cycle and improve load of rail wagons and
utilization of locomotives. Productivity improvements through TMIS would
enable MAY to avoid heavy investments in the purchase of new rolling stock
because it could better use its existing fleet. In particular, the
proposed system is expected to reduce significantly t'ie detention of
foreign rail cars in the MAV's network and thereby resulting in substantial
foreign exchange savings (Annex 3). The proposed program is of special
significance for MAV's enhanced competitiveness and cost reduction efforts
and the proposed investments are conservatively estimated to yield a high
ER of about 22% (Table 4.1 with footnote 4).



- 55 -
Table 4.1  ECONOMIC RETURNS (ERsl AND FIRST YEAR R&TURNS (FYRs 
Project                       Proportion of        Expected         Sensitivity        Expected
Cgg=onent                     total investment        ER             ana.lvg1s ..FYR
Lower I/ ..igher V
Railways                                     ~~~~~~~~~estimate  estimate
RaiIwmv
(i) Transport Management        14                 22 3/       16 2/       28 1/       14 2/
Information System (TIAIS)
0ii) Recycling plants for         9                 16          13          19          10
used rails/switches
(iii) Track maint. & const.       -A                 1           1A          22         tU
equipment
Sub-total               27                19 0/       15  /       23 4/       12 1/
Hihways
(t) Civil Works                 23                 1S          12          18          10
NO By-Pass
(1i) Road Strengthening and    32                   30          22          38          20
Surface Treatment
(i1i) Maintenance and              5                             Ii 1i                   12
axle load control
equipment
Sub-total               60                23 4/       17 4J       23 1/      1iS 
Hungarncmiorn
*1) Devt. of Information         s                 22          17          27          14
and Marketing System
(ICIS)
(ii) Handling Equipment for       3                 Ii          t2          U           U
transit dist. stores
Sub-total                     8                 20 4/       16 9/       25  1/      13 A/
Budan1st Transport Comnan LBKVI
Traffic Control System         S                 16          12          20          10
Grand total            100                20 41       16 9J       24 4/       14 9)
lJ Assumes IS% increase in construction costs combined with IS% decrease in benefits.
2V  Assumes 1S% decrease in construction costs combined with 15X increase in benefits.
3J Relates to the situation when COCO0I restriction is expected to be reduced. In case
COCOM restriction is not reduced the rates of return will drop by about 2X in each
case due to higher capital costs to provide the same level of services.
4/ Weighted average for respective sub-total and grand total.
Source:  Feasibility st "as and Mission Estimates (June 1988)
sO7BU/GS



- 56 -
4.10     Railway Recycling Plant.  The recyclint rail plant facilities are
required for production of re-profiled long-welded rai1s, free from material
and geometrical defects, which are suitable for heavie axle load and higher
speed main line tracks. MAV intends to increase the provision of rail for
continuous welded tracks by reusing the salvaged material and red ce the need
for new rail supply and thereby reduce the overall costs of essenitial rail
replacement by less than half. Based on the demand for rails for track
maintenance and modernizations, the rail recy:ling plant is expected to
produce about 180 km of reprofiled rails by 1996 with an annual savings of
about Fs 92 million (US$ 2 million). Annex 2 gives the basic details. The
proposed facilities would obviate the necessity of importing large quantities
of rails or of iron ore, coke and the additional energy for -'teel production,
all of which Hungary has to import, and are, therefore, of s -cial
significance to MAV and would yield a satisfactory ER of abc - 16%. The ER
understates the full benefit of the subproject as it only tak2s into account
the benefits of recycling used rails at this stage and excludes the benefits
due to reclaimed switches planned in the future.
4.11     Track Maintenance and Construction Equipment.  Hungarian railways are
characterizec. by high volume operatio.i on a limited railway network
(para. &.01). Considerable wear of outer rails on curves and wear and
flattening of the rail table pose continuous maintenance problems In
addition, track maintenance at grade crossings and in switching areas pose
particularly difficult problems which MAV is currently poorly equipped to deal
with. Replacement and modernization of low efficiency limited-capacity track
machinery will upgrade MAV'S maintenance capacity and reduce track maintenaitlce
costs. The Bank's first loatn (Ln. 2557-HU) in the transport sector in Hungary
included this item as an important component of the project and this
additional equip-lent would help to maintain continuity and reinforce previous
efforts. The proposed investments would help alleviate a serious impediment
to smooth traffic flow and would yield ER of about 18%.
4.12     The weighted average ER of all the railway subprojects is about 19%.
The economic benefits for all these comp'ients are not very sensitive to
traffic increases and are related more to the avoided costs of new rolling
stock, new rails, stepped-up track maintenance which would all be needed even
if the traffic were to remain stationery.
Righway Components
4.13     Budapest By-pass (M-0 Motorway).  The proposed section (about 13.8 km
between Route 6 and both the M-7 and M-1 motorways) is the second section of
the construction of a ring road (about 90 km) designed to provide a by-pass
around Budapest city. The fi,st section from km 13.8 to km 28.1 including two
major bridges and five important interchanges were include in the B; Ik's
first transport project (Ln 2557-HU). In absence of the by-pass, the existing
streets and bridges in the city are badly congested and inadequate to handle
the present and future traffic voluwes. With the construction of the second
section, the traffic volume on the first section of the motorway under
construction is expected to increase by about 501 and woild greatly reduce the
congestion on the city streets of Budapest. About 7,000 to 12,000 vehicles



- 57 -
per day would have used the first two sections of the motorway in 1987, had
they been constructed. About 202 of this traffic would consist of heavy
trucks, trucks, trailers, vans and buses. Traffic is expected to grow
initially at 102 per annum and then by 3-5X per annum during the next
20-years. Quantified benefits due to the proposed project would result mainly
from savings in congestion costs, consisting of both vehicle operating costs
and passenger time savings on business trips.  Savings in vehicle operaLing
costs, excluding passenger time savings account for about 402 of the tctal
benefits. The proposed investments are conservatively estimated to yield an
ER of about 152.
4.14     Road Strengthening and Surface Treatment.  The Government within its
broad strategy for the sector is placing a high importance to the maintenance
of the road network, both the national and local. Accordingly the Government
has, in 1989, started an accelerated maintenance program consisting of two
phases.  The first phase vaich will be supported under the proposed project
includes of a program designed to halt further increases in the backlog of
road maintenance %orks durin- 1989-1991. In addition, as part of the proposed
project and based on the exp rie.ice to be gained during project
implementation, road maintenance management sy.tem will be developed and a
long term strategy will be formulated to eliminate the backlog of road
maintenance requirements within about a decade, the second phase. Due
primarily to the inadequacy of funds for road mainteneice during the recent
years much of the network is in dire need of maintenance, particularly for
road strengthening and surface treatment. It is estimated that about 13,000
km of national roads require strengthening during the next decade to avert the
collapse of substantial portion of the system. The Government's expanded
program fc-- periodic maintenance, therefore, is economically justified and
would yield a very high ERR. The principal benefits of the maintenance
program are reductions in operating costs, reducin the cost of pavement
reconstruction which would be needed in the absen- of the maintenance
program. Moreover, the maintenance component of t E, project will help halt
the further decrease in the value of the network which is estimated at F200
billion with the value decreasing, in  he absence of adequa e maintenance by
about 3.52 per year. In addition, the proposed mair:enance proCra.i will
reduce the risk of a minch more extensive collapse of the network during a
severe winter   Inc'.uding only the first two types of benefits, the
imainteiance prograi would yield, on the average, an ERR of about 30% and
therefore is economnically justified.
4.15     Road Maintenance and Axle load Control Equipment.  The need to
susLain an efficient and adequate highway maintenance program based on
suitable organization and equipment, and responsive to growing traffic and
seasonal conditions is the basis of UTINFORM's 1989-9a equipment renewal
program which is based on sound economic criteria . Many of the national
roads al6o require pavement strengthening ir maintenance overlays. To reduce
the cost of the latter UTINFORM is introducing newly developed (in Western
Europe) thin layer asphalt surfacing techniques, to prolong pavement life.
Considerable traffic hold-ups are also experienced in winters in different
parts of Hungary due to road icing, snow falls and blizzards resulting in
increased vehicle operation and time costs. The proposed investments in high
capacity sand/salt spreading machines, rotary snow plows, bridge inspection
vehicle, and technically advanced field testing and laboratory equipment are
primarily designed to improve tra-fic operetions, pavement management and



- 58 -
quality control on maintenance operations of the e.tire public road network
including Danube bridges. In addition, Hungarian authorities have
successfully reduced overloading aud related pavement damage by enforcing axle
load control. The proposed equipment would replace aging scales so as to
sustain this effort. The entire program would yield satisfactory ER of about
20%.
Road Transport
4.16     Hungarocamion - Development of Information and Marketing System.
To compete in the competitive international transport market Hungarocamion is
seeking to improve the enterprise's performance through better informed
decisions and market analysis. The present information system is far from
integrated. HC at present operates 6 different computer-technologies with 7
different systems and the programming is carried out in 5 computer languages.
The general cost transparency of different activities of HC is inadequate and
opportunity exists for significant improvement of company's incentive system.
The proposed investments based on a Bank-assisted comprehensive
information/marketing study prepared by international consultants would cover
both hardware and software contents and are expected to have a beneficial
influence on HC's operational efficiency and improved productivity (Annex 2)
yielding a conservatively estimated ER of about 22%.
4.17     HC's Handling Equipment for Transit Distribution Stores.  HC attaches
a great significance to the development of international groupage operations
(lees than carload (LCL) traffic). In order to improve market penetration, HC
has planned to establish express groupage services by adding a new transit
warehouse to increase capacity. HC also plans to improve the existing
facility with equipment such as fork lifts and ramp level adjuster to
facilitate faster loading and unloading of vehicles. Also planned is a
pneumatic post system for internal information flow. The proposed investments
on expansion and modernization of the existing facilities as opposed to
leasing/hiring of equipment and buildings, are more cost-effective and would
yield satisfactory ER of about 16%.
4.18     BKV's Traffic Control System.  The proposed system introduces
(i) automatic real-time monitoring and control of BKV vehicles operating on
city streets; (ii) central control of about 80 signalized intersections with a
view to giving priority of passage to BKV vehicles and (ili) central control
of power supply lines and substations for electrically powered BKV vehicles.
The costs of the sub-project would include data supply sensors, passenger
information panels, etc. The bentits expected from the above investments
would be a better adherence of BKV vehicles to schedules and shorter round
trip time and consequent reduction in fleet size, vehicle operational cost
savings and energy conservation (Annex 2). The entire program would yield a
satisfactory ER of about 16%.
4.19     Other Proiect Elements.  Benefits could not be quantified for other
project elements, namely, technical assistance, studies, research equipment
and training about (2% of total project costs) which are necessary for the
project as a whole and whote benefits would permeate the entire system.



- 59 -
D. Project Risks
4.20     The proposed project supports high priority investments based on
mid-term assessments of 1986-90 Investment Plan of Hungary. The economic
justification of the proposed project components has been well established
even under unfavorable hypothesis coticerning project costs and users' benefits
(para. 4.08). The technical solutions adopted are based on adequate
engineering and technical studies. The possibility of some delay due to
difficulties in obtaining adequate computer har dare, conforming to COCOM
restrictions is being minimized. The preparation of bidding documents and
specifications is well advanced and the staff of the concerned transport
agenc es now are conversant with the Bank's procurement procedures based on
their experience in the ongoing transport project (Ln 2557HU). The
Government is aware of Bank's concern that the start of civil works not be
delayed due to problems of land acquisition and is devoting particular
attention to this matter. Risks from inadequate proiect implementation are,
therefore, minimal as the physical components of the project are essentially a
complement to the ongoing project, on which implementation performance has
been excellent. There remains the possibility of a change in the present
political environment, leading to a reversal of the on-going reform process
which could be a potential risk for implementation of the policy reform
measures associated with the project (para. 1.18).
5076U/62-69



-60-
V. Financial Evaluation
A.  General
5.01     The financial analyses presented in this section relate to MAV, HC,
and BKV, the three revenue -arning entities which are included in the project,
and deal with their financial performance through the years 1984-87 and
forecasts for the years up to 1993. Both MAV, HC and BKV maintain their
accounting records in accordance with a National Accounting Code which has
been reviewed and found acceptable.
5.02     A major reform of the Hungarian taxation system, which has been
implemented during 1988, will affect all industrial and commercial enterprises
including MAV, HC, and BK-J. The reform is comprised of the introduction of a
value added tax and of progressive income tax on individuals. Wages will be
increased to compensate workers for the new income tax. Employer's
contributions on wages, which are similar to social security taxes, remain at
the previous 402 level. While, taxes on its income were concessionally
reduced to 15% for MAV since 1984, the government's intention is to increase
MAV's tax rate to the presently prevailing 50% applicable to other
enterprises. The value-added tax on capital expenditure will, by 1992, be
fully refunded to enterprises providing goods or services. In the interim
years, however, the non-refunded portion of 952 in 1988, 602 in 1989, 40% in
1990, and 20% in 1991 must be absorbed by the enterprises. For the Proposed
Project, this will add about 16% to project cost.
5.03     Owing to the uncertainty of the inflationary effects of Hungary's
recent tax and economic reforms, all financial forecasts for MAV, HC, and BKV
have been made in terms of constant 1987 prices.
5.04     During negotiations the Hungarian delegation informed the Bank that,
during January and Bebruary 1989, the Government had implemented increases in
MAV's freight tariffs by 20f, long distance passenger fares by 301 and inner
city fares by an average of 64r, and had increased BKV's passenger fares in
Budapest by 87r. The financial projections are based on data available during
1988 owing to the unavailability of actual operating figures for 1988, and
data sufficient to determine the effect of the tariff increases on the traffic
volume, revenue, and operating expenses for the 1989 year. This action of the
Government should, however. largely offset the inflationary cost increases of
1988, and possibly result in a better financial performance than anticipated
in the MAV and BKV 1989 projections.
B. Hungarian State Railweys (MAy)
5.05     MAV is required by Government policy to recover its operating costs
and to financo the major part of its capital investment from internal
resources, in addition to paying taxes on income and making payments to
national and local development funds. Its freedom to raise fares and freight
tariffs is restricted by a Government Board of Pricing and, as a matter of
urban policy, the Government has not set suburban fares at levels which would
recover all costs, although freight rates produce revenues which exceed the



- 61 -
attributable costs. The shortfall in passenger revenues is compensated by
Government subsidies which cover losses on concessional fares
(i.e., pensioners and students) as well as for suburban passenger services.
Past Financial Performance
5.06          MAV's intome statements for the years 1984 to 1987 are set forth in
Table 1 of Annex 1, while suimmary income statements for those years are
provided below in Table 5.1:
TABLE  5.1
UNGMARIAN STATE RAILWAYS
INVESTPENT PRC6RAN & FINANCIN6 PlAN
1988 TO 1993
(FORINTS PILLION)                      1998-93 At Constant 1987 Prices
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECENBER 31st                 *    1988-93       1988     1969      1990      1991      1992     1993
INVESTWENT PROSRAN:
FIRST TRAYSPORT PROJ ECT                             0.6t      334       334
GECIND TRANSPORT PROJECT 1/                           5.11   3,093        31       Eol      995       633       553
NRRAL REPLACENENTS A R}ENEALS                       80.01  48,217    7,199    7,391    7,783    8,193    8,613    9,038
OTHER CAPITAL EIPENDITURE 12                         14.31   8,639    1,790    1,529    1,436    1,442    1,298    1,154
TOTAL INVESTIENT PROGRAN                           100.0   60,283    9,344    9,901   10,214   10,268   10,464   10,192
FIKANCINI PLAN:
WORLD DONK SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT LOAN 1/           2.01   1,212         9       336      401       261       205
LOAS FRON 60YERNKENT                                  1.11     644       644                   0        0         0
SUPPLIER' CREDITS                                   20.01  12,079    1,849    1,791    2,062    2,110   X2,28           1,982
NAV INTERNAL RESOURCES                               76.91  46,348    6,842    7,674    7,751    7,897    7,974    8,210
TOTAL FINANCING PLAN                               100.01  60,283    9,344    9,801   10,214   10,268   10,464   10,192
SOURCE OF INTERIWTLL GENERATED FIDS
NET INCONE FtER TAI                                  10.7n   6,432       874       929    1,002    1,128    1,207    1,392
DEREIATION                                          80.01  48217    7199    7 391    7783    9193    8,61              9,039
LEStSLOA  PRINCIPAL PAYNT                            -8 11  I  8(4 1 8   I6 1161  116)   3184        1964   (1 !46)  (1 720)
MORIM  CAPITAL   CAE(INCEAI                          -5.n   (43,5)  (1,115        (430)    (450      (460      1480 )1500
NET INTERNULLY GENERATED FUNDS AVAILA IE             76.   46,341    6,842    7,74    ,751    7,W97    7,74    8,210
._USM                         .............. eeag    san                        *ato      n=         m"u ..................... Me 
I OF INVESTME"T PmumRAR .Ygj                              76.91   n7.21    78.1    n5.9          76.n      71.21    80.6:
-3 YEAR AVERAE                  -         74.32    78.41    76.82    76.61    71.41   119.21
.....   ......... .. .  ......        _._............. .. _..
1/It  torI s of 1987 Constant urict  thernforo lousr than figure
rtf lKtd in Projnct Cost Estiutu    A Dhnk Loan Disbursmnt Schodulo.
21 Elnctrification,lnd dwselopmnt of stations.
Sourest RAY & Bank mission estieabts.



- 62 -
5.07     MAV's operating ratio, including passenger subsidies, has increased
from about 902 in 1984 to about 982 in 1987, while its operating ratio,
excluding subsidies, has increased from 1002 to 107X. Until 1984, despite
having to carry commuter passenger traffic at below-cost fares, MAV covered
all operating costs through tariff revenues. The subsidy did not therefore
finance an overall operating deficit but contributed to funds from which debt
service, working capital increases, and most of MAV's capital expenditures
were financed. This is no longer the case (although freight traffic still
covers its costs and provides a surplus). Reductions in unit costs must be
achieved in order to ensure that all MAV's operating costs are again covered
by tariff revenues.  MAV's rate of return on net fixed assets also reflects
i          the inadequacy of tariffs, dropping from a low 4.91 in 1984 to a lower 1.21 in
1987.  This is also confirmed by the operating expense per traffic unit, which
has year by year steadily increased from forints 1.07 per traffic unit to 1.36
per unit in 1987, an increase of 8.31 per year compared to average inflation
rates during the same period of 7.31. The operating expense item described as
"other operating costs" represented about 281 of total operating costs before
depreciation in 1987. Rental of wagons accounted for 351 of this item, while
repair work contracted out accounted for 291. The remaining 431 consisted of
transport costs, commissions, rent expense, and other overhead expenses.
5.08     A statement of source and application of funds for the years 1985 to
1993 is provided in Table 3 of Annex 1. Internally generated funds for the
three-year period 1985-87 covered 961 of MAV's capital investment while the
yearly provision for depreciation provided 941 of these internally generated
resources.
5.09     MAV's balance sheets are set forth in Annex 1, Table 2 providing the
actual financial position for 1985 to 1987 and forecasts for the years 1988 to
1993. These reflect a healthy financial position for 1985-87. The current
ratio indicates that MAV's current assets averaged 4.4 times its current
liabilities for this period. The ratio of long-term debt to debt plus equity.
was under 11 for the three years due to MAV's low level of borrowing.



- 63 -
Future Financial Performance
5.10          The financial forecasts for MAV take into account the changes
resulting from the taxation reforms implemented during 1988 (para 5.02).
Projected income statements for the years 1988-93 are provided in Table 1 of
Annex 1, and are summarized in Table 5.2 below:
Table 5.2
NUNSAR IN STATE RAILWAYS
INCONE STATERENT
1987 TO 1993
(FORINTS NIULION)                     1988-93 At Constant 1987 Prices
: #3s2:::::233322833388:3332332328322322S8823333328228L3333833tta   tttXS    ;: ::3:323_s3:3_523:3223
ACTUAL  - --- - ---              FORECAST ---------------------
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31st          1987     1988      1999      1990     1991      1992      1993
OPERATING REVENUE:
PASSENGER TRAFFIC                         4,955    4,895    6,34    6 ,799    7,453    7,359    9,612
FREIGHT TRAFFIC                          29,031   29,310   29,350   29,586   29,592   30,311   30,732
OTHER SALES & SERVICES 1/                 6,183    6,285    6,295    6,435    6,480    6,530    6,575
OTHER OPERATIN6 REVENUE                   1,055    1,025    1,025    1,025    1,065    1,045    1,120
OPERATING REVENUE                        41,224   41,515   43,024   43,845   44,590   45,764   47,039
GOVERNMENT SUBSIDIES                      3,935    3,910    2,796    2,351    1,977    1,662    1,398
TOTAL SUBSIDIZED OPERATINS REVENUE    45,159   45,425   45,820   46,196   46,567   47,426   48,437
CZ_" asuu  ..na  .....m  stas                                                   =              . .  az
TOTAL OPERATING EIPS.EFORE DEPR'N    37,086   36,955   36,271   35,687   35,114   35,114   35,088
PROVISION FOR WDRECIATION                 7,107    7,199    7,391    7,783    8,193    8,613    9,035
TOTAL OPERATING EIPENSES                44,193   4,154   43,642   43,470   43,307   43,727   44,126
2323=   33383g8333                      2333    3*3    233333283322    3*3   332322
NET OPERATING INCOME                        966    1,271    2,158    2,726    3,260    3,699    4,311
NET INCOME BEFORE TAXES                     613      971    1,658    2,003    2,256    2,413    2,794
232233338=2"83233833                   *     3   23as 3333  3                 3      -  3     3       3
NET INCOME AFTER TAIES                      493      874       929    1,002    1,129    1,207    1,392
Bassa . s-s-s3a833222 33133                                283  3a23223   38822  32323" 3232a8
OPERATING RATIO I -INCL.SUDSIDIES          97.92    97.22    95.32    94.11    93.02    92.21    91.12
OPERATING RATIO I -EICL.SUBSIDIES         107.21   104.42   101.52    99.12    97.11    95.52    93.82
RATE OF RET'N ON NET FIlED ASSEtS 2/        1.22      1.72     3.01      3.72      4.32      4.7S     5.42
OPERATING EXPENSES PER TRAFFIC UNIT        1.36     1.35      1.34      1.33      1.33      1.34     1.;3
1/ Construction,land uls I services to industrial I commercial enterprizes.
2/ Not operating incoe as a I of net fixed ausets in operation.
Sourcet RAY and link sission nstitestn



- 64 -
5.11     In view of the decline in traffic of 32 from 1984 to 1987, the
financial projections for MAV have been based on the assumption that passenger
and freight traffic will remain constant at the 1987 level through to 1993.
Further assumptions, on which the projections from 1998 to 1993 are based, are
as follows:
(a) decrease in passenger subsidies of 15.92 per year from 1990 to
1993, in real terms, which will result in a reduction of
subsidies of 502 of rhe 1989 level by 1993;
(b) increase in passenger fares by 30% in 1989 (as planned by
Government), and increases, in real terms, by an average of
about 82 in the years 1990, 1991, 1992, and 1993 respectively,
which would offset the subsidy reductions. in (a) above, in each
of these years;
(c) decrease in materials, fuel and electricity, salaries and
related costs, and other operating costs by 1.72 per year, in
real terms, from 1989 to 1991 which produces a 52 reduction in
operating expenses, before depreciation, over this three-year
period;
(d) increase in average freight tariffs, in real terms. by an amount
sufficient (after a, b, and c above) to reduce the operating
ratio to about 952 in 1989, and by a further 12 per year from
1990 to 1993; and
(e) depreciation at the rate of 4.12 per year on assets in operation
at historical cost, as prescribed by Government.
Through applying the above assumption, the forecast income
statements, between 1987 and 1993, reflect a reduction in subsidies and an
increase in passenger revenues of 6'2 and 742 respectively, an increase in
freight revenue of about 62, and a decrease in operating expenses before
depreciation of about 5.42. From 1987 to 1993, the operating ratio including
subsidies drops from about 982 to 912, the operating ratio excluding subsidies
decreases from 1071 to 94X, the rate of return on average net fixed assets in
operation increases from 1.21 to 5.41, and net income after taxes increases
from forines 493 million to forints 1,392 million, an increase of 1822. The
assumptions are achievable and considerably improve the financial performance
of MAV.



- 65 -
Invesi.ent Program and Financing Plan
5.12         MAV's investment program and financing plan. for the period of
implementation of the Proposed Project, from 1988 to 1993 is set forth in
Table 5.3 below:
TABLE 5.3
HUNGAIAN STATE RAILVAYS
INVESTNENT PROGRAN I FINANCIN6 PLAN
1988 TO 1993
(FORINTS NILLION)                      19-93 At Canstant 1987 Prices
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECENDER 31st                1    1988-93       1986     19        1990     1991      1992      1993
tINvSTMENT PROGRAM 
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT                              0.41     334       334
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT 1/                          5.12   3,093        31      881       995       633      55S
N03114  REPLACEMENTS i RENEWALS                     80.01  48,217    7,19      7,391    7,783    8,193    8,613    9,038
OTHER CAPITAL EXPENDITURE /2                        14.32   8,639    1,780    1,529    1,436    1,442    1,296    1,154
_e_ .    _         ea.    *n..            e      in     _ e  ._
TOTAL INVESTNT PROAR                               100.01  60,283    9,344    9,601   10,214   10,28  10,464   10,192
FINANINO PLAN:
sftlU111 
MO01L  BANK SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT LOAN l          2.02   1,212         9      336       401      261       205
LONGS FROMSOVER N 1011                                        644       644                  0         0        0
SUPIERS  CREDITS                                    20.01  12,079    1,949    1,791    2,062    2,110    2,295    1,982
IAV INTEUAL RESOIURCES                              76.92  44,348    6,842    7,674    7,751    7,897    7,974    6,210
TOTAL FINANCIS PLAN                                100.02   0,23    9,34       9,01   10,214   10,26    10,         10,192
__ ..............*2                                       *8__ _ . ._
OM  O  INTEIIL    G REED ME O
NET I11 AFTER TAX                                   17    6,432         874      829    1,002    1,128    1,207    1,392
DERECIATIU                                         60.02  48,217    7 199    7 391    7783    6,193    6,613    9,038
LESSiLOANI M11IKIL FAINIITS                         -8.1t  14,84*1    11161    l11}    1581             ) 19N I1 3Fl  ll 720)
INI   CTAL P    DECEASE/(INCREAK)s             -_          3.n  3    11,1It     (430      I40       14j0)        1480)   (13)
NET INTER1ALLY 6ENEItE  FI          AVAILAILE       76.92  4,34       6,42    7,674    7,751    7,897    7,974    8,210
2 O  INVHESMElNT "P M    -YEAR                           76.92    73.22    78.32    75.92    76.91    76.2        80.6
-3 YER AVERIUE                 -         74.31    78.41    76.82    76.61    77.42   119.22
11In torus of 197 constat grices therefore lour than figures
refleted in ProJect Cost EstiUtt A Bank Loan Disburssnt SchdWul.
21 El utrificatloa,and deulornt of stations.
Surce:   Ia ank sission  sti ots.



- 66 -
5.13      Of the total investment program of forints 60,283 million from 1988
to 1993, the proposed project is projected to represent about 51 while other
capital expenditure for electrification and development of stations accounts
for about 141, and the completion of the First Transport Project under 1S.
Normal replacement and renewals is equal to the annual provision for
depreciation and represents about 801 of the total investment for the period.
5.14     The sources of financing of the total investment program from 1988-93
will be 22 from the proposed loan. 12 from Government loans, 201 from
suppliers' credits, and about 771 from KAV's internally generated resources.
Of the internally generated resources, the depreciation provision represents
80X. The projected improvement in financial performance contributes
significantly to the MAV's high level of self-financing.
5.15     A statement of source and application of funds is provided on Table 6
of Annex 1, including projections for the period 1988 to 1993, and reflects a
satisfactory level of liquidity. The self-financing ratio, reflecting MAVs
internal generation of resources as a percentage of capital expenditure, is
consistently close each year to the average of about 771 for the 1988-93
period of the projections. The debt service ratio, which represents the
number of times loan principal and interest payments are covered by internally
generated resources, is projected to be 201 and 14% for 1988 and 1989
respectively, and for 1990-1993 averages about 5.
5.16     MAV's balance sheets are set forth in Table 2 of Annex 1. which
include projections for the period 1988 to 1993. Summary balance sheets for
this period are provided in Table 5.4, as follows:
TABLE 5,4
HUNSARIAN STATE RAILWAYS
DALANCE SHEET
9m TO IN3
(FORINTS NILLIOIN    1988-93 At Constant 1987 Prices
....a.UflUuuU3Ufl2 UU..             - m  .      US-       SU. 3 ..
ACTUAL       ---fORECAST ----------
1967   19N   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION  175,565 173,58  184,929 194,730 204,94 215,212 223,674
PROVISION FOR EPECIATION  97,210 104,409 111,800 119,583 127,776 134,369 145,427
NET FIED ASSETS IN OPERA1TON   78,375  71,176  73,129  75,147  77,168  78,823 80,249
AwS  UNOER CONSTRUCTIWN   5,622  15,116  15,623  16,036  16,090  16,286  1,014
TOTAL NET FINED ASSUS    84,197  86,342  88,752  91,183  93,256  95,109  96,263
OTHER NON-CUT ASSETS      2,309  2,360  2,410  2,460  2,510  2,560  2,610
C_UT ASSE                16,953  16,043  20,739  23,600  26,391  29,210  32,063
TOTAL ASSETS                103,459 106,745 111,901 117,243 122,1" 126,8! 130,956
LIABIWLlES A EOUITY
TOTAL LO1 TERN LIABILITIES  1,352  3     m15  5378  6,897  7,922   ,722  6,534
CURRIT LIASILITIES        4,538  3,016  3,624  4,104  4,616  5,080  5,680
TOTAL LIABILITIES         5,8"0  6,671  9,002  11,001  12,538  13,602  14,214
EGUlTy                   97,56  99,674 102,69  106,242 109,628 113,077 116,742
TOTAL LIABILITIES A EWITY  103,459 106,145 111,901 117,243 122,11  126,879 130,956
RATIO W DOT TO DOET4I1Y S      o.9   3.32   4.62   5.n  *6.3:   6.n   6.42
CURRENT hiiu                  3.7   5.9   5.7   5.6   5.7   5.6   5.6
ACCTS.RECEIVADLEzNO.NTTN.OPVI6.FEV.   1.4   1.4   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3
Source: WAY I& Bank issiim sti"ts.



- 67 -
5.17     The forecast financial position of MAV for the period 1988-93 as
reflected in the above table, is satisfactory. The ratio of long-term debt to
debt plus equity is consistantly at a low level, averaging about 5.5% for the
period. The current ratio, averaging 5.52, is at a favorably high level.
Accounts receivable, measured in terms of each year's average month's revenue,
is projected at a satisfactory level of 1.3 months' revenue. During
negotiations agreement was reached that MAV maintain tariffs and control
operating costs at levels sufficient to achieve an operating ratio (including
passenger subsidies) of not greater than 95% in 1990, and reducing it by 12 in
each of the subsequent years up to and including 1994.
C. Hungarocamion International Freight Company
Past Financial Performance
5.18     The Hungarocamion International Freight Company (HC) is an
internal:ional trucking enterprise, operating in the competitive European
market for import, export and transit traffic, having the freedom to set
freight rates according to the competitive market. As about one third of its
transport revenues are denominated in Western European currencies, HC is a
significant contributor of foreign exchange to the economy of Hungary. This
enterprise is efficient and profitable. Its financial performance for the
years 1984-1987 are reflected in detail in Table 4 of Annex 1, while a suimmary
is provided in Table 5.5 as follows:
Table 5.5: HC-INCOME STATEMENT SUMMARY 1984-87
1984        1985         1986       1987
Actual      Actual       Actual     Actual
FT Million -_________
Operating Revenue                      4.854       4,698     5,280       6,200
Operating Expenses                     3,933       3.782     4.197       4,852
Net Operating Income                      921        916     1,083       1,348
Interest on Loans                         84         100       106         136
Net Income Before Taxes                  837         816       977       1,212
Operating Ratio
Appraisal Forecast X                 842         832       852         832
Actual                               812         812       802         782
Rate of Return on net Fixed Assets '
Appraisal Forecast 2                 262         262       222         262
Actual                               322         302       331         401
L' Net operating income as 2 of average net fixed assets in operation.



- 68 -
5.19     In each of the years 1984 to 1987, RC achieved a better financial
performance, as reflected in both the operating ratio (average 80X) and the
rate of return on net fixed assets (average 342), than those forecast at
appraisal (averaging 842 and 25% respectively). Traffic, measured in
productive kilometers, (paid kms.), rose by 18X (1984-87), while transport
revenue increased by 261 during the same period. HC's commendable financial
performance during the 1984-87 period was achieved by effective control of
operating costs which increased by 232 compared to revenues which rose by
28%. The introduction to the fleet of more fuel efficient vehicles (purchased
under the previous Bank loan) has contributed to a reduction in unit operating
costs, as has also the new central maintenance depot installed in 1985. Other
factors contributing to cost reductions have been a special bonus scheme
rewarding speedy and successful completion of round trips (resulting in an
increase of the  overall round trip speed from 15 Kph to 18 Kph), while
significant fuel reductions have been achieved through a system of surcharges
on drivers where fuel consumption exceeds an established norm.
Future Financial Performance
5.20     The financial forecasts for HC for the years 1988 to 1993 take into
account the changes resulting from taxation reforms implemented during 1988.
5.21     Projected Income Statements for the years 1988-93 are provided in
Table 4 of Annex 1, and are summarized in Table 5.6 below:
Table 5.6: HC - Summary Income Statements 1987 to 1993
ACTUAL ---        ---  PROJECTED --
1987     1988     1989      1990     1991    1992   1993
Operating Revenue          6,200    6,346    6,601    6,942    7,249    7,566  7,904
Operating Expenses         4.852    5,267    5.442    5,653    5,874    6.053  6,298
Net Operating Income       1,348    1,079    1,159    1,289    1,375    1,483  1,606
Interest on Loans            136      148      231       274      315       334    277
Net Income Before Taxes   1,212       931       928    1,015    1,060    1,149  1,329
Taxes on Income              892      465       464      507      530       574    664
Net Income After Taxes       320      466       464      508       530      575    665
Operating Ratio              781      832       82%      812      811       801    802
Rate of Return on Net
Fixed Assets in Operation   40%       311       31%      281      28%       27%    292
5.22     An effect of the introduction of the personal taxation system is
immediately apparent in the income statement summary indicating an increase in
the operating ratio from 781 to 831 between 1987 and 1988, and the fall in the
rate of return on net fixed assets from 401 to 311. A main contributing
factor is the increase in wages by an average of 30% to compensate staff for
the personal taxes they bear, commencing in 1988. The effect is thus to



- 69 -
increase operating expenses, raise operating ratios and reduce net income and
return on net fixed assets. Compensation for the increases, in the form of
lower transfers to the state budget, is charged to equity, and consequently is
not reflected in the net income after taxes. As the changes are planned, the
final effect upon an enterprise's cash flow should be small.
5.23     HC's revenue forecast is based on growth of productive kilometers
(paid Kms) averaging 3.92 per year from 1987 to 1993. This increase is
planned to come from an increased vehicle fleet (1.91 average increase per
year in vehicle numbers) and from better utilization of the modernized fleet
(averaging an increase of 2.0% Pd kms per vehicle per year). Revenue increase
between 1988 and 1993 is forecast to average 4.5% per year compared to an
increase in operating costs of 2.9% per year. Interest charges shown are
realistic and the forecast financial performance shows a satisfactory
picture. Forecast cost and revenue figures are discussed further in Annex 1.
3.24     HC's Statement of source and Application of Funds for 1985 to 1987,
together with forecasis for the years 1988 to 1993, are provided in Table 6 of
Annex 1. HC is projected to finance from internal resources a relatively high
level of capital expenditure, averaging about 631, as indicated by the
self-financing ratio from 1988 to 1993. Debt service coverage is
satisfactory, averaging about 2.7 (1988-93), which represents the number of
times that debt service is covered by internally generated resources.



- 70 -
Fifnncin3 Plan
5.25         NC's Investment Program and Financing Plan are provided in Table 5.7
TMAIIS .
t193 TO 1993
.eu._.-
(PORInTO RIUBLLZOA1911193 At Conetent 1917 Prieto
ICAL YgA WI  DECINER 39193                                      1909              199      1991      1992     1993
INVEITNENT P'A  1t
FlOnT TRANRT POECT                                1.31      559      315      244
EcoN  TAMMr  M c                                 12.7n      UO         4      271      34        193       15       1O
OTHR CPITAL  IPEITU                              79ot   341           4       11    l,210    1,419       III    l,00
TOTAL tIETUIT       W   O10.01   4o74                                %5       4%      1,5t7    1,4l2      "02    1,015
uu1HISmaaa111"                                          1111111anam 1mu1ma  uaanum  "mowmga   am maswe  "a"ggu
PISIIIN hutN
"BumanU-.
VW        VA  Fill?R3  TRAIU T PROJCT "Al kWA      0.41      42                a
OELD PA  I PIT TRAIPS  PMROJE 'll, LOAU           7.41     517      315      20
WU      PUA    KM CTRAPITM!  JCT LOAN 11           4.41     29                 01       1230     101       29
mEIC LO.TE  LOWNS                                 IU    low                             100      700                20
lN*O NIIN l#M_                      RUl2   4,227                      NO       404    1,073      49       734       15$
__e_s  ._em          _ e .    __1    .  _mes"  Sue...   u.    . _.. 'seesat es .
TOTAL  INAINS KMl                               1o.01   4,7    t9             494    1,57"   1,412        902    1,011
ainuuin                      _mn    _nmu   meam    mam..  *aene  auam   H_aa   mau
Ie Il tt d t1  usslt ustb,fe    1  tM Il
lrntol %Wm na qnkU"  atst Uto Istcll
rt UW1mneJh It1rw4umkL.bfuhri"'eftk1.



- 71 -
5.26     The overall financing position shown above is good.  During the
period of the proposed project, 4.4S of RC's investments will be financed from
the proposed Bank loan, 8.22 from loans for the first project (repaid over a
period of 6 years, but in part, relent to NC by NBR), and 24.9% frrsi other
loans including loans from Hungarian Banks. The proposed Bank loan would be
on-lent to RC by the Government. The Government would assume the foreign
exchange risk. HC would repay the loan over a period oC 15 years including a
grace period of 5 years.
5.27     HC's balance sheets for 1985 and 1987 together with forecasts up to
1993 are provided in Table 5 of Annex I and are summarized in Table 5.8 below:
TABLE 5.8
NUCMOCAI01 INTWTOAL FREIWT CANY
1987 TO 193
FORIRtS NLLtIlON)   1918-~ At Constant 117 Pricn
atmIR EIlOu-aI AMSU          19    It    19    19    i9    19    19
TOTAL COW  AST            2,807  2,111  2,10   2,233  2,300  2,2   2,452
TOTAL ASSETt                 6,23  3,84  5,W   6,80   7,728  7,12  8,181
LIA8ILITIES
LOS-TERN LOS                413   52     5      614  1,2       3     130
OM  1ERS-CUILIAItLITIES     91    Be    88       8       8     0      8
TOTAL CWi LIILITIESt      1,1t   1,033  1,104    9    1,010  1,319  1,14
TOTAL LIAILITIES            I,m    1,4   1,7t0   1,43  2,   !,M   L,353
***o  inmmom  eesmn  asmm  amm   -nux
TOTAL 1OUl                4,33  4,19   4,187  5,152  5,421  5,93  6,8
TOTAL LtILITtII [ El&lO 6,22   5,84  5,3W7   ,805  7,728  7,912  l,181
KIT (M t PlO O                12.3   11t12  10.92  10.42  11.32   8.12   1.92
cU1N RatIO                     2.4   2.1   2.0   2.3   2.3    181   2.1
A^CltA19lI|.U.NTlS.OP1iS.B.   2.3   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2
arcra  mrucailm & Ik M  iA    utiutun



- 72 -
5.28      HC's current assets are well in excess of current liabilities and are
forecast to remain in this satisfact-iry position throughout the project
period, as indicated by the current ratio above. The current ratio for 1987
was 2.4 and is projected to remain close to this level through 1993, while the
ratio of long-term debt to debt plus equity is currently 121 and is projected
to decrease by 1993 to about 2X.
5.29      During negotiations agreement was reached that HC maintain freight
rates and other charges at a sufficient level to ensure a rate of return on
average net fixed assets in operation of not less than 221 during each of the
years from 1989 to 1993.
D. Budapest transport company (BKV)
5.30     As a result of the Government's socio-economic policy, BKV does not
recover full costs for urban/suburban passengers using its services. BKV's
financial performance is reviewed below.
Past Financial Performance
5.31     BKV's income statements for the years 1983 to 1987 are set forth in
Table 7 of Annex 1, while summary income statements for this period are
provided below in Table 5.9:
TABLE 5.9
IJDAPEST TRSPORT COMANY
INMUIE STATEMEN
1913 TO 1917
(FORINTS ILLION)
ACTUAL
FISUL YEA END!NS  Eom  31st    193   1964   195   1     1967
HiPERTl5S NVIKUS
PA511 SOlE                   1,497  1,504  2,007  2,048  2 040
cmTHER1RAT!NS IOiE            444   551   607    93 1,153
ORIRATIM REKY   EICLUD'S SU8SIDIES  2,141  2,093  2,814  3,031  3,193
SUUIDIASSENBER TRWFIC        4,743  7,312  3 370  3,921  4,387
IIIIDIES-NA!TEANC OF SYSTOMS    0      0  4,005  4,95  4,993
LMES VWlE TAX                   0     (1)   (2)   (II   (1)
TOTAL WTI  IINEIE            8,904  9,404  10,197  11,144  12,572
P9*11K EZPS.KFOK EPIEC!ATION 16  7 387  6 ,50  9,114  10 232
PUVISI, FOR DEPRCIAT!lu     I,1:14317    ,4    ,4
tOtAL WUtS EEIKN9 ,20  9,000  10,240  10,657  12,077
_-       -                    --_-_-
Illt WMTlS 11K                694   404   (73)   29    49 
NE[T IICIE KMS TAIE           *79   391   (91)  274   460
NET INCOIE AFTER TAlES        301   194   1911   245   427
OPERTINS RATIO 1 -INCL.SlINSUEO    92.21  95.71  100.   97.41  94.11
0PERTINS RATIO I -1L.USII0E1/ 383.42  430.01  344.41  358.21  378.21
pATE OF icrN ON NT FIXD ASSET 1/   2.41   1.41  -0.21   1.021.7
11 Ooirti  bn  a * . avrw  Mt fisd isiiti.
$icus UK.ud Sub isdium NiWtt1



- 73 -
5.32     BKV's operating ratio, including passenger subsidies, increased from
922 in 1983 to 96% in 1987, while its operating ratio, excluding subsidies,
improved slightly from 383S to 3781. Passenger tariff revenue per passenger
Km from 1983-87 increased from Ft 0.18 to Ft 0.24, or 372, compared to
operating expenses which increased from Ft 1.05 to Ft 1.42 per passenger Km,
or 161. During this same period passenger subsidies, as a percentage of
tariff revenue plus subsidies, decreased slightly from 761 to 75Z. This
reduction in stubsidies was offset by the passenger tariff increases, resulting
in the small improvement in the operating ratio (including subsidies)
mentioned above. From 1985 to 1987, passenger Kms decreased by less than 1Z,
the number of employee decreased by about 21, but wage costs, however,
increased by about 121.
5.33     A statement of source and applicaton of funds for the years 1983 to
1993 is provided in Table 9 of Annex 1. Internally generated funds more than
covered capital expenditure for the 1983-87 period, while the yearly
depreciation provision provided about 901 of these internally generated
funds. Internally generated funds covered debt service by an average of about
1.3 times for the 1983-87 period. The self-financing and debt service
coverage were satisfactory for this period.
5.34     BKV's balance sheets are set forth in Table 8 of Annex 1, providing
the actual financial position for 1983-87 and forecosts for the period
1988-83. The financial position was satisfactory. There were no long-term
loans during this period, consequently the debt to debt plus equity ratio was
zero. The current ratio indicates that current liabilities were covered by an
average of 8 times during the period, and accounts receivable represented
about 0.5 months' average sales for each year of the 1983-87 period.



- 74 -
Future Financial Performance
*               5.35          Projected income statements for the years 1988 to 1993 are provided
in Table 7 of Annex 1, and are summarized in Table 5.10 below:
Table 5.10
BUDAPEST TRANSPORT COMPANY
INCOME STATEMENT
1997 TO 1993
(FORINTS MILLION)      1989-93 At Constant 197 Prices
ACTUAL 2                        - FO_CAST
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEER 31st          1907     1996      -lS      199      199E1   1992       199
:2:11 -gs s      22a2sa                               s        t    __|
OPERATIN6 REVENUES
PASSENGER SALES                         2,040    2,053    4,123    4,204    5,442    5,334    6,66
OTHER OPERATINS INCONE                  1,153    1,100    1,100    1,100    1,100    1,100    1,100
OPERATING REVENUE EXCLUDG6 SU0SIDtES   3,193    3,153    5,223    5,306    6,162    4,634    7,60
SUBSIDIES-PASSEN1ER TRAFFIC             4,397    4,595    2,529    2,449    1,33      1,305       329
SUBSIDIES-AINTENAICWE OF SYSTEMS        4,993    5,150    5,155    5,15S    5,150    5,140    5,140
LESS: SALES TAI                            (1)      (1)       (1)      (1)      (1)      (1)       (1)
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE                12,5n2   12,897   12,906   12,909   13,047   13,078   13,136
8=                   ax333383333      3888333  3333833  333n333  *333333  333333   333333   3333
OPERATING EIPS.DEFORE DEPRECIATION    10,232   10,164   10,542   10,521   10,549   10,593   10,t44
PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION              1,945    1,900    1,925    1,949    2,03      2,040    2,045
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES               12,07    12,U44   12,467   12,470   12,43   12,63   12,6
NET OPERATIN6 INCOME                        5      433      439       439      444      445      A47
NET INCOE GEfORE TAIES                    460      419      36        368       55      427      432
NET INCOE AfTER TAIES                     427      376      361       366      30       420      425
OPERATINB RATIO I -INCL.SUtlSIDIES       94.11    9.61    %.61    96.61    9.          9.62    96.6
OPERATING RAtIO I -EICL.SUDSIDIES       370.22   395.32   238.n   235.01   192.11   190.42   165.51
RATE OF RET'N ON NET FIXED ASSEtM  1/     1.7      1.41      1.41     1.32     1.21     1.22      1.21
1/ Operating ince  as I of avereg not fixed assets.
Sources WaV.and Iank aisin utilates



- 75 -
5.36     The financial projections take into account the changes resulting
from the taxation reforms implemented during 1988 (para. 5.02). Passenger
kms, are expected to increase slightly by about 1.62 over the next 6 years.
Further assumptions, on which the projections are based, applied to revenue
and costs at cong-ant 1987 prices, are as follows:
(a) passenger subsidies to decrease by about 932 to Ft 329 million from
1987 to 1993;
(b)  passenger fares (passenger revenue per passenger ln) to increase by
about 2171 from 1988 to 1993;
(c) number of employees to remain constant at 25,000 up to 1992;
(d) operating expenses, including depreciation, to increase by about 5.11
up to 1994; and
(e) depreciation provisior. to remain constant at about 4% on historical
cost of assets.
5.37     Based on the above assumptions, whi! k.re considered achievable by
both BKV and the Bank mission, the 1988 to l193 projections reflect a
reduction in passenger subsidies from Ft 4,400 to rt 330 million, an increase
in passenger tariff revenue from Ft 2,000 to Ft 6,600 million, and an increase
in operating expenses from Ft 12,000 to Ft 12,500 million.   As a consequence
of the above. the operating ratio, including passenger subsidies would remain
constant at about 96.6S, while the operating ratio, excluding passenger
subsidies, would be reduced from about 3781 in 1987 to about 1651 in 1993.



- 76 -
Investment Program and Financing PIn
5.38         BKV's investment program and financing plan, for the period of
implementation of the Proposed Project from 1988 to 1993, is provided in Table
5.11 below:
Table 5.11
BUDAPEST TRANSRRT CONY
INVESTMENT PROGRAR & FINANCING PLMN
1968 TO 193
(FORINTS  ILLION)                    1958-93 At Constant 1997 Prices
FISCAL YEAR ENDIN6 DECEN1ER 31st               K    190-93       196      1989     IM       1991      192      1993
INVESTMENT PROGRAMt
XuX8=uZu::s:gZ:z=:
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT                           4.41     552                122      14       291
OTHER CAPITAL EIPENDITURE                         95.41  11,38    1,680    1,978    1,941    1,749    2,000    2,000
TOTAL INVESTMENT PROGRAN                         100.0K  11,920    1,60    2,000    2,010    2,030    2,000    2,000
auuuuuuuanaaaaummuana                          .8m..  .aa.e  aas   msig  sasmaga..... gasa    mam.. "  __
FINANCINS PLANi
WORLD DANK SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT LOAN 1/        1.21      143        0       361 6              73                 0
SKY INTERNAL RESOURCES                           114.91  13,700    2,169    2,349    2,117    2,400    2,140    2,495
FINANCIN8 SHORT-FALL/(SUIRPLUS)                  -16.11  (1,9231    130T)    (3)    11143)    (441        (11)    (485)
__be   . _n             - _      _         _    ee _    obe _      .e.@
TOTAL FINANCING PLAN                             100.0K  11,920    1,680    2,000    2,010    2,030    2,000    2,000
..~~~~~~~~~~uam   ma .. _sam   smaas  _gum   ugmaum   ...s    .. . .._.  __. , 
SOURCE OF INTERNALLY  NE1RATED FUNDS
.......................... ...............................__.. 
NET INCOE AFTER TAX                              19.2K   2,290       379      341      34       340       420      425
DEPRECIATION                                      9C.K  11,993    1,900    1,925    1,949    2034    2,040    2,045
LESSMLOAN PRINCIPAL PAYMENTS                       O.4?     170)                 0        0        0       (        (101
WORKINB CAPITAL DECREASE/(INCREASE)i              -3.51    (413)      IN         3     (193)      26,                25
..e       _e       __        _.    fe_.   _e.__  ebe             _..
NET INTERNALLY GENERATED FUW   AVAILAILE          14.591  13,700    2,19    2,349    2,117    2,400    2,140    2,40
K Of lNVMt PROGRAM  -YEAR                             114.9    114.41   117.5    105.31   11t.2    102 .0K   124.3
-3 YEAR AVERAW                        113.1?   119.42   105.11   119.21   107.5K   124.31
1/ In tores of 1W  constant prie  therefore loor than f igurn
rf lected In Project Cost Estisal  &  ank Loan Diskrusmnt Schd91.
Sources BKV & I nk mission ostimato.



- 77 -
5.39        Of the total  investment program of Ft 11,920 million,  the Proposal
Project represents Ft 552 million, or about 52. The Bank is the only external
source of financing providing Ft 143 million or 1.2% of the funds required.
The balance of Ft 11,777 million, or 98.8% will be covered by BKV's internal
resources generation, of which the depreciation provision covers the total
financing requirement.
5.40       A statement of source and application of funds is set forth in Table
9 of Annex 1, which includes projections for the period 1988 to 1993, and
reflects a satisfactory level of liquidity. The self-financing ratio, which
reflects the percentage of capital expenditure available from internal
resources, exceeds 100% in each of the 6 years from 1988 to 1989.
Depreciation represents about 87% of the internally generated resources over
this period.
5.41        BKV's balance sheets for the period 1987 to 1993 are set forth in
Table 8 of Annex 1. Summary balance sheets for this period are provided in
Table 5.12 as follows:
Table 5.12
BUDAPEST TRANSPORT C0RW'ANY
BALANCE SHEET
1917 TO 1993
1988-93 At Constant 19"  Prices     (FORINTS NILLI0NI    1988-93 At Constant 1967 Prices
ACTUAL                      FRECAST
96      198     199m   199O    1991    1992    1993
ASSETS
FIXED ASSEtS IN OPERATION     43,542  4,522  45,622  52,672  53,700  54,750  55,800
PROvISIE FOR DEPRECIATION     13,422  14,300  15,200  16,300  17,100  19,000  10,950
NET FINED ASS&~IN OPERTION    30, 1    30,p    30,42   36,M   36, 0   36,730  36,650
WIER                                      70     0775
-~~~~,...... ....   -.   .me.. ....-.-.......
ASS WM     lTRIO         7Ol2  tO22   IO4ts   t*o02N                 750     70
TOTAL NET FIRED ASSETS        30,856  30,972  31,172  37,122  37,350  37,500  37,600
OTE NON-CURRENT ASSETS           621     650     670     680      680     690     690
TOTAL Cur  ASSES               3,940   3,836   3,773   3,921   3,900   4,090   4,165
TOTAL ASSEtS                      35,426  35,456  35,615  41,723  41,930  42,290  42,455
*ua                               U a a_ma_. _. a.,....  am.. a... xaa"            .......
LIAILITIES& ESITY
TOTAL LO  TE  LIA3ILI IES        152'    160     206     242     363      293     2e9
TOTAL CUlIT LIADILITII,          923    7n0      730     690      695     645     759
TOTAL LIUILITIlES              1,07S     690     936      922   1,056     938   1,028
TOTAL EMITI                   34,351  34,566  34,6       ,01  40,372  41,342  41,427
TOTAL LIABILITIES A FOUITY        35,426  35,458  35,6l1  41,723  41,930  42,280  42,4'S
DT EfUlTY RATIO I                    0.0     0.0     0.1     0.2     0.4      0.3     0.2
CURREWT RATIO                        4.3     5.3     5.2     5.3     5.6      6.3     5.5
ACCTS.RECEIVAULEO.NOTNS.OER6.REV.    0.5     0.4     0.6     0.6     0.6      0.7     0.7
Sourceo DKV and Bank istion netiuate



- 78 -
5.42     The forecast financial position of BKV for the period 1988-93, as
reflected in the above table, is satisfactory. The ratio of long-term loans
to debt plus equity is 0.4Z, or lower, for each year 1988-93. The current
ratio, averaging 5.6S, is at a favorably high level. Accounts receivable,
measured in terms of each year's average months' revenue, is projected at a
very low level of 0.6 months revenue, in line with past experience.
5.43     During negotiations agreement was reached that BKV maintain tariffs
and control operating costs at levels sufficient to achieve an operating ratio
(including passenger subsidies) of not greater than 98Z in each of the years
1989 to 1993.
OV077U/1-1 9



- 79 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     During loan negotiations confirmation were obtained from the
Government and the beneficiaries regarding the following principal matters:
(i)    the operational and financial targets of MAV for 1990-93 (Table
28 and para. 2.19);
(ii)    the project cost estimates and the Bank financed project
components (paras. 3.27, 3.28 and Table 3.1);
(iii)    project financing details (paras. 3.29, 3.31 and Table 3.2);
(iv)    the appointment of consultants as Project Coordinators (pare.
3.32);
(v)    the appointment of UTIBER to manage the M-O motorway civil works
construction on behalf of MTCC (para. 3.35);
(vi)    the arrangements for engaging specialized foreign trade
companies to assist UTINFORM in procurement of road maintenance
equipment as well as laboratory and field testing equipment and
instruments (para. 3.36);
(vii)    the project implementation scheddles (para. 3.39 and Tables 30,
31, 32 and 33);
(viii)    the disbursement arrangemet;ts including a $300,000 ceiling on
contracts to be treated by SOE's (para. 3.49);
(ix)    establishment of a Special Account and annual audit thereof
(para. 3.50);
(x)    the estimated disbursement schedule (para. 3.51 and Table 27);
(xi)    the projects quarterly reporting and financial reporting
requirements and arrangements for annual audits of accounts by
Audit Rt (para. 3.52); and
(xii)    that the plans for the rail recycling plant would provide
adequately for the health and safety of the workers, and
pollution control and treatment and disposal of the plants waste
(para. 3.53).
6.02     During loan negotiations, agreements were reached with Government and
the beneficiaries on the following:
(i)    That MAV would continue to carry out and keep the uneconomic
railway services under control, monitoring effectiveness of the
measures already introduced, and making such adjustments as
necessary to prevent losses from such services from increasing
(para. 1.17);



- 80 -
(ii)    that policy improvements would be carried out and specific
actions taken on a time-bound program. Government would
annually review with the Bank progress made on various policy
and institutional issues and take steps to meet the agreed
targets (para. 1.18);
(iii)    that funds available for highway maintenance would be increased
compared to 1988 by 10% in 1989, 10% in 1990 and by 50% or more
in real terms in the following years to eliminate the
accumulated back log of maintenance within a decade (paras. 1.18
and 2.48); furthermore MTCC agreed to increase surcharges
imposed on trucks exceeding the legal exle-load limit to
discourage overloading of heavy commercial vehicles (para. 2.36);
(iv)    -hat the recommendation of the road user charges study would be
implemented to ensure that heavy commercial vehicles pay amounts
reflecting the damage they cause to the infrastructure (para
1.18);
(v)    that bidding documents for TMIS of MAV would emphasize the
performance specifications and that the bidders would have the
flexibility to submit alternative cost-effective solutions for
the hardware and related system and be fully responsible for
providing export licences (para 3.06);
(vi)    that the Railway Costing Study would be carried out by local
consultant (supported by foreign specialist) and would be
initiated not later than D!cember 1, 1989 and completed by the
end of 1990 (para. 3.10);
(vii)    that the bidding documents for ICIS of HC would emphasize the
performance specifications and that the bidders would have the
flexibility to submit alternative cost-effective solutions for
the hardware and related system within COCOM constraints (para.
3.11);
(viii)    that the BKV's organization and management improvement study
would be carried out by consultants acceptable to the Bank and
would be initiated not later than December 31, 1989 and
completed by end of 1990 (para. 3.23);
(ix)    that the River transport and Port Study would be carried out by
a joint venture of local and foreign consultants and would be
started not later than December 31, 1989 and completed by June
30, 1991 (para. 3.24);
(x)    that detailed engineering for the motorway and overpasses to be
completed by UVATERV were discussed during negotiations (para.
3.26);
(xi)    that all land needed for the highway component would be acquired
not later than mid 1991 (para. 3.40);



- 81 -
(xii)    That procurement of goods services and works to be financed by
the Loan would be carried out in accordance with the principles
laid out in para. 3.48 and Table 3.3;
(xiii)    That MAV would increase tariffs and control operating costs at
levels sufficient to achieve an operating ratio (including
passenger subsidies) of not greater than 95% in 1990 and
reducing it by 1X in each of the subsequent years up to and
including 1994 (para. 5.17);
(xiv)    That RC would maintain freight rates and other charges at
sufficient level to ensure a rate of return on average net fixed
assets in operation of not less than 221 during each of the
years from 1989 to 1993 (para. 5.29); and
(xv)    That BKV would maintain tariffs and control operating costs at
levels sufficient to achieve an operating ratio (including
passenger subsidies) of not greater than 98% in each of the
years 1989 to 1993 (para. 5.43).
6.03     During loan negotiations, the following conditions of loan
effectiveness were discussed and agreed:
(i)    That MTCC, MAV, HC and BKV would each have designated an officer
of their respective agencies to act as counterpart to staff of
the Project Coordinators (para. 3.32); and
(ii)    that subsidiary loan agreements be executed, by the Government
and beneficiaries, to relend the loan proceeds to MAV RC, and
BKV on the terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para.
3.31).
6.04     With the understandings indicated above, in paras 6.01 to v.03, the
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US $95 million to the Hungarian
People's Republic for a 15-year term including a five-year grace period.
S077U/20-Z2



- 82 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 12
HUNGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Financial Analysis
A. General
1.       MAV, HC, and BKV prepare financial statements in the standard formats
required by MOF. There have in the past been several variations in Hungarian
accounting practices from generally accepted international accounting
standards. However, accounting and auditing practices are in the process of
modification as part of measures to encourage the growth of the capital market
in the country following the introduction of the two-tier banking system
during 1987.
2.       A major reform in the system of taxation, which has been implemented
during 1988, has resulted in the introduction of value-added-tax and personal
income tax. In the case of HC, income tax which previously averaged 55X on
profits will be lowered to 50%. Contribution to the state budget based on
wages (previously a fixed 102 levy on basic wages, plus a levy on a sliding
scale which could bring the total close to 20% of the wage bill) will be
considerably reduced (to about 5% in total), while wages will rise by an
average of about 20% to compensate workers for the tax burden which will now
fall upon them. Income statement forecasts, for MAV, HC, and BKV, reflect the
effects of these changes.
B. Hungarian State Railways (MAV)
Past Performance
3.       Income statements for the period 1984 to 1987 are provided in Table 1
of this Annex. The operating ratio has increased from 90% to 982 during this
period. Compared to 1984, 1987 reflects an increase in operating expenses of
221 but an increase of oniy 14% in operating revenue excluding subsidies,
although traffic units decreased by about 3M.. The expense category "Other
Operating Costs," amounting to 162 of total operating expenses before
depreciation, increased by 68% from 1984 to 1987. The principal constituents
of this item are rental of wagons and contract maintenance, which increased by
331 and 76% respectively. It is expected that wagon rental cost will be
reduced through better utilization of rolling stock, which will follow as a



- 93 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 12
result of implementation of the management information system component of the
Proposed Project. The largest component of operating expenses is salaries and
related costs, representing 392 (1987) of operating expenses before
depreciation. This cost category increased by 21X between 1984 and 1987.
There has been very little variation in numbers employed since 1982, but
determined efforts are now being made to substantially reduce the staff
numbers. The projections from 1988 to 1993 are based on the assumption that
staff numbers decrease by 5.8% by 1993 and wage costs decrease by 5% from 1988
to 1991. Materials as a proportion of operating expenses (24X) appear high
for a railway but include maintenance materials, spare parts for rolling
stock, and some construction materials. Depreciation has been determined at
the rates prescribed by Government. Hungarian accounting regulations do not
at present permit depreciation based on revalued assets, however, the
Government is now considering the application of asset revaluation for
depreciation purposes. While operating revenue has not kept pace with the
iucrease in operating expenses, freight rates have broady kept pace with
inflation in past years. Freight tariff increases from 1985 to 1987 were as
follows:
Domestic      Import/Export        Transit
1985                    11%             6.8X              1.13%
1986                     72            10.0X              0.50%
1987                     92            11.5%              5.75X
4.       A statement of source and application of funds is provided in Table 3
of this Annex. The depreciation provision is by far the largest source of
funds and provided about 84X of the capital investment in 1987 derived from
MAV's internal resources. Under the heading "Transactions Direct to Equity,"
the category "Other Equity Transactions" is largely comprised of contributions
from other enterprises for joint investments carried out by the railways for
industrial sidings and terminal facilities. In this item are also
contributions from local councils towards various passenger facilities.
"Incentive Fund Payments" consist of bonus payments to employees which include
a steeply progressive tax borne by the railway.
C. Hungarocamion
5.       HC's actual financial performance for the years 1984 to 1987 are
provided in Table 4 of this Annex. The financial performance in each year was
better than indicated in the appraisal forecasts. About 93% of HC's revenues
are from their international trucking operations while the balance is from
agency activities, workshop services, sales and other services to outside
parties, and clearing and forwarding services, etc. Revenue from trucking
operations increased by 26X from 1984 to 1987 while operating expenses
increased by only 23%, chiefly due to the ongoing modernization of vehicles.



- 84 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 12
SC undertook, in the terms of First Transport Project, to endeavor to reduce
the operating ratio to 80 by the year 1988. In fact HC reduced the operating
ratio to 79 in 1986 and to 78% in 1987.
6.       Forecast income statements, also presented in Table 4 of this Annex,
have taken into account the changes resulting from the tax reforms implemented
in Hungary during 1988 (para. 5.02). The increase of 342 in salaries and
related costs between 1987 and 1988 is due mainly to the 20X addition to basic
salaries to compensate for the new personal income tax. Average prices paid
by HC trucks for fuel in West European countries, measured in forints, is now
about 501 higher than that paid for domestic fuel.
7.       The operating ratios shown in Table 4, although not lower than those
of past years, are satisfactory in view of the effects of the new taxation
system.
8.       HC's forecast statement of source and application of funds for the
years up to 1993 is provided in Table 6 of this Annex. Depreciation is the
main source of funds. Depreciation rates, appLoved by the Government, allow
vehicles to be written off on the basis of kms. travelled, equivalent to about
six years on the average.  HC's financing of capital expenditure from
internally generated funds, represented by the self-financing ratio reflected
in Table 6, is high ranging between about 47% and 70% between 1989 and 1993.
S0779



- 85.-
HUNGARY                                                               b6 
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                     -------
TABLE I
HUN6ARIAN STATE RAILWAYS                                                Page 4 ot 12
INCOME STATEMENT
1;84 TO 1993
----------..                                 1984-97 At Current Prices
(FORINTS MULLION)                                1998-93 At Constant 1997 Prices
ACTUAL - - - - -----     ----  ------ - - ----- FORECAST --------------------
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31st         1984     1985     1986      1987     1989      1989     1990      1991     1992      1993
OPERATING REVENUEt
BASIC OPERATIONS-PASSENGER TRAFFIC      4,722    4,695    4,919    4,955    4,895    6,364    6,799    7,453    7,858    9,612
-FREIGHT TRAFFIC       25,455   25,766   28,164   29,031   29,310   29,350   29,586   29,592   30,311   30,732
-OTHER                    690      970    1,091    1,055    1,025    1,025    1,025    1,065    1,065    1,120
TOTAL BASIC OPERATING REVENUE          30,967   31,431   34,073   35,041   35,230   36,739   37,410   39,110   39,234   40,464
GOVERNMENT SUBSIDIES                    3,891    3,038    3,247    3,933    3,910    2,796    2,351    1,977    1,662    1,398
TOTAL SUBSIDIZED OPERATING REVENUE    34,758   34,469   37,320   38,976   39,140   39,535   39,7S1   40,097   40,896   41,962
:.:::sSt3St:S:::3::,,u:,:,*            X:3   :2,,  u:3:88   :.::::   :,,::   3:33:3   :3:::3:3::  ::::5  ::3::55
SALES-INDUSTRY                          1,065    1,184    1,221    1,471    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500
-BUILDING INDUSTRY                 2,745    2,625    3,049    2,948    3,020    3,020    3,020    3,020    3,020    3,020
-COMMERCIAL                          831       969    1,012    1,C49    1,043    1,040    1,165    1,200    1,235    1,275
-OTHER                               598       611      635       715      720       725      750       760      775      790
TOTAL SALES: NON-BASIC ACTIVITIES        5,249    3,289    5,917    6,183    6,289    6,285    6,435    6,480    6,530    6,575
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE                40,007   39,758   43,237   45,159   45,425   45,820   46,196   46,567   47,426   48,437
OPERATING EXPENSESt
MATERIALS                               7,241    1,784    8,338    9,914    8,845    89695    8,547    80403          403    8,403
FUEL & ELECTRICITY                      4,985    5,188    4,883    5,694    5,755    3,657    5,562    5,467    5,467    5,4S5
SALARIES I RELATED COSTS               11,806   12,901   13,794   14 462   14,330   14,087   13,848   13,614   13,614   13,600
COST Of RESALE GOODS                       847      958       994    1,070    1,075       983      985       985      995       995
PROVISIONS                                 862      961    1,479       847      850       850      850       830      950       850
OTHER OPERATING COSTS                   3,640    4,250    5,231    6,099    6,100    5,997    5,895    5,795    5,795    5,795
TOTAL OPERATIN  EIPS.BEfORE DEPR'N    29,381   32,042   34,927   37,086   36,955   36,271   35,687   35,114   35,114   35,088
PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION              6,765    6,783    6,923    7,107    7,199    7,391    7,783    8,193    8,613    9,038
tOTAL OPERATING EXPENSESE              36,146   38,823   41,830   44,193   44,154   43t662   13.470   43,307   43,727   44,126
:2227asxass--assssaw    saz                                 ssa   sssasassa 2222222=21  ZUszz   gazzvz   88 a8s*t
NET OPERATGS INCOME                     3,861       933    1,397       966    1,271    2,158    2,726    3,260    3,699    4,311
sxxzm                        Mtoomrs3a33   on"3           uais        mma az:::,:    33
INTEREST ON LOANS                         700       749      487       333      300       500      723    1,004    1,286    1,527
NET INCOME BEFORE TAXES                 3,161       184      900       613      971    1,658    2,003    4,256    2,413    2,784
2U&llSX282222  82*MSS#A t              ==*Y   anatn  YaV2   8282M   -&284  l828SA2                UZ1228sts WSStg
TAIES ON INCONE                          1,794        0       11o      120       97       829    1,001    1, 28    1,206    1,392
NET INCOME AFTER TAIES                   1,367      184       790      493      974       829    1,002    1,L29    1,207    1,392
OPERATING RATIO 2 -INCL.SUISIDIES         90.31    97.72    96.82    97.92    97.21    95.32    94.11    93.02    92.22    91.12
OPERATING RATIO I -EICL.SUIDIES         100.11    05.7N       0.7n   107.22   106.41   101.32    99.11    97.11    9.52.   93.92
RATE OF RETN ON NET FNt=  ASSEtS 1I/       4.9      1.22      1.8S     1.22       .n      3.01     3.7N      4.32     4.72      5.42
OPERATING EXPENSES PER TRAFFIC UNIT       1.07     1.18      1.26     1.36     1.33      1.34     1.33      1.33     1.34      1.35
I/ Operating income as % of avrsgo not fixed assets in operation.
Source: Nav S Bank mission etimate.



- 86 -
SECON  TRANSPOT PROJECT
''iU '' STATE RAILWAYS                                      Req. S of 12
BALA NCEMET
19fl tO 1993
.....__________  ( T  MILLION)  N1931-93 At Cu"rrnt Prices
FO_I_t_ MILLION) ____-9_  At Constant 197 Pric.,
...ACTUAL--. .-                                  --- . ....... A L - - -.-.-------.-..---.-----....F.AST.--..-----
i195     193      19i?     1963     1939     1990     1991     1992     1993
AWS
FtIED ASSETS IN OPERAtION        167,306  170,619  175,565  175,515  184,929  194,730  204,944  215,212  225,676
PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION        69,715   92,524   97,210  104,09  111,800  119,563  127,776  134,369  145,427
NET F110 ASSETS IN OPERATION      77,591   73,095   7t.375   71,174   73,129   75,147   77,161   73,623   60,249
ASSETS UNDER CONSTRUCTION          4,635    4,430    5,822   15,166   13,623   16,036   16,090   16,2S6  16,014
TOTAL NET FtlE  ASSETS            82,244   2,325   84,197   86,342   83,752   91,163   93,258   95,109  96,265
. . . ..........efl .f                                                      .         . ....
OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS           2,130    2.312    2,309    2,360    2,410    2,460    2,510    2,560    2,610
CURRENT ASSETS:
CASH 4 DAIS                          703      987    1,053    1,100    1,120    1,140    1,160    1,180    1,200
SNOT-TOERN ODEPSITS                    0        0        0    1,3U3    3,509    5,800    8,00    10,210   12,443
ACCOUNtS RECEIVAILE                3b,a1    3,767    3,f91    4,000    4,010    4,1N0    ,240    4,320    4,410
INWElTORIES                       10,615   11,034   11,379   11,000   11,440   11,900   12,360   12,100   13,400
OTHNR CURRENT ASSETS                 260      357      565      50       59       60         0       620      64
TOTAL CURENT ASSEtS               15,3    16,145   16,955   18,043   20,739   23,60    26,591  29,210   32,06
TOTAL ASSETS                          ",75  100,2  103,459  106,745  1l1,9l  117,243  122,!U   126,879  130,956
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
LOI TErN LIABILIlTisE
LOII-TERN LOAN                       651       11      927    3,J65    4,906     ,407    7,412    3,112    7,964
OTHR  NON-CRT LIMILITIES             396      307      425      450      470      490      510       $40      570
TOTAL LOS TERN LIAIILITIES         1,247    1,116    1,332    3,315    5,573    6,897    7,922    0,722    6,534
CURRENT LIAIILITIEIS
ACCOUNTS PAYAtU                    1,193      740    1,402    1,440    1,40    1,520    1,570    1,620    1,670
CU12.PO1TION OF LON-TERN I T 5dt               64     1id       116      584      94    1,56       1,720    2,200
SNORT-   LOAN  I CE(               2,4        850    1,75
IONCUINE a1I                                  (021    (60O        0        0        0        0        0        0
cNCUE Lu r UNIL TA RISI                0       I2      105      110      110      110      110      110       110
ACCUED E:                          1,113    1,17    1,l6       1390     1450     1510     170       160      1t7O
TOTAL CWURET LIILITIU             4,09?    2,U11    4,38    3,5       3,U 62   4,104    4,U11    5,080    5,660
~~~~~~~~~~~.nm....  ....ef.  _ . n   n n f             l l      fff    lbf          m.... ..
TOTAL LIA8ILITI3                   *,344    3,929    5,90    6,071    9,002   11,001   12,533   13,102   14,214
EiVE FUNID                             0        7      12         0        0        0        0        0         0
OTHER FUTN                        94,227   96,256   9,914   ",000  102,070  109,240  108,500  111,670  115,350
NET INCOIE CIURElT-YEAR              114      79       493      674      09    1,002    1,12       1,207    1,39
TOTAL  UITY                       94,411   97,055   97,369   9,374  102,69   106,242  109,2   113,07  116,742
TOTAL LIAIILITIES I EOUltY            99,755  10,92  103,45   106,74   l1,90l  117,243  122,166  126,679  130,95
AfDfT TO DE4TJUUITY I            0.93      0.a      0M       3,1      4.6a     5.73     6.51     6.72       .4
i?EcIVAIL14.ND .NTHLOPtRRv.    LI            1.3      1.       14       1        I .       1 3      LI       1.
huc,Yand Imnk lission ietiuat"



- 87 -
I4IJ6ARY                                               :*"ct:
SECOND TRAMSPORT PROJECT                                         ...-
TAKLE I
HUNGARIAN STATE RAILWAYS                                     Page 6 of 12
REVISION OF AYVS F16URES        STATEENT Of SOURcE a APPLICAtION OF FUNDS
1985 to 1993
-958-7 At Current Prices
(FORINTS MILLION)                    1988-93 At Constant 1987 Prices
FISCAL YEAR EJODIN  DECEBER 31st    1985     1986      1987     1988     1989     1990     1991     1992      1993
SOURCE OF FUNIDS    AFTER tAI INCONE     184      790       493      874      829     1002     1128     1207      1392
QPERATIN8 INCONE                     933    1,387      966    1,271    2,158    2,724    3,240    3,699    4,311
ADDt DEPRECIATION                  6,793    4 923    7 107    7,199    7 391    7,783    8,193    8,413    9,038
LESS: TAXES ON INMCOE                  0     11101    11201      (971    18291  (1,0011  (1,120)  (1,206  (L,:392)
TOTAL INTERNAL FUNDS GEEATION    7,714    8,200    7,953    9,373    8,720    9,508   10,325   11,104   11,957
.................. ..................  ....  ..   ....          .. 
LONG-TERN LOANS                      469      307       444   2,502    2,127    2,443    2,371    2,490    1,992
OTHER SOURCES
TOTAL EXTERNAL SOURCE OF FUNDS       689      307       464    2,502    2,127    2,U43    2,371    2,49      1,982
TOTAL SOURCE OF FUDIS                  8,403    8,507    8,417   10,875   10,847   11,971   12,494   13,594   13,939
gaaaazauauauauuuugu                  auuuua ..saa   auu    asausa....... _ssa   uaaauu   a.....  nsa a.........  .._#
APLICATION OF FUNDS:
CPITAL EPENDITURE                  7,141    7,517    8,94    9,344    9,801   10,214   10,248   10,464   lO,192
LOAN INTEREST CMARGED TO INCO1       749      487       353      300      500      723    1,004    1,284    1,527
REPAYNT OF L.T. LON  PRINCIPAL       240       531      341      116      114      384      944    1,4       1,720
DEBT SERVICE                         989    1,018       494      414      614    1,307    1,948    2,652    3,247
CASHN IAOK                          (143)    284         71       42       20       20       20       20        20
SHORT-TERN DEPOITS                     0        0         0    1 363    2,146    2,291    2,208    2,202    2,233
OTHO  CURRENT ASSETS              (1 00l    482         738     1315)     530      550      570      590       420
SHRT-TNR LOANS A    CREDITS         1226)   2 02       (932)   1 754        0        0        0        0        0
OTHER CURRENt LIA8ILITIES          1,483      1182I)    (901    12841     (60)     (40)     (40)      (60)     (70)
ORNING CAPITAL IKR/(DECR) 11          26    2,676   (1,063)   2,50    2,43       2,801    2,738    7,732    2,803
TRANSACTIONS DIRECT TO EQUITY
TRANSfERS TO STATE IUD6Et          1,001      663       525    1,190      800      450      200        0         0
INCENIYEFUND PAYIINTS                635      6   630   47         0        0        0        0        0        0
STATERNTOShERIVE3                      0       (50)     (44)       0        0        0        0        0         0
TEOC.DEVELIPNOT RN PAYI8             149        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0
OTHER EQUITY'TAU*CTI              (Lo5)  (3 947)    (02)  (2,3)  (3,0041  (2,801)  (2,470)  (2,272)  (2,303)
TOTAL TRANWIICT n  7  EU ITY         249   (2,7041     m      (1,443)  (2,20)  (2,31)  (2,278)  (2,272)  (2,3031
TOTAL APLICATIt  OF FN                 86,405    8,507    8,417   10,875   10,847   11,971   12,*96   13,594   13,939
OEMT SERVICE COVERAM E (TIlES)           7.8      8.1      11.5     20.1     14.2      7..      5.2       4.2      3.7
SELF FINANCItN RATIO 1-3 URAMER.       127.1    42.12    99.52    n.n        78.02    76.42    74.12    76.92    79.02
1/ Excludas short-to portion of long tire debt.
Sources MY ad Bak   issoo estiutes



- 88 -
HUNGARY
SECOND !RANSPCRT PROJECT                                                A------
..... ....... ........ .........._
~ALE4
HUNGAROCANIO  INTRNATIONAL FRE16Ht CONPANY                                      Paqp 7 ot 12
INCME STATEIST
19040 1o993 
1904 TO  M                                   1984-87 At Current Prices
(VORINTS NILLION)                               1988-93 At Constant 19S7 Prices
--- - ACTUAL ----   -- -    FORECAST ---------------
FISCAL YEAR ENWING DECINSER 31st        1984     1985     1986      19       19988    1989      1990     1991     1992     1993
OPERAT IN REVENUEs
INTERATIONAL TRNSPORT                  4,647    4,555    5,112    5,63    5,974    6,121    6,451    6,747    7,053    7,376
OTER OPERATING INOE                       207      143      16l       347      472      460      491       502      513      526
TOTAL OP TING REVENWE                   4,854    4,6"    5,260    6,         6,346    6,601    6,942    7,249    7,566    7,904
28  e      .sa                                      .    u       a         88          8      a        88888   3838383 _* .usm.
OPETINS EIPESES
MT1.IALS                                  647      711      709       910    1,009    1,126    1,179    1,230    1,265    1,344
780      720      914    1,003       940      901    1,025    .,070    1,118    1,169
1   iRELATO  COSTS606                     660      750      63      1,119    1,1539   1,19     1.227    1,242    1,246
LOWMACES                         261      276      305      446       447      463      404      505       528      552
S                                 95      181      142      159       159      165      172       160      196      197
a * TAAES                      400      325      311      S         53       557      582      600       63       664
__e COSTS                    425       250      253      295      298       296      297      29        297      299
PRTIN   E!PS.SEFOR  DRIATION           3,314    3,131    3,454    4,005    4,597    4,749    4,929   5,116    5,293    5,472
PRVISION FOR DPRECIATION                  619      651      743       767      670      693      724       75      7I0       926
==--     - - . . - - - - --
TOTAL OPERATIN  ERPES                   3,933    3,7M2    4,197    4,652    5,267    5,442    $,653    5,074    6,03    6,29
NE OPERINtGl INICOE                       921      916    1,03    1,34       1,0      1,159    1,239    1,375    1,463    1,606
I UTRT ONLOW                               64      10       106       136      1o       231      274       315      334      277
RET IIICOIE dEtS tAIES                    637      616      977    1,212       931      928    1,013    1,060    1,14      1,329
TASES ON INCOIE                           325      402      416        92      465      464       507      530      574      664
NET INCONE AFTER TAXES                    512      414       561      320      466      464       506      530      575      665
uumummmam.uummmmmmmuamamoman.ammm 2            msemma   ammmi  aassa  guMmma.  mam.m   ensmm    wwam   ma    ma.   388
OtEATING RATIO I                         81.01    80.51    79.5      la.31    83.02    62.41    61.41    81.01    90.41    79.7X
RATE Of RET'N ON VET FIIEO ASE   1/    31.61    29.92    32.18    39.52    30.51    31.31    31.          27.61    27.1     26.61
1/ Oerating incus as I ot average not fied asets in oWration,
Sourcet HungrKciO and  anak ission etimatn



- 89 -
HUNSARCAMION INTERNATIONAL FREIGHT CONPANY                              Pago a of 12
BLAUNE SHEET
1965701993-                         1Q95.97 At Current Pfices
IFORINTS NtLLION)                       i968-93 At Constant 1937 Prices
FISCAL YEAR ENDIN6 DCEMEI  31st                             1965 11  97 16      99      1990      1991     1992      199
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION           5,435    5,966    5,976    6,251    6 140    6,950    7,711    7,565    7,905
PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION          2,292    2,519    2,599    2,554    2.'i0    2,397    2,302    2,044    2,195
NET FIXED ASSETS IN OMEATION        3,153    3,447    3,377    3,697    3,700    4,553    5,409    5,521    5,710
ASSETS UNDER CONSTRUICTION             14        24       23         0        0         0        0         0        0
TOTAL NET FIXED ASSES               317        ,41      ,02    3,697    3,700    4,553    5,409    5,521    5,710
OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS               20        19       19        19       19        19       19        19       i9
CURRENT ASSETS:
CASH & BANK                            115      363      607       364      364       364      364       36       364
DRAFTS                                  0        65       50        51       53        55        St       61       63
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE-TRADE             650       679    1,165    1,170    1,211    1,266    1,321    1,381    1,444
EMPLOYEE LOANS                         130      126      138       18       168       168      168      1id       168
RECEIYALE FROM STATE RUMI             243       284      381         0        0         0         0        0         0
INVENTORIES                           279       291     3S6        315      327       340      354       366      38
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS                   152      353      110        50       45        40       35        30       a
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                1,769    2,330    2,607    2,118    2,168    2,233    2,300    2,372    2,412
TOTAL ASSETS                             4,956    5,970    6,229    5,634    5,637    6,605    7,721    7,912    6,131
szzuazassuas                          UU *UUUUUUUU   noUUs"" USUUU3U~UU.U    *BUSUStUU
LIABILITIES A EQUItY
LIABILITIES
LONG TERN LIABILITIES:
------         ---- 
LOMB-TERN LOAW                         ISO      749      613       52?      514       614    1,217       530       130
OTHER NON-CURREN  LIABILITIES          167      246       91        g0       go        g0       s0        60       60
TOTAL LONG TERN LIABILITIES           355       99       704    -602  _ 594  ' 694    1,297              610      210
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
ACOUNTS PAYABLE                      304       543      920       543      543       343      543       543      543
CURR.PORTION OF LOlltTERN  EBOT        152      29       208       490      563       416      467       776      600
SHORT-TERN LOWN  & CUBDITS            113         -        3                            -        -                  -
TOTAL CURREN  LIABIUT113              571       635    1,161    1,033    1,106        959    1,010    1,319    1,143
TOTAL LIABILITICI                     926    1,330    1,965    1,635    1,700    1,653    2,307    1,92!    1,353
EQUITY:
RESERVE FWND                           405      427      626         0        0         0        0         0        0
OTHER FUNDS                         3,211    3,052    3,417    3,733    3,723    4,644    4,691    5,4*18    6,163
NET INCONE CURRET-YEAR                414       561      320       466      464       506      53        575      665
TOTAL EQUITY                        4,030    4,040    4,363    4,1I9    4,167    5,152    5,421    5,983    6,921
muauuzuuwomuain"  Buanos    sa,iaa   ua.asa  ons*"aa   sagauaa  uassaau   aaaaaa  Beuseug
TOTAL LIABILITIES I EIUIIY               4,956    5,870    6,22      5,634    3,8U7    6,605    7,726    7,912    6,161
RA?I0  FDEBT TO DEBT.UUITY 1               4.35    15.6a    12.32    11.11    10,91    10.61    16.M         6.1l      1.92
CURRENT RATIO                              3.1      2,9       2.4      2.1       2.0      2.3       2.3      1.6       2.1
ACCTS. RECE IVA8LENS. NTNS. OIRI.IAP.      2.2      2,0       2,3      2.2       2,2      2,2       2.2      2.2       2,2
Sourco: Iunqaroain and BA ank esinion estieatn



- 90-
40NGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT----
TABLE 6
HUNWAOCANION INTERNATINAL FREIGHT CONPAY'~f                             Page 9 of 12
STATEMENT OF SOURCE I APPLICATION OF FU?IOS
1905 TO 1993
-                        ~~~~~~~~1993-97 At Current Prices
(FORINTSFILLION)                     1IM-93 At Constant 1987 Prices
FCAL YER ENOINS DECENu      I 31t    1995    196      1997      1909     1999     199       199      192       1993
SOURCE OF FUNDS:
:ua:2zz::2axsgua
OPERATING INCOME                      916    1,083    1,349    1,079    1,159    1,299    1,375    1,4e3    1,606
ADD: DEPRECIATION                     651       743      767       670      493      724       756      790       8216
LESS: TAES ON INCURS                 (402)    (416)    (892)    (465)    (4641    (307)    (530)    (514)    (664)
TOTAL INTERNAL FUNDS GENERATION  ---6         1,410    1,223  1T,284    1,89    1,506    1,601    1,699    1,768
LONO-TERN LOANS                        68       953       19       399      555      516    1,070        69       200
OTHER SOURCES
TOTAL EXTERNAL SOURCE OF FUNDS         60       953       19       99       5        516    1,070        89       200
TOTAL SOURCE OF FUNDS               1,233    2,263    1,242    1,603    1,Y43    2,022    2,671    1,789    1,968
APPLICATION OF FUNDS:
CAPITAL EIPENDITURE                   374       965      265       965      696    1,577    1,612       902    1,015
LOAN INTEREST CHARSE  TO INCOIE        100      106      136       146      231       274      315      334       277
REPAYIIENT OF L.T. LOAN PRINCIPAL      112      152      360       208      490       563      416      467       776
DEBT SERVICE                        2T72        250      496       354      721      83        731      901    1,095S
CASH A BANK                            (66)     20       22        W(43       0         0        0        0         0
OTHE! CURRET ASSES                    418       34   23           (446)      50       65        67       72        so
ACCOtINTI PAVADLE                        4     (239)    (37         7         0         0        0        0         0
SNORT-TERNLO ANSCREDITS                71       115      (3)        33        0        0         0        0         0
MORINS CAPITAL INCRIiiECRI 11         4227      46        17      (279)      5o        65       67       72        60
OTHER APPICATION
TRANSFES TO STATE IUIST               110       222      305       274      131      257       154       59       142
INCENTIVE FUND PAYNINTS                SG        39       36        44       45       46        49       49        49
OThER APPLICATIONS/(SOUCS)              0       2M       121       323      300      (760)      59       (94)    (370)
160      553      464       641      476      (457)     261        13     (180)
TOTAL APPLICATION OW  FINN          1,233    2,263    1,242    1,683    1,943    2,022    2,671    1,799    1,948
am                        Moo~~~~minu  amm   geum=  828u       easmam   suammaus mag        assesua  aasu*uu
DOlT SERICE COYWE (TIMD               4.3       5.5      2.5       3.6      1.9       1.9      2.2      2.1       1.7
SWL  FILINCII RATIO 1-3 WIAVER    3?.41   174. 51   1A.n    15m2    57.21    46.61    59.92    70.21    66.22
I/ Excludes sMat-twoe partios of long term debt.
Soure:o Hungaocniez   nd & Dank sissicm estimates



- 91 -
HUNARY                                                              NE
SECONO TRANS T POJECT                                                        ------
TABLE 7
UAPS  tRANSOT CPAN                                                      Page 10 ot 12
-----  --ATEKT                                  1983-07 At Current Prices
(fORINTS IIILLSONII                             198-93 At Canstant 1967 Prices
---------- ACTUAL  ---                 ------      --------------FORECAST ----- -------------------
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECE11ER Slit        1913      1994     1985      1986     1987      1996     1969     1990      1991     1992     19S
OPERATIN6 REVENUE:
PASSENGER SALES                          1,497    1,504    2,007    2,048    2 ,40    2 053    4 123    4,204    5 442    5 534    6,5b8
OTHER OFERATIN6 INCOME                    644       589      807       963   1l153    1,100    1,100    1,100    1,100    1,100    1,100
----         ......... .. -----    -- -. --     .... -----... -----    ------- .. . ._........ ..... .. ...
OPERATING REVENUE EICLUDO6 SUBSIDIES   2,141    2,093    2,814    3,031    3,193    3,153    5,223    5,304    6,542    6,634    7,68
SuS8ES  NAI           a     ElUR:fSTEl     e I    l           01ot    34!91   'Al    'I'lls   2YH         2'11|9    'ifi0    'I04      511MO
LESS: SALES TAX                              0       (1)       (2)      Mi)      (1)       (1)      (1)       (1)      (1)      (1)       (1)
TOTAL OPERATIN6 REVENUE                 6,904    9,404   10,167   11,144   12,572   12,897   12,904   12,909   13,047   13,078   13,134
gaggguouauuauasz uaau                 .auaaa.       ,    amaugag  ZUU_UU *amsmw    aM          ma,,.  2aaa    m aa  "..,.v,  a.aaa
OPERATING EXPENSESt
MATERIALS                               2,77      2,991    3,00      3,036    3,713    3,710    3,49      3,47    3,674    33    3,705
ENERGY                                   1,070    1,085    1,198    1,204    1,343    1,353    1,350    1,340    1,35    1,30    1,346
WAGES & RELATED COSTS                   2,449    2,723    2,969    3,11    3,330    3,641    3,842    3,842    3,87          3,60    3,900
COST OF SULES OF RESALE  OOUCTS            221      235      432       592      438       437      437      639       637      63         38
OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES                   322      353      905    1,129    1,206    1,023    1,023    1,033    1,03        1,03      1,03
OFERATIN6 EIPS.BEFORE WRECIATION        4,636    7,387    9,560    9,114   10,232   10,544  10,542   10,$21   10,549   10,593   10,64
PROISION FOR OEPRECIATION                1,370    1,413    1,700    1,743    1,845    1,900    1,925    1,949    2,034    2,040    2,045
TOTAL OPERATIN6 EIPENSES                6,206    9,000   10,260   10,657   12,077   12,444   12,447   12,470   12,603   12,43    12,469
suomsa.auaa"xagaqa.aaa                mauseu    *mas%MS  U2383U3  48UUUtS  amsUUU   88*8306  sauxaMU  mama..  800840 flb             smama.
NET OPERATING INCOME                       694      404       (731     2        495       433      439      439       444      445       447
s .aa,aaaaa.aaaaaa.aaa                uamUau   uaaua  maso.. e  _    . . _mass    *a" _                      " masma88.a.68  mamamam  mauga. s.auama   Gauss
.NTEREST ON LONS                           1         13       18        13       15        15       51       51        89       12        15
NET INCOME WEFORE TAlES                    479      391       (91      274      460       418      3        3         3555     427       432
R.aSsauaau"oss ga.auxaauua  Sasso"a  SusaaaMM    USM .88mm  UuaUSSg                       8 .a  nauus*            880:amagas   .um  agasam
TAIES ON INCONE                           37        195        0        31       53         0       27       22        15        I         7
NET INCOME AFTER TAXES                     301      194       (911     245      427       376       U1      34        340      420       425
*  aasu.uaauaaamaaaa.,aua             aammaa  mama   ass.., Jsa__m    _ua   _gg,   as                    _ " _umm   usagm   ass    am a_
OPERATINS RATIO I -INMCL.SUUIDIES        92.23    95.73   10.n    97.41    94.1I    96.U1    96.61    96.43    9.41    9.61   9U.6t
OPERATING RATIO t -EICL.SU5UIDIES      36.43   430.03   34.         35. 23 335 76.2t     395.3    236.n    235.0o   19.13   190.4    145 i.53
RATE  F RETlN ON NET FIXD ASSETS 1/        2.U3     1.4t    -0.2S      l.Ot     1.7       1.41     1.43      1.3      1.2t      1.21     1.2t
I/ Operating incmn as I  f awraep  net fie isats in eperatlom.
Sources 81N and Bank eistie utlatee



- 92-
SECOND TRANSPOT PRJECT----
TABLE 
BUDAPEST TRANSPORT CMPANY                                               Page it ot 12
BALANCE SHEET
.. . ..........                   ~~~~1986347 At Current pri.c.
(FORINTS KILLION)                                19811-93 At Constant 987 PrlcIs
-----   ~~~ACTUAL ---------    ----     -----  FORECAST  -----------
FIVAL YEAR ENDING DECENBI 31st           193      184      1m        1986     1987      1988     1989      1990     1991     1992      U(9
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION          36,687   40,384   41,442   42,452   43,542   44,522   45,622   52,672   53,700   54,750   55,90o
PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION         10,159   10,870   11,718   12,632   13,422   14,300   15,200   16,300   17,100   18,000   1e,95o
NEf FIXED ASSETS IN OPEATION       26,320   29,514   29,744   29,820   30,120   30,242   30,422   36,372   36,600   36,750   36,800
ASSETS UNDER CONSTRUICTION          1,479       933      7'?1     679       738      7i0       750      750      750       750      750
TOTAL NET FIXED ASSETS            3.,007   30,447   30,321   30,499   30,858   30,972   31,172   37,122   37,350   37,500   37,600
OTHER NON-CURENT ASSES                511       475      733       677      628      650       670      680      ABh       690      b90
CURRENT ASSETS,
CASH I BANK                           663       126      128       660      728      600       450      320      420       450      520
SHORT-TERN DEPOSITS                     0         0        0         0        0        le       oh      144       191      344      351
ACCOUTS RECEIVABLE                    263       275      285       361      398      400       405      405      405       410      410
INVETORIES                          2,177    2,278    2,440    2,534    2,644    2,650    2,660    2,680    2,710    2,710    2,710
OTHERCURRNT ASSETS                      0       128      126       12       16d      1id       172      172       174      174      174
TOTAL CURREN  ASSETS                3,103    2,807    2,979    3,684    3,940    3,83        3,M7    3,921    3,900    4,090    4,165
TOTAL ASSETS                           31,621   33,729   34,233   34,860   35,426   35,439   35,615   41,723   41,910   42,280   42,455
*aaaaaat                                  aa,  aunauaaaaauu                   na    uun   maaaaaa"auan    uus    m
LIABILITIES I EWUITY
LONG TER  LIABILITIS
LOSTULoAN                          0         0        0        0         0        0        36       72      183       123       99
PROVISINS & OTHER NON-CURAJDUT        159       164      175       494      152      160       170      170       180      170      170
TOTAL LONG TERN LIABILITIES           159       164      175      484       152      160       -A4      242      363       293      249
CLURET LIABILITIES:
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                      173       435      32        342      66       500       500      450       450      400       500
CURR.PURTIGN OF LDNTEIMDEUT             0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0        10       10        24
SORT-TERN LOWN  & CREITS
PROVISION FOR TAIES ON INCONE        (107)    (21531   (228)    (1423       (98)    (110)    (110)    (110)    (1103    W10)    (110)
OTHER CURRET LIABILITIES                4         4        0        a       123      100       100      100       100      .;        100
ACCRuED EZPINS                        184       196      216      225       236      240       240      240      245       .        245
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES             254       42')     314      405       923      730       730      680      695       645      759
TOTAL LIAUILITIU                      413       584      489      889    1,075       890       936      922    1,058       936    1,029
.a.ma.annauum            SIONSNmsmaa. sowm  ga.mmna  saumag   RX14*08  snaamn*   4=*Rasua,    angaana.
REKIVEFUM                             333        43       91         0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0
OTHER FUNDS                        30,574   32,906   33,744   33,726   33,924   34,190   34,318   40,435   40,532   40,922   41,002
NET INCII  CUREN-VE                   301       196      (91)     245       427      378       341      366       340      420      425
TOTAL EQUITY                       31,208   33,145   33,744   33,971   34,351   34,568   34,679   44,801   40,872   41,342   41,427
soanesouauan                      *n.am  exams"naaau="   uamns"    uuunuuu  unuuuun  ..nuun   uanna  80210811  *mann. umanant
TOTAL LIABILITIES I EQUITY             31,621   33,729   34,233   34,060   35,426   35,438   35,615   41,723   41,930   42,290   42,455
susmmmna                              uaassu.agemn  Lsa~ aaan        amnuu   auua    annum  unnnnun  auanamn1 uannaau  unanna  mass-ou
DET EQUITY RATIO I                        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       Olt      0.2       0.4      0.3      0.2
CUREN  RATIO                             12.2       6.7      9.5       9.1      4.3       5.3      5.2      5.8       5.6      6.3       5.5
AMBT.RCEIVABLEuIU.NTMAO G.W18. .          0.4       0.4      0.0       0.5      0.5       0.4      0.6      0.6       0.6      0.7       0.7
Sauce: SKY and lank sission "tiut"



- 93-
SECOND TR844SORT PROJECT
......... . .......                                 ~~~~~~~~TABLE 4
IUD PST TRANSPORt COMPANYPae1of2
STATEMENT OF SOURCE I APPLICATION OF FUNDSPae102
......  ---------------                 ~~1993-67 At CuArrent Prices
(FORINTS MILLION)                                1996-93 At Constant .997 Pvlces
ACTUAL -----------------FORECAST  -.------------
FISCAL vEAR ENDIN6 DECEMBER 31St         1963      1994     1985      1994      1967     1966      1969     1990      199i    1.9        1993
SOU'RCE OF Pihos:
OPERVTING INCOME                       496      404       113)      269      495       433      439       439      444       445      447
401: DEPRECIATION                    1 370    1 413    1,700    1,743    1,645    1,900    1,925    1,949    2,034    2,040    2,345
LESS! TAXES ON INCOME                 !378)    h19S)        0       (31)     (53)      (40)     (271      (22)     (15)       (7)       1~'
TOTAL INTERNAL FUNDS 6ENERAfION    1,688    1,822    1,4         2001      228      2,9       2,3       236      243       248      2,5
WORLD BANK LOAN                          0        0         0         0        0         0       36        36       71         0        0
LONG-!ERM LOANS-DOMESTIC CURR'CY         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0       50         0        0
OTHER SOURCES                        1,041    2,862    1,330        570      557       440      772    6,273    1,179        706      729~
TOTAL EXTERNAL SOURCE OF FUNDS       1,041    2,842    1,33         570      557       440      60  64,309    1,300          706      729
-------------   -- ------                                                 . C...-.-.
TOTAL SOURCE OF FUNDS                2,729    4,684    2,957    2,571    2,844    2,953    3,145    8,675    t,743    3,164    3,213
autumw s gaaa=  **=a8s  mamamax  88332 mg aug8    anna,..  88in33   *massn a..  mi,nu   muanan
APPLICATION OF FUNDS:
=VV882   2X2~3S232XV
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE                  1,704    1,449    1,513    1,421    1,925    1,660    2,000    2,010    2,030    2,000    2,000
LOAN INTEFrEST CRARME  TO IKNCOE        17        13       le        13       15        15       51        51       69        1o        I5
REPAYENEITOF L.T. LOUNPRINCIPAL          0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0         0       40        10
DEBT hERV)CE                            17        13       18        13       is        15       51        51        89       78        25
CASH & BAL(                                     (5371       2       532       &I      (128)    (150)       70      (100)      30        70
SHORT-TERA DEPOSITS                                0        0         0        0        1e       48        58       47       155         5
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS                            241       170       173      inI         4       19        20        32        0
SHORtT-TERP LOANS ACREDITS                         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         a        0         0
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES                       (144)     104       (91)    (116)      193        0        so        (5)      s0      (100)
------ -    .n _ a-    F'
NORKINS CAPITAL KNCAMMCR                (5      (462)     276       6~14-    (242)      69      (431      L96       (24)     240        25)
OTHER APPLICATIONS
TRANSFERS TO STATE BUDGET              134      305         0       113       72       330      250       170      103        30        30
INCETIVE FUND PAYMENTS                 113       99        87       U         9          0        0         0        0         0         0
OTHER APPLICATION                      742    3,26      1,041       122      995       439      907    4,244    1,545        836    1,183
1e141    3,614    1,146       323    1,M,'       949    1,157    4,416    1,470         64M    1,213
TOTAL APPLICATION WOFMPE            2,729    4,484    2,957    2,571    2,844    2,953    3,145    3,675    3,743    3,184    3,213
ml3sns2asueus8aZ8nmna     masN  maaa    am.   umm    ammm m .    uammaammaa   e   =8   a==Ro=*4           esmm  saamuna  mutant,
iEOT_S_E_RVYIC,ECO_V_E_RAGE (TINES)   99.3    140.2      90.4    153.9    152.5    152.9       45.3      46.4     27.7      31.8      99.4
SELF FIWANCINS RATIO 2-3 YR.AVER   104.21   146.01    67.11    61.51   140.12   113.11   119.42   105.12   119.22   107.52   124.32
Source: 9KV and sank fission estidatus



- 94 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 8
HUNGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Salient Details of Economic Evaluation
A. Railway Components
Transport Management Information System (TMIS)
1.       Although the nature of economic benefits to be expected from this
project element is relatively simple to establish, the precise magnitude of
such benefits is considerably more difficult to estimate. The concept of a
central computerized management information system has been gradually
introduced, on a modest scale so far, in MAV's network, helping some local
area or network management activities, but the scale of activities is too
modest to have reliable benefit estimates. Consequently, these benefit
estimates are based on the experience of other countries where similar
management informat.on system has been established and its impact has been
evaluated over a reasonable period of time. In the present analysis when a
transport management system for wagon and locomotive control is envisaged
for the entire network by 1993, substantial savings are expected in
investments sn rolling stock and locomotives primarily due to (i) better
utilization of the existing assets due to quicker turn-around; (ii)
reduction of empty haulage and better loadability; (iii) reduction of
waste-time for train preparation in busy marshalling yards and (iv)
reduction of waiting time for wagons at border stations. The capital costs
for TMIS (Table 3.1) excluding taxes and duties are estimated at Ft. 1,140
million (about US$25 million) and these investment expenditures are likely
to be concentrated during the four years between 1989 and 1992 accounting
for about 50% of the total investments, while the balance of the
investments will spread over the entire period 1988-1994. The operation
and maintenance cost of the TMIS is expected to increase from about Ft. 65
million (about US$1.3 million) in 1988/89 to about Ft. 165 million (about
US$3.3 million) in 1993/94 and thereafter will remain at the same level.
The expected benefits due to the four factors enumerated above would result
in an average overall improvement in utilization of wagons of about 8 to
10% and of motive power 2 to 3%. Further, it was assumed that benefits due
to TMIS would reach about 50% level, in early 1990s gradually increasing to
total realization of benefits by 2000.
2.       In 1987, the detention charges for foreign rail cars (wagons) on
the MAV's network amounted to Ft. 1.0 billion (about US$20 mil"ion
equivalent) for convertible currency countries and about Ft. 1.1 billion
(about US$22 million equivalent) for non-con-ertible currency countries.



- 95 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 8
Benefits due to reduction in foreign car detention alone on account of
implementation of TMIS are expected to be of the order of US$2-3 million
per year, both convertible and non-convertible currency countries being
taken together. Estimat4d cash flow tables and ER calculations are in the
project file.
Recycling Plants for Used Rails
3.       The economic cost of the recycling plant for used rails and
switches is estimated as Ft. 715 million (about US$15 million). The main
benefits for tie proposed investment are avoided "new rail" costs and their
viability is not affected by changes in traffic growth. If recycling plant
is not established "new rails" will be necessary to avoid disruption of
traffic at higher costs. The price of new rail as compared to re-profiled
used rail have been estimated at about US$20 and US$9 per meter
respectively taking into consideration costs of investment of recycling
plant and its operation as shown below:
Price of                  Price of
Types              New Rails                 Used Rails
of Rails              Ft/Meter                   Ft/Meter
54 kg/meter               1058                         211
48 kg/meter                787                         157
Average                  922                         184
The price of re-profiled rail has been taken as the sum of stock price of
used rail (184 F/meter) and the cost of re-profiling (223 Ft/meter), that
is Ft. 407 per meter. At the production of 180 rail km per year the annual
savings are estimated as approximately Ft. 92 million (about US$2
million). The details of re-prof_.ing cost estimates covering investment
and operation of recycling plant are given in the feasibility stddy
prepared by MAV and are in the project file. Since Hungary imports a
considerable quantity of iron ore every year, the proposed recycling plant
of used rails would reduce the quantum of iron ore import needs as well as
that of coke and energy needed to produce steel and to that extent would
offer foreign exchange relief.
Track Maintenance and Construction Machines
4.       The use of high efficiency track maintenance and construction
machinery is becoming more and more urgent to carry out the required job on
high volume main-line tracks within the limited time available for
maintenance and overhaul on such routes. Track maintenance and
construction would normally include replacement of rails, track fastenings



- 96 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 8
and sleepers, ballasting and minor substructure improvements. The benefits
for such works are (a) reducticn in track maintenance costs; (b) decrease
of maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock; (c) increased
permissible axle load in some cases, thereby enabling operation of
high-capacity modern cars with lIwer freight costs; (d) increase of speed
resulting in better utilization of locomotive and rolling stock; and (e)
increased safety. Without these ir,vestments, continued deterioration of
the main line tracks would increase maintenance costs of the track,
locomotive and rolling stock and increasing speed restrictions would
decrease utilization of staff and assets and limit line capacity. The MAV
has included in its calculations, benefits due to (a)-(d) and the benefits
due to (e) are excluded because little empirical information is at present
available, resulting in a conservative ER.
B. Higphway Components
Budapest By-pass (M-0 Motorway)
S.       The Trans-European Motorway connecting Western Europe with the
Middle East passes through Hungary and touches tue cities of Gyor,
Tatabanya, Budapest, Kecskemet and Szeged. For international and national
tr_ffic, passage through Budapest is considered to be one of the most
critical bottlenecks. In the absence of a Budapest by-pass, the existing
streets and Danube bridges in the city are increasingly congested. The
total length of the ring road required to by-pass Budapest city would be
about 90 km and is considered to be a formidable task because of critical
resource position. The Government is keen to construct the Budapest
by-pass (M-0) in stages based on traffic and economic priorities. Out of
90 km, the most important from traffic and economic considerations is the
section (about 30 km) between motorways M-1 and M-5 running at the
capital's southern edge (see IBRD map No. 20795), which connects three
motorways and four highways and which, with the construction of new Danube
bridges, would establish a much needed, additional interchange capability
between the country's western and eastern regions. This 30km section
deserves special attention because the construction of this section would
particularly promote (i) country's foreign trade; (ii) movement of transit
traffic; (iii) energy conservation (estimated at about 350 mill. litres of
gasoline and diesel oil during project life); and (iv) highway safety. The
incremental costibenefit analysis was carried out on the assumption that
the by-pass will be constructed in stages. Detailed origin-destination
analysis was made and traffic configurations on the entire road network in
the influence area of the by-pass were establishefd for "with" and "without"
cases. The traffic flow diagrams and vehicle composition for different
years are shown in the feasibility study and are in the project file. The
economic cost (at 1987 price) oi this p oject component has been estimated
at approximately Ft. 2890 million (abouit US$62 million) including costs for
compensation of land, design, construction supervision and project



- 97 -
ANNEX Z
Page 4 of 8
management. The vehicle operating costs (economic costs) under free flow
conditions for cars and medium trucks have been estimated as Ft. 3.00 ar.d
Ft. 7.5 per km respectively. The economic analysis for different
alternative staged construction programs for the by-pass (M-0) cl.a!ly
established the priority of construction of this 30 km all at once, with a
high ER of about 18%. However, because of severe resource constraints the
Government was obliged to construct, as the first stage, only about 14 km
(km 13.9 to km 28.1) of this motorway with tb.e Bank's assistance
(Ln. 2557-HU). Because of the two major bridges over the river Danube and
five important interchanges, the cost of construction of this first portion
was relatively high but still produced an acceptable ER of about 142. 'The
completion of the remaining stretch of this section is now considered as an
imp3rtant missing link and is urgent since it would facilitate better
utilization of the entire stretch of 30 km high priority section of the
by-pass. Savings in vehicle operating costs due to reduced congestion
would account for about 402 of the benefits (para. 4.13). For time
savings, only business trips made within the influence area of the project
road were considered and time savings were valued at 1.1 times average
hourly wage rate to take some account of overhead costs. Benefits due to
increased comfort, convenience and safety were not considered.
Road Strengthening and Surface Treatment
6.       The government's accelerated pavement strengthening and periodic
maintenance program for the period 1989-1991 is designed to halt further
increases in the backlog of road maintenance works. The program is an
essential component of the Government's strategy in the Sector to: (i)
reduce transport costs; (ii) utilize more effectively the existing
transport facilities; and (iii) minimize investments in new transport
infrastructure. The accelerated maintenance activities will generate
substantial benefits for the economy. The principal benefits of the
program will be: (i) arresting the decrease in the net value of the road
network; (ii) reducing vehicle operating costs; (iii) reducing damage to
the network resulting from severe winters; and (iv) reducing the cost of
overlay works:
(i)    ArrestinR the decrease in the net value of the road network:
An in-deF.h study carried out in 1987 estimated that the
gross value of the national road network was about F280
billion of which 42% represented the value of the pavements.
Similar figures for the local roads are F303 billion and 30X
respectively. The study also concludes that due to the
inadequency of the maintenance of the network, the rate of
deterioration of the roads has greatly accelerated during the
1980s. It estimates that the net value of the road network
is decreasing at an average annual rate of about 3.5X;



- 98 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 8
(ii)    Reductions in vehicle operating costs (VOC): Another study
carried out for MTCC in 1987 shows that deterioration of road
surfaces, as measured by surface une'reness, has accelerated
greatly during the l980s leading to much higher VOCs.
Further neglect of required modernization of the network will
worsen the situation. Moreover, about 45% of the network now
has reduced bearing capacity, due to insufficiency of
pavement strengthening during the recent years. The
estimates indicate that without the accelerated program
initiated under the proposed project, the proportion of roads
with inadequate bearing capacity would increase to about 75%
within the next few years. Such a development will further
increase VOCs. Given that since 1970 both the traffic volume
and motor vehicles increased at a very high rate (220% and
650% respectively) the economic losses resulting from
inadequate maintenance are extremely large. Therefore, the
first phase of accelerated maintenance activities initiated
by the Governmr-' and supported by the proposed project is
much needed and will yield very high rates of return;
(iii)    Reducing the extent o? the damage to roads resulting from
severe winters: At present about 5,000 km of national roads
require restrictive vehicle weight limitation during the
thawing periods following an 'average" winter. The risk of
very severe damage and even total collapse of substantial
portions of the network during an exceptionally severe winter
is very real. The losses which would result from severe
darage of a substantial part of the network could reach as
high as F50 billion. With a probability of one exceptionally
severe winter in about 30 years the expected value of annual
losses would therefore, be substantial. The accelerated
maintenance program initiated under the project together with
the complementary studies of optimized long term strategies
for maintenance and strengthening are to help reduce such
risks which in due course can be expected to generate
substantial additional benefits. It must be noted, however,
that in the estimated rate of return calculations these
benefits have not been quantified;
(iv)    Reductions in the cost of overlay works:  The accelerated
maintenance program will significantly reduce the cost of the
overlay requirements. The studies indicated that the deferra
of timely maintenance during the last decade has led to the
need for increasing the thickness of pavement overlays. The
resulting cost increases reach as much as 200 to 300% of the
costs of the preventing work which was differed. The



- 99 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 8
accelerated maintenance and strengthening component of the
project will help reduce such cost increases in the future
and as a result will contribute significantly to the benetits
expected from such investment expenditures.
Road Maintenance and Axle Load Control Equipment
7.       The principal effects are:
(a)  arresting road deterioraticn at lower unit-costs from better
mechanization and reOd.ction in road maintenance costs from
improved technology (e.g. thin overlays);
(.J) reduced hold-up (from about ;-4 hrs. to abour 1-2 hrs.) of
vehicles during severe inclement weather in winter and
savings in congestion costs including time savings; and
(c)  deterrent to overloading of heavy goods vehicles (reduction
of about 15-20% of overloading expected) on arterial routes
thereby resulting in reduced pavement deterioration.
No datailed economic analysis was carried out for bridge inspection vehicle
and field testing laboratory equipment which are considered as essential
adjuncts for project and maintenance supervision, so as to ensure
durability and maximum useful life of other investments.
C. Road Transport
Huntarocamion - Development of Information and Marketing system
8.       An integrated computerized information system (ICIS) is being
introduced in the HC to cover the company's entire information needs,
namely, cargo operction, truck allocation, trip accounting, workshop and
repairs, costing, invoicing, etc. ICIS would support the company
objectives primarily in three main areas: (a) changing the manual
procedures to electronic data processing operations and reducing the number
of processes; (b) reducing the number of personnel involved in the
information flow; and (c) improving the admi-iistrative and cost management
functions. The main benefits of the ICIS will be cost reduction. The
economic cost of the system has been estimated at about Ft. 380; (about
US$8.4 million). Forty percent of the investment expenditures will be
incurred in 1989 and the balance in 1990/1991. It has been estimated,
based on the experience of similar facilities for other comparable
transport agencies, that ICIS would reduce: (a) the required manpower
working on office tasks at a yearly rate of 102 until 1991, starting in
1989; (b) vehicle fleet by 8 to 10% for the existing level of work load;



LUU
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of S
and (c) the delay in payment by clients due to more efficient invoicing
speed (invoicing speed would be quicker by about 18 days after round trip
completion) and improvement in the payment reminder system. A substantial
portion of the benefits would accrue in convertible currency. Cash flow
estimates kept in the project file clearly indicate that the speed at which
the productivity of HCs trucks is improved with the introduction of ICIS is
very sensitive for the estimates of ER. To be on the conservative side it
has been assumed that it will take at least 10 years to reach the full
range of benefits due to productivity.
HC's Handling Equipment for Transit Distribution Stores
9.       HC at present operates one warehouse for the handling of groupage
(import and export) consignments. The warehouse has a covered floor space
of about 5,000 sq. meters. It has 3 ramps and 17 gates. On an average
30-40 trucks aie loaded and unloaded daily. The monthly average cargo
volume varies from about 3,000 to 3,500 tons in low season to about 4,500
to 6,000 tons in high season. Depending on the traffic demand HC intends
to expand the capacity of groupage service facilities by at least 502
during the next five years. This is intended to be achieved by imuproving
the efficiency of loading/unloading and handling in the existing warehouse
by the addition of suitable equipment such as ramp level adjusters, hand
fork lifts with improved lifting capacity, scales for weighing packaged
cargo, and fire protection equipment. These additions are expected to
increase the speed of handling of groupage cargo by about 252. In
addition, in order to accommodate the larger valume of business HC intends
to establish a new 2-story warehouse on its property at a site already
available. HC considered several alternatives for an optimum investment
decision such as expansion of the present warehouse and/or leasing a second
warehouse. The most cost effective solution has been adopted.
BKV's Traffic Control Systems
10.      The economic cost of the system is estimated at Ft 395 millio-m
(about US$ 8.4 million) at 1988 prices. The investments will be spread
over three years 1989-1991 and the percentage distribution is estimated at
20S in 1989, and 25X in 1990 and the balance of 552 in 1991. The proposed
system would enable the BKV drivers to maintain an optimal speed profile
and quicker passage due to flexible lighting time at intersections. In the
first phase 300 vehicles (bus, trolley bus and trams) will be covered by
the system. It is estimated that vehicle utilization would be improved by
about 8 to 101 on introduction of the system and this would enable BKV to
reduce its fleet size by about 30 vehicles (3 solo-bus, 10 articulated bus,
3 articulated trolley bus and about 14 trams) over the three year period
1990-1992. The additional cost of running the new system (computers,
terminals etc) has been estimated at aobut Ft 15 ti'-lion per year from 1991



ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 8
onwards. Operational cost savings of the -:4nicles in the entire system due
to improved conditions are estimated at about Ft 50 million per year.
Benefits due to saving in parking places and better energy management have
not been taken into account to err on the ssfe side.
S077U. 35-42



- 102 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 7
HUNGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Transport Management Information System (TMIS)
Railway Component
General
1.       The Hungarian State Railways (MAV) started almost ten years ago on
the development of a central, computerized Transportation Management
Information System. Certain elements of this system have already been
developed and these computerized operative systems have been fitted into
the railways technological process, at present actively servicing several
stations, the Zahony trans-shipment district and border traffic. However,
the full effectiveness of the TMIS can only be realized if a computerized
system is installed which covers the whole of MAV's network.
2.       MAV's development plan starts with the present situation of
computer applications for railway management ard calls for implementation
in two phases.
Transport Management Information System (Tmis)
Tarnets
3.       TMIS provides the means to optimize resource utilization and to
improve MAV's operational productivity levels with existing resources
through: (i) improved wagon and locomotive utilization; (ii) operational
planning; and (iii) terminal and marshalling yard management. TMIS
concentrates particularly on the following:
- locomotive and wagon control;
- management of marshalling yards;
- distribution of empty wagons;
- customer information, including loading and unloading
information;
- data collection from stations (using the intermediate point
system);



- 103 -
AWNEX 3
Page 2 of 7
- container and piggy-back tra;fic; and
- border station information system (existing system should be
adapted to TMIS principles).
A passenger traffic control system and independent workshop system will be
inter-connected later, and by the end, TMIS will be included in the
European International Railway Union (UIC) information system (HERMES).
Hardware, Software, Communications and Principles of TMIS Operations
4.      The TMIS will be a hierarchical system, developed in accordance
with the organizational structure of MAV. It will control and collect
primary data about railway's operations and then forward information to
stations, district management and central operational and management levels
for actual execution.
5.      TMIS will be based on two identical mainframe computers.  One of
them will control and manage all the teleprocessing system and store recent
information coming from the regional computers, to keep an up-to-date
database of railway's operations for the whole of Hungary. The other will
perform back-ground and batch processing, including MAV's existing batch
applications (payroll, different railway's statistics, ...) as well as new
TMIS operations (empty cars dispatching subsystem, freight bill accounting,
management information system, ..). The TMIS wiiLl be fully developed and
implemented by MAV, and MAV's existing mainframe computers will be replaced
with new equipment. In case of a failure of the system controlling
teleprocessing, the back-ground computer must be able to replace it in 10
minutes.
6.      The data teleprocessing computer will have to receive, process and
forward about 10 million characters per day, which means a capacity of 1-2
transactions/sec. in peak hours.
7.       Tentative hardware and software parameters of a central computer:
Central unit
Operations speed                  1-3 MIPS
Operative memory                 .3-6 MByte
Consol display
Disc subsystem
Disc capacity                     3-6 GByte
Cottrol unit                      2 or more
(with dual channel)



- 104 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 7
Tape subsystem
Tape units                        4 or more
Control unit - 800/1600 bpi       2
(with dual channel)
Local display subsystem                about 15 terminals
Printer 1000-2000 Ins/min
Communication controller                1
No. of lines                      16-64
line speed                        4800-9600 bauds
Basic software elements of the central mainframe:
Modern operating system
Compilers                              4th generation applications
development tool, C)BOL,
PL/l, Fortran, Assembler,
database management system
and communications software;
Utility programs
Teleprocessing software
Testing programs for:                  - CPU
- peripherals
- teleprocessing network
- elements of teleprocessing
network
(Testing programs must be able to run under operating system and
independently.)
8.       For real time control and data collection on marshalling yards,
large stations, intermediate stations, border stations and railway
junctions, 14 regional computers will be installed, one for each
directorate. Every regional cumputer must be a fault tolerant system with
high reliability, which will consist of two or more processors and two or
more other computer components. Such a configuration should virtually
ensure that the terminals will not be out of operation in case of failure
of any component of a regional computer. A regional computer has to be
able to receive, process and forward about 2 million characters per day,
which means a capability to process: 0,2-0,4 transactions/sec. in peak
hours.
9.       Each of the regional systems will run as a unique and independent
system. They will be connected with one another only through central
mainframe. This principle will enable MAV to develop and implement its
information system gradually.



- 105 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 7
10.      Hardware and software parameters of a minimum regional system
configuration:
Central unit
Operational speed                 0,5 - 1 MIPS
Operative memory                  0,5 - 4 MByte
Magnetic disc capacity            at least 100 MByte
Communication subsystem
Terminal connection
No. of lines                      16-32
Min. speed                        1200-2400 bauds
No. of terminals                  80 or more
Type of terminals                 CRT terminals, PC, with
printers
Connection to central mainframe
No. of lines                      2
Printer 300-600 Ins/min
11.      System software should include a modern operating system,
compilers for high level program languages and assembler, utility programs,
possibility of effective interactive program development, a modern database
management, 4th generation applications development tool system and
up-to-date and easy to use communication software.
12.      With regional computers MAV intends also to purchase an
application package which should meet MAV's regional requirements (i.e.,
data collection and control on : trains, cars' location, car loading,
unloading, freightbills, ...). The bidders will have to guarantee to MAV
to adapt the application package within 6 months from contract signature,
which will enable MAV to install it at the time of the first regional
computer installation. Adaptation, testing and installation of the
purchased application package will be done together with MAV's
specialists. Due to low quality of the local data transmission facilities
between regional computers and terminals, MAV intends to install only PC's
for data collection in the railway stations, which will enable the minimum
data collection and control even when the telephone network is out of
operation. PC's will be connected via local area networks. In principle
every local area network (LAN) will cover one railway station.
Applications for PC's will be developed and implemented by MAV. Bidders
will also heve to provide for incorporating MAV's existing system for the
real time 1nvrder operations control, which is running on the hungarian
border with U.S.S.R. (Fig. 2) on a separate computer. the logical
structure and information flow is presented in Fig. 1, and the physical
structure in Fig.2.
MAV's Special Demands
13.      Bidders must address the posibility of including MAV's existing
hardware and applications in TMIS.



- 106 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 7
14.      Since the COCOM restrictions are expected to be reduced in 1939,
MAV is declaring the described hardware solution only as one of possible
solution. One of the alternative hardware solutions acceptable by MAV
would be one or more powerful computers installed in Budapest with
communication concentrators at directorates. (At the time of appraisal
such a solution was under cocom restrictions). The afforesaid solution
would result in lower price for a hardware and MAV would not have to build
computer rooms at directorates. MAV will allow the bidders in the tender
documentation to propose also alternative technical solutions. Bidders,
however, will be fully responsible for obtaining the required export
licence. MAV will not accept any hardware solution which might result in
considerable lower benefits, further bidders will not be allowed to propose
other principles of operations of TMIS than required by MAV in the tender
documentation.
Gradual Development and Implementation of TMIS
15.      TMIS will be developed and implemented in two phases.  The first
phase will be realized progressively by 1992, covering over 90Z of TMIS
targets. It will include application software development for the control
mainframe computers, regional computers and station PC's.
16.      For Phase I (up to 1992) it will be necessary to provide the
following equipment:
-    mainframe computers for central part of TMIS and to run
MAV's exist..vg batch applications;
-    data transmission network control computers;
-    equipment for data transmission network extension to enable
connection of regional systems to central mainframe; and
-    regional computers (for operations and for development and
testing), including PC's for terminals for the stations.
17.      In the second phase MAV intends to finalize TMIS, to join the
international railway information system - HERMES, to connect to the
Hungarian National Information System and also to connect customers by
terminals to TMIS. For Phase II it will be necessary to provide a data
transmission interface at the central computer for connection to HERMES.
18.      The cost table and implementation schedule of TMIS installation
and commissioning are presented in Table 1 and Figure 3.



- 107 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 7
Transport Mangement Information System (TMIS) - Benefits
19.      Advantages of the TMIS are that it optimizes existing railway
resources and improves operational efficiency, by enabling: (i) better
planning and control; (ii) organization and management improvement; and
(iii) improvement of the transport technology.
20.      The areas benefitting from TMIS are shown belo%4
(a) a reduction in wagon turn around time which will permit an
increased volume of tonnage to utilize the same amount of
rolling stock; or a reduction in fleet size, together with a
reduced requirements for future procurement and maintenance
and better yard management, by improved information
concerning traffic en-route and on-hand;
(b) disciplined control of empty wagons, leading to improved
wagon utilization; and
(c) improved locomotive control through constant monitoring of
locomotive utilization.
Technical Assistance and Training Program
21.      For technical assistance and training program (for TMIS) MAV needs
about 60 man-months, of which about 32 man-months would be needed in early
1989. The Bank will finance the foreign exchange of this training
component, or 22 man-months.
TMIS Targets Realization
22.      The mission estimated the following TMIS realization targets for
Phase I:
a.   Locomotive and wagon control                      l00S,
b.   Management of marshalling yards                   502,
All the bigest marshalling yards will be
controlled and included into TMIS, which
means over 902 of technical wagon operations
in MAV. Therefore the reduction of marshalling
yards inclusion into the TMIS will not have
any influence on wagons throughput;



- 108 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 7
c.   Distribution of empty wagons:
-Requirements for empty wagons;                    100X,
-Dispatching of empty wagons;                      702,
Due to lack of terminals, about502 of freight
bill data wil be captured and about 702 of
loading and .iloading operations will be
registered in real time;
d.   Customer information, including loading and
unloading information;                             1002,
Customers will not be connected to the TMIS
by terminals, but they will get all the
relevant information by the TMIS from railway
stations timely.
e.   Data collection from stations (using interme-
diate point system)                                701,
It will influence on empty wagon dispatching
efficiency;
f.   Container and piggy-back traffic                    100X,
g.   Border station subsystem                            1001,
Remarks: In Phase I all hardware components will be purchased, except
hardware and software for TMIS joining to HERMES, which will be
realized in Phase II. About 352 of terminals will be purchased on
the Hungarian market.
s0779u/P .43-49
Feb.28, 89



EX 3
Tablet1: HUNGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
mAy' TRANSPORT HANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM (THIS)
SCHEDULE AND COST ESTIMATE (MID 1988 PRICES)
_________    _________                                              _________ PHAS  I              PASEU II_I_A               GRANI
Description        1- I                             _                          L T. F                       I, FTF 19                   191    Gra nd To tal
____________l               LE. 1J. I  I.TI IL I                              F I I  I                 T IL               I      T   F   L   T    F    L       I
1I.Central, regionalI
and network comPu-
ters. including
system software,
data management
software, regional
system applications
and up-dats.w and                 1.3 0.8 2.1 1.0 1.2 2.2 1.6  1.0  2.6  2.1  1.3  3.4  6.0 4.3  10.3                                          6.0  4.3  10.3
2.Workstations
(terminals and PC's)
and their connection
with the computer
systems (800 pieces)                  1.0 1.0 0.5 O.S 1.0 0.5  0.5  1.0  0.5  1.1  1.6  1.5 3.1   4.6         1.4 1.4     1.3 1.3      2.7 2.7 1.5  5.8  7.3
3.Connecting customers
by terminals to the
system for freight
forecasting and                                                                                                           2    2           2        2.1 Z2. 
tracing services                                                                                                          2.1 2.1      ,   2.1    2.1 2.1 37.
4Cconnection to the
European Railways ^      _    _  _                                                                                                     0.008 83   1 0.7  5.3
info.system (HERMES)1.0.2.1.0723160723
5.Oata commiunication
equipment (modems,                                                                                                                       4142310326
line testers..)          0.5 0.5 0.6 3.2 3.8 1.712.4 4.1        1.4 11.4        1.4   1.4 2.3  8.9 11.2       1.4 1.4                 1.142310326
6.Engineering,22222222
building, other                      2.2 2.22. 222222
7.Consulting and                                                                             .    .020.0102
training                        0.1 0.1 0.20. 0102010. 02
Total base cost           0.5 0.5 2.0 7.3 19.313.2 14.1 7.3  2.1 2.9  5.0  2.6  3.8   6.419.9118.6 28.5  1.6 3.5 5 .1     3.4 3.4 1.6 6.9 8.5 11.5 25.5 37.0
Special Financial
contingenCy                                        1.7 1.7      2.05 2.05      2.05  2.5       5.8  5.8                                              5.8  5.8
TOTAL                  0.5 O.S 2.0 7.3 9.3 3.2 5.8 9.0 2.1  4.9S 7.05 2.6  5.85 8.45 9.9 24.4 34.3  1.63.5 5.1          3.4 3.4 1.6 6.9 8.5 11.5 31.3 42.8
In case the centralized mainframe solution could not be realized; additional $5.1 million would be needed for computer rooms adaptation at MAV,s
directorates to accomodate comparably larger regional computers and USS 0.7 million for computer installations. (local funds).
5077U/P .s



HUNGARY                                                                  Annex: 3
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJEC                                                           Fig.  ; 1
Shffl Appraisal Repoui
TMIS Logical Shucture & Intownoon Connection
r~~~~~~~~~~~FW" Cot .        o       fflt.s _nN                                         In ,ewur,sWAn%mn
[{-    ~~vind_                rsn utom}    4+                                                                        .D
-C" OW/                                    - ------- Ccp rcW/Clona0 9Ik0*n
Stotlcm    - CcormmW,                                            coW Rep s-    _ G
---A&Wb d Cusm                                              Adv-sh d Cuoff                                          9 O
-I dxct TllNAr"                   .                     ._..  .Tcblc TK1', ArS-A
TpclAnvl/L bllj-M.                                   tK3 -Traindt- 
~Ttain _         _ _TKtm Accepkird/Rer oio  -------(--)
uTA1ncPPO                       Ccs                                                 C. COIiO
rkahm &          - Car HWet1fOM                        r__                                                                                                           oa
hArmshcoft  -     "orcovwwrwrt                                                                                                                    U
Do XmnM on Mahat Ymd ~
r=   ,   Po   _vmn Dkotl       r                 -      Brc Poz 00nm o               b                                          ,             \-
CC flkVqifhVon    t SmM/alg WW       C    Sw-41          CaACcn9 (                                                             t s
tfahns~~~~~~~~P r                           TlatO/Wil                        cantlol 00 -00,
41      C4ncwDrn ond/r w                                      Co      nVDw                                                                  =,Inn{  pe  
^   h/A            b                 +- -         IJ J*/5~~~~~~~-gatoAi    --                                      CMICS   T 
z rfdDow_~- *----------                        -.Wc  t(t    Enin
Z        ~~~rev" car w-t                                      Rts Ccc"(r le
LO todCtm Eng  , _
Efgft                                                                                                                               cstct
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.vi AnNO/tourn    '                                                  _ 
Z~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~-a/o horcg~  E'vsro Ewf                                               %-B I O              mo}
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IqWnM Ra9x$>  1toe bs6%esm D" I I I
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a Iai -11                                                             42W" 



H U N O A R Y
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
MAV: The Block Diagram of the Physical Structure  __                  U.s.s.R.
of the Transportation Management        rf             \ _    
Information System (TMIS)           Z/ / 
Nkt kCZECHOSLOVAKIA                            <             4SKOLC
CROMANIA
HJ  \   9             BUD~~~~13APESTX      SZOLNOK 
RSZEATHEL                           \     \     
/r\ ~~KISKUNHAL
:                              jrPECS                Cj<o _     n
YOGOSLAI Cmvcto bowe c_le oip
_ -                                                                   S Dtctc t  _ r
E                                 B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E  c~w  mod cRb  _owt     3
Flo: 2                                      o  TOM"IIWI        _ h,twroI  boaundUd
.,, 



- 112 -
f':';GAAY Annex 3
Second .canspcrt Project                             Fig. 3
Staff Appraisal Raeport
SCHEDULE AND LABOUR DEMANO OF THE TRANSPCRTAT10C
MANAGEiMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM (T.!iS)
* AAP        sl                  =                  '  I A
CC$fO~  jeac6.t#  es?ss.w e@
tsA'qP^AL  ?S,                                                           I
t  Vf#f- CCW$ SOP'AC fd.AW  Sp             I 
cc  ,t?d'.L            ,                                     ,                             '  L-S 
PA N 46 "E&~~~~~~~~~Sv?~i PLS4         LU         P4f
FASZPPA   AFSPA&4LA     9  #Ol*                   I 
7. 4'r-  -CCS J SPMAVJf P#?J*AAtJE  Pf" *jq            II
I ~      .           I            I  
-CC P409See  MPAt, ?c   PVCEP P&SM                               .'
ft. P.Vf,s,0t::~a -r .__. S,,S#I&A  Alva _
g; rwl_e  5 Pes  rn5S ACS:Ot,aN  #C^0f|              -j    
if ?AVI - CCS O&*DA$1682  '4W9,A atS *sA               I                       _
I, PMOE - ICGS SCS*?JM ?bf P*O#CAV SyS
OS r,"wt  w*w  zwrssre CJ 0*41Pfrod                     s          I C         =1
%t A-S - ftD DUIA r@rrwCe PO.i  S S                    I.
eg rweet *    wt *es,~ sDeUe4e s P4.       I            g                       1. 
tX#Sz8~~~~4t     t~                       It           I           !'
q  ANSAIPPA,M@4&a SSE    EP
to roes -*C St sPtEN, EsieUm GPv           I  I                     I            t .
AD ?ee      rG 5 P*1SMA, APVw   P*E
PISA *^rroUtS,,       t,tt  I#tt*                        
&  DSA'M CPR  *A,sWrsee*f !vgPqr  ragr  PIv             I                                    I  _.t_  
if VMS4 P4A*PDlG A.048 &0CW/AP'V& ESPAPOMI 
**DvIIAm rso0fPi       5$  e13jw*51A4 575            I S                      I            I
1* LIAVA PADDAI1C AND UKM*~PfVf JISDP*FM jV$?M            ...mmP#m mnj*mk 
PVr ?Mio dM3 -e@     *t'M**I@ r          I                                    I 9  |  
Wrsjf~~~~ fJt                 t 
is LAA*A"et w0o UgST'S  IU#VES                          Lu
I           I            I           tI
IS TAAnse  a.^*; DatOP'a StSvAID   rs      -                                                 I
16s U*UJCA?ilEt OPt*t flURSI                            I           I __       _______________
I           I       ,    I      
a.   SJ  V    t*tFCrtet        }        - p'-   I USR
I        3I          I            Ii
S                       I            I      



- 113 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
HUNGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Integrated and Computerized
Information System (ICIS) For HUNGAROCAMION
General
1.       Hungarocamion already has a tradition in computer data processing
and it's Electronic Data Processing staff is a group of experts which up to
now developed and implemented an Information System which is covering about
35% of all HC's needs. But all parts of HC's existing data processing
facilities are quite old and obsolete, coming from many different sources
and are not compatible with one ar-other. Because of this, it is not
possible to build further on the existing facilities so as to establish one
integrated system. For this reason Hungarocamion proposes tu replace it's
existing computer facilities with a modern standardized computer system and
thus to provide basis for a Integrated Computerised Information System
(ICIS). To define a faster, better and appropriate ICIS, Hungarocamion
engaged UNICONSULT (United Transport Consulting Gmbh, Hamburg) to prepare a
study on the Organization and Information System requirements of
Huu.arocam_on.
Targets
2.       ICIS will provide improvements in resource utilization in the
operating sector as well as additional earnings by speeding the work of the
finance and accounting departments of the company. The main applications of
the ICIS are listed below:
1.  Acquisition
2.  Cargo operation
3.  Transport organizing
4.  Truck allocation
5.  Workshop
6.  Material
7.  Vehicles
8.  Personnel
9.  Central invoicing
10. Accounts receivable
11. Petty cash management
12. Accounts management
13. Costing
14. Trip accounting
15. Accounts payable
16. Fixed assets
17. General ledger



- 114 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
Hardware, Software, Communications and Principies of ICIS operating
3.      The ICIS solution proposed by HC's consultant UNICONSULT, is based on
using four computers which would be installed at four main branches of
Hungarocamion in Budapest.  The following functions would be allocated to each'
system:
Balcan Street               Commercial and financial operations
Cincotai:                   Technical terminal A
Nagykorosy:                 Technical terminal B
Nepstadion                  Headquarters and general mana&ement.
4.       The four systems, while fully compatible, would operate quite
separately and independently of one another. Only a few times per day,
data packets would be exchanged between the systems. Local terminals would
be connected to each of the computers, without the possibility of their
being connected into the overall computer network due to lack of
communications Front End Processors. Information exchange with HC's
representatives in Hungary and abroad would be established by 5 telex lines
connected to each computer. The reason to base ICIS on four computers
instead of one larger computer is lack of data transmission facilities in
Budapest and, existing COCOM restriction. It is not possible now and in
foreseeable future, to provi1e enough telephone lines to connect terminals
to one single site in Budapest.
5.       Necessary software for each of four systems are:
(a) operating system with communication software;
(b) relational database management system; and
(c) COBOL compiler, and
(d) utility programs.
Integrated Computerized Information System - Benefits
6.       The benefits resulting from the implementation of ICIS will accrue
mostly from improvements in the operating sector and also in the finance and
accounting sectors of the company. The expected benefits are listed below:
(a)  Savings ir- truck capacity resulting from the higher kilometer
performance per truck unit, as shorter durations per
round-trip can be expected and that can lead to an increased
number of possible round-trips per cruck unit per years and
better response to short term requests by customers;
(b) Additional earnings due to reduced empty back-hauls to
Hungary. Better information about truck locations,
information about departure and arrival times, and about
routes of trucks available to RC representatives in Hungary
and abroad, will enable Hungarocamion to obtain better
coordination of truck utilization and of marketing activities;



- 115 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
(c) Savings due to improved invoicing speed.
Presently the invoicing speed is around 21 days after
completion of round trips. With implementation if ICIS this
period can be reduced to 5 days after delivery of goods;
(d) Savings due to reduced manpower levels of office staff.
Cout Review and Implementation Schedule of ICIS
7.       ICIS is going to be implemented progressively in two phases with
about 330 terminals in the first phase (out of a total of about 700 in the
final stage).  In the first phase (up to end of 1991) the finance and
accounting sector, as a main bottle-neck of HC's operations, should be
computerized. This will be achieved by implementation of tte following
applications:
-    Cargo Operations
-    Central Invoicing
-    Accounts Payable
-    General Ledger
-    Costing
During the second phase (application software implementation only,
up to end of 1993) the entire ICIS will come into operation.
8.       The cost estimate is presented in Table 1 attached.
Hunxarocamion's Special Damands
9.       Since in the future Hungarocamion intends to expand their terminal
network to improve ICIS efficiency they will require the bidders to provide
for hardware which can be upgraded or extended to run about 2,5 times as
much terminals as initially requested.
10.      Hungarocamion plans to connect their mainframes in an up-to-date
computer network, depending on data transfer network availability.
Hungacamion will therefore require hardware which will be able to meet these
requirements, with relevant extensions.
13.      The proposed ICIS in its present form is not an ideal solution but
is the most suitable for Aungarocamion in the given circumstances
particularly because of resource constraints and low quality PTT
facilities. The system will become increasingly efficient iA the near
future by exprnding terminal network and connecting Hungarocamion's
mainframes in an up-to-date computer network. (paras 9 and 10 above).
SO77USp. 54-56



Table 1
SECDICD TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INTEGRATED CDHPUTERISED INFORNMTION SYSTH
SCHEDULE AND COST ESTIMATE (MID 1988  ICIEST iMSPUNNLrD1
iI                         -ii .                           12               1 19            90 . _.1.92            TOTL
_ _ _ _   _L    F     T      L  P                  TIFI                             I _  F         T  If L      F  I T  L        I F  I T
1. Computer Systems                             0.70  0.70          1.50  1.50         0.30  0.30                                               2.50  2.50
2. Basic Software                               0.50  0.50           1.00  1.00        0.15  0.15                                                1.65  1.6i
3. Application                            0.10        0.10   0.30         0.30   0.30        0.30   0.30        0.30   0.20        0.20   1.20         1.20
Software                I
4. Comuting Center    0.04         0.04   1.61  0.1S  1.76   1.20  0.30  1.So   1.25  0.10  0.35                                          3.10  0.55  3.65
S. Telecen1ications                      0.13        0.13   0.13        0.13   0.06         0.06                                         0.32         0.32
6. EDP Staff Traintng                           0.1S  0.1S          0.10  0.10         0.0S  0.OS                                                0.30  0.30
TOTAL             0.04        0.04   1.84   1.50  3.34   1.63  2.90  4.53   0.61  0.60  1.21   0.30        0.30   0.20        0.20   4.62  5.00  9.62
5077U/S8



- 117 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 5
HUNGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRIISAL REPORT
BKV'S Traffic Control System
General
1. The Transport Organization of Budapest (BKV) is attaching a great
importance to maintain and improve the quality and efficiency of public mass
transport in Budapest. Accordingly, BKV decided to establish a Traffic
Control System which will improve existing BKV's facilities and significantly
reduce the cost of operations. BKV's experts prepared a solution based on a
complex computer aided information and control system, using an up-to-date
radiocommunications network. The traffic control system of BKV will consist
of three interrelated subsystems namely,
-    Automatic Vehicle Monitoring Subsystem;
-    Traffic Light Control Subsystem; and
-    Power Supply and Consumptive Control Subsystem.
Targets
2. The main core of these Systems is the Automatic Vehicle Monitoring
Subsystem, which should result in maintaining equal distance and time between
vehicles and would result in:
-    improvement in keeping the time-table;
-    reduced waste time;
-    reduced waiting time at traffic lights;
-    reduced number of lines that are out of service;
-    reduced energy consumption;
-    better service to passengers, and a reduced fleet size.
Hardware, Software and Operating Principles of the System
3. The Automatic Vehicle Monitoring Subsystem will be the core and most
important part of the Traffic Control System. Efficiency of the other two
subsystems will depend on information coming from this subsystem. Therefore
the BKV will develop and implement it first.



- 118 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 5
4.  Hardware and Principles of Operation.  A modern radiocommunications
network will be constructed to enable communications between vehicles and
vehicle dispatching center. About 300 radio stations attached to a micro
computer will be installed on board of the vehicles to transmit short
information about:
-    vehicle identification;
-    direction; and
-    number of passengers on board; when starting from the initial
or main stations on its way.
Also information such as:
-    being in a traffic jam; or
-    being involved in an accident,
will be transmitted from vehicles to the dispatching center.
There will also be equipment installed at main check ponts in
Budapest to identify public transport vehicles passing by, and to transmit
such information to the dispatching center.
The BKV will install radio receivers with speakers in the stations
to inform passengers in case of any special traffic situation on one
particular line, i.e., in case of a traffic accident BKV would put the
information out to the passengers on that line and suggest that they take an
alternate line.
One computer, possibly a microprocessor system with special
communications Front End Processor will collect and process all this
information in a real time. It will provide vehicle dispatchers with
detailed information about traffic situation and enable them to transmit
information to drivers and passengers. In addition, the same computer will
provide information to the other two subsystems. From midnight to early
morning hours when the mass transport practically stops, the same computer
will produce daily reports, statistical reports, etc.



- 119 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 5
5. Software
Due to the specific situation of mass transport in Budapest (80% of
passengers are using mass transport facilities, which is not the case in any
of Western European cities), none of the existing similar systems running in
Western Europe could be directly transferred to Budapest. Therefore, the
BKV's experts decided to develop and implement their own software with
assistance of equipment suppliers.
Traffic Light Control Subsystem
6. Hardware and Principles of Operation
To operate the Traffic Light Control subsystem BKV will use its
existing computer. This computer is now being used to control and program
the traffic light network in Buidapest. BKV is not planning any upgrading or
extension of this computer.
To improve utilization of their existing Traffic Light Control
Subsystem the BKV intends to provide it with information about detailed
traffic situation in real time, by connecting it with the Automatic Vehicle
Monitoring Subsystem.
7. Software
Existing application software in BKV's Traffic Light Control
computer will have to be extended to modify the traffic light network
programming according to information coming from the Automatic Vehicle
Monitoring Subsystem.
A special communicative software will have to be developed and
implemented to connect the two subsystems.
All the necessary applications and communications software
development will be done by BKV.
Power Control Subbvstem
8. Hardware and Principles of Operation
The Power Control Subsystem will permanently control operating of
the electricity supply network and will inform the vehicle dispatchers and
electricity supply network maintenance control about any problem in real
time.



-- 120 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 5
In addition to that, the Power Control Subsystem will achieve
savings in electricity, according to information coming from the Automatic
Vehicle Monitoring Subsystem.
To achieve the above-described targets it will be necessary to
install special equipment at main points in Budapest for automatic detection
of any problem in the electricity supply network, and one computer possibly
a microprocessor system, to collect and process information coming from the
electricity supply network and from the Automatic Vehicle Monitoring
Subsystem.
9. Software
All the necessary applications and communication software will be
fully developed aad implemented by BKV.
Gradual Development and Implementation of the Traffic Control System
10.      BKV intends to put the complete system in operation by the end of
1991 in the critical traffic areas in the northern part of Budapest. Later
on BKV plans to expand the system over the entire Budapest area.
Benefits
11.      The benefits listed below are based on keeping equal distance and
time between vehicles, which will be achieved through implementation of
Automatic Vehicle Monitoring and Traffic Light Control Subsystems and an
electricity savings due to the Power Control System. The expected benefits
of the complete system are:
-    fleet and operating staff reduction due to fewer necessary
reserves;
-    vehicle maintenance reduction due to reduced stop-and-go
intersections;
-    better passenger service; and
-    energy conservation.
Project Cost Estimate and Implementation Schedule
12.      Project cost is shown in Tables 1 and the dynamics of
implementation schedule in Table 2.



- 121 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 5
Technical Assistance and Training Program
13.      BKV programmed thirty man months for technical assistance and 9
man-months for training programs.
14.      This proposed Traffic Control System for BKV is based on similar
systems which have been in use for sometime in Western European cities
(Frankfurt, West Germany and Clermont-Ferrand, France). These systems
therefore. are proven to be technically sound and economically beneficial.
5077U/P. 58-62



ANNEX 5
Table 1
HUNGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BKV'S Traffic Control SYSTEM
Schedule and proiect Cost Estimate (Mid 1988 prices - in million Ft.)
1989               1990               1991        IOTAL 
Description           L     F     T      L     F     T       L   IF      T    IL         F  IT        .
1. Automatic Vehicle   49.20 20.15 69.35 43.72 21.14 64.86  125.35 25.75 151.10 218.27 67.04 285.31
Monitri;n Subsvstem                        -      _ 
2. Centralized Traffici 4.55         4.55 14.46 13.02 27.48  24.84  10.30 35.14   4J.85 23.32  67.17
L1kht Control Subsystet      I            I            I                                         I _
3. Automatic Power      22.99       22.99 12.15 18.54 30.69  41.32  16.48 57.80   76.46 35.02 111.48
SupplY Subsystem          I            I                                 I
TOTAL           76.74 20.15 96.89 70.33 52.70 123.03 191.51 52.53 244.04 338.58 125.38 463.96
US DOLLAR HILL.  1.63  0.43  2.06  1.50  1.12   2.62   4.07  1.12   5.19  7.20   2.67    9.87
5077U/63



- .L23 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
HL'NGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BKV'S Traffic Control SYSTEM
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
.      1989            1990           1991
Description of Subsystems         I III IIIII IV  I III ! III  IV  I   IIl lII IV
AUTOMATIC VEHICLE MONITORING
1. Central Computer Purchase and
Installation
2. VHF Radio Centre
Implementation
3. Board Equipment Installation
4. Modification of vehicles    _     _      -_
5. Automatic Vehicle Monitoring
Application Implementation
6. Passenger Information
Application and Equipment
Implementation
CENTRALIZED TRAFFIC LIGHT CONTROL
1. Purchasing and Installation
of equipment to connect
Automatic Vehicle Monitoring
System with Centralized
Traffic Light Control System
2. Implementation of the software
to connect the two systems
and modify the software on
these systems
AUTOMATIC POWER SUPPLY
1. Central Computer Purchase
and Installation
2. Automatic Power Supply
3. Purchasing and Installation
of Equipment for Connection
of Automatic Power Supply
System to the complete system
4. Implementation of Software to
connect the Automatic Power
Supply System to the Computer
System
5. Renovation of Power Supply
Substations                 _
Feb. 28, 89



- 124 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
HUNGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Railway Costing Study - Outline Terms of Reference
General
1.       It is axiomatic that accurate knowledge of operating and related
costs is essential for the success of any enterprise that is trying to reduce
its costs. In the face of growing competition, a railway lacking such
knowledge will find it extremely difficult to maintain its market share, and
even more so, to improve its operational efficiency, quality of service, and
to meet competition for traffic demand.
2.       The objective of costing is to provide data essential for a wide
field of management decision and for the formulation of national policy in the
transport field.
Purpose of the Study
3.       In summary form, the principal purposes of the study, and subsequent
implementation of a NAV cost accounting systems aiz:
(a) to set realistic prices (rate-making);
(b)  to provide data for profit. inalysis of existing and potential
business, which in the case of a railway will include not only
rates and fares but also line, station, and service
profitability;
(c) to control costs;
(d) to permit evaluation of economies to be secured from operating
and technological changes;
(e) to provide data needed for comparison of costs between the
different transport modes required in the cc;isideration of
alternatives;
(f) to provide data for evaluation of further capital investment to
better serve traffic demand; and
(g) to enable the evaluation of net revenue which may accrue from
operational and technological changes and capital investments.



- 125 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
The Scope of the Study
4.       The study would be carried out in two phases by local experts
supported by foreign consultants.  The scope of Phase I would include:
-    a survey of basic cost data already available and of costing
methods in use;
-    preparing recommendations on the steps necessary for the
determination of the costs of all railway services, broken down
by principal commodity flows and inter-city and commuter
passenger services;
-    summarizing and reviewing the existing system of rates and fares;
-    detailing the methodology for the evaluation of staff
requirements;
-    making an assessment of computer hardware capacity and software
requirements so as to evaluate the need, if any, of
supplementary capacity in the TMIS;
-    defining costing principles and methodology; and
-    making preliminary recommendations for discussion with MAV and
government officials, including the proposed implementation
schedule, as a basis for continued work in Phase II.
5.       During Phase If, implementation of the comprehensive system for cost
comparison and cor..col would be started. The consultants would concurrently:
-    assist MAV in intreducing and running the proposed system on, at
least, a pilot basis (even using estimated values when actual
cost data are lacking) so as to establish that the system works
effectively;
-    fully document all information needed to expand the system
application to cover all MAV's regions and operations;
-    identify, and assist MAV in planning the collection of lacking
data, using the TMIS generated data bank; and
-    identify MAVs training requirements for the above implementation
and its expansion. Also to assist MAV in planning a
corresponding training program and to train (or arrange for the
training) of MAV training staff and managers (including
preparation of training materials).



- 126 -
ANNEX 6
Page ' of 3
Timing
6.       Terms of reference for the study were discussed during the
negotiations and agreement was reached with the Government that Phase I of the
study would be initiated not later than the end 1989 and completed by the mid
1990, and Phase II would be completed by the end of 1990.
The rtudy is estimated to require about 25 man-months and will be
carried entirely by Httngarian experts.
SO78I/p. 1-3



- 127 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 6
HUNGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
River Port and River Transport Development Study
Cutline Terms of Reference
Background
1.       MAHART, the Hungarian agency in charge of river ports, river
navigation and shipping had originally sougl:t to have some grain holding and
port access improvements, for the Csepel Port near Budapest, included for
financirg in the 1985-1989 5-year plan. In the context of current austerity
planning, the Government decided to defer any such improvements to a later
date, probably in the next 5-year plan (1990-1995).
2.       During sector strategy discussions between Government and the Bank it
became apparent that any proposals for improvements of Csepel port would need
to be framed in the light of a better defined role for the port and in the
context of a national strategy with respect to inland waterway transport and
development of supporting infrastructure in a manner which would not adversely
affect the environment. The construction of a Rhine-Danube canal connection
and the Danube-Black Sea canal (short cut) are apt to have long term
implications for international river traffic. Several studies (scope unknown)
related to the River and its ports are known to have been made. These studies
could be used to reformulate the strategy in the sector. It is known that
other riparian countries are already preparing facilities to handle increased
waterway traffic arising from the Rhine-Danube connection. It is also known
that the European Community (EC) will protect river transport operators of
member countries against third country competition, and Hungary will have to
give due consideration to the EC's policy.
3.       MAHART has a double role, participating both in port management and
shipping. Investments in pushers and barges may produce larger, short term
returns, particularly in convertible currencies, than investing in port
infrastructure. Also, the potential for water-borne competition for
international container and bulk traffic, with the national railroad (MAV), a
substantial source of foreign currency earnings, may serve to diminish
political support for any vigorous and competitive water-borne system, be the
vessels Hungarian or of foreign flag
Objectives of the Study
4.       The purpose of this Study is to assist the Government in defining a
program for development and modernization of Hungary's river transport system
in the years 1990-2000, consistent with the development of all transport
modes, and to determine the technical, economic and financial feasibility of
investments to be implemented during the 1990-1994 5-year plan. To this end
the Study shall include:



- 128 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 6
(a) an assessment of the adequacy of the capacity and service provided by
the existing facilities and equipment in the river transport system,
including waterways, ports, inter-modal transfer operations and land
access for port traffic;
(b) an estimation of the level and composition of future traffic, through
the rivers, canals and ports, including transit traffic, for various
development scenarios, consistent with the development of other modes;
(c) a review of the existing organizational structure and efficiency of
the inland waterways, river transport and river port operations to
formulate, if appropriate, recommendations on means to improve
management and operational efficiency;
(d) an analysis and approximate ranking of alternatives for development
of the river transport system that would complement existing land
transport services ii1 Hungary;
Ce) feasibility studies for the recommended investment program for the
period 1990-1994, including preliminary engineering, cost estimates,
economic analysis and financing plan;
(f) an assessment of environmental effects of barge transport and river
transport related to civil works.
Scope of Consulting Services
5.       General.  The Consultants shall perform all engineering work,
physical surveys, the collection and analysis of operational, economic and
financial data and other work herein described, as required to attain the
objectives stated above. The consultants shall conduct these studies in
cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, Communication and Construction,
MAHART, and other government agencies iavoived, which will provide data and
services outlined in the following para-aphs. The consultant shall, however,
be solely responsible for the analysis and interpretation of all data received
and for the conclusions and recommendations contained in their reports. The
services shall be carried out in three phases. The consultant services shall
include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following:
6. Phase I:
(a) collect and review all available and relevant studies related to
river navigation and other transport modes which have been prepared
in Hungary, and in so far as possible, other studies of the Danube
river and shipping which might bear on the future development of the
river's water-borne traffic.
(b) analyze available studies of the existing system of inland waterways
in Hungary and the related transport enterprises, in order to assess
the factors which are critical in limiting the capacity and level of



- 129 -
ANM'EX 7
Page 3 of 6
service of the river transport system, and the future role of inland
water transportation in the internal distribution system as well as
in the international transit system; the consultants shall identify
the limitations on vessel type, size and draft, length of tows, night
navigation, etc., impopsed by the characteristics of the rivers in
the different sections and as affected by winter conditions and
seasonal variations in the level of the rivers;
(c) review the existing organizational structure and efficiency of the
inland water transport and river port operations, including the
operation oE the river fleets in the light of current trends in river
shipping, vessel designs and operating procedures; identify existing
problems and derive short-term proposals for their solution and to
meet near-term traffic projections;
(d) aggregate data on traffic/passenger movements by main commodities and
directional movements through Hungary's river systems (Danube and
Tisaa), including related traffic/operating cost data:
(e) determine the market share of each commodity that the river will
carry at the least economic cost, taking into account the effects of
any planned and justified expansion or improvement of railways,
highways, air and pipeline transport on the cost and quality of the
transport service;
(f) for the period 1990-2000, project river transport demand and/or
change scenarios relacing these to major potential or changing
traffic generators, policy and/or regulatory influences, constraints
(including investment requirements in shipping/infrastructure) and
identify and interrelated inter-modal impacts;
(g) estimate order-of-magnitude infrastructure/shipping investments
related to the different scenarios developed above (alone and in
combinations); potential benefits; environmental effects, financing
timing and foreign exchage implications, then rate the scenarios in
economic and financial terms a6 well as probability (including
identification of policy change requirements);
(h) identify the sensitivity of the solutions to external effects and/or
assumptions made, as well as further data requirements (including
field investigations, market analyses and/or efficiency estimates).
The scenarios above would be the subject of Bank comments and review
by MAHART management and the Government to designate the scenarios meriting
more detailed analysis. During review by the Government, the consultants
shall initiate work on parts (a) through (d) of Phase II, below.
8. Phase 11:
(a) assist MAHART, and particularly officials managing Csepel port, in
drawing up and initiating an action plan for development of the
port's industrial/commercial zone;



- 130 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 6
(b) survey foreign shippers trading with, or transiting through Hungary
in regards of equipment and facilities or services which might be of
interest to them;
(c) review MAHART's arrangements with freight forwarding agents both
internationally and within Hungery;
(d) consult with domestic producers of commodities using, or likely to
use, river transport as to their growth or change projections;
(e) identify more precisely any site of potential infrastructure
development, under the development scenarios selected after review of
Phase I, with particular attention to related port access
requirements, and environmental impacts;
(f) specify the improvements and additional requirements of dredging,
berths, transit sheds, open storage and parking areas, warehouses,
access by road and rail, cargo-handling equipment, signalling
systems, beacons and buoys, all required services (water, oil,
electric power, etc.) and auxiliary facilities such as offices and
maintenance shops;
(g) review environmental effects of the proposals urder consideration and
any restriction imposed by environmental considerations and
legislation, including also any cost consequences (such as effect on
adjacent land and water uses, compatibility with existing historic or
scenic assets and plans for urban development, effect on river flows,
siltation, water or air pollution);
(h) prepare and evaluate alternative layouts for the improvement of
existing and/or the development of new port facilities by stages,
taking into account site conditicns, road and rail connections and
the land and water areas required for functional and jurisdictional
purposes. The plans shall indicate the general dimensions and
locations for all major facilities, the proposed sequence of
construction by stages, estimated construction, operation and
maintenance costs, and operational implications analyzed in
sufficient detail to enable the consultants to present the schemes to
Government and MAHART for review and discussion;
(i) prepare recommendations to Government on overall strategy in river
transport, related policy implications and institutional improvement,
timing of investments with particular attention to the port of Csepel
and other investments which should be started in the 1990-1994 plan
period.
9. Phase III. After review by the Government and acceptance or revision of
the recommended proposals, the consultants shall:
(a) produce a master plan setting the long-term strategy up to the year
2000 for river transport and ports within the framework of the



- 131 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 6
national transport plan and consistent with the Government's industrial
policy; the master plan shall indicate likely investment sequences, earmark
land areas required for development of river and port facilities, and propose
a zoning of the ports areas and means of access;
(b) for the investments selected in Phase II for the 1990-1994 plan
period, prepare preliminary engineering designs based on an analysis
of alternative construction methods, taking into account the specific
site conditions; preliminary designs shall be carried out in
sufficient detail to calculate and compute the construction
quantities and cost estimates, and to define to calculate and compute
the construction quantities and cost estimates, and to define a
program and budget of additional surveys, field investigations and
testing which might be required for detailed engineering; the
consultants shall prepare an appropriate schedule for such
engineering and identify any operational problem which would need to
be considered during design, tendering or construction;
(d) prepare estimates of the cost of final engineering, construction,
equipment acquisition, operation and maintenance for each recommended
investment proposal, with breakdowns of foreign exchange and local
currency requirements; the estimates shall include adequate
provisions for physical and price contingencies and the consultants
shall indicate the basis on which these have been calculated;
(e) evaluate the economic feasibility of improvements of the inland
waterway transport system and river ports by a comparison of the
economic benefits to be expected from such improvements in the
context of the overall transport system with the capital, maintenance
and operation costs involved; the benefits to be considered will
include: savings in cargo handling costs, ship operating costs, and
truck and train operating costs related to inter-modal operations; in
the case of diverted or generated traffic, the benefits will include
overall transport savings in comparison with the alternatives modes
of transport, taking into account the differences in transit time
costs among modes; the cost to be considered should include the costs
of improvement, equipment purchase and maintenance of the river
systems and of the river ports; the economic evaluation shall include
sensitivity analysis with respect to the most relevant parameters;
(f) produce a feasibility report covering each investment proposal,
suitable for obtaining financing for infrastructure; prepare a
time-based program of improvements projects by order of priority,
taking into account the optimum timing for the recommended works;
(g) produce a status report on progress made with MAHART in carrying out
the industrial/comercial zone master plan;
(h) prepare and outline of all actions required by the Government and
MAHART to implement and support the proposed services and facility



- 132 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 6
improvements, identifying the agencies to be involved, together with
budget estimates of costs for each proposed action; and
(i) define the scope of detailed engineering, the preparation of contract
documents, services for bid solicitation, bid evaluation and contract
award, and construction supervision; describe this scope in detailed
draft terms of reference for all engineering services required,
accompanied by detailed staffing schedules, manpower estimates, and a
budget, all in a form that would be suitable as the basis or contract
negotiations for the required additional services.
Time Schedule and Reporting Requirements
10.      The consultants shall prepare and submit the follow_zag reports to the
Government, MAHART, and the Bank, within the time periods and in quantities
indicated:
Number of Copies                  Timing (in months
To Gov't.          To MAHART    To Bank from Starting Date)
English
English Hungarian English Hungarian   only
Inception Report                                         2            3
Progress Reports                                         1        every 2 months
Interim Report                                           3            7
Draft Final Report                                        2          11
Final Report                                             3           (*)
(*) Within 30 calendar days of receipt of comments on the Draft Final Report
form the Government, MAHART, and the Bank.
11.      The Inception Report shall summarize the consultant analyses and
recommendations pertaining to Phase I of the scope of services. The Progress
Reports shall give a statement of all work performed during the reporting
period, a summary of interim findings and an outline of work expected to be
completed during the next reporting period. The Interim Report shall contain
a summary of the findings and recommendations of the consultants on overall
strategy in river transport, related policy implications and institutional
improvements, and timing of investments. The Draft Final Report shall cover
the consultants findings and recommendations on all work done under this
contract. It shall have a concise executive summary and contain the full
text, graphics, charts and tables to be p-esented in the consultants' Final
Report, in edited form and suitable for final reproduction. The Final Report
shall reflect all revisions the consultants deem appropriate after receipt of
commuents on the Draft Final Report. In addition to the Final Report, the
consultants shall prepare a concise document presenting the agreed
developments and improvements in a form suitable for marketing the services of
the river transport system.



- 133 -
12.      The study is estimated to require about 30 man-months, at an
estimated cost at about US$ 300,000 of which all direct foreign exchange costs
(about US$ 200,000) would be financed from a World Bank loan.
13.      Terms of reference for the study were discussed and agreed during the
negotiations, and the study would be initiated by December 31, 1989 and
completed by June 30, 1991.
S9O8U/4-9



- 134 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
HUNGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Budapest Transport Company Component
Organization and Management Study
Outline Terms of Reference
Background
1.     The Budapest Transport Company (BKV) employs about 24,600 staff and
operators a fleet of about 3,800 vehicles, including buses, trolley buses,
tramways, metro and suburban trains; it serves in excess of 5 million
passengers daily, which is about 802 of all motorized trips in Budapest, a
city of 2 million people.
Study Objectives
2.     The objective of the study is to identify non-investment and/or low
cost methods, particularly institutional changes through which the BKV would
increase effectiveness and efficiency of its operations, increase its
revenues, and become more competitive and market-responsive.
Scope of Work
3.     The study would be carried out in two phases, first carrying out a
diagnostic survey of the company, and then developing an action program.
The diagnostic phase would consist of three parts:
(i) a rapid overall assessment of the BKV, including human and
material resources; performance; market and operating
environment; administrative and financial relationships; and
development plans in the perspective of urban development of
Budapest, and economic/social development of Hungary.
(ii) special topics, including but not limited to the following:
- regulatory system under which the company operates, imposed
by the City Council or the State; (focus on such aspects as
the regulation of: line and service characteristics; staff
hiring, firing and salaries; purchasing and outside
contracting; BKV monopoly position; relation to MAV and
VOLAN);



- 135 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
- ornanization: basic company missions/functions, division
into directorates, departments and beyond; match between
groups and missions/functions; inter-group linkages;
- management: scope, methods style, reporting procedures;
- staffing: numbers, qualifications, assignment to functions,
participation in decision-making, salary and benefits,
career development;
- management information: performance indicators (those
internal to the BKV and those externally developed) from
three different points of view: the passengers, the
Government and the company management;
- management information: accounting and budgeting systems
and their use for short- or longer-term management and
planning; spncial emphasis on costing and cost control;
- financial procedures and policies;
-  marketing and innovation:  methods, orientation and
perspectives with special emphasis on approaches to setting
up new services;
- fares system: fare categories, market segmentation,
evidence of elasticities, links to household consumption
patterns; and
- information processing and analytic methods: use and
diffusion of computer hardware and software.
(iii)  the development of a simulation model of the BKV: a modular,
coarse-grained tool, initially meant for strategic planning,
but capable of further development; would link factor inputs,
services offered, and passenger attraction at given fares,
calculating standard, integrated financial reports as key
output.
4.      The recommendations phase would consist of a series of 5-year action
programs related to the special topics above, individually or in packages,
using the simulation model to the degree possible to evaluate expected costs
and benefits. Though some of the above topics may be related to the
strengthening of central management, the key idea is to create, within the BKV
and in its relation to the outside, market-type thinking and processes. At
the same time, the company would remain in public ownership and be available
as a means for implementing selected social policies.



- 136 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
5.      The study would be initiated no later than the end of 1989 and
completed by the end of 1990. It would have a budget of about 30 professional
mman-month, be carried out by outside consultants in about 8-10 months, and
report directly to the BKV Director-General.
6.      Terms and reference for the study were discussed and agreed in general
with the governmen; during the negotiations and terms of refereive would be
finalized after further consultation with the Bank.
5078U.pil-13



- 137 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
HUNGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector
1.      HUNGARY:  Transport Sector Strategy Paper (Green Cover,
June 18, 1987)
2.      HUNGARY:  Financial Market Study (Yellow Cover)
3.      Hungary Statistical Books - 1984
4.      Magyar Allamvagutak - Statisztikaizsebkonyve, 1985, 1986
5.      Public Finance in Hungary - Ministry of Finance, 1986
6.      Uber Die Simulation.des Verkehrsverlaufs - 1985
7.      Development of the National Highway Network - MTCC, 1985
8.      Transport Sector Memorandum - 1986
9.      Practical Methodology to Investigate and Assess the National
Economic Efficiency of Highway Investments (On Hungary) - 1986
10.      UVATERV; "Consulting and Engineering for Communication and
Transport
11.      Transportation Policy - Transportation Ecc.aomics, by Dr. Arpad
Ivany, Jozsef Pal and Dr. Laszlo Toth (English Translation of
selected chapters).
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Proiect
1.       Feasibility studies on:
a)   Transport Management Information System (TMIS) - MAV;
b)   Track Maintenance and Construction Machines - MAV;
c)   Recycling Plant (for Used Rails) - MAVM;



- 138 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
d)   Traffic and Economic Analysis of Budapest Bypass - MO
Motorway 13.8 km by UVATERV;
e)   Road Maintenance Equipment - by Cooeditration Office for
Public Road Management;
f)   Csepel Port - Modernization of Grain Storage and Handling
Equiprent - by Agrober - EGTI;
g)   Csepel Port - Modernization including Railway and Road
Connection Network - by UVATERV;
h)   Hungarocamion - Handling Equipment for Transit Distributi a
Stores - by Hungarocamion:
(2) Road user's contribution study - Institute for Transport
Science - Budapest;
(3) Hungarocamion Organization and Information System
Requirements - Uniconsult (West Germany) - Report on
Phase I; and
(4) Hungarocamion Development of International Marketing -
Uniconsult ;West Germany) - Report on Phase 1U.
i)  Volan - Interface Facilities for Freight Operations - by
Volan;
J)   The preparatory study on the complex system of urban
Transport control;
k)   MAVs Traction Ooerational plan;
1)   Details of: traffic forecasts, economic analysis and cost
estimates;
m)   Information on BKV;.
n)   Budapest and its Transport 1987;
o)   Performance Evaluation and Standards of Service - Public
Transport Company BKV, March 198; and
p)   Draft Bidding documents for TMIS and BKV's traffic control
system.
S07SU/14- IS



- 139 -
TABLE 1: HUNGARV
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECONO RANSPORT PROJECT
Freiaht Traftic by made of Trinsoort 1960 86  '
(in Million ton-km and in percent of total)
Yer    Railway    RQ.          Water           r     Pigeltnes       rotl
1960    13.346       1.890 "'   1.3S3          1           97        16.687
(80.00)Z    (11.3)       (8.1)    (0.0)        (0.6)       (100.0)
1970    19.821       S.820       2.866        11        1.043        29,561
(67.1)     (19.7)        (9.7)    (0.0)        (3.5)       (100.0)
1975    23.541      a8731        4.245        12        3.092        39.621
(59.4)      (22.1)     (10.7)    (0.0)         (7.8)       (100.0)
1976    23.156       9.441       4.445        19        3.595        40.656
(57.0)      (23.2)     (10.9)    (0.0)         (8.9)       (100.0)
1977    24.181      10.439       6.167        22        3-737        44,546
(54.3)      (23.4)      (13.8)    (0.1)        (8.4)       (100.0)
1978    24.500      11.462       6.793        27        3.886        46.668
(52.5)      (24.6)      (14.5)    (0.1)        (8.3)       (100.0)
1979    24.661      11.773       7.013        32        4.291        47.770
(51.6)      (24.6)     (14.7)    (0.1)         (9.0)       (100-0)
1980    24.399      11.403       7.875        28        4.623        48.328
(SO.S3     (23.6)      (16.3)    (0.1)         (9.S)       (100.0)
1981    24.342      11.7S9       8.507        25        4.387        49.020
(49.6)      (24.0)     (17.4)    (0.1)         (8.9)       (100.0)
1982    23.273      11.883       8.201        29        4.473        47.459
(48.6)      (24.8)      (17.1)    (0.1)         (9.4)       (100.0)
1983    23.079      tl.951       8.376        23        4.33S        47.763
(48.3)      (25.0)      (17.S)    (0.1)        (9.1)        (100.0)
1984    22.847      11.94S       9.549        22        4.788        49.152
(46.5)      (24.3)     (19.4)    (0.1)          (9.7)      (100.0)
198S    22.309      11.927       9.003        26        4.850        48,115
(46.4)      (24.8)     (18.7)    (0.1)        (10.0)       (100.0)
1986    22.600      12.475       8.644        24        4.954        48.397
(46.7)      (2S.1)      (17.9)    (0.1)       (10.2)       (100.0)
Average Oistance (km)
1960       137.4         14.0      246.0    750.0          74.6          69.8
1970       168.2        14.3       286.6   1750.0         113.4          54.3
1975       178.2         17.4      339.6   1728.6         167.1          59.6
1976       17S.6        18.1       35S.6   242S.0         173.7          S9.1
19"7        179.4        18.5      48S.6   2036.3         191.6          61.0
1978       181.2         19.4      503.2   2076.9         186.8          61.3
1979       183.6        19.S       547.9   2012.5         193.3          61.7
1980       187.4        19.5       645.5   2021.4         208.2          64.6
1981       18S.S         19.6      630.1   1700.0         182.8          63.9
1982        183.1       20.6       621.3   1843.0         173.4          64.3
1983       186.1        21.3       e39.4   1761.0         170.7          65.9
1984       187.3        21.5       734.5   1676.9         177.3          68.6
1985       189.9        21.6       818.4   1618.7         176.4          68.0
1)86       189.7        21.3       837.6   1481;2         167.3          66.4
Tonnade (Millionsl
1960        97.1       135.1          S.S     I/            1.3         239.0
1970       117.8       407.0        10.0      3J            9.2         544.0
1975        132.1      501.3        12.5      I/           18.5         664.4
1976       131.9       522.7        12.5      I/           20.7         687.8
19"         134.8      563.S        12.7      I/           19.S         730.5
1978       135.2       591.3         13.S     I/           20.8         760.8
1979       134.3       604.4        12.8      1/           22.2         773.7
1980       130.2       584.0        12.2       I           22.2         748.6
1981       131.2       598.3        13.S      I/           24.0         766.9
1982       127.1       S77.9         13.2     1/           25.8         744.0
1983       124.0       561.8        13.1      1/           25.4         724.2
1984       122.0       554.5        12.5      I/           26.9         71S.7
198S       117.5       551.4        10.8      I/           27.5         707.3
1986        119.1      571.8         10.3     1/           27.5         728.7
I/ Both for publiC and private use.
J/ Figures within parentheses denote percentages.
3/ Less than twenty thousand tons.
Source: Hungary - Statistical Year BOok. 1980-1986.
February 1989



-140-
TABLE 2: nUhCARY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND  2ANSPORT PROJECr
A. Puolic Pissencer 'rinslart 1960-36
Passenaers 'Arrtcd (Millions)   Pissenaer Kilometer, (Millions
Long        Lical                  Long        Local
'1rC     Oitance    IrC.fic    :2LI    Oistance    Traffic              Total
196         ,25.'      !.        2.28S.8   18.128.6       9,404.1     27.532.1
!970     1.003.3      2.142.3   3.145.6   24.029.7    10.043.4    34.073.1
1975     1.17.a       2.384.a   3.492.6   26.93S.9    11,374.7    38.310.6
1976     1.127.6      2.429.9    .SS7,S   27.197.7    11.646.0    38.843.?
1977     1.146.5      2.498.2   3.,44.7   27,987.7    11.922.6    39,910.3
1978     1.165.7      2.546.1   3.711.8   28.583.2    12.14S.7    40.728.9
1979     1.183.S      2.08.1   3,791.6   29.055.4    12.4S1.8    41,SO7.2
1980     1,187.1      2.6S6.2   3.843.3   29.361.3    12.648.1    42,009.4
1981       988.3      2,976.9   3.965.2   29.044.2    14.068.7    43,112.9
1982       980.0      3.013.9   3.993.9   28.522.6    14.222.1    42.744.7
1983       914.3      3.065.1   3.97S.4   2S.727.3    14,425.4    40.1S2.7
1984       906.7      3.138.3   4.045.0   26.111.6    14.696.8    40.808.4
1985       889.5      3.221.3   4,110.9   26.007.3    14,914.7    40.922.0
1986       882.0      3.S86.2   4.473.2   25.863.3    14,671.2    40.S34.5
S.  Public Passenaer Transport by Mode of Transnort 1960-R6
Passencer-Km (Milllonsl
ar          Rail        Road f       Urban  Water        &L=           law
1960      14.323.8        l3lOSl.l         82.6           7S.2      27.S32.7
(52.0)"        (47.4)        (0.3)          (0.3)       (100.0)
1970      16,339.1        17,2SO.7         59.1          424.2      34,073.1
(48.0)         (S0.6)        (0.2)          (1.2)       (100.0)
197S      15,823.S        21.854.1         77.4          SSS.6      38.310.6
(41.3)         (S7.0)        (0.2)          (1.S)       (100.0)
1976       IS,569.9       22.649.4         71.7          552.7      38.843.7
(40.1)         (58.3)        (0.2)          (1.4)      (000.0)
1977      I5.396.2        23,732.3         75.8          706.0      39.910.3
(38.6)         (S9.4)        (0.2)          (1.8)       (100.0)
1078       '4.928.7       24,907.2         83.2          809.8      40,728.9
(36.7)         (61.1)        (0.2)          (2.0)       (100.0)
1979      14,611.7        25.791.1         78.0        1.026.4      41,S07.2
(35.2)         (62.1)        (0.2)          (2.5)       (100.0)
1980      14.65S.8        26.200.9         76.3        1,076.4      42.009.4
(34.9)         (62.4)        (0.2)          (2.5)       (100.0)
1981       13,544.6       28.243.7         79.0        1,245.6      43.112.9
(31.4)         (65.5)        (0.2)          (2.9)       (100.0)
1982      13.070.5        28.321.1         86.5        1.266.6      42.744.7
(0.S)          (66.3)        (0.2)          (3.0)       (100.0)
1983      11.104.5        27.793.1         '4.2        1,180.9      40,152.7
(27.7)         (69.2)        (0.2)          (2-9)       (100.0)
1984       11,274.4       28.229.3         72.9        1,238.8      40.308.4
(27.6)         (69.2)        (0.2)          (3.0)       (100.0)
1985      11,209.4        28.310.6         69.0        1,333.0      40,922.0
(27.4)         (69.2)        (0.2)          (3.2)       (100.0)
1986      11.223.7        28,093.7         74.1        1,143.0      40.S34.5
(27.7)         (69.3)        (0.2)          (2.8)       (100.0)
1/  Figures within parentheses denote percentages.
Source:  Hungary - Statistical Year Back, 1980-1986.
February 1989
5olsUP. 1 



- '.41 -
r48LE I WUUGARY
c-":FF APPRAISAL REPORT
sEC00 rRQANSPORT PROJECT
Number of 3ifferent ',,'es of maotor Veicles
(in '000)
Passenger                              Trucks
Year '   Cars      Buses            VAn  Vans
19,0                     238.6               9.5                74.5
197S                     568.3              12.5                94.1
1980                   1.013.4              22.2               111.1
1981                   1,105.4              23.4               116.5
1982                   1.181.7              24.7               119.4
1983                   12sa8.s              '4.4               129.6
1984                   1,344.1              -4.9               142.3
1985                   1.43S.9              U4.8               151.3
1986                   1.538.9              25.9               163.2
1/ At the end of the year.
Source: Hungary Statistical Year Book 1980-1986.
February 1989
SO?UP .1 J



Table 4: HUNGARY
STAFF APPRAISAL 2EPORT
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
1986-90 Transoort 1nvestinnt Plan
1980          1981       1982       i983       1984        1985       1986-902.
Planned
Transoort Hod                       --------------------------(in FT Hilliton)------------------------------
1.  Railways                        9.644        7.451      6.672      6.495      5.767       6.765       47.400
(46.1)3      (36.4)    (34.8)       35.2)    (35.7)       (36.9)       145.3
2.  (a) highways                    8.649        9.590      9.726      9.229      7.7ID       8.501       43.350
(41.3)       (47.0)      S0.81)    (50.0)    (47.7)       (46.3)       (41.4)
-  National & State
goads                    3.247        3.094      2,810      1.853      1.397       1,520       12.950
015.5)       (1S.2)    (14.7)    010.0)        (8.6)       (8.3)       (12.41
-  Village. Comaaunty
6 Country Roads          1.201        2.314      2.407      2.701      2.613       2.257        11.200
5.7)        (11.3)    (12.6)    (14.6)    (16.2)         (12.3)       010.7)
(b) Road Motor Vehicles4'    4.201           4.182      4.509      4.675      3,700       4.724       19.200
420.1)       (20.5)    (23.5)    (25.41    (22.9)         (25.7)        16.3)
3.  River Port & Shipping             526          186        249        196        1S           12S       2.800
(2.5)        (0.9       (1.2)    (0.1)        (1.21       (0.7)        (2.37
4.  Aviation                        1.265      _1.712       1.195      1.677      1.660       1."          3.550
(6.0)        (8.4)      (6.2)      (9.0)    (10.3)       (10-3)        (3.4)
(a) Aircraf;                       84          S01        346        321        265         471
(0.41        (2.5)      (1.8)      (1.7)    (0.6)         (2.6)
lb) Airports                    1.181        1.211        849      1.356      1.395       1.417
(5.6)        (5.9)      (4.4)      (7.3)      (6.7)       (3.7)
S.  Pipehlles                         836        1.507      1.329        850        817       1.075        7.600
UA)1    (L2.)           U4.)      4J2l       {5.I        JS.)   -A17
Total (excludin4
Urban Transport)          20.920       20.446    19,172    18.447    16.139          111.b0      104.700
1100.0)      (100.0)   (100.0)   (100.0)   (100.0)    (100.0)          (100.03
1/ At currec.t prices
Z/ Figures rounded off.
3/ Figures within parenthesis indicate percentage.
9/  Included only public sector.
Source: The Nualistry of Tragisport, Coamunicatton and Conistruction
February 19898
sEu Pgu*I



Page I of 2
Table   5: HUGR
.TAfF APPRAA. KwORI
SECO   TRANSPRT PROJECT
Rai lway Caonentgo
Frej ht and Pas.sener Traffc
Actual 1980-22 and tisstons roAection 1918-91
----Alactual-------------                       ---                                 ed forecast--------
JIM   1281    1982    1911    12li    1211    1211    1912    1981   1212    1198             1~2       1222      122~
I. freight Traffic
a) Tonnage (mil. net JLo5)
Domestic                    78.5    50.8    79.7    76.2    73.2    68.5    69.2    68.1
International Transit       19.8    lS.1    16.8    16.2    15.9    IS.1    14.5    13.0
Export-import                  $    31 .4 _.2"        30-9    31.    3-I2      ILl    lLfk
Total                    129.1   130.3   126.4   123.3   121.2   116.8   118.5   114.7
bI Volimu  (mil, net . Lk
Domestic                11.020  11,337  11,331  10.844  10.464   9,861   9.863   9.788
International           1L,21  1261   11.596  1L1222  J2.040  1201   12.350  11422
Total                24,041  23.951  22.927  22,777  22,504  21,929  22.213  21,387
II.  Passenger Traffic                                                                                     ---------------         As 1987 ------ -----
a) Oomestic ,
Passengers (m.l.)          278.3   265.7   259.2   231.1   231.8   228.2   225.6   222.2.
International                4.1   --L   -.l  3..              1.1  _. _       -la    __4.
Total                   282.4   269.9   262.4   234.4   235.5   232.4   229.9   226.9
b) Pass. km (ma.L)
Domestic                12.765  .: 592  12,271  10,312  10,414  10.200  10.261  10.278
International              Isfl     n    .512       _IJ  .4. 1        70.     A45    9.2
Total                13.S50  13.389  12.9)3  10.981  )l.S!  11.093  11.106  11.206
III. Traffic Units
ail .NTKCins.iPKs)         ILIIA    14.    III  32112-fi&) 32022  22.11   222
I/ HNV had supplied a traffic forecast for years up to 1993 showing average
annual increases. 1918-93, for passenger of 0.0% and 1.lS freight. In the
light of traffie trends In recent years. the mission considers projection
on traffic fisures. which show no variation from those of 1987.
Source: NAV and Hission Estimates.
February 1989
507SUP 20



Page 2 of 2
Table S: HUNGARY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Railway Comonent
Frelaht and Passenaer TraffiC
Actual 1980-87 and MAV's Proiectton 1988-93
-----------Actual- ----------------------- - - -Planned forecast----    -----Estimated-
MiM     lili   1im       1i98     JIm      JIm     1im      Jill   JI9      Jim      IMfi      199i      1im      JI21
I. Freight Traffic
a) Tonnage (mil. net tons)
Donestic                    78.8    80.8    79.7    76.2    73.2    66.8    69.2    68.1    69.2    69.2    69.9           70.3      70.6      70.9
International Transit       19.8    18.1    16.8    16.2    15.9    1S.1    14.5    13.0    12.9    14.3    14.4           14.5      14.6     14.7
Export-iaport              _ij    _J1.A    29.        30.9    31.9  3I         11.      33-6i   33.4            _}.        34.8      35.          2
Total                   129.1   130.3   126.4   123.3   121.2   116.8   118.5   114.7   115.5   118.0   119.0    119.6    120.2    120.8
b) Volume (mil. net tkm)
Donestic                11.020  11.337  11.331  10,844  10.464   9.861   9.863   9.788   9.990   9.722   9.846    9.903    9.960   10.050
International           13.021  12.614  1S96  11,933  128.40  12.068  12.350  11.592  11520 L2ILUA  12.444   12.540   12.636   1 D   4
Total                24.041  23,951  22.927  22,777  22.504  21.929  22.213  21.387  21.510  21.510  22.290   22.443   22.596   22,800   4
II. Passenger Traffic (mill.)
a) Domestic
Passengers                 278.3   265.7   259.2   231.1   231.8   228.2   225.6   222.2   218.0   220.6   219.5    220.0    220.5    221.2
International                4-1   __,Z    -L         ii 3-3   3-7      4-    4.3   _.. 47       5        4.4  4.A  4.      A       -.7      9A.
Total                   282.4   269.9   262.4   234.4   235.5   232.4   229.9   226.9   223.0   225.0   224.0    224.6    225.2    226.0
b) Pass. km (mil)
Domestic                12.765  12.592  12.271  10,312  10.414  10.200  10,261  10.278  10.099  10.141  10.092   10.130   10,168   10.215
International             785      797 6 42 662              711      708   _84S_              928 1    87?   9           92_94 __A    2_5i
Total                13,550  13.389  12.913  10,981  11.155  11.093  11.106  11.206  11.080  11.018  11.990   11.050   11,110   11,180
III.  TraFfic Units
(mil.NTtm1l.PKasm)         37 S91  327340  3S4   23  758   33.659  33,022  32.J1J  32.593  32590  33.068  33.280   33.493 137                33,9
Source: IAV estimate.
February 1989
S071UP .21



IaUAA.:  Mama
STAfF APPRAISAL REPORT
SEC011D TRANISPORT PRO.IECT
flnerAting Result&
Ra iway Component
Goods Transported in Containers hr MAv. 1970-a7 1/
(in 000 tons)
Type of    Kind of
CgagAter  TrafftJ       s2     121   1922  11       23   1 121   111 1122 1nu        12      1121    3.1n3 Iq1    11qZ         L       21     12IM     lso   1212
eq        EEport        1.5     3.1    4.7    4.8    6.5      8.9   12.6   11.d    15.4    12.7    12.0    12.6    11.3    12.1    14.1    12 4   IS a   27.9
E         Import       9.0    12.2   10.1   19.5   18.4    20.1   30.d   27.2    26.3    25.3    22.5    24.6    25.9   24.1    17.3   1M.1   17.6   20.1
0        Transit      0.3     0.8    1.0    1.6    2.9      3.2    4.1    5.2      3.7     4.4      3.1     1.5      1.9     1.9     1.6     1.6    1.7    1.7
I       Inland     IL A            ULl   1011-5  j11    206-1  33U    9124   I" 2794  5aIL               SALl   111    bil   11            M4  bIia bg2.t
'U
n     Subtotal   24.2    50.9   61.9  134.7  184.6   239.0  331.1  456.2   496.2   563.1   597.2  629.1   622.4  445.3   651.3  614.2  640.7  659.3
VI
L          Export       9.8    16.4   17.3  24.4   31.4    44.1   66.3   97.3    89.8   132.0   172.8   272.6   334.6  608.9   632.7  655.4  675.7  796.1
A         Import       1.3     5.1   17.B   18.5   37.7    33.0   39.5   54.5   69.5   105.5   145.3   303.2   368.4  537.9  669.1   691.9  "1.3  023.0
R        Transit      2.0     4.2   17.6   35.6   74.6   86.3   95.0   99.1   210.4   130.1   156.8   136.5   137.1   163.4   172.1   16b.0  16o.2  142.7
C       Inland       _       L2       i   LLO   IkA    I24   I3l5               MILl2  ilSS   13L.5   1lla  11             9. 119. MA    2.4   2Z.    221,
Subtotal   13.1    27.5   56.8   89.7  160.5   188.8  236.5  305.2   449.9  483.1  610.4   892.9  1001.0  1510.1  IeaS.3  1746.7 1967.1 I.9v2.a
Total      )24    t8.4   13   ZIiJ  3ILA   IlL)  SIL2  261   296                8 lL46.2  120  1S22.0  113.  3. Li"4  21ULl  zLf    2QQ7WA  2.01. I
V   Excluding small containers of 5 tons or lebs.  The medlun containers are 20 ft. and the large Containers are 40 ft.
Source: "AV
June 1988
$1O?u'P 22



Page I of 3
Ible 7:  HUNGAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Doeratina Results
Railway Comonent
Seleeted Operating Statistics for Nunqarian Railways 11980-871
lUit         i        lO          1982        12U         19n4        12A 590                  192
I.  LENGTH OF LINE. TOTAL           km          7.,fi.L)    7,fi17,L      7.611.1    7.i12.2    L7fiif i   L 716.8    7.616.1       7.618.6
Standard gauge                  km          7.402.8   7.406.3    7,400.4    7,401.5         7,405.3   7,406.0    7,405.4       7,407.9
Narrow gauge                    km            175.7      175.7       175.0       175.7        17S.7      17S.7      171.7        171.7
Broad gauge                     km             35.0       35.0        35.0        35.0         35.0       35.0       35.0         35.0
Electrified                     km          1,509.5   1,516.3    1,603.7    1.703.9         1.o00.s   1.917.4    1.919.6       1.99b.6
II.  TRAFFIC
Passenger-km                    oil          13.550    13,389       12,913      10,981    11.155       11,093     11,106       11,20b
Net ton-km                      mil          24,041    23,951       22,927      22,277    22,504      21.929      22.213       21.367
Passenger gross-ton km          mil          18,459    17,780       16,391      17.813    18,144       17,936     17,580       17,784
Freight gross-ton km            mil          50.381    51,394       49,702      48.137    48,486      48,836      47.492       45,375  
Total gross-ton km              mil          68.840    69,514       68,093     65,950    66.630       64,772      65.372       13,359  ..
Total gross ton km per km       mil                                                                                                     0'
of line                       gt km/km       9.04       9.13        8.95        8.66      8.75        8.50        8.55        8.29
III.  TRACTION AND RQLLING STOCK
Electric locomotives            number          375        405         431         436        441        452         461      n.a.
cookw           779.4      856.8      914.0       916.0      936.0       979.2       992.0   n.a
Oiesel locomotives              number         1101       1118        1122       1.529       1128        1096      1.09S      n.a.
000kw           897.1     911.4       919.2       918.6      929.8       906.7       906.6   n.a.
Steam locomotives               number          502        393         296         185        113          75         61      nI.a.
oookw           379.1      297.5      227.8       143.0       91.1        56.3        43.9   n.a.
Raulbuses                       sets            101         95          96          95         92         86          75      n.a.
cookw            15.6       14.7        14.5        14.7      14.4        13.8        12.6   n.a.
oOo seats         4.6        4.4         4.4         4.3       4.0         3.7         3.4   n.a.
sets            175        184         184         194       214         230         247     it.a.
Diesel Motor trains             oookw            43.4       44.6        44.6        46.0       48.8        51.1       53.5   n.a.
ooo seats        35.4       37.0        37.0        38.8      42.3        45.2       41.1   n.a.
Coaches                         nuamber        4338       4369        4303        4226       4158       4131       4,129      n.a.
cooseats        319.9      320.2       316.4      310.4      305.3       303.1       286.5   n.a.
Wagons                          number       68.336    68.325       68,345      68,224    67,836      67.485      66.672      n.a.
ooo tons      2,434.9   2,462.5    2,480.1    2,480.6   2,475.1    2.466.6    2,443.2   n.a.



Table Z                                         Page 2 of J
IV.  tiROUS T0=M BY TYPE OF TRACTION
Electric        - Quantity      m11          35,259    36,754       37,766      37.651    39,212       37.490      38,611      39,705
- Z of total   X               51.2       53.1        55.5        57.1       S8.9       57.9         59.1        62.9
Diesel          - Quantity      mtl          29,218    28,421       27,147      25,780    25,162       25,255      24,729      21,562
- I of total   1               42.5       41.1        39.8        39.0       37.8       39.1         37.8        34.1
Steam           - Quantity      ull           2,408      1,876       1,149         612        307          97         16           6
-     - I of total   X                 3.5       2.?         1.7         1.0        O.S         0.1          0.0         0.0
Self-propelled - Quantity       at'            1,955     2,123       2,031       1,907      1,949       1,890      2,016        1,887
- X of total   X                2.8        3.1         3.0         2.9        2.8        2.9           3.1         3.0
V.  UTILIZATION OF TRACtION AND ROLLINS STOCK
Averaae daily aerfonnance of available enalne
A.  Eassenger traffic                             I
Electric locomotives        km/day          495        462         475         480        S00        510        514         508
Diesel locomotives                          322        307         321         332        333         338       337         335
Steam locomotives                           185        187         190         173        159         1S0       307         342'
Diesel motor trains                         292        286         376         368        302         311       307         308
Coaches                       *             308        295         298         316        315         313       320         337
B.  Freiaht traffic
Electric locomotives        km/day          324        304         345         353       329         339        342         332  '4
Diesel locomotives                          222        218         221         219        207         199       192         190
Steam locomotives                           135       82.6         104         100         99         100       282          ---2/
Freightwagons                                85       81            74          73         77         72         79         77
C.  AvatlAbilit
Electric locomotives                       84.1       82.1          80.0      81.8      81.2        74.6         74.1       80.0
Oiesel locomotives            u            79.2       75.7          74.5      76.6      76.7        76.2         77.1       77.6
Coaches                                    91.8       90.2          89.1      90.4      87.3        77.8         87.9       87.5
Fretghtwagons                 *            94.2       94.1          92.6     82.7       77.3          -          89.6       88.4
Average speed of
passenger trains         km/h            41.2      40.3           41.2     42.9       44.2        44.6         44.8       44.9
Average loading of
freight trains            tons          1,171      1,156         1,162    1,190      1,186       1,191      1,166         1,132
Averase load per loaded   tons/wag
freight wagon                            28.3       27.8          27.9     28.5       28.4        28.5         28.9       25.2
Turnaround time of          days
freight wagons                           3.89       3.94           4.26    4.35       4.36        4.76          4.47      4.49
Passenger km Per seat    OOpkm/seat  36.6           37.0           36.2    31.1       31.7        31.5          32.9      33.0
Net-ton km per 1 tone
of capacity               ODOntkm/t      9.9        9.7            9.2     9.1        9.1         8.9           9.1       8.8



Page 3 of 3
Un1t      ]ISn        18         181         1983      1984        198          1986        1287
VI. STAFF
Employees                      no.         136,247   134,493    132,255    132,229    131,923    133,083    133,718         128,450
Employees per km of line       no./km        17.89      17.65      17.37       17.37      17.32       17.46        17.56         16.86
Traffic units per employee          lemp    281.90    285.50      276.10      259.70     263.30      2.          2S5.20         261.0
(total)                      tus/
Traffic untts per employee
(traffic operation staff)   tus/emp.    366.00    370.20        357.50     335.10      339.10      329.60      327.30         338.7
1/ Tus=NTKN+PKN
I/ Steam traction was used for shunting operations mostly;
Source:  Statistic books of the MAV 1980-1987 and Traction and Rollino Stock Operational Plans.
February 1989
507SU/P.23-2S



la        1:  yUW
STAff APPRAISAL REPORT
TRANSPORT SEnOND PROJECT
PAilwbays Starr aid Productivit
3/ t1ia1hlLUtUmate
Total      Traffic      TUs per EmIlavee       --MAY's Estimate -
_rifrfic units iTUsi- I/                 Number of  Operation             Traffic       Traffic   Tus per
IYr   Chiaraeablg  Operational  R*Ug..LUL2"  Emplou ees  Staff _            W mi  Operatlon..  UniLt    ELMn1ru
-    -million ---------                                       -thousand---- -           million-- thousand
1978      37.938       38,725        1.02        141.719    108,579    273.3         356.2       38,725      356.2
1979      37.800       37.996        1.01        139.243    107,115    272.9         354.n       37.996      354.8
1980      37,591       38.394        1.02        136.247    104.963    281.9         366.0       38.394      366.0
1981      37.340       38.394        1.03        134.493    103,677    285.5         370.2       38.394      370.2
1982      35,840       36,533         1.02       132,255    102.184    276.1         357.5       36,533      357.5
1983      33,758       34.334         1.02       132.229    102,441    259.7         335.1       34.334      335.1
1984      33.659       34.739         1.03       131.923    102,472    263.3         339.0       34,739      339.0
1985      33.022       34.140        1.03        133.083    103.580    256.5         329.6       34.140      329.b         4D
1986      33,319       34.125        1.02        133,718    104.273    255.2         327.3       34.125      327.3
1987      32,5932'    33,532         1.03        128,450    99.000       261.0       338.7       33.532      338.7
1988      32.593       33,532        1.03        127.450    98.100       263.0       341.8       33.568      342.2
1989      32.593       33.532        1.03        125,950      96.900    266.2        346.0       34.060      351.5
1990      32,593       33.532        1.03        124.450      95.200    269.4        352.1       34.278      360.0
1991      32,593       33.532        1.03        122.950      93.800    272.7        357.5       34,498      367.8
1992      32,593       33.532        1.03        121,950      93,000    275.0        360.6       34,717      373.3
1993      32,593'      33,5322'      1.03        120.950      92.100    277.2        364.0       35.000      380.0
I/  Traffic Unlts (TUs) are the sum of net metric ton kms (Ntkm) and passenger-kms (pkm).
Ntkm chargeable are based on the tariff (shortest) distance between origin and
destination. Htkm operational may be greater because some traffic is routed circuitously
to avoid saturated lines or to utilize better facilities.
2/  Mission's esttimate based on the actual figures in 1987, and the projection shows no
variation from those at 1987.
I/  Lxcluding construction and industrial staff.
Souwce:  hungartan Railways and Mission's estimate.
February 1989
su i- .X



Table 9:  fUNGARY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Comparison with Selected Other Railways
(1986)
I/         2/                                                                 West
unit         Hungary       Yuoslava1   Aleria        Greece          Poland      Portumal       Turkey          UAL         German
1. Total line length         km           7,616            9.246       3,700        2,461        24.333       3,603          8.176           16.670       27,490
2. Length of electrified
lines                    km           1.920            3,531         300            0         9,452         458            291           4.1U4        11,433
25.2            38.2         8.1          0.0          38.8         12.7           3.6             24.9         41.6
3. Length of line per
inhabitants            km/'000          73               40.8        18.6         25.8          64.4        35.4           18.1             32.1         45.7
4. Passenger-km              mill.        11,106          12.399           2.156    1,933        48.526       5.802          6.052           30,819       41.397
5. Passenger-km per
km of line              '000         1,458            1,341         583          785         1.994       1.611            740            1.849        1.S06
6. Passenger-km per seat    O00O              33              48          56            34          -            -              65               28            SO
7. Net ton km                mill.       22.213           27,573       3.100          814       ;20,043        1.448         7,219           17.640       59.581
8. Net ton km per km                                                                                                                                              o
of line                 *000         2,917            2,982          84          331         4.933         402            883            1,006        2,169  1
9. Net ton km per            000 ntkm/
wagon capacity          wagon          333              390         235           75           744         265            329              125          202
lO.Pass. km/NTkm as
X of total traffic
units                   %            33/67            31/69       41/59        70/30         29/71       80/20           46/54           64/36        41/59
ll.Staff (average)           number     104,273          126,018      18,000       11.897       373.639          21.749    59,860           1S9,754      261,507
12.Number of staff per       No. staff/
km of line              km.              13.6            13.6         4.9          4.8          15.4         6.0            7.3              9.6           9.S
13.Traffic Censity per       mill. gross
km of line              tkm/km           8.58             7.64        2.3          4.60         12.7         2.8            3.1              8.00          9.32
14.Traffic units per
employee                '000           327              317         272          231           451         335            222              193           386
I/ 1985
2/ 1984
5078/P 27



TABLE to: WUNGARY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND TmIASPORT PROJECT
HAV: Commoditv Analysis
Average Annual
KniQz   tCm1omLmties                                         1982     19f3      jig      198       198     1987    Growth Rate
- -----    -----   ------000 Tones-----------------------------                 -----t ----
I     Coal                             14.920   15.480   15,683   15,327   14.617   15,603   16.172   15.742           0.8
2     Iron Ore                          6.926    7.348    7,420    7,406    7.161    5,315    6.072    5,566          (3.1)
3     Box1te                            1,703    1.634    1,503    1,569    1,553    1,501    1.711    1,611          (0.8)
4     Stone                             8,473    a.25s    8,181    7,321    6,697    6,046    4,981    4.791          (7.8)
S     Gravel                            6,319    6.824    6.596    5,849    5,90        4,595    5.264    5,041       (3.1)
6     Cruide 01 and Products           8.148    7.603    6.947    6,652    6,658    6.422    6,118    6,187          (3.9)
7     Steel Plate                       5.329    5.099    5,010    5,055    5.082    5,103    5,186    5.282          (0.1)
8     Fertilizer                        4,319    4.784    4,332    4,897    5,100    4,795    5,059    5,452           3.4
9     Coke                              1.975    1.777    1,689    1,777    1,595    1,820    1.611    1,424          (4.b)
10     Brick and Tile                      990       957      804       637      642       470       148      155    (23.0)
11     Nortar                              657       662      561       560       512      483    1,243    1.003        6.2
12     Cement                            3,167    2.953    2,706    2,788    2,666    2,304    2.314    2.179          (5.31
13     Cement's Products                 1.615    1,570    1,429    1.292    1,347    1,128    1.100    1,022          (6.1)      _
14     Ground Products                     460       449      467       476      609       608       721    1.124      13.e 
15     Sugar                               521       494      482       377       362      404       388      408      (3.5)
16     Cereals                           1,011    1.243    1,138    1,427    1,553    1,943    1.874    1,388           4.6
17     Cattle Feed                         243       319      268       155      249       265       259      244       0.0
18     Corn                                764       778    1,053    1,003       845       920    1,094       654      (2.2)
19     Potato                              106       147      242       118        99      102        71       87      (2.8)
20     Sugar Beet                        2,889    3,552    3,755    3,301    3,148    3,372    2,877    3.244           1.7
21     Fire Wood                           636       650      665       590       538      639       605      438      (5.2)
22     Timbers                           4,512    4,566    4,023    4,182    4,498    4,739    4,941    4.888           1.2
23     Top Soil and Clinker              1,408    1,261    1,159    1,232    1,214    1,088    1.551    1.266          11.6)
24     Other Comnodities                27,896   29.210   28,971   28.689   28,215   27,992   28,507   28,657           0.4
25     Special Commodities                 137       135       129      123       121      119       117      111      (3.0)
26     International (Tran!it)          19,794   18,107   16.796   16,201   15,970   15.120   14.459   13,040          (5.8)
27        Railway haterials             4.239       4       4.315    4.17   _ 4.259 3.945    4.064    3.762             L7
TOTAL                         129,157  130,303  126,334  123,274  121,212  116,859  118,507  114,766         (1.7)
.'ource:  MAV's Statistical Year Book, 1980-1987.
February 1989
S071OuP 28



TABLE  1:   MNA
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPDAISAL REPORT
Railway 19860-90 Investment Plan and 1991-93 Estimto  '
Ouantit .  Actual  ---- P L A N N E D -------------TOTAL   --Breakdown 1987-90--  1/   - 1991-93 Estimate- -Total 1991 93-
unit   MAY   l9B7-9Ow   1fim   12622/  IM8   12Z       IM9   1987-2    LosaI  Forsdei  Icta    ()           l2       1..9   12
------ ------- Ft Millions-------------------   ----US$ Millions----             ---Ft millioas --   Ft M111 US$NIll
A. IntrAzulLuIM
l.Const. of new lines    Km   ---       1.7   ---        5.6      1.9   ---       ---          7.5    0.1    0.1    0.2  ( 0.0)       5      10     I5       30    0.6
2.Doubling of lines       Km   ---      9      ---       .0.6     0.4    17.8      79.2       98.0    1.6    0.5    2.1  ( 0.31    60        55     55      170    3.o
3.Elect. of lines         Km    32   340       456.3   405.0   655.4   529.3    790.2   2.379.9   29.0   21.0   50.0  S 6.3)   600    600    650   I,8SO   38.9
4.Track rehab. of lines  Km   280   735   2.300.0 1,682.4 2,027.9 2,000.0  2,663.2   8,373.5   60.9  115.0  175.9  (22.5) 1.840  1.850  1,900   5.590  117.4
S.Dridges                 Pcs   93    82       267.4   282.7   206.7   278.7    453.2   1.2?1.3   19.2    6.4   25.6  l 3.31   160    150    145            455    9.b
6.1ndust. track a
sidings             Km     4    98       22.6    77.7    34.6    50.8        42.3     205.4    3.8    0.5    4.3  ( 0.5)    30        25      25      80   137
7.Substructure
(reconstruction)          -                    45.6    79.4    62.7    75.3       61.1      278.5    5.2    0.7    5.9  A 0.7)    55       bO      60      175    3.7
8.Reconst. of main
marshalling yards       No    -       -      I30.1 1,016.6   666.8 1.058.0    820.1   3.561.5   49.9   24.9   74.8  ( 9.6)   520    440    320   1,260   2b.9
9.Junctions & stations
(Reconstructurel        No                   560.4   477.4   415.7   530.8    336.5   1.760.4   30.0    7.0   37.0  S 4.7)   380.0  310    230           920   19.3
1O.Signalling of lines    Km    61   369        414.7   62s.0   779.3   715.5    946.8   3.066.6   35.0   29.4   64.4  S 8.2)   890    930  1,020   2,840   59.7
ll.TelecowAunications      --    --    --       122.2   163.0  150.0   268.8    363.2         945.0    7.9   i2.0   19.9  4 2.51   210    220    230         660   13.9
12.Computer facilitles
(Incl. ofc hardware)   --            _  _  - 1Q-7             IfiLb-AZ9,0   .Z.Z    Ji2 9 9               I      .l VA   L4530   A0R *7-                14-4Q  ZI
Sub-total (A)                         4,534.2 4,887.0 5,302.0 6,054.0  6,978.0  23,221.0  256.6  231.3  487.9  (62.3) 5.150  S.l00  5.200  I5.450  324.7
3.  glty.LL Power L  R-llinD  Stgck
13.Electric locomotives
(Main lines)            Pcs    7    44       765.9   582.0   584.0 1,861.0  1,932.0   4.905.0   31.2   71.8  103.0  (13.2) 1,090. 1,220  1,350   3,660   76.9
14.Electric locomotives
(shunters)              Pcs   --    55        --     118.3   220.0    --         --       338.3    2.4    4.7    7.1  ( 0.93       -       -^      ^^
15.Coaches                 PCs   50    20       102.7     4.7   600.0   126.0       --        730.0    1.7   13.6   15.3  S 2.0)   160    380    190         53a   31.1
16.WagonS                 fts  276 1,486    AI"  _ 721-4  __160Q    213.2    353.1   1-5189            Ij^  _IQj   21J   J_4_U   _In        _0Q    50    61.11   .)117
Subtotal (B)                          1.187.4 1,441.7 1,564.3 2,200.2  2,285.1   7,491.3   37.1  120.2  157.3  (20.2) 1.700  1.900  2,100   5.700  119.7
Other facii  JiBj
17.Track Maint. (mach.)                         333.8   252.0   214.5   263.5    284.7   1,014.7    6.9   14.4   21.3  C 2.7)   250    250    270            770   lb.2
18.Track Workshop
(modernization)         --    --    --        90.5    60.6    60.5    74.1       77.5     272.7    4.4    1.3    5.7  ( 0.7)    30         30     40      100    2.1
19.LocoMotive Depots
(modernization)         --    --    --       261.4   263.5   226.0   222.0    245.0       956.5   15.1    5.0   20.1  ( 2.6)   390    190    200          580   12.2
!O.Traction a Rolling
Stock (wkshops)                      -      Il.J   )". S AIiJ 4.1    SZ.1&.i    543.2A                                           - 
Subtotal (C)        --    --    --      819.0   736.6   585.1   611.7    873.7   2.807.1   35.8   23.1   58.9  C 7.6)   470    470    510   1.450   30 5
!1 .Container
handling equipment    --    --    --        104.3   166.7   100.0    49.8       59.7      376.2    4.2    3.7    7.9  ( 1.0)    70        75     80     225    4.7
!2.Niscellaneous           --    --    *-      5S3 1J Q.0.I   OZJ   f A    21.    XII1AU                   IJ 1      2.b   LA.9]   2Q   ..241   hI        flS   ll.3
Subtotal (0)                            703.6 1,217.0   975.7   724.1    771.2   3,688.0   55.8   21.7   77.5  ( 9.9)   330    330    390   I.050   22.0
iRAND TOTAL                                  7.244.: 8.282.3 8,427.1 9,590.0 10,908.0  37,Z07.4  385.3  396.3  781.6  30o..0  7.650  7,8uo  8,30u  23,,50  49%.9
/  Piices at the esnd 1987 (eAchange sate IUS$ - Ft 47.6) Piice contingencies of 5T per year included for 1987 1990).
/  1987 actual cloit.Iy follows the  ilerned' sv-tifi1te%.-
./  Figis.os wtihin parentibtu, es devote po't ioii of plaln Ii (A).



- 153 -
TABLE 12: HUNGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Length of Road Network (km)''
National Road Network
Road Categories                     1980                     1985
Motorways                            130  (1001)               200  (100L )
Half Motorways                        79  (100%)                97  (1001)
Main Trunk Roads                   1,925  (1001)            1,938  (1001)
Main Roads                         4,438  (1001)            4,433  (1001)
Secondary Roads                   23,160  ( 951)           23,089  ( 981)
Total National Roads            29,732  ( 961)           29,757  ( 981)
Local Public Roads
Road Type
Budapest Streets                   3,650  (721)             4,092  (661)
Town Streets                       9,460  (55%)            17,747  (551)2'
Village Streets                   24,700  (341)           )43,408  (191)
Rural Roads                       20,120  ( 6%)           )
Total Local Public Roads        57,930  (301)            65,247  (32%)
Agricultural and Forestry Roads
Road Type
State Farm and Agricultrual
Cooperative Roads              46,669  (28%)             46,669  (281)
Forestry Roads                     3,908  (50%)             4,346  (521)
Total                          50,577  (301)             51,015  (301)
Grand Total                                               146,019
1/  Figures in parentheses give percentage of paved road length.
2/ Since 1980 many village roads have been reclassified as town roads
because of growth of towns.
Source: Facts and figures about public road transport in Hungary.
February 1989
S078U/30



TABELE 13: HtUNGARY
.TAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
A.  Lenath Qf Ej2lic RQads by Tvye
(at the end of the year - km)
Of Which                                                              Total
First Class      Full       Half     Second Class   Connecting   Approach                 Public
Year    min.J Roads    UoLoroan     1Jourmar    Main Roads       Road5       _ Roads    Others 1/ Roads
1970      2,033             8       126           4,078         17.312         5,408      71S      29.S46
1975      2.074           86         95           4,339         17,368         5,447      687      29.915
1976      2,095            86        9S           4.344         17,367         5,406      683      29.895
1977      2.104            86        80           4,397         17.376         5,344      691      29.912
1978      2.127           112        79           4,471         17,335         5,274      668      29,875
1979      2.119           112        79           4,455         17,383        5,197       651      29,805
1980      2,136           130        79           4,449         17,426         5,099      649      29,759
1981      2.135           130        79           4,444         17,374         S,067      646      29.666
1982      2,164           152        78           4,438         17,380         5.050      652      29.684
1983      2.178           167        79           4,434         17J382         5,035      659      29.688
1984      2.178           167        79           4,437         17.42)         4,942      655      29,633
1985      2.235          200         97           4,433         17,524         4,908      657      29,757
1986      2,222          218         94           4.462         17.463        4.889       663      29,699
1987      2,197          218         94           4,481         17.484        4.869       669      29.700
8. Len9th of Puhltc Roads by Pavement (kik
Stone.             Asphalt
Road Brick,        and Surface                            Public Roads
leia.c           or Concrete        Oresina             Umetalled              Tota1
1970                1682              26.651               1,213               29,546
1975                 615              28,353                 937               29,915
1976                 483              28.508                 904               29.895
1977                 412              28,627                 873              29.912
1978                 373              28.743                 759              29,875
1979                 339              28.764                 702              29.885
1980                 277              28,824                 658              29.759
1981                 259              28,813                 594              29.666
1982                 242              28,893                 549              29,684
1983                 230              26,941                 519              29.690
1984                 227              28.895                 511              29,633
1985                 n.a.               n.a.                 498              29,757
1986                 208              29,038                 453               29.699
1987                 202              29,070                 428               29.700
I/  Includes roads to stations and single lane ramps.
Source:  Hungary - StaLtitical Year Book, 1983. FActs and Figures about Public Road
Transport 1985 and InLstitute for Tranispor-t Sciences Report. 19s7.
Febtuiay 1989



- 155 -
TABLE 14: HUNGARY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND TRANSPORT PRQJECT
ownershio of the Truck Fleet in 1986
Approximate
Vehicles                        Share o  Total Freiaht
aershia                                Approx. NO. 1/ 2/    .                                    kM
(x 16
State Transoort Firms
- Volan group (25 Branches)                16,000             8-9 ton         2s52t
- Six special purpose haulers               9.400                n.a.         Ints
- Hungarocamion                             1.800             Variable        lSst
SUB-TOTAL                    27.200                             S2            6,604
State Owned Comoanies
- Enterprise a Co-ops (own acet)           22.300            2-8 ton          2-24X         2.794.
- Agric'l. Co-op & State Farms            100.000           5-6 ton          18-202'       2.540t
SUB-TOTAL                   122,300
Privately Owned
- Transporters                             14,000            S ton            6%2/            762
TOTAL                                     hl5 nn                                          J. 12Z700 2/
1.  Slightly inderstates the fleet size (c. 170,000 in 1983) probably due to rounding, especially
in Agriculture.
1/  Figures given verbally by Transportation Department.
february 1989
507u/P .32



- 156 -
TABLE 15: HUNGARY
STAFF A"PRAISAL REPORT
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Axle Overload Fee Scale
Single Axle                                         Dual Axles
Axle Weight            Fee                          Axle Weight           Fee
(Tons)             (Ft/km)                           (Tons)           (Ft/km)
10.0           0                                   16              0
10.1  - 10.5          20                            16.1 - 17.0            25
10.51 - 11.0          25                            17.1 - 18.0            35
11.01 - 11.5          35                            18.1 - 19.0            45
11.51 - 12.0          50                            19.1 - 20.0            55
12.01 - 12.5          70                            20.1 - 21.0            70
12.51 - 13.0          95                            21.1 - 22.0            90
13.01 - 13.5         125                            22.1 - 23.0           120
13.51 - 14.0         160                            23.1 - 24.0           160
24.1 - 25.0          200
25.1 - 26.0          250
February 1989
507$U833



- 157 -
TABLE 16: HUNGARY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Maximum Acceptable Traffic Volumes
(Passenger car units' per hour)
Road Type                          kural Sections           Urban Sections
Motorways
Two Lanes:    one-way traffic           3,000                    3,600
Three Lanes:  one-way traffic           4,500                    5,400
Four Lanes:   one-way traffic           6,000                    7,200
Other Main Roads
Two Lanes for two-way traffic       900-1,400              1,200-1,600
Two lanes for one-way traffic    1,800-2,800               2,200-3,000
Three lanes for one-way traffic  2,700-4,200               3,300-4,500
1/ Light vehicles are one passenger car unit, heavy vehicles are
calculated as 2.5 passenger car units.
Source: Roads of Hungary; issued by Public Roads Department, 1988.
September 1988
SO?U/34



- 158 -
TABLE 17: HUNGARY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Principal Highway Design Standards
Design     Lane          Minimum         Maximum
Road Type        Terrain    Speed       Width       Horiz.Radius       Grade
(km/hr)      (m)(m(2
F         120        3.75               750          4.0
Motorways            R          120       3.75                750         4.0
M         100        3.50               500          5.0
BR         80                           300          6.0
F         100        3.50               500          5.0
Main Trunk Roads    R       100-80        3.50           500-300          6.0
M       80-60        3.50-3.25      300-150          7.0
BR      80-50        3.50-3.25      300-100          8.0
F       80-60        3.50-3.00      300-150          6.0-7.0
Second..ry Roads     R       60-40        3.50-3.00        50-60          7.0-9.0
M       40-30        3.25-3.00        60-30          9.0-10.0
BR      70-40        3.50-3.00       200-60          6.0-9.0
Legend:  F . Flat
R = Rolling
M = Mountainous
BR- Broken or Residential Areas
Source:  Roads of Hungary:  issued by Public Roads Department (1988).
February 1989
5076U/35



abie I: HUNGAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Past and Projected Road Expenditures
(million Hungarian Forints-Current)
S-Year Plan VI                           S-Year Plan - VII                                            Next Plan Period
Description                      Total                                                                Total 1'                                             Total ZI
1981-1985           1986        1987     1988    1989        1990    _9_6jflj__ j_           LJ2    _   1993    1994   1991-1994
National Higways
Road sCQtructiLgnandnIrmprovements          10.230          1.729        105      L2096    1.660 .   L 6        LA.626        1.6ZO       1,680    L.4        1.79    6.94
Hotorways I/                          4.336         1.280      L55        1.542    1.100    1.476        6,950        1.005        1.000    3.10               3-75
"I                                    n.a.            660        406        144       -         -        1,210           -                    -                   -
H 5                                  n.a              430        492        482       -         -        1404           -           -         -        -         -
"-0 (Ongoing)                                         190        654        916       900       740      3.400           125         -                            12S
"-o (Proposed)                                        -          -          -         200       736        936          880        1.000    1.100        670   3,650
Qtter-FQD4  anLDrJdses                     5.849                      553        554        S60       560 .16 2               615         680       745    1.125   L_in
New construction                         629           85        319        346        350       3So      1.450           385         425       465       715   1,990
Nodernization lletterments)            5.265          364        234        208        210       210      1,226           230         25S       280       410   1,175
PaeR       Iig      e                       1_  1Q        ..21 ]      2.219    _2.19        2.470   2.800    11893           4.072       5.060    6.150    7.360 22.6402
RCi*d Wa3n LenanIe                          IL.6          1221        2.953      2.980    3.220    3.460'iO     5-"'         367. 0      3.890    4 4120    4.372  16.05
national Road Totals                        33.907          7,041      7,277      7.266    7.350    8.296    37.230           9.360      10,630   12.115   13.525  45,630
Local Roads
Road Construction and
Imoravements                           12.668         2,337      2.802      2,243    2,000    1,900    11,282           2.100       2.300    2,500    2,800   9.700
'ladernizatton                               8.039          1,077      1.087      1,180    1,100    1,100        5,544        1,200       1,350    1,450    1,600   5.600
Road Maintenance 4/                          61.k10       _2AU62      2.672      2J02    2.!900    3.00         13984         3,0 4.050   4.6S0    .,300  17.500
local Road Totals                           27,317         6,017      6,561      6.232    6.000    6.000    30.810            6,800       7.700    8.600    9.700  32.800
GRAND TOTAL                           b1,224         13.058    133         13.498   13-C   14.296    68.04              16.16                           23.225  78.430
Based on NPO estimate of reduced Plan VII investment expenditures.
Mission estimate based on indicative trends provided MPG/MOT. No plan figures are yet available.
Based on actual expenditure for n 1 .nd M S motorways and scheduied and projected expenditure for H 0 motorway.
Includes maintenance of Budapest streets, about HUF 1.500 million annually.
'ebruarl 1989



- 160 -
TABLE 19: HUNGARY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet of Hung rocamion
Refrigerator      Specialized         Other
Years                   Vehicles         Vehicles           Vehicles        Total
1970                      153                31               239             423
1975                      278                91               435             804
1980                      330               118               799           1,247
1981                      329               123               890           1,342
1982                      311               126               969           1,406
1983                      328               154               987           1,469
1984                      331               155             1,115           1,601
1985                      346               164             1,205           1,715
1986                      414               180             1,200           1,794
1987                      455               181             1,234           1,870
Source:  Hungarocamion
Februar' 1989
S074U/3



- 161 -
Table 20: HUNGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Huna rocamion
Main Types in the Truck Fleet
I/
Years    Raba-Man    Mercedes    Volvo    Renault           IVECO   Others    Total
1970           28            86          154       -           -       155          423
1975          345            48          298       --                   113         804
1980          676           312          221       -          --         38       1,247
1981          732           426          153       -          -          31       1,342
1982          738           498          130       -          -         40        1,406
1983          715           562          130        7         -          55       1,469
1984          771           624          128       -          -          78       1,601
1985          853           638          128       28         -         68        1,715
1986          846           693          126       56         --         73       1,794
1987          786           725          123       92         53        91        1,870
1988          695           712          105       142        197      100        1,951
1/ - in 1970 "Skoda" was the most significant type (102 units) from
the "other" trucks.
- in 19?5 it was "Scania" (82 units).
Source: uiungarocamion
February 1989
507 0V38



- 162 -
TABLE 21: HUNGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
'dungarocamion
Average Annual Utilization of Vehicles
(in 1,000 km/unit)
Refrigerator      Specialized       Normal tilt
Years                   Vehicles          Vehicles           Vehicles        Total
1975                       66.7             38.8               82.6           72.2
1980                       67.5             72.6               74.5           72.5
1981                       70.1             80.3               73.3           73.2
1982                       79.7             97.4               78.9           80.7
1983                       80.4             84.0               83.4           82J.
1984                       86.8             78.9               84.7           83.8
1985                       82.7             74.9               81.4           31.0
1986                       80.9             76.6               88.5           83.9
1987                       79.9             86.5              89.4            86.8
Source: Hungarocamion
September 1988
4s3SU'S5



IABLLZ: HUNGAI
SECOND TRANSPORT PJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Hunaarocamion
Selested Operational and Financial Statistic of Vehicles
1. Total Fleet                   Vehicles         1,247      1.342    1,406    1.469    1,601    1,715    1,794    1,870
2. Total Ton-kis                 Hill. tkm        1,013      1.077    1.215    1.396    1,582    1,536    1.808    1.960
3. Productive kms per
vehicle coverage             000 km/unit         72.5       73.2      80.7      82.8     83.8      81.0      83.9      86.8
4. Ton-km per vehicle             OOOtkm/unit       812.3      800.8    860.0    950.0    990.0    900.0  1,010.0  1,060.0
5. Ave. transport distance       km               1.396      1.548    1.490    1.458    1,465    1,334    1.341    1.409             u
6. Average time needed for
average track distance       days                 4.8        5.2       4.6       4.5       4.5      4.1       3.9       3.9
7. Staff productivity             OOOtkm/employee  251.2       275.4    274.9    314.8    306.2    314.5    348.2    378.5
8. Revenue per
productive km                Ft/km                 n.a        n.a       n.a    30.0      30.7      31.2      32.5      35.9
Source: Hungarocamion
February 1959
SO0*U/40



- 164 -
Table: 23: HUNGARY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Budapest Transport Company (BKV)
a) Average Vehicle Fleet and Traffic
Type of                         Fleet               Passengers Km's (mill)
Vehicles                1983    1985      1987    1983       1985     1987
1. Tram and cog-wheel        957       973       953   1,354.9   1,336.8  1,349.4
2. Trolley buses             249       240       238     314.6      308.2    309.4
3. Buses                   1,763    1,795    1,840   4,593.7   4,412.7  4,444.9
4. Suburban trains           384       390       390     944.6      941.0    937.4
5. Underground               288       332       345   1,275.2   1,413.9  1,424.9
6. Ship                        19       19        19       8.2        7.3      10.1
TOTAL                 3,660    3,749    3,785   8,491.0   8,419.9  8,476.1
b)
Directorate
Passengerss/
Staff.'              No.              carried
Number     Percent   Vehicles 3/          Mill
General Directorate           164        0.7             -
Technical                  1,236         5.0             -
Transport and Commerce    1,970          8.0             -
Economics and Fiance         551         2.2             -
Personnel                  1,596         6.5             -
Metro/Suburban Railway    5,482         22.3           7344'         454
Tramway                    3,144        12.8           952           478
Bus/Trolleybus             7,332        29.7           2,118         992
Ships                        160         0.7              19           2
Construction and
Maintenance             2,973        12.1             -            -
TOTAL                 24,608 2'      100.0          3,823         1,926
1/ As of February 1988
2. Of which 200 part-time (4-6 hours).
3. As of end December 1986
4. 344 metro vehicles and 390 suburban train cars.
5. During the year 1986.
Source: BKV June 1988
S078/41



- 165 -
Table:24: HUNGARY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Second Transport Proiect
Budapest Transport Company (BKV)
Operational Performances
Average
Space-Km         Commercial      Percentage of        length of
Mode of          available          speed          vehir'es in           journey
Transport        in billion         Km/hr           operation              (km)
Tramway and
cogwheel railway      5.9            15.3              78.7                2.8
Trolley bus            0.9            13.4              72.8                2.6
Motor bus             11.9            18.3              86.1                5.1
Suburban railway       4.3            23.8              76.2                9.1
Metro and Old
underground line      5.7            25.8              76.0               4.0
River boats           -_'              5.0              26.3                4.9
28.7            18.5              81.1               4.4
Source - BKV, May 1988
-- Indicates negligible;
S078U/42



- 166 -
Table:25: HUNGARY
Second Transport Project
Planned Investments of Budapest Transport Company (BKV)
(Actual)               (Estimated)
Sixth Plan              Seventh Plan
(1980-1985) Period        (1986-1990) Period
Construct ion
Depots, shops                 1,827.1                1,268.7
Transformer stations             11.1                   80.0
Traffic facilities               53.8                   24.0
Other facilities                400.4                  655.8
Track                         1,222.1                2,104.3
Cable construction              171.0                  245.8
Trolley-wire construction       230.4                  250.8
Other                            37.3                   58.3
Subtotal construction        3,953.2                 4,686.9
Machinery
Power machines,
transformers                 216.2                   227.1
Signalling and safety           182.7                  252.0
Communication systems            44.0                  233.7
Office machines, computers       35.5                  147.0
Vehicles                        123.6                  170.0
Other                           203.5                  440.0
Subtotal macninery             805.5                 1,469.8
Fleet Replacement            2,563.5                 3,524.5
Technical Development Funds    27.5                    100.0
Grand Total                 7,349.7                 9,781.3
Source: BKV May, 1988
SO? SU'4 



Page I of 3
Table 26: HUNGARY
SECOND TRANSPQRT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPDRT
nutline of Trainino Proaram ProDosed by H.O.T.
1989                       1990                       1991                        1992                   Totl
Proposed  Total   Estim.  Proposed  Total   Estim.  Proposed  Total   Estim.  Proposed  Total   Estim.   Total           Estim.
Topic         Country   Han-    Cost    Country   Han-    Cost    Country   Man-    Cost    Country   Han-    Cost           Man-      Cost
Honths  000 USO            Months  000 USD            Months  000 USO             Months  000 USO  Months    000 US
A. Railways
1. THIS training    I. GB,      6.0      30.0   1. GB      6.0      30.0   1. G8,      4.0     20.0      -                         16.0        H0.0
B. CH. S                   B. CH. S                   B, CH. S
2. THIS-Foreign        --       4.0      88.0     --        1.0     72.0       --      1.0     22.0                -                6.0       132.0
consultnats
In country
3. Rail recycling   FRG. GB.  4.0        20.0                                                                                       4.0        20.0
training          F
4. Rail recycling.    -         0.2       5.0               0.2      5.0               _         _                                  0.4        10.0  ,
Foreign                                                                                                                                            o.
consultants
in country
5. Track manage-                                FRG. F      3.0     15.0   GB          3.0      15.0                                6.0        30.0
nent, computer-
ized organiza-
tion of track
maintenance and
construction
6. Marketing                                    A. I        3.0     1S.0   FRG         3.0      15.0   A. 1.        3.0    15.0     9.0        45.0
FRG. GB
7. Organization                                 A, FRG      2.0     10.0                               F. GB       2.0    10.0      4.0        20.0
of railway
operation
8. Development                                              -        -      FRG, A     3.0      15.0   GO          2.0    10.0      5.0       25.0
Planning
9. Improvement of   FRG         2.0      10.0   NL          2.0     10.0                                 _                          4.0        20.0
traction and
rolling stock
maintenance.
utilization
and operation



Tabli 26                                                 Page 2 of 3
10. Traffic              -         2.0      10.0      -         2.00      10.0      -         4.0      18.0      -          -        -        8.0        38.0
operational
improvement
Subtotal (A)           -        18.2    163.0       -        19.2    117.0        -        18.0    105.0       -          7.0    35.0    62.4         420.0
S. Hfahways
1. Pavement             -         -         -      B            1.0      15.0   F            1.0      18.0      -          -        -        2.0        30.0
mangement
2. Pavement             -         -          -     UK           1.0     1S.0                 -         -      I            1.0    15.0       2.0        33.0
renewal
3. Methods of           -         -          -     F           0.5        9.0                -         -        -          -        -        0.5         9.0
Energy
Conservat ton
4. Road Traffic         -         -          -     S            1.0      17.0   B            5.0      18.0           -              -        2.0        35.0
Safety
S. ProJect
management                                     _           3.0      54.0   -             1.0      18.0           -              -        4.0        72.0
Sa. Project Prepa-                  -                            1.0      18.0                     -         -         -             -        1.0        18.0
ration and
Economic
Justificaton
Sb. Competetive          -          -         -                  1.0      18.0                                              _                 1.0        18.0
Bidding
5c. Construction         -          -         -                  1.0      18.0   OK           1.0      18.0                 _                 2.0        36.0
Supervision
6. Consulting           -         -          -     NL           1.0      18.0    S           1.0      18.0    a            1.0    18.0       3.0        54.0
Engineering
Activities
7. Special              -         -          -     CH. NL, S  2.0        36.0   FRG, OK    1.0        18.0   F, B          2.0    30.0       5.0        84.0
problems. e.g.
environmental
protection. etc
8. Topics to be                                                          43.0      -         -        24.0                 _       16.0      -          83.0
spertified
later: Study
tours, confs.
Subtotal (B)                                        -         9.5    207.0        -         5.0    114.0                  4.0    79.0    18.5         400.0
_      ~      ~       _



ILCble 26                                              Page 3 of 3
.C.
C. HU"ACWTl
1. Manager
training           -         0.5      11.0      -        0.5      11.0      -        _         _        _          _       _        1.0        22.0
2. Marketing            -        0.5      11.0      -         0.5     11.0      -         -                            _-                1.0       22.0
Educaton
3. Training for          _       0.3       8.0      -         -        -        -         0.3      8.0                  _               0.6        16.0
managers on
strategical
planning
4. Managerment                   2.0      10.0      -         1.0      5.0      -         1.0      5.0                          _       4.0        20.0
information
systems-
tours
Subtotal (C)                    3.3      40.0      -        2.0      27.0      _         1.3      13.0                         _       6.6        80.0
0. f~
1. Study tours         _         3.0      14.5      -        -         -                  -        -                                    3.0        14.5  0'
for computer-
ized traffic
control system
2. Study of refer-    -          2.0      10.0      -                       -                  -        -                               2.0        10.0
ence systems
3. Software            _-                  -                                    -         2.5      12.5     -          1.0      ;.0     3.5        17.5
application
training
4. General aspects               -         -                                    -         0.5       8.0     -          -        -       0.5         8.0
of traffic
organization
Subtotal (0)          _         5.0      24.5      _        _         _        -         3.0     20.5      -          1.0      5.0     9.0        50.0
GRAND TOTAL            -       26.5    227.5       _       30.7    351.0       -        27.3    252.5      -         12.0   119.0    96.5        950.0
507$U/44-46



Table 27: HUNGARY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECiON  TRANSPORT PROJECT
Estimated Schejule of Disbursements
(US$ Million)
1ROR  Fiscal Year            Railways                 HAihways               Hunaarocanmon                 BKV                    Total_
and Ouarter        Quarterly  Cumulative  Quarterly  Cumulatiave  Quarterly  Cumulative  Quarerly  Cumulative   Quarterly  Cumulative
1990
I.  Sept. 30. 1989       1.3         1.3         2.3         2.3           0.5        0.5          0.1        0.1          4.2          4.2
II.  Dec. 31. 1909        1.4         2.7         3.5         5.8           0.6         1.1         0.2        0.3          5.7          9.9
11I.  Mar. 31, 1990        1.7         4.4         3.1         8.9           0.6         1.7          0.2       0.5          5.6          1S
IV.  June 30. 1990        1.8         6.2         3.1        12.0           0.6         2.3          0.2       0.7          S.7         21.2
jim
I.  Sept. 30. 1990       2.0         a.2         3.2        15.2           0.7        3.0          0.2        0.9          6.1         27.3
II.  Dec. 31. 1990        2.0        10.2         3.2        18.4           0.8         3.8          0.2        1.1         6.2         33.5
III.  Mar. 31. 1991        1.9        12.1         3.8        22.2           0.6         4.4          0.3        1.4         6.6         40.1
.IV.  June 30. 1991        1.9        14.0         3.9        26.1           0.5         4.9          0.3        1.7         6.6         46.7
I.  Sept. 30. 1991       1.8        15.8         3.9       30.0            0.4         5.3         0.3        2.0          6.4         53.1     1
II.  Dec. 11. 9991        1.8        17.6         4.1        34.1           0.3         5.6          0.3       2.)          6.5         59.6    ,
III.  Marc. 31. 1992.      1.5        19.1         1.7        35.8           0.3         5.9          0.2        2.5          3.?        63.3    -
IV.  June 30. 1992        1.5        20.6         2.0        37.8           0.3         6.2          0.2       2.7          4.0         67.3    0
122X
I.  Sept. 30, 1992       1.4        22.0        2.4        40.2            0.2        6.4          0.2        2.9          4.2         71.5
II.  Dec. 31, 1992        1.4        23.4         2.7       42.9            0.1        6.5          0.2        3.1          4.4         75.9
III.  Mar. 31. 1993        1.3        24.7         2.7        45.6           0.1         6.6          0.2       3.3          4.3         80.2
IV.  June 30. 1993        1.0        2S.7         3.1        48.7           0.1         6.7          0.1       3.4          4.3         54.5
1994
I.  Sept. 30. 1993       0.8        26.5         3.1       51.8           0.1         6.8          0.1        3.5          4.1         88.6
II.  Dec. 31. 1993        0.6        27.1         2.6        54.4           -           -            -         -            3.2         91.8
II.  Mar. 31. 1994         0.5        27.6         1.5        55.9           -                                               2.0         93.8
IV.  June 30. 1994        0.5        28.1         0.7       56.6            -           -            -                      1.2         95.0
Source: Mission Estimates
february 1989
5078/47



Table:  28.  Page 1 of                                                                                                  3
page 1 of 3
Table 2 : HUNGARY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORTS
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Onerational and Financial Data Year 1987 and Taraets 1989 - 1992 Period
A. Hunaarlan State Railways - HAY
Unit              ]982        JflA           ma2         12i2
(Actual)    (Estimate)      -----P  L  A  N  N  E  0----
I.  Operational Targets
1. Hauling Power Oistribution
in Gross-ton kms
Electric Traction                                     62.9          65.0          68.0         69.0         70.0
Diesel Traction                          X            37.1          35.0          32.0         31.0        30.0
Utili2ation of Traction
2. Average Daily Perfonmance
of Available Engine                    km/day
a) Passenaer Traffic
Electric locomotives                              508         520          530          s40          55
Diesel locomotives"/                             335           333           327         320          315
b) Fraiaht Traffic
Electric locowotives                             332           345          360          364          367
Diesel locomotives'"                 '           190           195           197         200          200
3.  Availability of                          t
Electric locomotives                                80.0          80.7          82.0        83.0         84.0
Diesel locomotives                                  77.6          78.0          80.0        81.0         82.0
4.  Utili2ation of Rollina Stock
Passenger - KM per seat                ooopkm/seat   33.0           34.0          36.0         38.0        40.0
Availability (coaches)                                8 87.S        88.0          89.0         90.0        91.0
Net - ton km per it of                 ooo ntkm/t      8.8           9.2           9.6          9.7         9.8
capacity
Availability (wagons)                    X            87.5          89.0          89.5         98.0        91.1
Turn around time of wagons             days            4.49          4.39          4.20         4.15         4.00
5. Staff Productivity
Traffic units per employee2'         Tuslempl.    338.7          340           342          348         350
II Financial Tarnaets
1.  Operating Ratio4'                      X            98            97            95             93        92
1/ Decrease is due to relocation of diesel locomotives on low-density lines.
v Traffic operational staff only.
I/ Based on fixed prices (1987).
9/ Operating expenditure including depreciations; divided by operation revenue.
So7auU48



Page 2 of 3
Table 28: HUNGARY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORTS
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Operational and Financial Data Year 1987 and Taraets 1989 - 1993 Periad
B.  Hinarocam0in
Unit           198l         1im          199          1919
(Actual)     (Estimate)  --------P L A N N E 0-
I.     ORerational Taroets
1.  Vehicle annual utilization        ooohm        90.9           92.8        94.6         99.5        103.0
(international transport)         unit
2.  Dead mileaoe"                       t           4              3            2           2            2
3.  Average transport                 km        1,409          1,410       1,450        1,470        1,480
distance
4.  Time needed to complete           days          3.9            3.9          3.9         3.8          3.8
average Transport distance
5.  Revenue per productive knm2       ft/km        35.0           35.7         37.0        39.0         40.0
6.  Staff productivity per            NIRl/empl. 378.5           380          385         395          405
empoyee
II. Financial tarcets
1.  Operating Ratio 2                              78.3           83.0        81.0         80.0         80.0
2.  Rate an return on net               t          39.5           30.5         31.0        27.0         29.0
fixed assets in operation3'
1/ Oead mileage is equivalent to lOOX minus percentage of revenue earning mileage to total mileage.
B Based on fixed prices (1987).
I/ Decrease from 1987 due to introduction V.A.T. and income taxes introduced in 1988, and further decrease in 1992 and 1993
due to large increase in capital expenditure compared to 1990.
S@78U/4*



Page 3 of 3
laIle_fi:  HUNGARY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Onarational and Financial data Year 1987
and Targets 1989-93
C- Budapest Transport Cmanman (jaiv
(Actual)     (Estimate)       ----P  L  A  N  N  E  0----
I. Operational Taraets
l.Average numnber of passenger-km           pkm/veh
km per operating vehicles per day
a) Tram                                         1,770         1.770        1,770        1,770        1,770
b) bus                                          l,515         1,520         1,530       1,535        1,540
c) underground                                  3,715         3,735         3,750       3.760        3,800
2. Non availabitity of vehicles:               I
a) '.ram                                         7.0           7.0          6.5          6.3          6.3
b) bus                                           9.4           9.4          8.7          8.5          8.5
c) underground                                   1.5            .51 1.5                  1.5          1.5
3. Staff Productivity"'                        pkm/
employee        378           340           340         337          338
II.    Financial Taraets2'
1. Total Operating costs                       Ft/pkm            1.42         1.46         1.46         1.47        1.47
2. Operating ratio3'                            %               96.1          97            97           97          97
I/     1987 drivers have had 40-50 hrs of overtime per months.  According to the ILO's recomnendations overtime should be reduced up to 22
hours per month, and this will need increase in number of staff and will will also affect the staff productivity in the short run.
2/     Financial targets are based on constant 1987 prices.
I/     Increase from 1987 fue to V.A.T. and income taxes introduced in 1988.
February 1989
5078U/P .S0



Page I of 2
Table: 22,2 HUNGARY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJCT
Procurement Plan for Items Eliaible for Loan financina
A- RAILWAY CONPNELOT
Loan Allocation%
EL,         YDisbursement
I                                                                        OunkiLr                           ---mllQ---                    S
I.    Transport Management Information System (THIS):
Hardware, application of
software, and communicationis;
II.   Recycling Plant for
usedsraIx h-And-m     5 Lo=2                                                                                          10Q4
2.1.0  Rail handUns fUlmKa
2.1.1  Driving station with power
supply and control devices;"                         10
2.1.2  Gantry cranes;"                                        2
2.2.0  EieLnlton of bLjuldtn
2.2.1  Gantry Cranes'                                        2
2.2.2  Rail welding. reprofiling
Vertically strengthening machines;m                   2
- Rail brush cleaning machines;"                        2
- Rail brush cleaning machines (greater output);"       2
stka,ghtening machines (4 way); *                     2
- Rail triming machines;'                               2
- Rail ultrasonic detecting devices;"                   2
- Rail reprofiling machines;"                           1
Railfoot grinder machines;O                           2
- Rail welding machines;"                               2
- Rail head trimming machines;"                         2
- Horizontally straightening machine;"                  I
II.   Track construction and
mMntLenance incahiE  3s
3.1  Caterpillar switch ballast cleaning machine;            2
3.2  Switch changing machines;                               2
3.3  Track cranes (on and off);                              4
3.4  Track regulating machines;                              4
3.5  Radio receiver and transmitter units;                 200
3.6  Small machines and tools;                              --
3.7 Welding and workshop equipment;
1 8  :pare partl.



Table* 29                                                Page 2 of 3
Loan Allocations
El          US$       Disbursement
Qu|ti                          ---- millinns-----        I
Subtotal (A) - Excluding contingencies                                                               L.28          24.6
- Physical contingencies                                                                    35         0.7
- Price contingencies                                                                    __6           2.4A1
Total (A)                                                                                              1,611        27.7         100.0
B - HUNGAlBClIO  COMP4T
IV.   Integrated computerized information
system (ltis). Hardware, software,
kalecnification. and consultina casts.                                                   260           5.0          100.0
V.   Handling equipment for transit
distribution stores                                                                       52           1.0          100.0
6.1  Ramp-Level-compensator                                48
5.2  Hydraulic lifting elevator                             4
(4 tones lifting capacity);
5.3  Electric hand-cars
(4 meter lifting and I                                                                                                                      u
tone loading capacity):                               38
5.4  seales (1 tone capacity);                              a
5.5  Fire protection equipment;                             1
5.6  Waste-gas rPiping system;                              1
C.7  Pnesitic wost system.                                  2
Subtotal (B) - Excluding contf1trencies                                                               312            6.0
- Physical contingencies                                                                  16           0.3
- Prize Contingencies                                                                    -a            LA
Total (8)                                                                                388           6.7          100.0
C HiaIWAY CllWEtIlT
VI   Civil works                                                 13.8bm                        936           17.7         100.0 (35.0X of total cost)
VII. m-0 Emrgency Call Systems                                  30 stations                     31            0.5         100.0
VIZ.  load  aintenance equipment                                                               213            4.1         100.0
IX.   Field and lab testing equipment                                                           94            1.8         100.0
X.   Engineering and project management                                                         26           0.5          100.0
XI.   Road strengthening and surface treatment                                                 1.302         25.0         100.0 (35.0t of total costs)



Table 29                                                      Page 3 Of 3
LaAlloCatiOns
Et          USS         CisburSegWnt
OuantitL                         ---min1ons--                 1.
Subtotal (C) - Excluding contingency                                                                   2,16402       429.7
- Physical Contingency                                                                      470        -2.
- Price contingencies
Total (C)                                                                                       3.212         56.0         100.0
(a)  INV Comonent
1. Traffic Control System                                                                 140           2.7          100.0
Physical contingency                                                                    10           0.2
Price contingency                                                                      ... .2U
TOTAL (0)                                                                            i             21
(El Technical Assistance and Training                                                             74          1.6         100.0
Total: base costs                                                                4.408         84.4
Physical Contingencies                                                                      201         3.9
Price Contingencies
GRAND TOTAL                                                                       5,468        95.0          100.0
Source:      MAV, MTCC, NC, BKV and mission;
February 1989
0o7sU/6o-s3



TAble 30: HUkGARY
STAFF AFPRAISAL REPORT
SECO  TRANSPORT PROJECT
Railway Comonent - Inmlementation Schedule
_9s9             1989              199o           -   991              1992               1993
ACTIVITY                                 I  II  III  IV   I  II  III  IV   I  ..J.Z.      IVZit.III  I II  III IIV I 2                      III _IV
I. Transport Manaenment Information System (THIS)
1.1  Bid Preparation
-  Document Preparation
-  Bank Review
-  Bidding Period
-  Evaluation
-  Bank Review
- Contract Award
1.2  System Design
1.3  Software Development
1.4  System Installation
1.5  Gradual Adaptation, Programuing & Testing
1.6  Joining to the Internationl Railway
Inforamation System *HERMES"
1.7  Education of Users
II. Recyclina Plant - for Used Rails
2.1  Bid Preparation
-  Oocuuent Preparation
-  Bank Review
-  Bidding Period
-  Evaluation
-  Bank Review
-  Contract Award
2.2  Preparatory Works
2.3  Track Network Extention                                                                              _
2.4  Rail Handling System
2.5  Buildings Construction
2.6  Delivery Period
2.7  Installation
2.8  Testing and put into Operation
III.  Track Construction & Maintenance Machines
3.1  Bid Preparation
-  Document Preparation
-  Bank Review
-  Bidding Period
-  Evaluation
-  Bank Review
-  Contract Award
3.2  Caterpillar Switch-Balast Cleaning
Machines
3.3  Switch Changing Units
3.4  Track Cranes
3.5  Regulators
3.6  Radio Transmission Equipment
3.7  Welding Equipment . Workshop Machines
3.8  Small Machinery and Tools
IV.  Technical Assistant and Trala_ing
Source: MAV, HTCC and Mission estimate.
February 1989



Tahle 11: KUh3X
STAFF APPRAISAL QtPORN
SECIhD TRANSPORT PRDJ.ECT
Nunaarocamion Conwonent - Imlemntati0n Sctedule
1911        ~~1989            1990              Is91              1992              1993
ACTIVITY                                     1                1989 IV   I  II III  IV   I  II  I!IIV   I   I  III  IV   I   IIII   IV   I  II  III  IV
I.  Inteeratad Hanaeemnt Infaonmatin Svstm  (ICISI
1.1 lid Preparation
-  Docummnt Preparation
- Qank Review
-  Bidding Period
- Evaluation
-  Sank Review
-  Contract Award
1.2 Computer Center Preparatory Works
1.3 Application Software Development &
Purchase
1.4 Computer Centers-(Delivery &
Installation)                                                                 __          _
1.5  Installation of the data comm. lines
1.6  EOT Staff Training
1.7 Testing and put into Operation
II.  Handlina Etuloment for Transit Distr. Stores
2.1 lid Preparation
-  Oocmtent Preparation
-  Bank Review
-  Bidding Period
-  Evaluation
-  lank Review
-  Contract Award
2.2 Store Construction
2.3 Deliveries
2.4 Equipment Installation Works
2.5 Put into Operation
III. Trainina
Source: Hungarocamion, MTCC and Mission estimate.
Fgbruary 1989



Table 32: HUAGARY
SECOhI TRANSPORT PRJECT
Highway ComDonent - Imlementation Schedule
1989             1990              1991              1992              1993              1994
No.            DESCRIPTION                              I  II  III  xI I     xi  IM   N    x    I rIr  IV   II i      I fix  v   x  x   IzZ  IV   I  II  III  N I
1.0    M. Civil Works - Biddina
-  Prequa'lification
-  Document Preparation                                     _
- Bank Review
- Bidding Period
- Evaluation
-  Bank Review
-  Contract Award
1.1    NO. Civil Works - Construction
-  Land Acquisition                                                                          - - - _-___
- Preparatory Works
- Structures
- Drainage
-  Earthwork
-  Pavement
-  Finishing
2.0    EaioUhent
- Oocu ent Preparation
- Bank Review
- Bidding Period
- Evaluation
- Bank Review
- Contract (c) and Delivery (d)
3.0    Strenathenino and Surface Oepartment
-  Oocuent Preparation
-  Bank Review I/
-  Bidding Period
-  Contract
-.0  .                                .          ._.
1/       Prior review for saple bidding documents (891 and prior review of the works program (89-90-91)
Source:  HTCC and Mission estimate.
Februarg 1989
07OU/S



Table 33: HUNGARY
STAFF APPRAISAL PEPOR?
SMUGNO TRANSPORT -JECT
CKV Comonent - Implementation Schedule
19ft8           1989              1990              I99I             1992              1993
No.            DESCRIPTION      X_I  II  ! IyV  I                                 III  IV   I  II TIT  IVjI r   xiirr  iv               ! xi   Ir  xv   I  ITI lY
1.0    Traffic Contral Svstem
- Document Preparation
- Bank leview
- Bidding Period
- Evaluation
- Bank Review
- Contract Award
1.1    Automutic Monitorina System
(Purchase and installatin) 
1.2    Centralized Traffic Liaht Control Subsvstem
(purchase and installation)
1.3    Automtic Power supplv subsvsteu
(purchase and installation)
- Contract (c) and Delivery id)
3.0    Technical assistance and Trainina
Source.  MTCC and BKV Mission estimate.
FsOe ruu   1989



ii, it'llit
 i
| | te~~~~~~~o



*                                     1e~~~~~iaca'~OM     SsoclIo
I_         _  _ _ _D_       _    
~~~bMIrUSBftlCS  -  - ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ctft  splf*
I BdoMctotEQu~~In1a~ftS & 4c.b}t
I-                     -
_ f_
I    1~1Q&P'~      e                                 F                                    & F
A~~~faPft"   Ooto
5s8__ToolS _am  %U     h         DWrODlcclO0n ft
&Oi aS  RfV                                                             i 
. ~        ~~~~~~~~ _
MqCers  _  W                     &            W~~~~eog
' ' 41 t~~~~~~~~Rm
, | ~adk Mo  . I I, u  I-                                                                               ow
I     I   a r > )              I    I '                         '      .                                                     I l; I       S;of
s   r                    |~~~~~~~~OWUD-W r                                                  of                           81         5     
I~ ~~~wo ID..leh                         I&_I                                                                                              
t~ ~~~VNI ;ocl                  ;od so m                                                                                                          L]
I   I  ISe*9   1_                                                                                              C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
I       I                        11       .                        .                                                                             sSWA
F I H * b_; h o 



Chart: 3
HUNGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
SafApproaia Rpoid
Oionlzon of the HunWrocamln (HC)
TInspW  inw  RnancW I   .
_Depotent                 Iqm*                                D_t                                     ftIc_Itv_       _     lo
Policyd             Moniont                nosf                           |                           &,  STl"   n-|-t on- - 
-  onon|                                 Book*eepX ng         NC TKnS            soia weols      4 O            
T ts |                    f                         I  I               I qV 
l~~~~~~~~~tmtw                                                  Border
Worod Boar* - 425M4



Chart: 4
.Mft and                                                              HUNGARY
Marla"   Adn**ha"                                                 ~~~~~~SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Sktff Apprais  Repo.
Orgonoim of sheBudoped Tronsport Company (sic)
_   D      qprrin d
I~~~~~~~SAevlo    I                                                         
T| chncl                                       CGTIf  Cold                           Econoic                               St afnK
_    Managm_t                                                               _    Markt                           _  SociWa Magm;ent
Depatmlent for QuaV Control                            DOlr     o                            Hted                      _ StalfRecsAl
DePrtdmbnt d W     n                         _        lIC T Oetko                           .llSPt                     -     ten of Eldotaon
Dep- tment d Satey d Operation                                                                                           Social Deparment
_ EO Mnag                                                                                                                    Health envk:n
-  DarM    t  d Satea lg  nth restofd  WoleA    -Depawrtnt of Co-m r                    Depatmet d ftrPrtoincEoecatlon
_  Deprtent of Deeoprrwrt d Operotion             -Departrent dTraff                    Acco-AV                         DEepartm  d Ec aoni"
-  Departrent d O"rgAzation                      - Departen    1Ta   Erneert         -Conto d M il5
Deparrent  d Dafa Procelinr  Depoftlnt of  n OeratIo n                            -Deptnt  EcO          cs
De_ W itnt d Ecoanic, d Opeotion                Deamet od Eonom
ClW Tedlft
aldAonofdAcSm,i
Madnagerme   d                               Mana nt o tRoad                         M    g t o                           M           of
-,TarmavOpevato'    I                                       nCwaton                             r r lTraet                           Maoni
Chlefte'Vehicles                             -Chle(Enhfrrftl                         CseT         oVehiCtes               Q.Ja    Control
Depatment of Opealon                       D|p- Onwst d Opertion                    ODeprnt d O ation                  -Grouf tolr ttng Enrgiwn
Org- rbat ion d Opeaton and Work                OAzation od Operation ad Walk  IDe            t d Deepm                   G.oup do Plic Paces
-Dap          od Ec nic s                       Department d Eonrrc                  Depmnof TechiCa Rdection    - Dep1tment d Eco
DePtnt d Ecnmi c                    ChIst Etr;eteer of Outigs
chef Einer dCnt upply*
c Ch l  MacharSol  -n
Toffc Opwaton                                   Tmft Operation                       Traffc Openran o
L|Ift                                           Un1                     - Lts0
W*kilcopw t'waoldopqttWrstpo
Molntenonoso_                                        e .                             M
Vehicle                                         VehiclesVice
World Bar* - 42509 2



SECO                  RA    O  r RO.  .C'i
ANSORT PROJECT                                         Eltd          XISTING RAILWAY NETWORK
-        ON-GOItG MOTORWAY CONSTRUCTION FIRST PHASEI            R ,I  4      DOUBLe TRACKS
-       PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION (SECOND PHASIF)                        -t---   SINGLE TRACKS
PLANNED EVENTLUAL CONSTRUCTION                                       PRIVATE TRACK (GUSEv)                                                  C Z E C  H  0  S L 0  V A  K I A
TMS TRANSPORT AAANAGEMENT INFORMATfO,I SYSTEM (MAVS         *IRK +  MARSHALLING YARDS
POWERFUL MAINFRAME COMPUTER INSTALLED IN BUDAPEST                CONrAIPIR TERMINALS
t     COMMUNICATION CONCENTRATORS                                        250- 40 TONS
TELEPHONE LINES                            *                         5 TONS
*     USED RAIL RECYCLING PLANT                                            EIN  MOTRWA.                                                                                                                                      
H-C    HUNGARO CAMION S EOP CENTERS  ICIS                         -         XISTIN MOTORWAYS                                                                J C T                                              b r r                                S. '   R.
RKV   RKV'S TRAFFIC CONTROL SYSTEM                                                                               _fa6ihely
i986 1990 RAILWAY INVESTM^ENT PLAN                                      MAIN NATIONAL ROA05TDS                                                                 r  iJ                                    V    , $-_ 
1I  DOUBLE ThACK ELECTRIFICATION                                                NATIONAL        ROADS                                         o L                                 /co                         F6nys
DOUBLING OF EXISTING TRACKS
TRACK REHABlLlTATlON --- ~~~~INTERN4,TIONAL BOUNDARIES <4j\>i/     
-1---I-TRACK REHABILITATION
A U S T R I A                                                                                                                                                                                                                       td l
0~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T So0 40   00lLMEER
0 Regerozeg  -   - ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ . .-Z.k
-. S     : M-MILES



HUNGARY
SECOND TRANSPORT PROJECT
THE NETWORK OF THE BUDAPEST
TRANSPORT  COMPANY  (BKV)                                                   UNDERGROUND LINE
LOCAL TRAIN LINE
TRAMWAY LINE
-      BUS LINE
TROLLEYBUS LINE
/                               ig   EDP CENTER
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9 10 KILOMETERS
I I  I      I I  I           I  I ,  ,  ,                     -_       ,l:ZE HOSLOVAKIA           .
0    1    2    3   4    5  MILES                                                                 U.S.S.R.
2   S;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bdpes r 
**  t   HUt At  ,/ROMANIA
. ,~ .1
0  50 100 KILOMETERS
YUGOSLAVIA         MO 50'            ILES
0    50 100
JULY 1988



