Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3032 HU
                    (Second Transport Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                    BUDAPEST TRANSPORT COMPANY
                        Dated July 10, 1989
                       BKV PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July  10,  1989,  between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT   (the  Bank)  and  BUDAPEST
TRANSPORT COMPANY (BKV).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Hungarian  People's  Republic  (the  Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has  agreed  to  make  available to the Borrower an
amount in various  currencies  equivalent  to  ninety five million
dollars ($95,000,000), on the  terms  and  conditions set forth in
the Loan  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition  that  BKV agree to
undertake such obligations toward  the  Bank  as  are set forth in
this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and  BKV,  part  of  the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the  Loan  Agreement  will be made available to
BKV on the terms and conditions  set forth in said subsidiary loan
agreement; and
     WHEREAS BKV, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with  the  Borrower,  has  agreed  to undertake the
Page  2
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General Condi-
tions (as so  defined)  have  the  respective meanings therein set
forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                Execution of Part B of the Project
     Section 2.01. BKV declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth  in  Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry  out  Part B of the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative,  financial,  engineering   and  urban  transport
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the purpose.
     Section 2.02. (a)  In  order  to  assist  BKV in carrying out
Part B (3)  of  the  Project,  BKV  shall employ consultants whose
qualifications,  experience  and  terms   of  reference  shall  be
satisfactory to the Bank.
     (b)  BKV shall: (i) take all measures required on its part to
ensure that the study under  Part  B  (3)  of the Project shall be
initiated, under terms of  reference  satisfactory to the Bank, by
December 31, 1989, and completed  and  a copy thereof furnished to
the Bank by December 31,  1990;  (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to exchange  views  with  BKV  on  the conclusions and
recommendations of  said  study;  and  (iii)  within  a period not
exceeding six  months  of  such  exchange  of  views,  develop and
thereafter carry out a plan  of  actions to achieve the objectives
of said study  on  the  basis  of  the recommendations thereof and
after taking into consideration the Bank's comments thereon.
     Section 2.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of  the  goods  and  consultants'  services  required for
Part B of the Project and  to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by  the provisions of Schedule 6 to the
Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.04. BKV shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement and Part B
of the Project.
     Section 2.05.  BKV  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the BKV Subsidiary Loan  Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, BKV shall not take  or concur in any action which
would  have  the  effect  of  amending,  abrogating,  assigning or
waiving  the  BKV  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  or  any  provision
thereof.
     Section 2.06. (a)  BKV  shall,  at  the  request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with  regard to progress of Part B of
the Project, the performance of  its obligations under this Agree-
ment and  under  the  BKV  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  BKV shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
Part B of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan,
Page  3
or the performance by BKV  of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the BKV Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.07. BKV  shall  appoint  a suitably qualified staff
member of BKV to  be  responsible,  in  respect  of  Part B of the
Project, for the liaison and  coordination with the consultants to
be employed by the Borrower under  Section 3.02 (a)(i) of the Loan
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of BKV
     Section 3.01. BKV shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
urban transport practices under  the  supervision of qualified and
experienced management  assisted  by  competent  staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. BKV shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
urban transport practices.
     Section  3.03.  BKV   shall   take   out  and  maintain  with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance  against  such  risks  and  in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 3.04. Except as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree, BKV
shall not authorize or  undertake  any additional extension of its
Budapest metro blue line prior to December 31, 1995.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  BKV  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  BKV shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year,  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year  as so audited
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
BKV shall maintain, for each of  its fiscal years after its fiscal
year 1989, a ratio of  total operating expenses to total operating
revenues not higher than 98%.
     (b)  Before October  30  in  each  of  its  fiscal years, BKV
shall, on the basis of  forecasts prepared by BKV and satisfactory
to the Bank, review  whether  it  would  meet the requirements set
Page  4
forth in paragraph  (a)  in  respect  of  such  year  and the next
following fiscal year, and shall  furnish  to the Bank the results
of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  BKV  would not meet the
requirements set  forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for  the fiscal years
covered by such  review,  BKV  shall  promptly  take all necessary
measures in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses   related    to    operations,   including
               administration,  adequate  maintenance,  taxes  and
               payments  in  lieu  of  taxes,  and  provision  for
               depreciation on a straight-line  basis at a rate of
               not less than 4%  per  annum of the average current
               gross value of BKV's  fixed assets in operation, or
               other basis acceptable  to  the Bank, but excluding
               interest and other charges on debt.
         (ii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources  related  to operations, including
               all amounts  of  passenger  subsidies  paid  by the
               Borrower to BKV.
        (iii)  The average  current  gross  value  of  BKV's fixed
               assets in operation shall be calculated as one half
               of the sum of the gross value of BKV's fixed assets
               in operation at the beginning and at the end of the
               fiscal  year,  as  valued  from  time  to  time  in
               accordance with  sound  and consistently maintained
               methods of valuation satisfactory to the Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of BKV thereunder  shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify BKV thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  5
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For BKV:
          Budapest Transport Company
          H-1980 Budapest
          Akacfa u.15.
          Hungarian People's Republic
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               BUDAPESTI KOZLEKEDESI           226325 BKV H
               VÊLLALAT
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BKV may be taken or executed by its General
Director or such other person  or persons as said General Director
shall designate in  writing,  and  BKV  shall  furnish to the Bank
sufficient  evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Eugenio Lari
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    BUDAPEST TRANSPORT COMPANY
                    By /s/ Laszlo Udvari
                                        Authorized Representative
