Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3032 HU
                    (Second Transport Project)
                              between
                    HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated July 10, 1989
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July  10,  1989,  between HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  Part B  of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by the
Budapest Transport Company  (BKV)  with  the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such  assistance, the Borrower will make available
to BKV part  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  as provided in this
Agreement;
     (C)  Part C  of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by the
Hungarocamion  International   Freight   Company   (HC)  with  the
Borrower's  assistance  and,  as  part  of  such  assistance,  the
Borrower will make available  to  HC  part  of the proceeds of the
Loan as provided in this Agreement;
Page  2
     (D)  Part D  of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by the
Hungarian State Railways (MAV) with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such  assistance,  the  Borrower will make available to
MAV part of the proceeds  of  the  Loan as provided in this Agree-
ment; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth  in  this  Agreement  and  in the BKV Project
Agreement, the HC Project Agreement and the MAV Project Agreement,
all of even date herewith between the Bank and each of BKV, HC and
MAV, respectively;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "MTCC"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Transport,
Communications and Construction, or any successor thereto;
     (b)  "BKV" means  the  Budapest  Transport  Company,  a state
enterprise  established   by   Resolution   No.  427428/67,  dated
October 11,  1967  of  the  Executive  Committee  of  the Budapest
Municipal Council;
     (c)  "HC"  means  the   Hungarocamion  International  Freight
Company,   a   state    enterprise   established   by   Resolution
No.  577614/1965,  dated  December  22,  1965,  of  the Borrower's
Minister of Transport and Communications;
     (d)  "MAV" means the Hungarian State Railways, a state enter-
prise  established   by   Resolution   No.   7612/I/9/1950,  dated
February 14, 1950,  of  the  Borrower's  Minister of Transport and
Communications;
     (e)  "BKV Project Agreement" means  the agreement between the
Bank and BKV of even  date  herewith,  as  the same may be amended
from time to time, and  such  term includes all agreements supple-
mental to the BKV Project Agreement;
     (f)  "HC Project Agreement"  means  the agreement between the
Bank and HC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and  such  term includes all agreements supplemental
to the HC Project Agreement;
     (g)  "MAV Project Agreement" means  the agreement between the
Bank and MAV of even  date  herewith,  as  the same may be amended
from time to time, and  such  term includes all agreements supple-
mental to the MAV Project Agreement;
     (h)  "BKV Subsidiary Loan  Agreement"  means the agreement to
be  entered  into  between  the   Borrower  and  BKV  pursuant  to
Section 3.01 (c) of  this  Agreement,  as  the same may be amended
from time to time;
     (i)  "HC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower  and HC pursuant to Section 3.01
(d) of this Agreement, as  the  same  may  be amended from time to
time;
Page  3
     (j)  "MAV Subsidiary Loan  Agreement"  means the agreement to
be  entered  into  between  the   Borrower  and  MAV  pursuant  to
Section 3.01 (e) of  this  Agreement,  as  the same may be amended
from time to time;
     (k)  "Transport Sector Plan"  means  the  Borrower's plan for
improving the operations of  its  transport  sector over the 1989-
1993 period; and
     (l)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies  equivalent to ninety five
million dollars ($95,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in the National
Bank of Hungary on terms  and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1995, or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Page  4
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. The President of  the National Bank of Hungary,
or such other person or  persons as said President shall designate
in writing, are designated as  representatives of the Borrower for
the purposes of  taking  any  action  required  or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of  Section  2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
     (a)  The Borrower shall: (i) carry  out Part A of the Project
through MTCC with due  diligence  and efficiency and in conformity
with  appropriate   technical,   engineering,  administrative  and
financial practices, and provide,  promptly  as needed, the funds,
facilities,  services  and   other   resources  required  for  the
purposes; and (ii) in order to facilitate the carrying out of Part
A (6) of the Project  and  without limitation on the generality of
the above (A) prepare and furnish  to  the Bank, by December 31 of
each year starting with December  31, 1989, the Borrower's program
for road strengthening and  surface  treatment works to be carried
out during the next  year  under  Part  A  (6) of the Project; (B)
finalize said program after  taking  into consideration the Bank's
comments thereon;  and  (C)  thereafter  carry  out  said works in
accordance with said program.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
other obligations under  the  Loan  Agreement,  the Borrower shall
cause  BKV,  HC  and  MAV    to  perform  in  accordance  with the
provisions of the BKV Project  Agreement, the HC Project Agreement
and MAV Project Agreement all their respective obligations therein
set forth, shall take or  cause  to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds,  facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable BKV, HC and MAV to perform such
obligations, and shall not take  or  permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (c)  For the purpose of carrying  out  Part B of the Project,
the Borrower shall relend  the  equivalent  of the proceeds of the
Loan referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement to
BKV under a subsidiary loan  agreement  to be entered into between
the Borrower and BKV under  terms  and conditions which shall have
been approved  by  the  Bank,  including,  without limitation, the
principal terms set forth in said paragraph 1.
     (d)  For the purpose of carrying  out  Part C of the Project,
the Borrower shall relend  the  equivalent  of the proceeds of the
Loan referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement to
HC under a subsidiary  loan  agreement  to be entered into between
the Borrower and HC  under  terms  and conditions which shall have
been approved  by  the  Bank,  including,  without limitation, the
principal terms set forth in said paragraph 2.
     (e)  For the purpose of carrying  out  Part D of the Project,
the Borrower shall relend  the  equivalent  of the proceeds of the
Loan referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement to
MAV under a subsidiary loan  agreement  to be entered into between
the Borrower and MAV under  terms  and conditions which shall have
been approved  by  the  Bank,  including,  without limitation, the
principal terms set forth in said paragraph 3.
     (f)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights  under the BKV
Subsidiary Loan Agreement,  the  HC  Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
Page  5
the MAV Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the  Bank and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Loan, and, except  as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the
said Agreements or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  employ consultants,
whose qualifications, experience and  terms  of reference shall be
satisfactory to the Bank, to assist the Borrower in: (i) the coor-
dination and monitoring of  the  overall  execution of the Project
and the preparation  and  furnishing  to  the  Bank  of the plans,
schedules, reports and other  information  referred to in Sections
9.06 and 9.07 of the General Conditions; and (ii) the carrying out
of Part A of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:  (i)  take  all measures required on
its part to ensure that the study  under Part A (5) of the Project
shall be initiated, under  terms  of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, by December  31,  1989,  and  completed  and  a copy thereof
furnished to the Bank by  June  30,  1991;  (ii) afford the Bank a
reasonable opportunity to exchange views  with the Borrower on the
conclusions  and  recommendations   of   said   study;  and  (iii)
thereafter, prepare  feasibility  studies  and engineering designs
for the further expansion of  river transport and ports within its
territory on the basis  of  the  recommendations of said study and
after taking into consideration the Bank's comments thereon.
     (c)  The Borrower shall  appoint  a  suitably qualified staff
member of MTCC to  be  responsible,  in  respect  of Part A of the
Project, for the liaison and  coordination with the consultants to
be employed under paragraph (a)(i) of this Section.
     Section 3.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the  provisions  of Schedule 6 to this Agree-
ment.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, pursuant to Section 9.09 of
the General Conditions, acquire, not later than June 30, 1990, the
land and rights in respect  of  land required for the carrying out
of Part A (1) of the Project.
     Section 3.05. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and land  acquisition,  respectively) shall be carried
out, in respect of: (a) Part B  of the Project, by BKV pursuant to
Section 2.04 of  the  BKV  Project  Agreement;  (b)  Part C of the
Project,  by  HC  pursuant  to  Section  2.03  of  the  HC Project
Agreement; and (c)  Part  D  of  the  Project,  by MAV pursuant to
Section 2.04 of the MAV Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                          Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) the Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of Part A  of  the Project of MTCC and the
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this Section and those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate  auditing  principles consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
Page  6
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  carry out the Transport  Sector  Plan with due diligence
and efficiency and at all times take all necessary action required
for the purpose;
     (b)  prepare and furnish to the Bank  by May 31 of each year,
a report, in form and  substance  satisfactory to the Bank, on the
progress achieved in the  carrying  out  of  the said Plan and the
measures recommended to sustain and further such progress;
     (c)  afford the  Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on  the  details of the report referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section; and
     (d)  thereafter, promptly take  all  such additional measures
to achieve the objectives of the  said Plan during the next twelve
months period on the  basis  of  the recommendations of the report
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and after taking into
consideration the Bank's views thereon.
     Section  4.03.  The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  cause  the  roads
included under Part A (1) and  (6) of the Project to be maintained
and necessary repairs thereof to  be  made, all in accordance with
sound engineering and  road  maintenance  standards and practices;
and  (b)  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the  funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
Page  7
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  BKV, HC or MAV shall  have  failed to perform any of its
obligations under the BKV Project Agreement, the HC Project Agree-
ment or the MAV Project Agreement, respectively.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable  that BKV, HC or MAV will be
able to perform its  obligations  under the BKV Project Agreement,
the HC Project  Agreement  or  the  MAV Project Agreement, respec-
tively.
     (c)  Any law, decree, or  resolution pertaining to the estab-
lishment or operations of BKV, HC  or MAV shall have been amended,
suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or   waived   so  as  to  affect
materially and adversely the ability of  BKV, HC or MAV to perform
any of its obligations  under  the  BKV  Project Agreement, the HC
Project Agreement or the MAV Project Agreement, respectively.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of BKV, HC or MAV or for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall  have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the BKV  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  the HC Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and  the  MAV  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement have been
executed on behalf of the parties thereto;
     (b)  the consultants referred  to  in  Section 3.02 (a)(i) of
this Agreement have been employed by the Borrower; and
     (c)  the staff members  referred  to  in  Section 3.02 (b) of
this Agreement, Section 2.07 of the BKV Project Agreement, Section
2.06 of the  HC  Project  Agreement  and  Section  2.07 of the MAV
Project Agreement have been appointed by the Borrower, BKV, HC and
MAV, respectively;
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the BKV Project Agreement, the HC Project Agreement
and the MAV Project Agreement  have  been duly authorized or rati-
fied by BKV, HC  and  MAV,  respectively,  and are legally binding
upon BKV, HC and MAV in accordance with their respective terms;
     (b)  that the BKV  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement, the HC Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement and  the  MAV  Subsidiary Loan Agreement have
been duly authorized or ratified by the respective parties thereto
and are legally binding upon such parties in accordance with their
respective terms.
Page  8
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.08 of this
Agreement, the First Deputy President and the Managing Director of
the  National  Bank  of   Hungary   are  severally  designated  as
representatives of the Borrower for  the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          National Bank of Hungary
          Department for International
            Development Institutions
          H-1850 Budapest
          Szabadsag ter 8-9
          Hungarian People's Republic
          Cable address:                      Telex:
             BANKO                              227267 SMAFU-H,
             Budapest                           225755 BANKO-H or
                                                227028 BANKO-H
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
                    By /s/ Laszlo Udvari
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Eugenio Lari
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Page  9
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Part A of the
     Project (MTCC):
     (a)  Works under           22,100,000      35%
          subpart (1)
     (b)  Works under           25,000,000      40%
          subpart (6)
     (c)  Goods and tech-        6,000,000 )
          nical licenses                   )
                                           )
     (d)  Consultants'             800,000 )
          services and                     )    100% of foreign
          training                         )    expenditures and
                                           )    100% of local
(2)  Part B of the                         )    (ex-factory cost)
     Project (BKV):                        )    for goods and
                                           )    100% foreign
     (a)  Goods and              2,700,000 )    expenditures
          technical                        )    for technical
          licenses                         )    licenses, con-
                                           )    sultants' services
     (b)  Consultants'             300,000 )    and training
          services and                     )
          training                         )
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(3)  Part C of
     the Project (HC):
     (a)  Goods and             6,000,000  )
          technical                        )
          licenses                         )
                                           )
     (b)  training                100,000  )    100% of foreign
                                           )    expenditures and
                                           )    100% of local
                                           )    (ex-factory cost)
                                           )    for goods and
(4)  Part D of the                         )    100% foreign
     Project (MAV):                        )    expenditures
                                           )    for technical
     (a)  Goods and            24,700,000  )    licenses, con-
          technical                        )    sultants' services
          licenses                         )    and training
                                           )
     (b)  Consultants'            300,000  )
          services and                     )
          training                         )
(5)  Unallocated                 7,000,000
Page  10
                                 _________
          TOTAL                 95,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are  to assist in the carrying
out of programs further  to  improve the management and operations
and  increase  the  economic  and  financial  efficiencies  of the
Borrower's transport sector.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   MTCC
(1)  Construction of about 14 kilometers of highways to extend the
M-O Motorway  between  Route  6  and  the  M-1  and M-7 Motorways,
including the provision of related interchanges and overpasses and
necessary  works  on  existing   roads,  railroads  and  utilities
affected by such construction.
(2)  Provision of an emergency call system for the M-O Motorway.
(3)  Provision of road maintenance,  axle load control and quality
control equipment.
(4)  Provision of staff  training  in  environmental standards and
road maintenance and traffic safety policies and techniques.
(5)  Provision of a study to develop a master plan for the further
expansion  of  river  transport  and   ports  and,  based  on  the
recommendations of said study,  preparation of feasibility studies
and engineering designs for such further expansion.
(6)  Carrying out of a  program  for the strengthening and surface
treatment of existing national roads.
Part B:   BKV
(1)  Provision of a traffic control system consisting of automatic
vehicle  monitoring,   centralized   traffic   light  control  and
automatic power supply control subsystems.
(2) Provision of staff training in the management and operation of
the traffic control system under Part B (1) of the Project.
(3)  Provision of a management  and organization improvement study
to develop low-cost methods  for increasing operational efficiency
and competitiveness.
Part C:   HC
Page  11
(1)  Provision of an integrated computerized information system.
(2)  Provision  of  handling  equipment  for  transit distribution
facilities.
(3) Provision of  staff  training  in  the  strategic planning and
marketing and in the management  and operations of the information
system under Part C (1) of the Project.
Part D:   MAV
(1)  Provision of a transport management information system.
(2)  Provision of track maintenance and construction equipment.
(3)  Construction and  equipping  of  a  recycling  plant for used
rails.
(4) Provision of staff  training  in the management and operations
of the information system under Part  D (1) of the Project and the
recycling plant under Part D (3) of the Project.
(5)  Provision of a railways costing  study to formulate a uniform
costing system for effective cost control and pricing policy.
                           *   *   *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
     beginning December 15, 1994
     through   June 15, 2004                       4,750,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.**
     Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.O4 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
Page  12
More than eleven years but not                       0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years before                      1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $6,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits  into   the   Special   Account  at  such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to para-
                graph 4 of this  Schedule  for the payment or pay-
                ments  in  respect   of   which  replenishment  is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on  behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have
                requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the Loan
Account under  the  respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in the
respective equivalent amounts,  as  shall  have  been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at  such  time as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, furnish  to  the  Bank  such  documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
Page  13
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Alloca-
tion.
Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of  the  Loan  allocated  to the eligible Cate-
gories shall follow such procedures  as  the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.    Such  further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account:  (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified  by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly  upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as  the  Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into  the  Special  Account  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant  provisions of  this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 5
               Principal Terms of the BKV Subsidiary
                 Loan Agreement, the HC Subsidiary
               Loan Agreement and the MAV Subsidiary
                          Loan Agreement
1.   BKV
     (a)  The principal amount  (the  BKV  Subsidiary  Loan) to be
relent by  the  Borrower  to  BKV  under  the  BKV Subsidiary Loan
Agreement shall be the equivalent  in the currency of the Borrower
(determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the value of the
Page  14
currency or currencies so withdrawn or  paid out on account of the
cost of goods  and  services  for  Part  B  of  the  Project to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan allocated from time to
time to Category (2)  of  the  table  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The BKV Subsidiary Loan shall  be: (i) made for a period
of fifteen years, inclusive of  a  grace period of five years; and
(ii)  charged,  on  the  principal  amount  thereof  withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, interest at a rate of not less than
the higher of the  following  two  rates: (A) the refinancing rate
charged from time to time by the  National Bank of the Hungary  on
loans with  maturities  longer  than  one  year  made to financial
institutions pursuant to the Monetary and Credit Policy Guidelines
adopted each  year  by  Resolution  of  the  Borrower's Council of
Ministers; or (B) (1) the rate of interest applicable from time to
time to the Loan pursuant  to  Section 2.05 of this Agreement, and
(2) an additional charge equal  to  20%  of the amounts to be paid
pursuant to subparagraph (b) (ii) (B) (1) hereof.
2.   HC
     (a)  The principal  amount  (the  HC  Subsidiary  Loan) to be
relent  by  the  Borrower  to  HC  under  the  HC  Subsidiary Loan
Agreement shall be the equivalent  in the currency of the Borrower
(determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the value of the
currency or currencies so withdrawn or  paid out on account of the
cost of goods  and  services  for  Part  C  of  the  Project to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan allocated from time to
time to Category (3)  of  the  table  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The HC Subsidiary Loan shall  be:  (i) made for a period
of fifteen years, inclusive of  a  grace period of five years; and
(ii) charged, on the  principal  amount thereof withdrawn and out-
standing from time to time,  interest  at  a rate of not less than
the higher of the  following  two  rates: (A) the refinancing rate
charged from time to time by the National Bank of Hungary on loans
with  maturities  longer   than   one   year   made  to  financial
institutions pursuant to the Monetary and Credit Policy Guidelines
adopted each  year  by  Resolution  of  the  Borrower's Council of
Ministers; or (B) (1) the rate of interest applicable from time to
time to the Loan pursuant  to  Section 2.05 of this Agreement, and
(2) an additional charge equal  to  20%  of the amounts to be paid
pursuant to subparagraph (b) (ii) (B) (1) hereof.
3.   MAV
     (a)  The principal amount  (the  MAV  Subsidiary  Loan) to be
relent by  the  Borrower  to  MAV  under  the  MAV Subsidiary Loan
Agreement shall be the equivalent  in the currency of the Borrower
(determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the value of the
currency or currencies so withdrawn or  paid out on account of the
cost of goods  and  services  for  Part  D  of  the  Project to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan allocated from time to
time to Category (4)  of  the  table  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The MAV Subsidiary Loan shall  be: (i) made for a period
of fifteen years, inclusive of  a  grace period of five years; and
(ii)  charged,  on  the  principal  amount  thereof  withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, interest at a rate of not less than
the higher of the  following  two  rates: (A) the refinancing rate
charged from time to time by the National Bank of Hungary on loans
with  maturities  longer   than   one   year   made  to  financial
institutions pursuant to the Monetary and Credit Policy Guidelines
adopted each  year  by  Resolution  of  the  Borrower's Council of
Ministers; or (B) (1) the rate of interest applicable from time to
time to the Loan pursuant  to  Section 2.05 of this Agreement, and
(2) an additional charge equal  to  20%  of the amounts to be paid
Page  15
pursuant to subparagraph (b) (ii) (B) (1) hereof.
                            SCHEDULE 6
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   The works included in  Part  A  (1)  of  the Project shall be
procured under one contract and  the  bidders for such works shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods manufactured in the territory
of  the  Borrower  may  be  granted  a  margin  of  preference  in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and  2.56  of  the  Guidelines  and  paragraphs  1  through  4  of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods and technical licenses which the Bank agrees (a) are of
proprietary nature, (b) the timely  supply thereof is critical for
efficient Project execution,  or  (c)  need  to be compatible with
other installed equipment, may be procured through direct negotia-
tions  with  the  proprietors  thereof,  on  terms  and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.
2.   Goods estimated to cost less  than the equivalent of $150,000
per  contract,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed the
equivalent of $15,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of  comparison  of  price quotations obtained from at
least three  suppliers  from  at  least  three different countries
eligible  under  the  Guidelines  in  accordance  with  procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
3.   Works under Part A (6) of  the Project estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $3,000,000 per contract, may be procured on
the  basis  of   competitive   bidding,   advertised  locally,  in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof,  the  procedures  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each:  (i)  contract for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent  of  $1,000,000  or more, (ii) contract for
works under Part A  (1)  of  the  Project,  and (iii) of the first
three contracts for works  under  Part  A  (6) of the Project, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs  2  and  4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two  conformed  copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Bank prior  to the making of the first payment
Page  16
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as  part of the evidence to be fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
3.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     Consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded to: (A)  consultants  whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (B) who shall  be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  on  the  basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
