Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3032 HU
                    (Second Transport Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
            HUNGAROCAMION INTERNATIONAL FREIGHT COMPANY
                        Dated July 10, 1989
                       HC PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July  10,  1989,  between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank) and HUNGAROCAMION
INTERNATIONAL FREIGHT COMPANY (HC).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Hungarian  People's  Republic  (the  Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has  agreed  to  make  available to the Borrower an
amount in various  currencies  equivalent  to  ninety five million
dollars ($95,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on  condition  that HC agree to undertake
such  obligations  toward  the  Bank  as  are  set  forth  in this
Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and  HC,  part  of  the  proceeds of the loan
provided for under the  Loan  Agreement  will be made available to
HC on the terms and  conditions  set forth in said subsidiary loan
agreement; and
     WHEREAS HC, in consideration of  the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with  the  Borrower,  has  agreed  to undertake the
Page  2
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General Condi-
tions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein.
                            ARTICLE II
                Execution of Part C of the Project
     Section 2.01. HC declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and,
to this end,  shall  carry  out  Part  C  of  the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative, financial,  engineering  and  transport practices,
and shall provide, or  cause  to  be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services  and  other resources required for
the Project.
     Section 2.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods required for Part C of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.03. HC shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08  and  9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement and Part C
of the Project.
     Section 2.04. HC shall duly perform all its obligations under
the HC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, HC shall not take  or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending,  abrogating, assigning or waiving the
HC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a)  HC  shall,  at  the  request  of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with  regard to progress of Part C of
the Project, the performance of  its obligations under this Agree-
ment and under the HC Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  HC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere  with  the progress of Part C
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the
performance by HC  of  its  obligations  under  this Agreement and
under the HC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. HC  shall  appoint  a  suitably qualified staff
member of HC  to  be  responsible,  in  respect  of  Part C of the
Project, for the liaison and  coordination with the consultants to
be employed by the Borrower under  Section 3.02 (a)(i) of the Loan
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                  Management and Operations of HC
     Section 3.01. HC shall  carry  on  its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
transport  practices  under  the   supervision  of  qualified  and
experienced management  assisted  by  competent  staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. HC shall at  all times operate and maintain its
Page  3
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
transport practices.
     Section 3.03. HC shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other  provision  satisfactory  to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in  such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 3.04. HC  shall  develop,  by  December 31, 1991, and
thereafter carry out a program to implement, by December 31, 1992,
a cost-based pricing system for its services.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01.  (a)  HC  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  HC shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year,  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year  as so audited
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
HC shall earn, for each of  its fiscal years after its fiscal year
1989, an annual  return  of  not  less  than    22% of the average
current net value of the HC's fixed assets in operation.
     (b)  Before October 30 in each of its fiscal years, HC shall,
on the basis of forecasts  prepared  by HC and satisfactory to the
Bank, review whether it would  meet  the requirements set forth in
paragraph (a) in  respect  of  such  year  and  the next following
fiscal year and shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  the results of such
review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such  review  shows  that  HC  would not meet the
requirements set forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for  HC's fiscal years
covered by  such  review,  HC  shall  promptly  take all necessary
measures in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The annual return  shall  be calculated by dividing
               HC's net operating  income  for  the fiscal year in
               question by one half of  the sum of the current net
               value of  HC's  fixed  assets  in  operation at the
               beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
         (ii)  The  term  "net   operating   income"  means  total
               operating revenues less total operating expenses.
Page  4
        (iii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations.
         (iv)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses related  to  operations, including admini-
               stration, adequate maintenance,  taxes and payments
               in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on
               a  basis  acceptable  to  the  Bank,  but excluding
               interest and other charges on debt.
          (v)  The  average  current  gross  value  of  HC's fixed
               assets in operation shall be calculated as one-half
               of the sum of the  gross value of HC's fixed assets
               in operation at the beginning and at the end of the
               fiscal year, as valued from  time to time in accor-
               dance  with   sound   and  consistently  maintained
               methods of valuation satisfactory to the Bank.
         (vi)  The term "current net value of HC's fixed assets in
               operation" means  the  gross  value  of  HC's fixed
               assets in operation less  the amount of accumulated
               depreciation, as valued from time to time in accor-
               dance  with   sound   and  consistently  maintained
               methods of valuation satisfactory to the Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of HC thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in  accordance  with  its terms, and the
Bank shall promptly notify HC thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For HC:
Page  5
          Hungarocamion International Freight Company
          H-1442 BUDAPEST, Pf. 108
          XIV. Nepstadion ut 51.
          Hungarian People's Republic
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               HUNGAROCAMION                   225454 H
               Budapest
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of HC may  be taken or executed by its General
Director or such other person  or persons as said General Director
shall designate in  writing,  and  HC  shall  furnish  to the Bank
sufficient  evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Eugenio Lari
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    HUNGAROCAMION INTERNATIONAL
                      FREIGHT COMPANY
                    By /s/ Laszlo Udvari
                                        Authorized Representative
