Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3032 HU
                    (Second Transport Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                     HUNGARIAN STATE RAILWAYS
                        Dated July 10, 1989
                       MAV PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July  10,  1989,  between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank) and HUNGARIAN STATE
RAILWAYS (MAV).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Hungarian  People's  Republic  (the  Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has  agreed  to  make  available to the Borrower an
amount in various  currencies  equivalent  to  ninety five million
dollars ($95,000,000), on the  terms  and  conditions set forth in
the Loan  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition  that  MAV agree to
undertake such obligations toward  the  Bank  as  are set forth in
this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and  MAV,  part  of  the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the  Loan  Agreement  will be made available to
MAV on the terms and conditions  set forth in said subsidiary loan
agreement; and
     WHEREAS MAV, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Page  2
Loan Agreement with  the  Borrower,  has  agreed  to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General Condi-
tions (as so  defined)  have  the  respective meanings therein set
forth and the  term  "Development  Strategy"  means  MAV's plan of
short and medium term  measures  for improving its operations over
the 1991-1995 period, set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                Execution of Part D of the Project
     Section 2.01. MAV declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth  in  Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out  Part D of the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering  and  railway practices and
safety, health  and  environmental  standards  satisfactory to the
Bank, and shall  provide,  or  cause  to  be provided, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     Section 2.02. (a)  In  order  to  assist  MAV in carrying out
Part D (5)  of  the  Project,  MAV  shall employ consultants whose
qualifications,  experience  and  terms   of  reference  shall  be
satisfactory to the Bank.
     (b)  MAV shall: (i) take all measures required on its part to
ensure that the study under  Part  D  (5)  of the Project shall be
initiated, under terms of  reference  satisfactory to the Bank, by
December 31, 1989, and completed  and  a copy thereof furnished to
the Bank by December 31,  1990;  (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on the conclusions
and recommendations of said study;  and  (iii) within a period not
exceeding six  months  of  such  exchange  of  views,  develop and
thereafter initiate the carrying out of a program to implement, by
December 31, 1991, a cost-based pricing system for its services on
the basis of  the  recommendations  of  the  said  study and after
taking into consideration the Bank's comments thereon.
     Section 2.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of  the  goods  and  consultants'  services  required for
Part D of the Project and  to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by  the provisions of Schedule 6 to the
Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.04. MAV shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement and Part D
of the Project.
     Section 2.05.  MAV  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the MAV Subsidiary Loan  Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, MAV shall not take  or concur in any action which
would  have  the  effect  of  amending,  abrogating,  assigning or
waiving  the  MAV  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  or  any  provision
thereof.
     Section 2.06. (a)  MAV  shall,  at  the  request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with  regard to progress of Part D of
the Project, the performance of  its obligations under this Agree-
ment and  under  the  MAV  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  and other
Page  3
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  MAV shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
Part D of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan,
or the performance by MAV  of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the MAV Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.07. MAV shall  appoint,  a suitably qualified staff
member of MAV to  be  responsible,  in  respect  of  Part D of the
Project, for the liaison and  coordination with the consultants to
be employed by the Borrower under  Section 3.02 (a)(i) of the Loan
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of MAV
     Section 3.01.  (a)  MAV  shall  carry  on  its operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial, engineering and railway practices under the supervision
of qualified  and  experienced  management  assisted  by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
     (b)  Without limitation on the generality of paragraph (a) of
this Section, MAV shall:
          (i)  carry  out  the   Development   Strategy  with  due
               diligence and efficiency and  at all times take all
               necessary action to achieve the objectives thereof;
         (ii)  prepare and  furnish  to  the  Bank  for the Bank's
               review  and  comments,  by  May  31  of  each year,
               reports, in form and  substance satisfactory to the
               Bank, on the progress  achieved in the carrying out
               of  the  Development   Strategy  and  the  measures
               recommended to sustain and further such progress.
     Section 3.02. MAV shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, as needed, make all  necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all  in   accordance   with   sound  administrative,  engineering,
financial  and   railway   practices   and   safety,   health  and
environmental standards.
     Section 3.03. MAV shall  take  out  and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make  other  provision satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and  in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  MAV  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  MAV shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year,  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year  as so audited
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
Page  4
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
MAV shall maintain, a ratio  of  total operating expenses to total
operating revenues not highter than  95% for its fiscal year 1990,
94% for its fiscal year  1991,  93%  for its fiscal year 1992, 92%
for its fiscal 1993, 91% for its  fiscal year 1994 and for each of
its fiscal years thereafter.
     (b)  Before October  30  in  each  of  its  fiscal years, MAV
shall, on the basis of  forecasts prepared by MAV and satisfactory
to the Bank, review  whether  it  would  meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph  (a)  in  respect  of  such  year  and the next
following fiscal year, and shall  furnish  to the Bank the results
of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any review shows that MAV would not meet the require-
ments set forth in paragraph (a) for MAV's fiscal years covered by
such review, MAV  shall  promptly  take  all necessary measures in
order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses related  to  operations, including admini-
               stration, adequate maintenance,  taxes and payments
               in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on
               a straight-line basis at a rate of not less than 4%
               per annum of  the  average  current  gross value of
               MAV's fixed  assets  in  operation,  or other basis
               acceptable  to  the  Bank,  excluding  interest and
               other charges on debt.
         (ii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources  related  to operations, including
               all amounts  of  passenger  subsidies  paid  by the
               Borrower to MAV.
        (iii)  The average  current  gross  value  of  MAV's fixed
               assets in operation shall be calculated as one half
               of the sum of the gross value of MAV's fixed assets
               in operation at the beginning and at the end of the
               fiscal year, as valued from  time to time in accor-
               dance  with   sound   and  consistently  maintained
               methods of valuation satisfactory to the Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of MAV thereunder  shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify MAV thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
Page  5
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For MAV:
          Hungarian State Railways
          H-1940 Budapest, VI. Nepkoztarsasag u. 73-75.
          Hungarian People's Republic
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               MÊV GENERAL DIREKTION           224342 MAV VF H
               Budapest
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of MAV may be taken or executed by its General
Director or such other person  or persons as said General Director
shall designate in  writing,  and  MAV  shall  furnish to the Bank
sufficient  evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Eugenio Lari
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    HUNGARIAN STATE RAILWAYS
Page  6
                    By /s/ Laszlo Udvari
                                        Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                       Development Strategy
     In  order  to  facilitate   the  proper  development  of  its
operations during the  period  1991-1995,  MAV  shall, inter alia,
carry out the following measures:
1.   MAV shall at all times  take  all action necessary to achieve
the operational targets set forth in the Annex to this Schedule.
2.   MAV shall, over the period comprising fiscal years 1991-1995,
limit its capital  expenditures  for  railway electrification, new
lines construction and track doubling to  not more than 10% of the
total  aggregate  of  all  its  capital  expenditures  incurred or
expected to be incurred over this period. For the purposes hereof,
the term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures incurred on
account  of   fixed   assets,   including   interest   charged  to
construction, related to operations.
3.   MAV shall reduce, over  the  period comprising 1990-1992, its
per unit of output costs of  staff, fuel and materials by at least
5% of such costs incurred in fiscal year 1989.
4.   MAV shall continue to  carry  out  its  program to reduce its
uneconomic activities and expand its profitable operations and, to
that end, MAV shall:  (a)  eliminate its steam traction operations
by December  31,  1990;  and  (b)  (i)  monitor,  on  the basis of
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, the operations of such of its
railway lines identified  as  uneconomic  lines over the 1991-1995
period, and (ii)  by  March  31,  1991,  develop,  on the basis of
guidelines satisfactory to the  Bank,  and  thereafter carry out a
plan to reduce its services  on  its railway lines continued to be
identified as uneconomic lines.
                                                               Annex to Schedule
                               OPERATIONAL TARGETS
                        A. Hungarian State Railways - MAV
                                            Unit             1987         1990
      1992        1993
                                                           (Actual)      - - - -
 P  L  A  N  N  E  D - - -
1.   Hauling Power Distribution
     in Gross-ton kms
     Electric Traction                         %             62.9         68.0
         69.0      70.0
     Diesel Traction                           %             37.1         32.0
         31.0      30.0
2.   Utilization of Traction
          Average Daily Performance
          of Available Engine               km/day
          (a)  Passenger Traffic
               Electric locomotives           "              508          530
         540         555
               Diesel Locomotives             "              335          327
         320         315
          (b)  Freight Traffic
               Electric locomotives           "              332          360
         364         367
               Diesel locomotives             "              190          197
Page  7
         200         200
3.   Availability of                           %
       Electric locomotives                    "             80.0         82.0
         83.0        84.0
       Diesel locomotives                      "             77.6         80.0
         81.0        82.0
4.   Utilization of Rolling Stock
     Passenger - KM per seat                ooopkm/seat      33.0         36.0
         38.0        40.0
     Availability (coaches)                    %             87.5         89.0
         90.0        91.0
     Net - ton km per lt of                 ooo ntkm/t        8.8          9.6
          9.7         9.8
     capacity
     Availability (wagons)                     %             87.5         89.5
         98.0        91.1
     Turn around time of wagons             days              4.49         4.20
          4.15        4.00
5.   Staff Productivity1
     Traffic units per employee             Tus/empl.       338.7         342
         348         350
1/   Traffic operational staff only.
