Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report N° 19050
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
HOUSING COMPLETION AND SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3561-AL)
March 31, 1999
Infrastructure Development Group
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 1993)
Currency Unit   =    Algerian Dinar (AD)
US$1.00    =    AD 21.60
AD 1.00    =    US$0.046
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1-December 31
ABBREVATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADL          Agence nationale de l'Amelioration et du Developpement du Logement
(National Agency for Housing Development)
AGL           Aide ge'neralisee au loyer (Global Subsidy for Rent)
APL            Aide personnalisee au loyer (Personalized Subsidy for Rent)
BAD            Banque Algeirienne de developpement (Algerian Development Bank)
CNEP           Caisse nationale d'epargne et de prevoyance (National Savings Fund)
CNL            National Housing Fund (Caisse Nationale du Logement)
EFF            Extended Fund Facility (Mecanisme Elargi de Credit)
EPLF           Entreprise de Promotion et de Logement Familial
(Real Estate & Housing Development Fund)
FONAL          Fonds National du Logement (National Housing Fund)
GDP            Gross Domestic Product (Produit Interieur Brut)
GOA            Government of Algeria (Gouvernement d'Algerie)
HCSDP          Housing Completion and Sector Development Project (Projet de Finition des Logements
et de Developpement du Secteur de l 'Habitat)
H-SAL          Housing Sector Adjustment Loan (Pret d 'Ajustement Structurel a l 'Habitat)
MOH            Ministry of Housing (Ministere de l'habitat)
OPGI           Office de promotion et de gestion immobiliere
(Real Estate & Housing Management Fund)
PCC            Project Coordination Committee (Comite de Coordination du Projet)
SAL            Structural Adjustment Loan (Pret d'Ajustement Structurel)
SNC           Societe Nationale de Comptablilite (National Accounting Agency)
SHPS           Social Housing Program for Sale
(Programme de Logement Sociaux destines aj la Vente, PLSV)
SME            Small and Medium Enterprises (Petites et Moyennes Entreprises)
SRH            Secondary Mortgage Facility (Societe de Refinancement Hypoth&caire)
TA             Technical Assistance (Assistance technique)
Vice President: Kemal Dervi,
Country Director: Christian Delvoie
Sector Director: Jean-Claude Villiard
Team Leader: Fran,ois L. Amiot



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE     ...................................................................................................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................................................................          ii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .1
A. Background .1
B.  Project Objectives                                      .3
C.   Achievement of Objectives                                  .3
D.          Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .11
E.   Project Sustainability .12
F.  Bank Performance .13
G.   Borrower Perforance .14
H.   Assessment of Outcome .15
I.  Future Operations .16
J.  Key Lessons Learned .17
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES ....................................................................  29
Table 1: Summay of Assessment .30
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .31
Table 3: Project Timetable .32
Table 4:    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .33
Table 5:  Indicators for Project Implementation .33
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .33
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project .34
Table 8A: Project Costs .35
Table 8B: Project Financig .35
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .35
Table 10: Status of legal covenants .36
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .39
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff inputs .39
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .40
APPENDIX: Borrower's Contribution to ICR ....................................................................  41
MAP:        IBRD 24534
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



Algeria                                    - -              Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
HOUSING COMPLETION AND SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3561-AL)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report for the Housing Completion and Sector
Development project in the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, for which Loan 3561-AL in the
amount of US$200 million equivalent was approved on March 17, 1993 and made effective on September
9, 1993.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1998 whereas the original closing date was on December 31, 1996.
Final disbursement took place in October 1998, at which time a balance of US$4,656,896.02 was
canceled. There was no cofinancier, but a parallel financing from the European Union.
The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was prepared by Francois Amiot, Principal
Economist, Middle-East and North Africa Region with the assistance of Alain Davet, a consultant,
financial specialist and Charles-Antoine Giuliani, Project Assistant in the Infrastructure Development
Group of the Middle-East and North Africa Region. The Borrower provided comments that are included
as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission, in June
1998. It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
submitting his own project assessment.



Algeria                                   - ii -          Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
HOUSING COMPLETION AND SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3561-AL)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.   The Housing Completion and Sector Development Project (HCSDP) was signed on March 17,
1993, and was implemented against a background of tense political and social situation, and strong
stabilization and adjustment efforts. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) was involved during the
1994-97 period, through a stand-by Arrangement and a three years Extended Fund Facility (EFF). The
Bank financed an Economic Rehabilitation Loan in 1995, followed by a Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL) a year later. Both the EFF and the SAL supported the Project.
2.   Faced with demographic pressure, the Algerian Government bad attempted to address the rapidly
growing demand for housing by increasing the share of public investment in total housing investment.
This was done mostly through the public supply of "social" housing units, either for rent or for
ownership. Delays of up to eight years in completing housing were typical at the start of the project, and
became particularly acute when imports of construction materials were curtailed as a result of foreign
exchange rationing.
Project Objectives
3.   The main objectives were to trigger a quick housing supply response to help address the housing
crisis, and to support and enhance the medium-term objective and priorities of the market-oriented
reforms of the housing sector.
4.   The Bank loan (US$200 million) financed the completion of a social housing program for sale
(US$130 million), an import program of critical building materials for the private sector (US$65 million),
and a technical assistance program (US$5 million). The first component aimed at accelerating the
completion of about 51,000 social units for sale, under public real estate management (EPLFs,
Entreprises de Promotion et de Logement Familial). The second component aimed at supplying the
housing private sector market with imported strategic construction materials to accelerate the completion
of the unfinished housing stock. The technical assistance program aimed at assisting the Government in
implementing key housing policy objectives in the following three critical areas: improving housing
supply incentives; reforming housing finance through the entry of the state owned housing institution
(CNEP, Caisse Nationale d'Epargne et de Prevoyance) in the banking sector; and reforming and targeting
housing subsidies.
5.   While all of the project primary objectives have been reached, albeit with some delays, the fluidity
of the political and economical situation in Algeria made it necessary to adjust the contents and timeframe
of the project. First, after liberalization of the trade regime, the first two components (social housing and



Algeria                                   - iii -         Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
private housing) were combined and disbursed against customs certificates in an amount of US$86
million. Accordingly, most of the loan amount went to private self-buiiders. Second, parts of the
Technical Assistance (TA) component were enlarged to include the restructuring of public developers,
and parts were reduced because of the reluctance of foreign experts to apply for medium-term jobs in
Algeria during the implementation period. Third, the restructuring of CNEP was not done as planned, but
nevertheless led to its transformation into a banking institution. CNEP is now under the authority of the
central bank. Finally, important work was done to formulate the overall framework of the housing finance
system, which includes a clear separation between housing subsidies and housing finance. Such
separation is now a key feature of the housing market in Algeria.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.   Overall, the implementation of the project went well, but delays occurred from 1993 to 1995 and
resulted in a temporary unsatisfactory rating in implementation. Satisfactory progress resumed after the
mid-term review in October 1995. The Loan was arnended on November 3, 1995 and its closing date was
postponed first to December 31, 1997 and then to June 30, 1998 to allow the financing of more TA
programs. The physical part of the loan or US$195 million was disbursed by April 1996, or almost two
years before closing date.
7.   Three factors contributed to the success of the project: (a) the assistance of the IME, which was
active in Algeria during the January 1995-April 1998 period; (b) the issuance of a sector work paper in
December 1995, which helped the Ministry of Housing to propose a national housing strategy for the
1996-2000 period; and (c) the preparation of a Housing Sector Adjustment Loan (H-SAL), which
encompassed the reform of the construction industry sector and implementation of the new housing
finance framework, as it was designed under the project. The H-SAL was instrumental in convincing the
Borrower to proceed with its housing reform agenda, even though the loan never materialized.
8.   Three factors impacted negatively on project implementation: (a) the security situation which
prevented some part of the technical assistance program from being launched and complicated the
supervision missions to the point where Bank's representatives had to meet the Algerian delegation
alternatively in a foreign country or in Algeria. While in Algeria the circumstances did not allow much
travelling outside downtown Algiers; (b) the economic environment which slowed down the import
campaigns, particularly when foreign banks were hesitant to confirm letters of credits issued by Algerian
bank; and (c) the critical financial situation of most of public housing institutions, including distressed
developers, construction enterprises, and, more importantly, the CNEP. The latter was audited under the
project and the financial report concluded that CNEP was undernined by, inter alia, the extreme
weakness of its accounting system, a lack of transparency, a lack of operating procedures, an unreliable
management informnation system, a rapid turnover of managing directors, and a very large (3,600) and
generally ill-trained staff that was disseminated throughout CNEP's 160 branches. The rate of loan
recovery was low and rapidly deteriorating. The auditor refused to certify CNEP's accounts.
9.   Against this negative background, all the efforts of the Government and the Bank focused on the
setting-up of a reliable housing financial framework which was also able to address the CNEP issues.
Several scenarios were tested and discussed, and a final proposal was elaborated, and then approved by
the Government of Algeria (GOA). Its basic feature was a clear separation between housing subsidies
and housing finances, involving a redefinition of the role of the CNEP as the former main financier of the
public housing program for rent; and the direct involvement of the Treasury for the financing of social
housing projects, through the transfer of subsidies and investment budgets to the Caisse Nationale du
Logement (CNL), acting as agent for the government. CNL has also been made responsible for
distribution of the subsidies designed to promote owner-occupied housing by low-income households
through up-front grants. The other related aspects of the reform consisted of: (a) transforming CNEP into



Algeria                                   - iv -          Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
an autonomous financial institution competing on a level playing field with other financial institutions in
the provision of bank services to households, particularly in the housing loan market; (b) establishing a
housing credit refinancing institution accessible to all eligible institutional participants, to increase the
supply of housing credits and facilitate the entry of commercial banks and other financial institutions into
the housing finance market; (c) developing a mortgage insurance fund through insurance premiums based
on the loan loss experience of each institutional participant, to reduce the credit risk exposure and capital
requirement of real estate loans for primary lenders as well as for the refinancing institution; and (d)
reforming housing credit and savings instruments. Toward the end of the project, this institutional setting
was in place.
10. Several other key reforms supported the above financial framework. First, a new housing subsidy
scheme was set-up with two basic features: explicit up-front grants for the acquisition and construction of
core housing units geared toward low-income families; and personalized rental grants above a cap set at
15 percent of the tenant's income. Second, new legislation was enacted with the aim of facilitating the
development of the private rental market, facilitating the maintenance of housing units under co-
ownership, and opening-up competition among real estate developers. Third, the public developers in
charge of managing the public housing program for rent (the OPGIs, Offices de Promotion et de Gestion
Immobiliare) were physically and financially restructured. Their number was progressively scaled back
from 53 at the beginning of the project to 25 at the end. Part of the OPGIs functions, such as rent
collection and maintenance activities, have been progressively sub-contracted to the private sector or to
entities emerging from their physical restructuring. Last but not least, public construction enterprises have
been restructured or liquidated and more and more housing construction activities are now being carried
out by private small and medium-size enterprises. During this restructuring program, and for the first time
in Algeria, public employees have been laid off and the principle of lifetime employment has been
abandoned.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
11.  Despite a very difficult environment, the physical goals were broadly reached and fundamental
policy changes have occurred during project implementation, allowing the Algerian housing sector to
develop within a sound framework and according to large efficiency gains.
12.  The institutional development impact is satisfactory. The implementation of the new subsidy
scheme has been reflected by the 1996-98 budget laws and the CNL is now in charge of distributing the
housing grants. A large part of the public housing stock in on sale while the management and
maintenance has been partly contracted with the private sector. CNEP is now operating as a bank and has
nearly completed a massive cleaning operation of its balance sheet. A housing mortgage financing
facility (SRH, Societi de Refinancement Hypothecaire) was set up and should facilitate the involvement
of commercial banks in housing finance.
13.  The expected follow-up project was the H-SAL, which has been under discussion with the
government during the second half of 1996, but was rejected after the issuance of the new government
program in July 1997 which announced the launching of a massive and unsustainable program of public
housing for rent. However, most of the reforms continued within the HCSD framework and according to
Algerian authorities, 70 percent of the measures which would have been taken under the first phase of the
H-SAL have been implemented.
14.  Without a housing sector not quite adjusted, the logical continuation of the Bank's involvement in
the sector was to address the urgent need of the urban poor. The Low-Income Housing Project was
launched in FY98 with the basic objective of improving the living and housing conditions of poor



Algeria                                     - v -            Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
families living in selected urban slums. Since the launching of the project, its objectives have been
progressively scaled-up into a national program aiming at providing basic urban services for all existing
slums. Subject to a quick disbursement of planned operations, a follow-up project may be soon
considered, with a stronger focus on the cost recovery issue. Another potential project would be a
housing finance loan to help develop the mortgage market, as well as the involvement of more
commercial banks into the sector.
15.  The State is still playing an important role in the housing sector but it is, however, very unlikely if
not impossible for Algeria to step back at the point where the project started, since all of the components
of the new financial framework are already under implementation. The sharp drop of overall completion
delays, from an average of eight years at the beginning of the project, to less than two years at the end of
the project, the emergence of efficient private operators on the housing market, the related sharp drop in
real term of construction prices, the fairness of the new subsidy scheme are powerful indicators for any
new Government to carry on the housing strategy.
16. The main lessons learned were the following: (a) Separating housing subsidies from housing
finance is a key requirement in reforming housing finance, since it allows a better definition of the role of
the State, as well as a better integration of the housing market into the financial market. In Algeria, this
decision was made possible through several initiatives: (i) the launching of a comprehensive study on all
explicit and implicit housing subsidies; (ii) the design of an institutional framework for the housing
finance system which highlighted the advantage of such a separation; (iii) the adoption of the framework
by the Government; and (iv) the issuance by the Treasury of AD 82 billion (equivalent to US$1.6 billion)
of bonds to replace the entire portfolio of debt accumulated in CNEP's balance sheet by the OPGIs; (b) as
long as all housing subsidies are not funded from explicit fiscal sources, the reform of the housing market
is not completed, and may lead to important quasi-fiscal deficit or may delay budget arbitration;
(c) political and social constraints are important factors which may impede the speed of the reform. Such
is the case in Algeria where the public sector still manage an important housing stock, along with
numerous claims to house a large portion of the population; and (d) against this background, a
transparent, fair and well targeted housing subsidy system may accelerate the reform while preserving the
poorest segment of the population. Efficiency gains, both on completion time and construction costs
should also allow a larger multiplier effect of public funds.
17.  The next steps recommended over the medium-term to allow the Algerian housing market to work
more efficiently are the following: (a) prompt processing of land titles, particularly in urban areas, so as to
base mortgage credits on well-defined property titles; (b) improve the legal framework to increase
effectiveness of foreclosure and loan recovery procedures; (c) limitation of the public housing program
for rent to the poorest households, along with a more transparent and leaner budget allocation for the
public housing stock which should be partly privatized; (d) improve the primary mortgage infrastructure
by strengthening the mortgage collateral and commercial banks willing to enter into the housing mortgage
market; (e) develop the activities of the secondary mortgage facility (SRH) along a realist five-year
business plan which take into account all constraints related to its issuance capacity (Treasury Bonds,
contractual savings scheme etc.); and (f) accelerate the full privatization of viable public construction
enterprises.



Algeria                                  - 1 -           Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
HOUSING COMPLETION AND SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3561-AL)
PART I
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background
General Background
1.   The current economic structure of Algeria emerges from a centrally planned model of growth based
on heavy industrialization financed by hydrocarbon revenues, and from a series of structural reforns that
started after the sharp fall of oil prices in 1986 and triggered a gradual transition to a market economy.
Today, Algeria remains an oil-dependent, state-controlled economy in which the share of the public sector
is estimated at around 60 percent and slowly decreasing. The country's budgetary equilibrium and
balance of payments viability are largely dependent on the performance of the hydrocarbon sector, which
accounts for 20 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), 60 percent of fiscal revenues, and 95 percent
of exports.
2.  In 1992, during the preparation of the project, stabilization efforts of the five previous years were
abandoned and the Government backtracked from its program of liberalization as social discontent, partly
fueled by the cancellation of parliamentary elections and an acute housing crisis, sharply increased. The
Government adopted an expansionary fiscal policy, widening the deficit by more than 7 percent of GDP
in 1993. Import controls were implemented in order to ration foreign exchange and to generate resources
for servicing the external debt. Despite these efforts, arrears began to appear and access to foreign credit
became more and more difficult.
3.   By 1994, the widening of macroeconomic imbalances, the increased difficulty to access external
financing, and the deteriorating political and social situation reached an unsustainable level. While
conflicts and violence became more widespread despite a crackdown on fundamentalist activities and
public revulsion against terrorist acts, economic growth remained sluggish. Average annual GDP growth
was negative over the 1986-94 period, and combined with population growth, led to a cumulative decline
of 21 percent in GDP per capita. Unemployment and inflation jumped from 17 percent and 12.4 percent,
respectively, in 1986 to 25 and 29 percent in 1994. In parallel, the shock caused by the 50 percent decline
in Algeria's terms of trade in 1986 led to a significant increase in its external debt, from an outstanding
amount of US$17.1 billion at the end of 1985 to US$28 billion (68 percent of GDP) by the end of 1994.



Algeria                                   - 2 -           Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
4.   A renewed and deeper adjustment program was introduced by a new Government in 1994; it was
supported in 1994/95 by an IMF standby arrangement totaling about US$1 billion. This support was
followed by a World Bank Economic Rehabilitation Loan (US$150 million, approved in January 1995), a
first Paris Club rescheduling agreement, a further IMF three-year EFF program of US$1.8 billion in May
1995, and finally, in April 1996, a World Bank Structural Adjustment Loan of US$300 million.
5.   Between 1994 and 1997, the Algerian economy was stabilized and the process of structural reforms
deepened. The budget was placed on balanced track, external trade was liberalized, the exchange rate
depreciated by 54 percent during the standby program, and price restrictions were removed. The social
safety net was improved and measures were taken to facilitate labor shedding by public enterprises.
6.   Both the EFF and the SAL supported the housing reforms introduced by the Housing Completion
and Sector Development Project (HCSDP), while the Bank started a dialogue with the Algerian
authorities to launch a specific H-SAL aimed at accelerating the shift from a supply-driven, public-
dominated housing sector to a demand-driven, market-oriented sector. The loan never materialized,
primarily because the launching of an important new program of public housing for rent by the newly
appointed Government in 1997 was considered by the Bank to be a major deviation from the policy
content of a potential H-SAL. Against this background, however, most of the planned reforms have been
launched by Algerian authorities, and Bank support materialized in FY98 in the form of a Low Income
Housing Project (4361-AL) that targets the poor in urban slum areas through implementation of a new
housing subsidy scheme set up under the framework of the HCSDP.
The Housing Crisis
7.   Faced with demographic pressure, the Algerian Government had attempted to address the rapidly
growing demand for housing by increasing the share of public investment in total housing investment.
This was done mostly through the public supply of "social" housing units, either for rent or for
ownership. Delays of up to eight years in completing housing were typical at the start of the project, and
became particularly acute when imports of construction materials were curtailed as a result of foreign
exchange rationing. The housing program was temporarily halted after the oil shock in 1986, but resumed
in 1992 and reached a peak in 1995, when the construction of 115,000 rental units in urban areas was
launched despite the collapse of the housing finance system.
8.   Housing finance in Algeria was based on the quasi-monopoly of the state-owned household savings
institution (CNEP), whose financial liabilities included private savings deposits of AD 155 billion (US$3
billion) at the end of 1995, by far the largest part of all household deposits in the financial system. In
terms of assets, this institution, with more than 4 million household savings accounts, a network of more
than 160 branches, and more than 3,600 employees, was equal to about 30 percent of the total balance
sheet assets of the five state-owned commercial banks.
9.   The legacy of heavy state intervention at all stages of housing supply and financing resulted in
mounting quasi-fiscal deficits at the level of construction enterprises, public developers (OPGIs and
EPLFs), and the state-owned CNEP. Construction enterprises incurred large losses due to administrated
prices, long completion delays, and stringent construction standards. The financial situation of the
OPGIs, in charge of managing the public program for rent and the public housing stock, was undermined
by low levels of rent and poor rent collection, and worsened by the liberalization of construction prices in
1994. As for CNEP, its solvency eroded rapidly, in large part because of its exposure to the public
program for rent and its inability to recover mounting loans to the OPGIs and the EPLFs, the latter being
in charge of the Social Housing Program for Sale. The growth rate differential between loans and



Algeria                                   - 3 -           Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
deposits led to the complete liquidation of CNEP's investment portfolio by the end of 1995, while the
financing needs associated with the public housing program crowded out direct credits to households for
owner-occupied housing, and rapidly led CNEP to a situation of quasi-bankruptcy.
B. Project Objectives
10. The main objective of the Housing Completion and Sector Development project was to trigger a
quick housing supply response to start address the housing crisis, and to support and enhance the
medium-term objectives and priorities of the market-oriented housing sector reforms.
11. The Bank loan (US$200 million) was made to the Government for the completion of the Social
Housing Program for Sale (US$130 million), a program to import critical building materials for the
private sector (US$65 million), and a technical assistance program (US$5 million), as follows:
(a)   Social Housing Program for Sale (SHPS). This component was aimed at accelerating the
completion of about 51,000 social units for sale, under management of the EPLFs, through:
supply of strategic construction materials (cement, wood, and steel rods), finishing products,
and small equipment and spare parts for the import needs of the SHPS in 1993-95;
(b)  Private Housing Program. Targeted primarily to private-sector self-help builders, this
component was aimed at assisting them in completing their unfinished housing stock
through strategic imports; and
(c)   TA program. This component was aimed at assisting the Government in implementing key
housing policy objectives in the following three critical areas: improving housing supply
incentives; reforming housing finance through the entry CNEP into the banking sector; and
reforming and targeting housing subsidies.
In addition, the TA program provided specific support to the Ministry of Housing and to real estate
developers.
C. Achievement of Objectives
12. This was the first Bank-supported housing project in Algeria. While all of its primary objectives
have been reached, albeit with some delays, the fluidity of the political and economical situation in
Algeria made it necessary to adjust the contents and timeframe of the project. First, after liberalization of
the trade regime, the first two components (social housing and private housing) were combined and
disbursed against customs certificates in an amount of US$86 million. Accordingly, most of the loan
amount went to private self-builders. Second, parts of the TA component were enlarged to include the
restructuring of public developers, and parts were reduced because of the reluctance of foreign experts to
apply for medium-term jobs in Algeria during the implementation period. Third, the restructuring of
CNEP was not done as planned, but nevertheless led to its transformation into a banking institution.
CNEP is now under the authority of the central bank. Finally, important work was done to formulate the
overall framework of the housing finance system, and its availability by the end of 1995 led to the
creation of new institutions two years later.
13.  Three factors contributed to the success of the project. First, the assistance of the IMF, which was
active in Algeria, including in the housing sector, during the January 1995 - April 1998 period. IMF
involvement facilitated the restructuring of the CNEP and theOPGls, as well as the reform of the system



Algeria                                  - 4 -           Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
of public housing for rent. Second, the Bank's policy dialogue with the Government was supported under
the project by a sector work paper?, issued in December 1995, which helped the Ministry of Housing to
propose a national housing strategy for the 1996 - 2000 period. Third, the preparation of H-SAL, which
encompassed the reform of the construction industry sector and implementation of the new housing
finance framework, as it was designed under the project, was instrumental in convincing the Borrower to
proceed with its housing reform agenda, even though the loan never materialized.
Physical Components (US$195 million)
14.  The imports, financed by the project before 1995, contributed to the removal of the bottleneck in
construction material due to import restrictions. The Project Coordination Committee (PCC), created in
March 1993, organized two import campaigns. The first, which started in September 1994, ended up with
a disbursement of US$75.7 million, or 38 percent of the loan as of July 1995. The targeted amount
covered US$79 million of materials but some importers were disqualified.
15. A second campaign was planned in November 1994 for an amount of US$91 million. Proposals
totaling US$79 million were received. Out of this amount, only US$26.3 was allocated to selected
importers due to the liberalization of imports at the beginning of 1995. At that time, a decision was made
by the Borrower and the Bank to disburse the remaining amount (US$86 million, excluding the Special
Account) upon presentation of customs certificates for the import of construction materials.
Social Housing Program for Sale
16. An amount of US$130 million was planned to complete 51,300 housing units in four years. An
amendment to the loan signed on November 3, 1995 decreased the number to 46,300 units to accord with
the new situation of the EPLFs, which lost their access to cheap credit, at the introduction of the measures
accompanying the IMF standby arrangement. While construction materials were available on the Algerian
market starting in 1995-96, the depreciation of the exchange rate and the sharp raise in interest rates
forced the EPLFs to wait for their customers to adjust to the new situation. Completion of the units
therefore took more time than anticipated and was achieved as follows:
SHElPS                    1993         1994         1995        1996         1996
(June)    (December)
Targeted units            13,000      30,000       51,300        -
(cumulative)
Targeted units Amended    7,000       13,650       27,560      36,170       46,300
(cumulative)IIIII 
Actual units (cumulative)  7,028      13,650       27,560      35,160       46,300
17.  Until the liberalization of the trade regime, the tracking of imports down to the level of the local
developer in charge of financing the SHPS was done by the Ministry of Housing. This task implied the
following cumbersome procedure: selection of importers under a multi-criteria approach; signing of a
contract between the selected importers and the public developers, defining the content and schedule of
the import program on a case by case basis; launching of a simplified international competitive bidding;
signing of contracts between importers and foreign suppliers; signing of a contract between importers and
the Algerian Development Bank (BAD) to allow the swap of a given amount of currency paid under the
loan with an equivalent amount of Dinars at the official exchange rate, the foreign exchange risk being
Toward a Demand-based Housing Market: Constraints and Opportunities, December 19, 1995.



Algeria                                   - 5 -           Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
fully borne by the Government; and an ex-post review of all supporting documents by the Bank. Soon
after the liberalization of the trade regime, these developers were able to get import supplies directly on
the market and this procedure was cancelled. However, most of the public developers were hampered by
the CNEP crisis, and were unable to finance a large amount of construction materials to quickly complete
their program, as shown above.
Private Housing Program
18. Unlike in the EPLF program, no targeted units were predetermined but BAD entered into on-
lending agreements with private importers selected by the Ministry of Housing. The terms and conditions
of these agreements were as follows: 360 days maturity, repayable in two equal installments, with interest
rate based on LIBOR. Tracking of imported materials to be carried out upstream by systematic
preshipment inspections. Materials to be disseminated in the regions and their destination not monitored.
19. The November 3, 1995 amendment unified the two subcomponents with respect to the conditions
under which importers could access the loan. At the end of the project, the private sector benefited more
from the loan than the public sector.
Motor vehicles
20. The loan was also utilized to purchase 40 Daewoo cars for an amount of US$300.000. The
operation was executed satisfactorily following Bank procurement procedures.
Technical Assistance Program (US$4.7 million)
21. The TA program facilitated the realization of fundamental studies and audits, which guided the
authorities throughout their decision-making process with regard to housing finance and housing subsidy
reforms. Although these reforms brought about decisive changes, their implementation did not require
extensive technical assistance. This explains, in part, why the disbursement of the TA component was
slow and why more than US$2 million was still available at the closing date. The security situation
prevailing in Algeria from 1993 onward and the reluctance of the foreign specialists to stay in the country
for any period of time is another reason. Some sub-components suffered more than others, in particular
the TA program for the Ministry of Housing, for CNEP, and for the environment. Some studies were
taken over by Algerian teams with the foreign experts supporting them from abroad, such as the studies
on implicit subsidies and on the rent system. But for some components, such as CNEP assistance, there
should have been hands-on support from on-site foreign experts. The assistance materialized, however,
only through consulting services from abroad, with very short missions to Algeria, to the detriment of the
institution.
22.  In order to keep the TA funds available, the loan was extended twice to June 30, 1998, at the
request of the Borrower. Only part of the available funds was disbursed to finance work and seminars in
the United States and Italy with respect to the establishment of the new Mortgage Refinancing Company,
SRH. Other financing possibilities, such as the 1996 financial and institutional audit of the CNEP,
received the Bank's non-objection but were not, in the end, accepted by the Ministry of Housing because
of counterpart funding issues.
23. As indicated in the SAR, three objectives were pursued by the project: reforming housing finance,
targeting subsidies, and improving housing supply incentives. Specific support to mitigate the negative



Algeria                                   - 6 -           Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
environmental impacts of the housing program under construction was also planned, but never
materialized due to the non-availability of foreign experts.
Reforming Housing Finance
24. The restructuring of the finance system in Algeria required substantial analysis and steps to be
taken to, first, financially reorganize CNEP, the main housing finance institution; and second, define a
new and operational financial framework.
25. Financial Restructuring of CNEP. The project included the preparation of two audit reports, one
reflecting CNEP's financial position, and the other reflecting its institutional position as of December 31,
1992. The audit reports were due not later than June 1, 1994. An amendment on September 9, 1993
postponed the deadline to February 28, 1995 for the financial report and to April 30, 1996 for the
institutional report, but kept 1992 as the reference year for the audit since works were underway.
26. The Loan Agreement, as well as the SAR, was quite specific? about the role of these audits. They
were to help in the transformation of CNEP into an autonomous bank. The purpose of the financial audit
was to determnine the quality of CNEP's assets and liabilities; and the purpose of the institutional audit
was to detail a three-year conversion plan in which fundamental issues such as institutional leadership, the
savings network, organizational changes, and mobilization of resources would be addressed.
27. The audit prepared by the Algerian firm Societe Nationale de Comptabilite (SNC), a public firm,
covered part of the financial and institutional aspects. Results were available only two years after the end
of FY92.  SNC's financial report presented a grim picture of the financial situation in 1992, and
concluded that it was not possible for CNEP to present a sound balance sheet due to the lack of reliable
documents. SNC refused to certify CNEP's accounts. The financial audit also presented the complex
situation of CNEP's portfolio and the outstanding amount of advances owed by the OPGIs, and therefore
by the Treasury, since the latter was acting as a guarantor.
28.  As required by the TOR, the auditors prepared a number of institutional reports analyzingCNEP's
central procedures, computerized accounting treatmnents, internal controls, etc. The report concluded that
CNEP was undermined by, inter alia, the extreme weakness of its accounting system, a lack of
transparency, a lack of operating procedures, an unreliable management information system, a rapid
turnover of managing directors, and a very large (3,600) and generally ill-trained staff that was
disseminated throughout CNEP's 160 branches. Loan recovery was low and deteriorating.
29. A Decision of the Treasury on November 3, 1993 established the composition and mission of the
Board of Directors of the CNEP, as required in the Loan Agreement. The Board was given the
responsibility of reorganizing the institution, in whole or in part, into a commercial bank, and of
reforming the housing savings system. Several measures were taken regarding organization, designation
of auditors, relationship with Treasury, lending and borrowing rates, training, computerization, creation of
financial products, and audits. The increase of the lending rate to a per annum rate equal to two percent
above the prime lending rate of the central bank was introduced in April 1994. A new housing loan
contract with a clause authorizing CNEP to revise the terms of loans whenever an adjustment of its
standard rate of interest has occurred was also instituted.
2    Loan Agreement, Schedule 5 C2; and SAR, page 19.



Algeria                                   - 7 -           Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
30. Over the 1992-94 period, the financing of social rental housing programs absorbed close to 60
percent of CNEP's total savings deposit liabilities. In 1995, CNEP's loan commitments of more than AD
40 billion for social rental housing programs exceeded its customer deposit liabilities and required
external contributions exceeding AD 15 billion, which came from foreign debt rescheduling programs.
CNEP's continued financing of social housing programs led to an extreme mismatch between assets and
liabilities, since household savings accounts were sight deposits, redeemable on demand. CNEP's
financial situation violated the basic standards of prudential management for a deposit-taking institution,
and growing pressure was put on the Treasury to address the issue.
31. After internal agreements on the new housing finance framework (see chart below), the GOA
decided to strip CNEP of its public housing program for rent in 1996. In the end, and after substantial
delays, CNEP was transformed into a commercial bank in September 1997, with the clearance of the
central bank. Its monopoly over the housing finance system and the household saving system was
withdrawn. Discussions with the Treasury about OPGIs' debts guaranteed by the Government led to the
liquidation of these debts through the transfer to CNEP of a large amount of Treasury bonds (AD 80
billion, equivalent to US$1.5 billion), roughly equaling the OPGIs' debts and redeemable at a later date.
32. At the project closing date (June 30, 1998), CNEP was undertaking a massive housecleaning
operation3, led by a foreign audit firm, with the view to achieving a balanced picture on both sides of its
balance sheet. The audit involved all branches and all operations, including household savings accounts as
well as the non-performing debt due by the OPGIs, the EPLFs, and other debtors. This massive
housecleaning, which will be over by mid-1999, has taken a great of deal of management's energy over
the last two past years, at the expense of banking development and training. Within a short period of time,
however, CNEP should be able to play a key role in the housing sector, particularly in partnership with
the secondary mortgage facility (SRH), created in November 1997.
33. Defining a New Housing Financial Framework. After having received the devastating financial
audit of CNEP, the Borrower, in agreement with the Bank, amended the contract signed with the foreign
firm in charge of CNEP's institutional audit. The amendment was aimed at defining a new and
operational financial framework for the entire housing sector, with particular focus on the potential role of
CNEP. Several scenarios were tested and discussed, and a final proposal based on the attached chart was
elaborated, and then approved by GOA. One of the key features of the approved reform was a clear
separation between housing subsidies and housing finances, involving a redefinition of the role of the
CNEP. As shown in this chart, the financing of social rental housing projects comes under the direct
financial responsibility of the Treasury through the transfer of subsidies and investment budgets to the
CNL, acting as agent for the government. CNL is also responsible for distribution of the subsidies
designed to promote owner-occupied housing and to facilitate access to housing by low-income
households through up-front grants. The other major aspects of the reform consisted of: (a) transforming
CNEP into an autonomous financial institution competing on a level playing field with other financial
institutions in the provision of bank services to households, particularly in the housing loan market;
(b) establishing a housing credit refinancing institution accessible to all eligible institutional participants,
to increase the supply of housing credits and facilitate the entry of commercial banks and other financial
institutions into the housing finance market; (c) developing a mortgage insurance fund through insurance
premiums based on the loan loss experience of each institutional participant, to reduce the credit risk
exposure and capital requirement of real estate loans for primary lenders as well as for the refinancing
institution; and (d) reforming housing credit and savings instruments. Toward the end of the project, this
institutional setting was in place.
3    This operation started in 1997.



HOUSING FINANCE IN ALGERIA
State Grants                                                                                      c °
Yearly Subsidies         ,
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ BX
2. INTERNATIONAL OR BILATERAL LENDERS                                            o
Long Term Loans                                          1o 
Share Equity                                   Securities
SECONDARY                         INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS
MORTGAGE                        - Pension Funds
T     H                       FACILITY (SRH)            Funds   - Insurance Companies
NATIONAL HOUSING_
FUND (CNL)
Bond and
security of          Refinancing: bond purchases, loans
FRONT-END           mortgage loans            and advances
Social Housing         _               _                      I                               Loans for
for Rent (OPGI)                    hare  qty  1. COMMERCIAL BANKS                            Construction
BADR, BNA, BDL, BEA, CPA3
Mortgage        2. CNEP 
. f ~~~~~Guarantee                          ABC
~~~~~Company  
So
Developers                   -Co-Signing/Wages                     Mortgage Loans
I   -Mortgage                         I                                            0 
-Loan Guarate r
o t -------------<  HOUSnIN                                       r   Piate         o
0
t   SAVINGS    J    |          #      -  Developers  J
0
LOW INCOME HOUSEHOLDS                                           HOUSEHOLDS



Algeria                                   - 9 -           Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
The new Housing Subsidy Scheme
34. As expressed in its Letter of Development Policy, the Government's objectives were to
progressively decrease the general level of implicit and explicit subsidies to the housing sector over the
medium term. According to Bank estimates, this level reached 5.8 percent of GDP in 1993. At the start of
the project, not only capital expenditures to finance the public housing program for rent were financed by
the CNEP under the Treasury guarantee; but a host of subsidies, some explicitly included in the
Government budget and some not, were attached to the sector with the aim of making housing more
affordable. Among these subsidies, the most pervasive were those granted to support the public housing
stock managed by the OPGIs, since they reached a quasi fiscal deficit equivalent 0.8 percent of GDP.
This deficit was primarily due to the low level of rents (averaging US$6.0 per month), which could not
cover depreciation costs, financial costs, or even maintenance costs. This deficit was made worse byavery
low (40 percent) rent collection rate.
35. A study was produced by the Ministry of Housing in December 1993, in collaboration with a
foreign consultant, to identify the flow of funds linked to subsidies. Based on its findings, the Ministry of
Housing proposed a multiyear subsidy program prepared in light of the new housing rental and purchase
system, with the view to decreasing the Treasury's financial load. The basic system consisted of up-front
grants for the acquisition and construction of core housing units (maison evolutive) geared toward
families with income less than four times the minimum national wage:
Income                                                  Grant
I < 2.SNMG                                            AD 350,000
2.SNMG < I < 3.SNMG                                   AD 300,000
3SNMG < I < 4.SNMG                                    AD 250,000
SNMG=Salaire National Minimum Garanti or National Minimum Wage.
36.  Starting in 1996 and building on the Mascara Emergency Reconstruction Project (3813-AL), the
Ministry of Housing introduced the up-front grant system to launch pilot operations for low-income
households. These operations led to the issuance, in December 1997, of an inter-ministerial order
launching the new subsidy scheme at national level. Currently, these up-front grants are first allocated to
a Special Account (Fonds National du Logement or FONAL) under the Budget Law, and then transferred
to CNL under a contractual agreement with the Ministry of Housing. Formerly, the FONAL was used
only for the grants allocated to the rural housing program and the civil servant housing program. Past
evolution of FONAL is as follows:
| Year                                            Budget (in AD million)
1995                                                    5,450
1996                                                    14,500
1997                                                    16,000
1998                                                    20,000
37.  In 1998, as an example, the FONAL received AD 20.0 billion (or about US$380 million) for the
financing of 80,000 housing grants targeted towards low income families living in shanty towns (AD 12.0
billion) and in rural areas (AD 8.0 million). Urban housing subsidies averaged AD 300,000 per
household, or less than five times the average subsidy granted under the public housing program for rent.



Algeria                                    -10-              Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
38.  As for the rental subsidy system prevailing in more than 500,000 public housing units4, a new
system was set up in 1997 after some adjustments in rents were made under IMF's extended arrangement
during the 1995-97 period, and after extensive studies by the Ministry of Housing. A law was enacted for
the provision of personalized rental grants (APL, orAide Personnalisee au Loyer) above a cap set at 15
percent of the tenant's income. While the 1998 budget earmarked AD 5 billion for the starting of the APL
up-front grant system, efforts were made to increase the efficiency of the OPGIs.
Housing Supply Incentives
39. New legislation was enacted on: (a) a new operating framework for real estate developers, with a
view to opening up the competition among developers; (b) a new contractual relationship between owners
and renters, allowing owners to rent their house on a fixed-term basis, thus facilitating the development of
the private rental market for all new construction; and (c) new rules governing co-ownership, thus
facilitating the proper maintenance of housing units and the sale of public real estate stock.
40. The planned assistance to developers focused on the key issue of the OPGIs. First, an action plan
was designed to adjust the rents with the aim of getting tenants accustomed to the concept of an evolving
rental system. Rents increases were effectively implemented, but the percentage of increase (35 percent at
the peak in 1997) was totally insufficient to help balance the OPGIs' budgets. Then the OPGIs were
physically restructured to go along with their financial restructuring. The financial clean-up theOPGIs,
which started with the 1992 audit of CNEP and then was conducted directly by the Treasury, led
eventually to the Treasury's purchase of CNEP's claims against the OPGIs in 1996, with the agreement of
the IMF. Second, the number of OPGIs was progressively scaled back from 53 to 43 in 1997 and to 25 in
1998, through either liquidation or merger, leading to large staff depletion (half the staff over two years).
Third, parts of the OPGIs' functions, such as rent collection and maintenance activities, have been
progressively subcontracted to the private sector or to entities emerging from the physical restructuring of
the OPGIs. Fourth, any losses incurred by the OPGIs from 1997 onward should be covered by budgetary
resources. Finally, CNL took over CNEP's role of managing Treasury funds allocated to the program of
public housing for rent and overseen by the restructured OPGIs.
Housing Observatory
41. The setting up of the Housing Observatory as a tool for better-informed policymaking was another
activity undertaken as part of the technical assistance component. To support the functioning of the
Observatory, a process of selecting foreign firms was launched in 1997 to assist AADL5, the institution in
charge of running the Observatory, in better formulating and implementing its strategy, but this was
unsuccessful due to the withdrawal of all the selected firms. The AADL was in charge of the following
priority studies: housing market; rental market; land market; and maintenance of the housing stock.
AADL was also in charge of building an information network to assist the Ministry of Housing. The first
bulletin was issued in May 1997, but the lack of available TA and counterpart funding impeded AADL's
efforts to successfully fulfill its mission.
4    The public housing stock sheltered more than 50 percent of the urban population in 1980, but half of this
stock has been sold at bargain prices by the OPGIs since this time.
5    AADL, the Agence nationale de I 'Amelioration et du Developpement du Logement, is an existing public
autonomous body selected by the Ministry of Housing in 1994 to run the Observatory.



Algeria                                  - 11 -           Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors
Affecting the Project
42. Overall, the implementation of the project went well, but delays occurred from 1993 to 1995 and
resulted in a temporary unsatisfactory rating in implementation. Satisfactory progress resumed after the
mid-term review in October 1995. The loan was amended on November 3, 1995 and its closing date was
postponed first to December 31, 1997 and then to June 30, 1998 to allow for the financing of more TA
programs. The physical part of the loan, or US$195 million, was disbursed by April 1996, or almost two
years before closing date.
43.  Three main factors impacted project implementation: the security situation, the tense economic
environment, and the financial constraints faced by both developers and public construction enterprises.
44. The security situation slowed down or prevented some of the technical assistance programs. The
SAR envisioned a comprehensive training program, with several advisors coming to Algeria for extended
periods of time. But the foreign experts hesitated to work in Algeria, so the technical assistance
component was barely active. Against this background, the Algerian team was finally able to take over
some tasks with the assistance of foreign experts, whom the team went abroad to meet. This was also the
case for the study on the flow of funds to the housing sector, which led to a fundamental change in the
subsidy system. Other tasks were cancelled. They included the 20 man-months of support by
international consultants to autonomous developers to implement the Social Housing Program, as well as
18 months of a high-level financial advisor and 30 months of other banking and training specialists for the
restructuring of CNEP. Some new tasks were added to support the new direction of the housing reform,
such as a study trip by the management of the Mortgage Refinancing Company to Fannie Mae in
Washington and a seminar held in Rome for the same management staff. All in all, GOA did not spend
the loan funds at its disposal on technical assistance.
45. The economic environment impacted negatively the speed of the import program at the beginning
of the project. Foreign banks were hesitant to confirm letters of credit issued by Algerian banks, or to
consider that the Special Account situated in Algeria fully bore the Algerian risk. The proposal to transfer
the Special Account from the central bank to an appropriate foreign bank to speed up the payment was
turned down by GOA. The Special Commitment procedure, which gives a Bank guarantee on letters of
credit, improved the situation, but the Bank's request for the original application (implying mail delivery)
entailed some delay due to inefficient postal communications between Algeria and the Bank.
46.  Financially distressed developers and construction enterprises were another major factor in the
delay. During the first import campaign, most importers complained that they were losing money due to
delays in execution of the agreement they had with developers to deliver the imported goods. During this
period, indeed, claims on public developers by construction enterprises in a critical financial situation and
under pressure by the adjustment program contributed to the liquidity crisis of most developers, which
were also facing price increases due to the currency devaluation. During the second campaign, importers
were authorized to sell materials on the market if the developers failed to get it on time. The November
1995 decision to unify the disbursement conditions for both physical components allowed private
importers to provide construction materials for the SHPS component. However, as stated previously, the
CNEP crisis severely impacted the developers, and particularly the EPLFs, which had no recourse to the
Treasury, as did the OPGIs, but had to rely on their own sources of funds and their borrowing from
CNEP.



Algeria                                      - 12 -            Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
E. Project Sustainability
47.  Faced with a long-lasting and difficult transition period, the Government became increasingly
convinced, during the course of the project, to shift from its historical role of housing landlord, producer,
and financier to the role of enabling agent or regulator of the housing market6. Four main goals have
supported this strategy, which was partly expressed in a Letter of Sector Development Policy attached to
the HCSDP, and subsequently revised by a housing sector strategy document7: (a) phasing out the
regressive housing subsidy system and redirecting part of total subsidies toward targeted households, with
special consideration to a one-time, up-front grant to provide a core unit, to be further developed by the
owner; (b) reforming the housing finance system through the conversion of CNEP into an autonomous
bank and the development of primary market lenders, setting up a refinancing facility for mortgage loans
to primary lenders, and freeing access to domestic savings for the entire financial system; (c) improving
performance of the construction sector through restructuring, liquidating, or privatizing public enterprises,
and enabling greater participation of small and medium-scale enterprises; and (d) developing property
rights through regularizing the land market, expanding land registration, privatizing the public housing
stock, and improving the cost and efficiency of supply of serviced land.
48.  All of these reforms were launched during the course of the project and were supported by
institutional changes, including: (a) the transformation of CNEP into a bank; (b) a new role for the CNL
in managing the social housing sector; and (c) the reform of public developers, with the OPGIs being
financially restructured and reduced in number and the EPLFs being both reduced and made financially
viable. In addition, the housing finance market was opened to all banks and a core of institutions was
created to deal with the refinancing and guaranteeing of mortgage credit. The mortgage refinancing
company (SRH) was created in 1997, with its capital of AD 3.2 billion held by Treasury, banks, and
insurance companies.
49.  At the same time, public construction enterprises, both national or local, have been restructured and
for the first time in Algeria, a large number of public employees were laid off and their enterprises
liquidated. The restructuring measures included: (a) spinning off secondary activities (finishing works,
maintenance, social services, etc.) into new subsidiaries, enabling the core enterprise to prepare its
privatization; (b) significant labor redeployment measures; and (c) hiring new labor on fixed-term
contracts. These last two measures - staff cutbacks and abandoning the principle of lifetime employment
- were first applied to the construction sector and were genuinely revolutionary changes in the Algerian
context. These measures not only improved the performance of the construction sector, but also
contributed to the development of a strong base of small private enterprises working as subcontractors or
as sole contractors on smaller projects. More and more construction activities, and particularly finishing
activities, are now being carried out by private small and medium-size enterprises.
50.  Despite these key policy measures, which have created significant progress, the State is still playing
an important role in the housing sector, and the challenge of completing the shift from a public-driven to a
demand-driven system still lies ahead. There is still an important public housing stock of about 500,000
units and the public housing program for rent has been boosted again by a new Government in 19978 It
6    Ministry of Housing, "La reforme: pour une politique des moyens" December 1994.
Ministry of Housing, "Proposition de strategie nationale de l 'habitat 1996-2000" May 1996.
8    According this program, 60,000 housing units should be launched each year during three years, starting in
1998. Although a shift in terms of standard has occurred (a rental unit is now averaging 45 m2, down from 75
m2), as well as a shift in terms of beneficiaries (young couples, poorest households, terrorism victims), and in
terms of number (the 1998 program has been downgraded to 20,000 units), the cumulative impact of the



Algeria                                   - 13 -           Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
is, however, extremely unlikely that Algeria will step back to the point where it was when the project
started. A new framework has been set up and all of its components are already under implementation. It
is more likely that, should the Government face an acute economic crisis due to an important drop in oil
revenues, the remaining part of the public sector housing industry will fall to the private sector or will be
more strictly targeted to the very poor. The sharp drop in overall completion delays, from an average of
eight years at the beginning of the project to less than two years at the end of the project, and the related
sharp drop of construction prices, in real terms, are powerful indicators to any new Government that the
housing strategy should be carried out.
F. Bank Performance
51. Project Identification and Preparation. Satisfactory. This project was the Bank's first housing
operation in Algeria. In June 1992, an agreement in principle was reached to launch a "Technical
Assistance and Critical Construction Imports Project" as the best option for assisting Algeria in
overcoming its housing crisis. A first preparation mission was carried out in July 1992, during a change of
Government in Algeria, and it was not clear at the end of the mission what the Government's housing
policy would be. The project design was predicated on a strong commitment by the previous Government
to housing reform. When the new Government took power, it decided to annul the previous decision to
withdraw from the housing construction sector, and proceeded to launch a "massive" housing program for
rent, to be financed by CNEP. The Bank then decided to send another mission in October 1992 to asses
the new Government's commitment for reforns and to fine-tune the project
52.  Against this background, the Regional Loan Committee meeting gave its clearance for appraisal in
November 1992, under the conditions that: (a) a significant percentage of the loan amount would be
directed toward facilitating the completion of unfinished private housing stock; (b) a mid-term review
would evaluate project performance against agreed-upon benchmarks, to be clearly spelled out during
appraisal; (c) a policy letter, issued by GOA, would present an agenda of reforms, with particular
emphasis on housing subsidies and housing finance; and (d) pre-shipment inspections would be carried
out for all strategic imports, instead of attempting to track building materials ex post.
53. Project Appraisal. Satisfactory. The appraisal was carried out in December 1992 in Algeria. A
comprehensive survey of all public developers involved in the construction of SHPS was already
underway, and produced the list and the status of construction of each social housing sub-projects that
were to be completed during the project. A Bank expert, assisted by a consultant, provided training in
procurement procedures, enabling the Borrower to use standard bidding documents and receive
preliminary approval by the Bank. In January 1993, draft copies of the Memorandum and
Recommendation of the President, the SAR, and the draft Loan Agreement for the Housing Completion
and Sector Development Project in Algeria were sent to senior Bank management for approval before
negotiations. Management concerns included the conditions under which importers of building materials
would have access to the Bank loan (foreign exchange issue), and the appropriate time required for CNEP
to be restructured and transformed into a commercial bank.
54.  Negotiations were held at the end of January 1993. The project was supported by 14 dated
covenants covering the implementation program, as well as by a mid-term review to take place in October
1994. Two specific disbursement suspension clauses were added to the list of covenants. A loan of
current program is high on the national budget: equivalent to 2% of the 1998 GDP (or 40% of the planned -
and underestimated- fiscal deficit for 1999).



Algeria                                    - 14 -           Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
US$200 million was approved by the Board on March 4, 1993. The agreement was signed on March 17,
1993, or 10 months after the beginning of the process.
55. Project Supervision. Satisfactory. The supervision missions were complicated by the fluidity of
the situation in Algeria. The first mission was carried out in Algeria in May 1993. Starting in 1994, Bank
representatives often had to meet the Algerian delegation in a foreign country (usually France), when
circumstances did not allow much traveling beyond downtown Algiers. Due to the situation, no mission
was able to track, ex post, the completion of the 51,300 units. In its status report dated February 1995, the
Ministry of Housing reported several acts of sabotage, amounting to about AD 4.1 billion during FY93
and 94, thus delaying the construction process. In October 1995, at the time of the mid-termn review, less
than half of the physical program had been completed9 As a result, an amendment was signed in
November to scale down the number of units by 5,000 and postpone the closing date of the loan to
December 30, 199710. The combined effect of the trade liberalization and the disbursement of the
remaining loan amount against customs certificates accelerated the disbursement process. The part of the
loan earmarked for housing completion was completely disbursed by the end of 1996.
56. After 1995, supervision missions were combined with the preparation of H-SAL and reports were
consolidated and delivered in one document. Although the H-SAL was not signed, its preparation brought
together specialists from different Bank departments and consultants in housing finance, public
construction enterprises, privatization, and land market reform. Thus the preparation of H-SAL helped
facilitate implementation of the HCSD policy project and kept alive the spirit of reform within the
Ministry of Finance, in charge of the restructuring of CNEP, and the Ministry of Housing, which was
focused primarily on housing subsidies, construction enterprises, and land market reform.
G. Borrower Performance
57. Project Preparation. Satisfactory. Not only was the Ministry of Housing helpful in assisting the
consultants in charge of reviewing the status of the ongoing Social Housing Program for Sale, but
important steps were taken to better prepare the project before effectiveness. Among them were the
issuance of draft legislation on real estate development, the landlord/tenant relationship, and co-
ownership; and the signing of on-lending arrangements with selected importers in an amount equivalent
to US$40.0 million. This last action, however, took more time than planned, and effectiveness was not
reached until six months after signing.
58. Implementation. Satisfactory, with delays. A Project Coordination Committee was created within
the Ministry of Housing on March 22, 1993, to coordinate implementation of the program. A small
Ministry of Housing team, whose members remained for the entire time of the project, accomplished all
the work related to the physical program. This team developed a flexible and trusting relationship with the
Bank task manager, which helped to mitigate some of the difficulties that occurred during execution of
the project.
59.  The team had to resolve several problems, including the selection of the importers for SHPS, which
took more time than anticipated; the timely payment of importers by the public developers; the reluctance
of foreign banks to confirm the letters of credit issued by importers due to the Algerian risk at that time;
9    Delays in implementing the housing reform agenda and the housing completion program resulted in an
unsatisfactory implementation rating in June 1995. This rating was upgraded to satisfactory in November
1995, after the mid-term review and the Bank's receipt of a firm commitment from the new Government to
accelerate the reform program.
10   The final closing date was June 30, 1998.



Algeria                                  - 15 -           Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
and the complex intervention of the Bank as guarantor. Difficulties of that kind resulted into a one and a
half year delay. The first campaign was quite successful in terms of disbursement, although it was
difficult to trace whether imported goods effectively reached end users. When the second campaign
started, the situation had changed completely and most of the remaining part of the loan was disbursed
against customs certificates, without the intervention of the Ministry of Housing.
60. The TA component was more difficult to carry out due to its high political content. Amendments to
the Loan Agreement were necessary to modify its content and postpone deadlines. Postponement of dated
covenants included the audit of CNEP and its conversion into a bank, the number of SHPS units to be
completed, the definition of the new subsidy scheme, the rent increase, and the financial restructuring of
the OPGIs. Also, the terms of reference for the institutional audit of CNEP were amended to allow for the
analysis of the global housing situation and of the various instruments required to ensure its financing.
CNEP was analyzed as one of these instruments.
61. Policy reforms were behind schedule until the end of 1994, but progress was made in 1995 under a
new Government. In response to the Bank's request, the Government Council reached a decision on the
main focus of the housing finance reform in August 1995. Simultaneously, a new subsidy scheme, more
targeted toward low-income households, was defined. The financial restructuring of more than 40 OPGIs
was completed. The average completion delay for public housing units was reduced from 6 or 7 years to 3
years or less. The financial and institutional audits of CNEP got underway. All of these reforns, and in
particular the housing subsidy reform, began to impact the budget law from 1996 onward.
62. While disbursement out of the Loan Account reached over 99.5 percent, the Special Account was
relatively inactive, as were most of the Special Accounts in Algeria, and an amount of more than US$4
million was cancelled in December 1998.
63.  The team also provided information about project implementation, such as progress reports,
maintenance of project accounts, and yearly audits.
64. Covenant Compliance. Satisfactory. All covenants were complied with, although with delays.
H. Assessment of Outcome
65. Overall rating. Satisfactory. Despite a very difficult environment, the physical goals were largely
reached and fundamental policy changes occurred during project implementation, thus enabling the
Algerian housing sector to develop within a sound framework and with the benefit of large efficiency
gains. While there is still a public housing program, it is no longer financed through CNEP, but entirely
funded by the budget. The new program targets primarily the very poor and the young, and the average
size of a public unit is now 45 m , down from 75m2 at the start of the project. Unit costs have dramatically
decreased in real terms; construction time has decreased as well. According to the Ministry of Housing,
construction work is now mainly done by private enterprises.
66.  Institutional Development Impact. Satisfactory. Basic changes during the course of the project
were as follows.
-    Implementation of the new subsidy scheme. After two years of pilot experience, an executive
decree was enacted in December 1997 to define the new subsidy scheme, based on up-front grants, with
special consideration for targeting the very poor. The 1996-98 budget laws reflect the new scheme, and as
early as 1996, some AD 20 billion, equivalent to 80,000 grants for urban and rural households, was



Algeria                                   - 16 -          Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
explicitly allocated to the Ministry of Housing budget. On the institutional side, CNL is now in charge of
distributing these up-front grants, which should greatly improve the efficiency and transparency of the
system.
-    Management of the public housing stock. While the OPGIs have started to contract management
and maintenance of the public stock to the private sector, the scheme for assessing the level of rent has
been fixed (under a cap system equivalent to 15 percent of the tenant's income), and was progressively
implemented during the course of 1998. A large part of the stock is also for sale, and the reform of the
rent policy may induce an acceleration of these sales.
-    Housing finance institutions. CNEP is now operating as a bank, under the supervision of the central
bank, and has nearly completed a massive housecleaning operation, allowing its management to start
focusing on banking development, to be supported by a comprehensive training program of its staff. A
housing mortgage financing facility, SRH, was set up in December 1997 and its general manager recently
appointed. SRH is in the process of establishing its structure, internal rules, and necessary procedures to
refinance the mortgage credits granted by the banks to their customers. In December 1998, SRH was
about to launch a pilot operation with one commercial bank (CPA). With the broad objective of
facilitating commercial banks' involvement in housing finance by providing them with long-term
financing, SRH should also be in a position to make a significant contribution to the sector by improving
credit selection standards. A mortgage guaranty company was also recently created, but was not yet
operational at the end of 1998.
L. Future Operations
67. The expected outcome of the present project was H-SAL, which was under discussion with the
Government during the second half of 1996, and was planned for FY97. Unfortunately, negotiations did
not proceed favorably and the project was rejected after issuance of the new Government program in July
1997 which, once again, announced the launching of a massive and unsustainable program of public
housing for rent"1. The reforms would not have been easy because they touched upon sensitive areas such
as reduction of the public housing stock, privatization of public construction enterprises (which until 1994
was considered virtually impossible), the auctioning of public land, and the final cleaning of CNEP.
Nevertheless, most of the reforms proposed for the H-SAL continued under the HCSD framework and,
according to Algerian authorities, some 70 percent of the measures that would have been taken during the
first phase of the H-SAL were implemented. Once Algeria's balance of payments reached a satisfactory
level, a Housing Sector Loan was proposed as a substitute for the H-SAL but never materialized. In both
cases, the main bottlenecks were the fate of the public housing stock, and the launching of the public
housing program along with its transparent financing through the budget.
68. Without a housing sector not quite adjusted, as it was anticipated under the H-SAL, the logical
continuation of the Bank's involvement in the sector was to address the urgent need of the urban poor.
The Low-Income Housing Project was launched in FY98 with the basic objective of improving the living
and housing conditions of poor families living in selected urban slums. Building on the new subsidy
scheme developed under the HCSDP, the Low-Income Housing Project is assisting CNL in managing the
up-front housing grants to be allocated to selected families. Since the launching of the project, its
objectives have been progressively scaled-up into a national program aiming at providing basic urban
it   The new program included the launching of 60,000 housing units per year during three years. The lack of
financing, due to the public budget constraints, downgraded drastically this program.



Algeria                                    - 17 -            Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
services for all existing slums. Subject to a quick disbursement of planned operations, a follow-up project
may be soon considered, with a stronger focus on the cost recovery issue.
69. Another potential project in line with the housing finance reforms supported by the HCSDP would
be a housing finance loan to help develop the mortgage market and encourage the involvement of more
commercial banks in the sector. Preliminary discussions about the project concept were held with GOA in
December 1998.
70. The next steps recommended over the medium-term to allow the Algerian housing market to work
more efficiently are the following: (a) prompt processing of land titles, particularly in urban areas, so as to
base mortgage credits on well-defined property titles; (b) improve the legal framework to increase
effectiveness of foreclosure and loan recovery procedures; (c) limitation of the public housing program
for rent to the poorest households, along with a more transparent and leaner budget allocation for the
public housing stock which should be partly privatized; (d) improve the primary mortgage infrastructure
by strengthening the mortgage collateral and commercial banks willing to enter into the housing mortgage
market; (e) develop the activities of the secondary mortgage facility (SRH) along a realist five-year
business plan which take into account all constraints related to its issuance capacity (Treasury Bonds,
contractual savings scheme etc.); and (f) accelerate the full privatization of viable public construction
enterprises.
J. Key Lessons Learned
Separating housing subsidies from housing finance is a key requirement in reforming housing
finance.
Not only such separation should allow a better definition of the role of the State in the housing finance
sector, but it has also a strong potential in better integrating the housing market to the financial market.
Algerian authorities started to institutionally separate housing subsidies and housing finance in 1996. This
decision was made possible, first by a comprehensive study on all explicit and implicit subsidies, and
second by designing an institutional framework for the housing finance system after numerous
simulations of potential scenarios, the pros and cons of each scenario being carefully analyzed. The
adopted framework led to a re-definition of CNEP's roles vis-a-vis the public housing finance system,
and ultimately allowed the long awaited transformation of CNEP into a bank.
On the negative side, such separation may turn to be costly and risky...
71.  To start implementing the selected framework the Treasury issued AD 82 billion (equivalent to
US$1.6 billion) of bonds to replace the entire portfolio of debt accumulated by the OPGIs on CNEP's
balance sheet. A key decision was then taken to fund the entire public housing program through the
Budget Law, and to make progressively explicit all housing subsidies. However, to avoid a drastic impact
on the budget, the 1997 public housing program for rent has been funded largely by the counterpart of the
foreign debt rescheduling, in close coordination with the IMF. The main rational for the later decision
was to use the housing sector as a locomotive for growth, without waiting the results of the adjustment
process. The related risk was to slow-down the adjustment by delaying the public sector divestiture from
the housing sector, and/or to face future budget constraints after the drying up of rescheduled resources.
Both events occurred, the later under the 1999 budget law'2.
12   Source: 1999 Draft Budget Law, September 1998 (in two volumes).



Algeria                                    - 18 -            Implementation Completion Report
Housing Compiettion and
Secror ^  i&e<  q ^<iS Project
>.as weli s A ' n7y wen key policy decisions are iuapeded by political and social constraints;
72.  As long as all housing subsidies are not funded from explicit fiscal sources, the reform of the
housing sector is not completed, and may lead to important quasi-fiscal deficit. Indeed, the virtue of
making explicit all housing subsidies and separate them from the finance sector is to force budget
arbitration, along wi.h efficiency gains. Algerian authorities are well aware of the remaining issues
facing the public housing sector, both in terms of budget burden and inefficiency. Political and social
constraints are, however, other important factors to take into account when determining the speed of the
reform, particularly when the State has been faced for years with numerous claims to house a large
portion of the population, including the middle-class. Against this background, a transparent, fair and
well targeted housing subsidy system may accelerate the reform while preserving the poorest segment of
the population. Efficiency gains, both on completion time and construction costs should also allow a
larger multiplier effect of public funds.
On the positive side, it may trigger a large part of the housing reform.
73.  Such is the case in Algeria, where the new housing finance framework has been quickly
implemented: without the burden of financing the public housing program, CNEP was transforned into a
bank and is now in a position to progressively become a viable competitive financial institution. CNL
took over financial management of the public housing program in a transparent way, and is also in charge
of managing the personalized rental grant system and the up-front subsidy system. The Bank financed
Low-Income Housing Project is currently assisting CNL in implementing its new agenda. The reform of
the public developers (OPGIs and EPLFs) was accelerated to avoid any additional burden on the
Treasury and a large part of their activities are now managed by the private sector. Finally, faced with a
contraction of their preferential market,  public construction enterprises have been restructured or
liquidated to the benefice of private Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), and the performance of the
construction sector has improved dramatically, with the average completion time dropping from seven
years at the outset of the project to less than two years at the end. Over the medium-term period, if
efficiency gains continue to raise, housing subsidies in Algeria should reach intemational standards and
range between 2.5 to 3 percent of GDP.



Algeria                                      - 19 -            Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
PART II
STATISTICAL ANNEXES



Algeria                                          - 20 -             Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial        Partial        Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro policies                                                        El              El
Sector policies                     E                                                 IJ
Financial objectives                E                 0               El              El
Institutional development             I              El               El              El
Physical objectives                 El               0                El              E1
Poverty reduction                   El                01              a               El
Gender issues                       Cl               E                E               El
Other social objectives              5                0               El              El
Environmental objectives             3               E                0               E
Public sector management             El               0               E               E
Private sector development          E3                                El              El
Other (specify)                     El               E                E               El
B. Project Sustainability            Likely               Unlikely              Uncertain
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (v')0        ( /)                   (./)
0                    El                     El
C. Bank Performance            Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory            Deficient
(v/)                 (V)                    (v/)         1
Identification                         C]                    0                     El
Preparation assistance                 El                    E                     El
Appraisal                              El                    0                     El
Supervision                            nl                                          El
D. Borrower Performance        Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory            Deficient
(v')                 (/)                    (/)
Preparation                            El                    0                     El
Implementation                         O                     0                     El
Covenants compliance                   El                    El
Operation (if applicable)              El                    El                    El
E. Assessment of Outcome          Highly        Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory      Highly
Satisfactory        ($)              (/)        Unsatisfactory
(.  )       ._             _                      (1)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _               ~~~~~                ~~El  0El                    El



Algeria                                      - 21 -             Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan/Credit                Objectives           Date of Approval l         Status
Preceding Operations
1.3117-AL Economic    To restore growth by introducing   August 31, 1989   Closed on December 31,
reform Support Loan of  a more market-oriented economic               1991; cancellation of US$ 1.2
US$300 million        system                                          million
2. 3352-AL Enterprise    To restore macro-balances   June 21, 1991    Closed on June 30, 1995;
and Financial Sector  through tight fiscal and monetary               fully disbursed
Adjustment Loan of    policy while introducing                        Waiver obtained with respect
US$350 million        competitive structural policies                 to the non restructuring of
and strengthening the social                   CNEP
safety net
Following Operations
3. 3834-AL Economic    To accelerate the transition to a    January 26, 1995   Closed on December 31,
Rehabilitation Support   market economy and mobilize                   1996; fully disbursed
Loan of US$ 150       the external financing necessary
million               to restore sustained growth
4. 4005-AL Structural    To advance reforms initiated  May 3, 1996    Closed on April 30, 1998;
Adjustment Loan of    under the previous Economic                     fully disbursed
US$ 300 million       Rehabilitation Support Loan and
complement the three-year IMF
Extended Fund Facility
A Letter of Development Policy
signed on April 3 1996 by the
MOF included housing sector
actions such as the fostering
access to ownership, the
promotion and organization of
the rental market, the reform of
public housing and the reform of
the housing finance system.
5. 4561-AL Low        To assist the Government of    June 25, 1998    Not yet closed
Income Housing Project  Algeria to improve the living and
Loan                  housing conditions of the
residents of urban slums and non-
serviced low-income areas in an
efficient, sustainable way



Algeria                                        - 22 -            Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
Table 3: Project Timetable
Stage of Project Cycle             Planned Date               Actual Date/Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project  July 1992                  July 1992
Summary)
Preparation
Appraisal                      December 1992                  December 1992
Negotiation                    January 1993                   January 1993
Board Presentation             _       _                      March 4, 1993
Signing                                                       March 17, 1993
Effectiveness                  June 17.1993                   September 9 1993
Amendrnent.1                                                  September 9, 1993
- Amendment to postpone CNEP
financial audit to 2/28/95 and its
institutional audit to 4/30/96
Amendment 2                                                   November 4, 1994
- Unification of the EPLF and Private
Housing programs
Mid-term review                October 30 1994                October 30 1995
Amendment 3                                                   November 3, 1995
- Decrease of the number of units from
551300 to 46300 units;
- Closing date postponed to 12/31/97
Amendment 4                                                   April31, 1997
Closing date postponed to 6/30/98
Loan Closing                                                  June 30, 1998



Algeria                                       - 23 -            Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
FY1993    FY1994    FY1995    FY1996    FY1997    FY1998
Appraisal Estimate                 0         75         164        200        200        200
Actual                             0        26.90      82.43      199.42     199.42     199.01
Actual as % of Estimate                     36%        50%        99.7%      99.7%      99.5%
Date of Final Disbursement                              October 31 1998
Table 5: Key indicators for Project Implementation in SAR
N/A
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key Indicators for Project          Objectives                           Actual
Operation
Improvement in housing    Dropping completion time from 7   According to GOA, average housing
completion delays         to 2 years                      completion dropped to about 1.5 years,
thanks to private sector involvement which
average 70% of the construction process.
Price have also dropped in real terms,
despite exchange rate depreciation (over
54%) and four years of two digits inflation
rate.
Reforming housing fnance   Financial restructuring of CNEP  Housing financial framework approved by
leading to the transformation of  GOA in 1996; CNEP transformed into a
CNEP into a bank by end of 1995   bank in September 1997 (1.5 years
Setting up a reliable housing  delay);.SRH created in early 1997.
financial framework (not exactly
defined at appraisal).
Creation of SRH (not defined at
l ___________________________  appraisal)
Reform of the housing     Assisting MOH in formulating and  Up-front grants for the construction of core
subsidy scheme            implementing a new housing      housing units for low income households
subsidy scheme, more sustainable   experimented in 1996 and 97, and officially
on macro-economic grounds and    adopted in December 1997.
more targeted towards low income  Macro-economic simulations available in
households. New regulation on   1995 and direct budget impact starting in
rent for the public housing stock    1996.
(about 500,000 units). Creation of   New regulation on rent issued in 1998.
the National Housing Fund (CNL)   CNL in charge of managing the subsidy
to ensure better transparency and    housing scheme.
targeting
Financial restructuring of    Portfolio restructuring (53 public    Less than 30 OPGIs left; CNEP no longer
public developers (OPGIs).   developers) with impact on   involved into the financing of the housing
CNEP/Treasury relationship.    public program managed by the OPGIs;
Closure of the main non         OPGIs bad debt (US$1.6 billion) born by
performing OPGIs, and partial  the Treasury.
privatization of their activities (not
l ________________________  defined  at appraisal).      l



Algeria                                      - 24 -             Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study         Purpose as Defined          Status                  Impact of Study
at Appraisal/
Redefined
CNEP Financial     Financial situation in   Completed with delay    Study highlighted CNEP's main
Audit               1992                (December 1994)        weaknesses and the necessity to focus
on the housing financial framework as
a whole before restructuring CNEP.
Massive cleaning of CNEP's balance
sheet started in 1997.
Strategic Study on    To develop a reliable   Completed in 1995,  The selected framework led to: (i) the
Housing Finance    housing finance       after amendment of the  separation of housing subsidies from
framework in Algeria   CNEP institutional  housing finance, with important
study. Several scenarios  impact on CNEP which has been
were discussed with    transformed into a bank; (ii)
GOA before selecting    development activities of CNL as
the final framework.    agent in charge of managing
subsidies; (iii) creation of SRH, as a
secondary mortgage facility; (iv)
potential development of mortgage
insurance fund; and (v) level playing
field for the banks in housing finance.
CNEP Institutional   Strengths &         Partly completed      Future role of CNEP was assessed and
Audit              weaknesses                                  defined under the selected housing
finance framework. Detail
institutional studies to be completed
after the financial cleaning of CNEP.
Flow of funds study   To determine the   Study on explicit and    Allowed MOH to propose structural
aggregate level of  implicit subsidies     reforms of the housing subsidy
explicit and implicit   completed by MOH;    system. A report entitled :Proposal
subsidies and assess its  macro assessment done  for a national housing strategy was
fiscal affordability.    in the framework of the  issued in May 1996 and discussed at
l________________ ___________________  Housing Finance study   every level of government.
Feasibility study on   Not included in SAR    Completed        Low Income Housing Project to Board
Low-income                                                     in June 1998.
Housing
Training and       Not included in SAR    Completed            Provided training sessions for the
Seminar by Fannie                                              newly created SRH.
Mae



Algeria                                       - 25 -             Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$)       Actual estimate (US$)
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs               costs     costs
A. Subtotal Social Housing Program for  233.0    127.8    360.8                 64.1
Sale, of which:
1. Subtotal Strategic Products          26.4      35.0      61.4                17.5
White Wood                         2.1       3.1       5.2                 1.3
Red Wood                            3.2       4.9      8.1                 4.5
Ply Wood                            0.2       0.4      0.6                 0.5
Steel rods                         4.9       20.7      25.6                8.0
Cement                             15.9      5.9       21.8                3.2
2. Subtotal Finishing Products          200.6     82.9      283.5               41.6
On-site Infrastructure              7.8      12.1      19.9                NA
Doors                               4.4       6.6      11.1                NA
Finishing Products                 188.4     64.2     252.6                37.4
3. Spare Parts                           6.0       9.9      15.9                5.0             l
B. Subtotal Private Housing Program, of  25.9     56.6      82.5               130.1
which:
Strategic Products                 25.9      56.6      82.5   _130.1
C. Subtotal Technical Housing Program, of    0.1   4.9       5.0                1.1
which:
Consultants/Studies/Advisors       0.1        4.4      4.4                 0.8
Equipment, Software materials       0.1       0.2      0.3                 0.3
Uncommitted                          -        0.3      0.3                 0.0
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                    259.0     189.3    448.3
Physical Contingencies            25.3       17.4     42.7
Price Contingencies                86.3      7.8      94.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     370.6    214.6    585.2                195.3
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$)       Actual estimate (US$)
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs               costs     costs
Governmentl Beneficiaries               370.6     14.6      385.2
IBRD                                      -       200       200                195.3
TOTAL FINANCING                         370.6    214.6    585.2       NA       195.3      NA
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A



Table 10: Status of legal covenants                                                         x 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,. etQ
Agreement        Section       Covenant  Present   Original    Revised          Description of covenant               Comments
type     status   fulfillment  fulfillment                                                                  B
date        date                                                                    L
3.03               10         C        10/30/94    10/30/1994   Carry out a mid-term review no later  Complied with during October   B
than October 31, 1995 to assess   1995 mission
overall progress achieved in the
project and the sector development
program                          _
4.01              01          C                                Audit report, including separate  Complied with
opinion on SOE, no later than six
months after the end of each calendar
l____________           year
5.01(a)            11         C        10/30/94                As a condition to continue        Complied with
disbursement: satisfactory budgetary
allocation of housing subsidies for
FY94 and issuance of related
implementing relations no later than                                 t
March 31, 1994
5.01(b)           10         CP        10/30/94    10/30/95    As a condition to pursue          Public housing stock kept too
disbursement: satisfactory progress at high. Rents have not reached
mid-term review on the following: (i)  level for OPGI's sustainability
SHPS delivery; (ii) housing finance    Housing assistance still not
reform; (iii) housing subsidy reform;  transparent enough
and (iv) implementation of the Sector
Development Program, as defined in
the Policy letter
6.01(a)           05          C                                As a condition of effectiveness:  Complied with                      !:
establishment of the Project
Coordination Committee (PCC) in
accordance with Section A.2 of
Schedule 5                                                           0
6.01(b)           03         C                                 As a condition of effectiveness:  Complied with                      51
signature of on-lending agreements                                   2
with selected importers for at least
US$40 million equivalent, under the
private housing program    -                                         0
,  _  .    .        .                              .        .                               ,.                >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Agreement       Section       Covenant  Present   Original    Revised          Description of covenant               Comments
type     status   fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
6.02              10         C        06/15/93    09/09/93    Failure date for effectiveness: 90
days after the date of the Agreement
(March 17, 1993), i.e. June 15, 1993
Schedule 2        09         NYD       12/31/97    06/30/98    Completion date: June 30, 1998   Amended
Schedule 41, B (1)  03       C                                Procurement: standard bidding     All the documents were received S
documents for part A of the project                            " cL
Schedule 4I, B (2)   10      C                                Terms and conditions of on-lending    Complied with
agreements: maturity of 360 days;
libor repayable in 2 equal
installments
Schedule 41, C (a)   10      CD                               Completion of the SHPS (cumulative  Complied with. Dates were
basis): December 31, 1993 = 7,000    amended as of 11/6/1995
December 1994 = 13,650 December
31, 1995 =27,560June 30, 1996=
36,170 December 31, 1996 = 46,300
Schedule 5C 2(a)                                              Covenant deleted                  Deleted
Schedule 5, C, 2(a)  01      CD       06/01/94                CENP's institutional audit reports not  Complied with after delay
later than June 1, 1994
Schedule 5, C, 2(b)  12      C         11/01/94               Establishment of the CNEP's       Complied with after delay
reorganization committee not later
thatn November 1, 1993
Schedule 5, C, 2(c)  13      C        04/30/94                CNEP to increase its lending rate 2%   Covenant amended during mid-
above prime rate of Banque d'Algerie  term review. Compliance for
developers
Schedule 5, C, 2(d)  12      C                                Introducing in CNEP's new loan    Complied with after delay
contracts a clause authorizing CNEP                                 CD
to revise the terms of the loan
Schedule 5, C, 2(e)  12      C        4/30/96                 Draft legislation providing for the  Amended. CNEP has been
reorganization of CNEP, not later  operating as a commercial bank    3
than April 30, 1996              since April 1997                   o
Ibid              10         C        9/30/96     05/30/96    Adoption of new CNEP legislation    CNEP has been transformed into
not later than September 30, 1996  a public stock corporation
0



Agreement        Section       Covenant  Present   Original    Revised          Description of covenant               Comments
type     status   fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
Schedule 5, C, 3(a)  11      C         10/31/93                Housing subsidies: carrying out, not   Complied with
later than October 3 1, 1993, of the
first phase of the flow of funds study,                         ElO
including the projected level of
budgetary allocations for the housing
sector for FY94 and the management                             i. 
and targeting procedure of housing                              _
subsidies (implicit and explicit)
Schedule 5, C, 3(b)  1        C    -  04/30/96                 Proposed multi-year housing subsidy  Complied with
program not later than April 30, 1996
Schedule 5, C, 3(c)  02      CP        06/30/95    9/97        Completion of the financial       Starting in September 1997, the
restructuring of the OPGIs not later   number of OPGIs will be
than June 30, 1995               reduced from 53 to 43 by the end
of December 1997, through a
merger
Ibid              02          CP       02/28/96    9/97        Draft regulations requiring the   In a Govt. program dated
establishment of a rent system   September 1997, the decision
designed to achieve dull cost    was explicitly made to shift from
recovery of the SHPR not later than    a general rate of subsidy system
February 28, 1996                (AGL) to a targeted system
where rents are linked to
household's income
Schedule 5, C, 3(d)  1       C         6/30/96                 Draft legislation modifying the   Complied with
current social housing purchase
subsidy system not later than June
30, 1996                                                             El
Status: C  Complied with, CD  Compliance after Delay, NC = Not Complied with, SOON = Compliance expected in reasonably short time, CP = Complied with  o
Partially, NYD  Not Yet Due                                                                                                                      0
CD
'0



Algeria                                      - 29 -            Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
N/A
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff inputs
Stage of Project Cycle      Planned                Revised                Actual
Weeks   US$ (000)   Weeks   US$ (000)   Weeks   US$ (000)
Preparation                                                            72         241
Appraisal                                                              1 8        63
Negotiation through                                                     7         15
Board Approval
Supervision                                                            76         272
Completion                 8          29         8          29          4         19
TOTAL                                           _                      178        610



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions                                                          m c
Stage of project   Month/    Number  Days   Specialized staff skills represented     Performance Rating             Type of problems
cycle            year        of        in                                            Implementation  Development                          C g
persons   field                                        status           objectives                          9  3
Through          07/92       4                 Sr Eco., Sr Urb. Exp., Coun. Off., Coun.                                                   0 r
Appraisal                                      Eco.
10/92       3                Sr Eco., Hous. Fin. Adv., Hous. Fin. Spec.
Cons., Coun. Eco., Sr Urban Exp., Con.
Env. Spec.                                                                                -
Appraisal through  12/92                       Sr Eco., Proc. Adv., Ins. Adv
Board Approval
Supervision      5/93        4                 Sr. Eco., 2 Cons., Sr Hous. Spec.     1               NR             Delays in selecting
importers due to
cumbersome procedures
9/93        2                 Sr Eco., Sr Fin. Ana.                 1               NR
4/94        1                 Sr Eco.
6/94        3                 Sr Eco., Mun. Eng., Sr Disb. Off.     1                1             Delay in
implementation from 3
to 6 months
8/94        2                 Sr Eco., Mun. Eng.                   U                                                          o
10/94       2                Sr Eco., Mun. Eng.
06/95       4                 Sr Eco., Hous. Fin. Adv., Hous. Fin. Spec.  U         S              CLC, PMP, TAP, TP,
Cons., Mun. Eng., Disb. Off                                         SP, FP, EA
Mid-term Review   10/95                        Sr Eco., Hous. Fin. Adv., Hou. Fin. Spec.   S          S             PMP, TAP, EA
Cons., Mun. Eng.
1/96        4         8      Sr Eco., Mun. Eng., Fin. Ana. Env. Spec.   S           S
4/96        3         12      Sr Eco., Mun. Eng., Train. Adv.       S               S
12/96       3                 Sr Eco., Hous. Fin. Adv., Mun. Eng.  S                S 
06/97                         Sr.P. Eco, Hous. Adv, Fin. Adv.       S               S
12/97                        P. Eco, Hou. Fin. Adv                 S                S             _
03/98       1         8       P. Eco.                               S               S
Completion/      06/98                         P.Eco., Mun. Eng.                     S                S
Closing                                                                                                                                        o
Staff Skills: Sr Senior, Eco. = Economist, Urb. = Urban, Spec = Specialist, Ana. = Analyst, Coun. = Country, Off. = Officer, Adv. Advisor, Cons. Consultant,  2.
0
Fin = Finance, Ins. = Institutional, Proc. = Procurement, Env = Environmental, Hous. = Housing, Exp. = Expert, Mun. = Municipal, Eng. = Engineer, Disb. =
Disbursement, P. = Principal
Problems: CLC: Compliance with Covenants; FP: Financial Performance; TAP: Technical Assistance Progress; PMP: Project Mgt Progress; PP: Procurement  0
Progress; SP: Studies Progress; EA: Environmental Aspects; TP: Training Progress



Algeria                                    - 31 -            Implementation Completion Report
Housing Completion and
Sector Development Project
APPENDIX
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR



REPUBLIQUE ALGEIENNE DEMOCRATIQUE ET POPULAIRE
MINISTERE DE L'HABITAT
RAPPORT D'ACHIEVEMENT
(RAPPORT PRELIMINAIRE)
ALGERIE
o PROJET AIDE A LA FINTION DE LOGEMENTS ET AU
DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR DE L'IABITAT )
PRET BIRD NO 3561 AL



TABLES DES MATIERES
Preface....
PARTIE: EVALUATION DE LEXECUTION DU PROJET
A. Expose des Objectifs
- Principaux objectifs
- Composantes du projet
B. Experience et r6sultats de Ilex&ution
- Les objectifs mate'nels
- Les objecfifs insfitutiomels (financiers)
- Codt de financement du projet
C. Resume des conclusions et principales legons tirees
- Principaux facteurs affectant le projet
- Passation de march6s de foumitures et services
- Rvthme du d6caissement du prt
D. Performance de ta Banque
- L'identification du projet
- Apres I'approbation du pr&
E. Performance de 1'emprunteur
F. Rlsultats du projet
PARTIE II: TABLEAUX STATISTIQUES
.L. Rlsume de I' valuation
2. Calendrier du projet
3. D'aissements du pret :Cumule's, Estim's, et R6els



PREFACE
L'objet du present rapport est d'exposer les conclusions de llevaluation apres reafisation
du projet < aide A la finition de logements et an developpement du secteur de l'habitat 
finance par le pret BIRD NO 3561 AL d'un montant de 200 millions de USD. Il retrace
les differentes phases d'execution du projet depuis la date de signature de laccord de
pret jusqu'a la date de sa clUture.
Le prAt de la Banque Mondiale a servi A financer une partie des materiaux importes
destin&s i la finition d'un programme cibl6 de logements promotionnels publics en cours
de r6alisation durant la priode 1993 - 1995.
II a egalement servi a financer : la r6alisation des etudes concernant laudit fmancier et
lPaudit institutionnel de la CNEPI la fourniture de v6hicules, de mat6riel informatique et
logiciels et les actions d'assistance techniques au secteur.



RAPPORT D'AC-HEVMENT
ALGERIE
PROJET D'AIDE A LA FNITION DE LOGEMENTS
ET AU DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR DE LRABITAT
PrA N 3561 - AL
PARTIE I: EVALUATION DE LVEXECUTION DU PROJET
(RESUME DE L'EVALUATION)
A. Expose des objectlfs du projet
1. Les principaux objectifs du projet tels qu1ils ont ete defini dans l'accord de prgt sont:
Aider le Ministere de 1'Habitat:
ka) a accle1rer l'ach6vement du PLSV et des logements du secteur prive en construction.
(1) 'a appliquer les politiques de logements spe'ifiees par le Minist6re de I'Habitat dans son
progranme de d6veloppement sectoriel visant it accroltre 1'efficacite economique du secteur
du logement.
2. Pour realiser ces objectifs, le projet comprenait les composantes suivantes:
(a) Partie A: PLSV.
Importation de matriaux de construction essentiels notamment de ciment, de bois. d'acier
d'armature, de petit mat6riei de construction, de pieces d6tach6es et de produits de finition
,equis pour 1'ach'vement d'un minimum de 51000 unites du PLSV en cours de r'alisation.
(b) Partie B secteur privte
Importation de matenaux de construction essentiels notamment de ciment, de bois et d'acier
J'armature requis pour 'achernement d'une partie des logements du secteur prive en cours de
realisation.



V Partie C assistance technique
1)- Fouiture de consiltants pour aider 1'emprunteur a effectuer diff6rentes tudes en vue de
realiser les principaux objecfifs de la politique du logement dans les domaines essentiels
suivants:
- amlioration du cadre incitatif de I offre du logement
- creation d'un environnement favorable au developpement du financement de l'habitat
- d6finition d'un nouveau systeme de subvention au logement.
(2)- Fouriture de services de consultants pour aider l'emprunteur 'a attenuer les effets su;r
P'environnement des activit6s liees i la construction en renfor9ant la capacite de gestion des
questions d'environnement qui concernent le Ministere de l'Habitat et en accroissant le niveau
de cooperation entre les Minist6res et les orgam'smes concemes.
(3)- Foumiture de v6hicules, de mat6riel informatique et de logiciel pour am6Iiorer la capacit6
de suivi des programmes de construction.
B. Experience et resultats de lexsecution
3. R6alisation des obectifs:
Les objectifs materiels ont r6alises en totalite
L'achat de vehicules a et realise 'a 100%
L'achat d'equipement iniformatique et de logiciel a ete egalement realise a 100%
Les etudes ont ete re'lisees a 100%
4. Les objectifs institutionnels (Financiers) out ete realises.
5. Cofit de fmancement du projet
Le projet a et achev6 a un coat de 194.728.602,720 USD soit: 97,369 % du montant du prSt
11 est observe Un reliquat de 4.657.361,840 USD dont 571.397.280 USD sur le compte de
pret et 4.085.498,76 USD sur le compte special soit 2.32 0/% du montant du pr8t



Ce reliquat par rapport au montant initial s'explique par le non la-ncement de certaines actions
d'assistance, notamment celles liees a:
1) la mise en place d'un observatoire de l'Habitat et sa dotation en moyens matenels
.2) I'tude sur la fiscalit6 locale (communes).
C. Resume' des conclusions et principales legons tirees
6. Les prmcnipaux facteuirs affectant la realisation des objectifs du programme: au niveaut de
i'avancemennt pvhysique du projet il y a lieu de noter: bien que les premiers appels d&ofes aient
et6 lances un moiiet demi apres la date de mise en vigueur, I'avancement g n6ral du projet a
souffert de d6lais notables que ce soit pour les decaissements lies a. la premiere campagne
dimportation des mat6tiaux de construction, la r6ibrme de la CNEP, les etudes et 1'assistance
technique. Les causes majeures de ces d6lais sont:
Avec la BAD en matiere d6tablissement des attestations de financement de r6ception et de
contr6le des demandes d'ouverture des lettres de cre-dits etablies par les banques primaires des
importateurs et d'expedition des dossiers originaux a la BIRD pour confirmation de credits
apres levee de toute objection.
Avec la BIRD en matiere de controle pour la d6livrance de la non objection a I'ex6cution des
mnarches (verification des dossiers de la consultation de la s6lection des foumisseurs et la
conformite des contrats signes).
Ces delais ont entraine un retard sur les objectifs a atteindre en matiere de livraison de
logements.
Les nouvelles conditions de liberalisation du commerce exteneur en vigueur depuis le d6but de
'annene 1995 ont entraine une relative obsolescence des objectifs du projet.
Les importateurs n'6tant plus int6resses par des financements qui necessitent des engagements
de respect d'un dispositif de cahier des charges notamment pour ce qui conceme, les pnix, le
destinataire final du produit et les regions ou ces materiaux doivent etre achemin6s.
Sur la base de son assiette financiere en Dinars. Fimportateur peut aceder aux importations
'ibres. De ce fait. Pour certains materiaux l'acier pour le beton notamment, il a ete constat6 des
stocks importants et leurs pnix a Ia baisse, resultat d'un marche concurrentiel.



7. Le projet a permis d'entamer une serie de debats sur: 1) les mecanismes de financement du
logement et de cerner les faiblesses du systeme en vigueur; 2) la necessite d'entamer des
r6formes profondes du systeme de financement du logement suivant l'explicitation de
1'ensemble des aides et 3) la mobilisation de 1' epargne des menages et de Ie'pargne
nstitutionnelle.
En relation avec la prvparation de nouveaux projets (PAS et H-SAL; 1996-1997) pr6vus dans
le programme d'aide de la Banque, le secteur a entame la mise en place des r6formes
suivantes:
1) la transformation de la CNEP en Banque de l'Habitat
l) a creation des soci6t6s de refinancement hypothecaire et de la societe de credit hypothecaire
(instruments necessaires a la mobilisation de I'epargne institutionnelle),
3) la mise en place d'une potitique d7aide A la demande (aide 'a l'accession 'a la propri6te
modulee en fonction des niveaux de revenus des menages)
4) la budjetisation des aides a l'Habitat.
8. Rythme de decaissement du pret
Le rythme des decaissements du pr& a souffert de certains retards cites plus haut.
La mise en place d'un compte special en devises aupres de la Banque d'Algnrie n'a pas
contribue efficacement 'a activer les paiements des fournisseurs.
Les decaissement cumuls du pr8t sur la periode 1994-1998 sont les suivants:
1994 ............26.902.438,360 USD
1995... ....... 55.532.250,030 USID
1996....... 116.993.914.330 USD
1997.........        0)
1998 .........       04)
TOTAL:  199.428.602,72 USD
Montant non decaisse: 571.397,28 USD
Decaissement du compte special: 4.751.964,56 USD
Montant non d6caisse:         4.085.498-76 USD



D. Performances de la Banque
9. Le temps qui s'est ecoule entre l'identification, 1'estimation, la signature de I'accord de pret
(17 Mars 1993) et l'entree en vigueur (09 Septembre 1993) est correcte
10. Apres I'approbation du pr6t: des missions de suivi ont ete effectu6es par les responsables
de la BIRD et des rencontres ont eu lieu a Paris et a Geneve entre ces demiers et les
representants Alger.iens de diff6rents secteurs.
Ces missions et rencontres ont permis aux responsables de la BIRD de constater a chaque fois
1-tat d'avancement physique et financier du projet et de prendre connaissance des problemes
rencontres.
TI y a lieu de noter egalement les point de situation 6labores par le Minist6re de I'Habitat et qui
ont permis de relever en temps reel les difficultes rencontr6es lors de la realisation du projet.
E. Performances de l'emprunteur
11. La preparation du projet par 1'emprunteur:
Elle a &6 correcte sachant que les delais entre la signature de l'accord, l'entr6e en vigueur du
pret! le lancement de la premiere campagne d'importation et la mise en place des premiers
contrats sont minimes.
L'ex6cution des contrats a connu im certain retard pour les raisons citees plus haut.
F. Resultats du projet
12. Les re'sultats du projet sont correctes du fait que les r6alisation materielles ont &6 de
l'ordre de 97% pour ce qui conceme le programme de livraison de logements, de 100% pour
ce qui conceme les etudes relatives A la restructurafion de la CNEP et de 1)00% pour l'achat de
vehicules. de mat6riel infornatique et de logiciel.



RAPPORT D'CHEVEMENT
ALGERIE
«projet d'aide A la fintion de logements et au
developpement du secteur de l'habitat»
( prt N° 3561 AL)
PARTIE II. TABLEAUX STATISTIQUES
Tableau 1. Calendrier du projet
Etape du cycle de projet D Date prevue [Date reelle
Identification       i sans objet
Pr&6valuation         I sans objet
Evaluation            sans objet  i
Nkgociation          jsans objet   du 21 au 30/0111993
Signature             B sans objet   17 mars 1993
Entree en vigueur     sans objet   09 septembre 1993
Amendement 1          sans objet   04/1111994 (modification des modalitis
d'acces au credit pour la categorie A et
leurs unification avec celles prevues pour
.________  la cat6gorie B du programme)
Amendement 2          sans objet  103/11/1995 (Actualisation de Ilaccord de
pret pour ce qui concerne les echeances
I et les termes de conditionnalites,
decai,ssement retroactif du reliquat du
| pret sur presentation de documents de
douanes)
Amendement 3          sans objet  | extension date de cloture 31 decembre
,___ __ __ __ _   _  1997
Amendement 4          sans objet  [extension date de cl6ture 30 juin 1998
Achevement projet     sans objet  130 juin 1998



= -t              -  St 
,    .ei        l
_ _ B r e l
's,, _E _-~~Cb



MAP SECTION



IBRD 24534
m  ,        d  f 7;    r  r a[ n  e  a  n  ¢          sea..!                                      .v+                                             ,~          t
ALGERIA A.2    .    
HOUSING COMPLETION AND                                                                                                                                          El                                   -                              I                          T
SECTOR DEVELOPMENT                                                                                     - O ELiBOUAGHI                                                                 8                               _4s   --   . -                '
46 AI  \EAUHN                .6 EL                                                                                          26R         'SnE REL ZAN  -- - --  PAEWLYRAD4 2                                                                        Q1>g _
*~  BAN               33  ILIZ                     20 SIDI BEL~ ;BE                                  RAILROAD                                        //                                                                          -_
6> BOUIRA-43-61LA-37-TINDOUF                                                                      *        11        | T.mZn h -er    i
WIUMEAYAS  NAME  AND  P J           L        TION S)LP     NATIONM R                                                                                               50 TON A  A                                                  A LDR/
CONSAINTINEL               ELNAA5TZ OURD~ZOStm  h  nenaoo  icc Cro=in  ELoinhn sU:dI Itn                                                                                                                                      Kuvsss  AsnxoL                 K
46AI DJEMLCF ENA             EL TARTN               13 EELCNth SANEoinc Fi-    PAVED WILAVAcRyYOADS2 pct°h lh  Wo  Bnirod                                                       ILMTESI                                             ot   >                      0
ANNARA  24 OLEELMA  19 SETIF  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~   ~~~-' ~~~~~~/                                                           3D      -\  50'~~~~ANAR 19
4',  A ------                                            4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--o-                 V
RATNA  [LIZI  "' 3131 EEL AERES                                RAILROADS                                                                                               A                           I          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  K-h
RECHAR             1   IE                        IID 1f17 >                                                                                                                                                                            sv  
BEJALA  ~   ITHENCHELA   4  DOSE AHEAD                                                                             -- - - --WILATA SOENSARIEDCdAr
RIDKEA  AOHODAT   11 TAMANOHASSET                                4-   AIRPORTS                                                                                                                                     vi]'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~66
BLIDA  MASCARA  12 TERESSA                                                                                                                               'n>.      2                 11~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
BORIC ROD AREERIDI  2; MEDEA  1  TIARET                                                         -. -  INTERNATIONAL EOSNDARIRS                                  25'   '5C                               -,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bi
RODIRA  MILA                   TINSOST                                                                                                                                                            N           j         llsssnneknsso 2~~~~~~~~~W6  E -l
* ELJEEDS     MDTAANM                 ' TPAA                         hisma ha benpreard y Te  ord Rnks saf eoluiolyfarth 7
T. 0*1O    z                                /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0   TOWNS AND VILLAGES ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ANAR  19



