Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11545-AL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC ALGERIA
HOUSING COMPLETION AND SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 11, 1993
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wodld Bank authorization.



CURRENiCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 1993)
Currency Unit            =           Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$1.00                =             DA 21.60
DA 1.00                              US  0.046
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBRZVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APC         =     Popular Municipal Assemblies
BAD         =     Algerian Development Bank
CNEP        =     Caisse Nationale d'Epargne et de Pr6voyance
CNL         =     National Housing Fund (CaiSse Nationale du Logement)
CNP         =     National Planning Council
CPI         =     Consumer Price Index
DABIS             Data base and Management Information System
DUC               Direction de lUrbanisme et de la Construction
EEC         =     European Economic Community
EFSAL       =     Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
EPIC        =     Etablissements Publics a caractare Industriel et Commercial
EPLF        =     Enterprises de Promotion et de Logement Familial
ERSL        =     Economic Reform Support Loan
FPC         =     Fonds de Participation Construction
GOA         =     Government of Algeria
ICB         =     International Competitive Bidding
LPEs        =     Local Public Enterprises
MOH         =     Ministry of Housing
OPGIs       =     Office de Promotion et de Gestion Immobiliere
PEs         =     Public Enterprises
PCC         =     Project Coordination Committee
SHPS        =     Social Housing Program for Sale
SHPR        =     Social Housing Program for Rent
SOEs        =     Statement of Expenditures
TA,         =     Technical Assistance
VAT         =     Value-added tax



FOR OmCL USE ONLY
HOUSING COMPLaTION AND SECTOR DUVULOPIKNT PROJ=cT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. BACKGROUND . . . <. .  .0.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             1
A. SOCIO-ECONMC .C.O.N.T.E.X.T. . . . . . . . . . ..                          1
B. MAIN PROBLMdS AFFECTING THE HOUSING IRUCT . . . . . . . . . . .    2
C. GOVERNMENT ACTIONS AND POLICY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
II. TM PROJECT .............. . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..   15
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES            *....... ....      .. ........              15
B. S8KRY PROJECT DESCRIPTION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
C. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT .*............ ...   16
D. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION            *.....   .. .......               16
S. PROJECT COST, AMD FINIUCING  ....  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .   .   22
F. PROCUREMEN .T ......  ...  ..  ..  ........   ..                          24
G. DISBUtSEMENTS ....... .. . ..                                             25
III. PROJECT 0MLEUTATON AND MONITn   .                    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
A. PROJECT IMPLMNTATION UNIT ................. .   26
B. PROJE3CT MONITORING .....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .   .   27
C. EMRONTMAL ASPECTS  ....  .  .  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   29
D. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   31
IV.  A         S  NWS   D RCCOMNDATION .................. .   32
ANN8E
Annex 1:    Housing Policy Letter
Annex 2:    Eligible List of imports
Annex 3:    The Construction Industry: Profile and Financial Restructuring
Annex 4:    Assessment of Inputs for Housing Construction
Annex 5:    Dettiled Cost Estimates
Annex 6:    De  iled Procurement Schedule
Annex 7;        . for the Technical Assistance Envirc-mental Component
TABLES
Table 1.1:  Housing Public Programs in Progress
Table 1.2: Main Public Entities in Housing Development
Table 1.3:  Discounting of Interest Rates for the Construction or Acquisition
of Housing
Table 1.4: Government Housing Assistance Scheme
Table 2.1:  Planning of Current SHPS
Table 2.2:  Matrix of Housing Reforms
Table 2.3:  Project Cost Summary
Table 2.4:  Price Contingencies
Table 2.5:  Summary of Proposed Procurement Arran;3ment
This report is based on the findiings of an aWraisat mission which visited Algeria in December 1992. The
mission comprised Nessrs. FrangoIs Amiot (task manager), Vincent Laeour (Senior Housing Specialist), Jean-
Louis Ginnsz (Senior Procurement Specialist), Pierre Aur6jac (Consultant, Housing Finance Specialist), and
Philippe Oliviero (Consultant, Housing Construction Specialist). Bertrand Renad (Principal Housing Finance
Specialist), Jim Parks (Econromist), and Jear-Franeois Grillon (Consultant) assisted in the preparation of
the project, which was prepared under the supervision of Amir Al-Khafaji, Division Chief, NIINN, and
Harinder Kohl, Director, N111DR.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offilcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizadon.



ALGRXA
HOUSING COMPLUTION ARID SECTOR DUVEI.OPUENT PROJVCT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORTr
Borrower:         Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Dbneficiaries:    For construction materials: the Social Housing Program for
Sale, through Bntreprises de Promotion et de Logement
Familial (BPLFs), and Offices de Promotion et de Gestion
IzmobiliAre (OPGIs); and the private construction sector.
For technical assistance: Ministry of Housing, Caisse
Nationale d'Bpargne et de Pr4voyance (CNEP), and Caisse
Nationale du Logement (CNL).
Amount:           US$200 million equivalent
Talms:            Seventeen years, including five years of grace, at the Bank
standard variable interest rate.
Description:      The project includes the completion of a social housing
program for sale, an import program of critical building
materials for the private sector, and a technical assistance
program, as follows:
(a)   Social Housing Program for Sale (SBPS). This component
aims at accelerating the completion of about 51,000
social units for sale, mostly under EPLFs' management,
through: supply of strategic construction materials
(cement, wood and steel rods), finishing products, and
small equipment and spare-parts, for the 1993-95 import
needs of SHPS;
(b)   Private Housing Program. Targeted primarily to self-help
builders, this component aims at assisting the private
sector in completing its unfinished housing stock. It
would supply the private sector with strategic
construction materials; and
(c)   TechnaLel assistance program. This component would aim
at assisting the Government in implementing key housing
policy objectives in the following three critical areas:
improving the housing supply incentives; reforming
housing finance, through the entry of CNEP in the
banking sector; reforming and targeting housing
subsidies.   In addition,  the technical assistance
program would provide specific support to the Ministry
of Housing to mitigate the negative environmental impact
of the housing construction sector.



- fj -
Benefits:         First, the project would result in immediate benefits to: (a)
the economy as a whole, by reducing the annual economic
losses due to construction delays, currently about 2W of GDP;
(b) low and m.edium-income households (44% of the potential
beneficiaries have a monthly income level below US$225) who
would benefit from the anticipated availability of the
targeted 51,000 social housing for sale; and (c) self-help
private developers, who would be in a better position to
compete with the public sector for the acquisition of building
materials. Second, the TA program would provide longer term
benefits to: (a) the housing sector as a whole, through the
acceleration of key sector reforms, both on the supply side
and on the demand side; (b) the State budget, w-ich currently
finances, through CNEP, 100 percent of she social program for
rent, and is heavily committed to subsidizing the housing
sector, through restructuring of the current subsidy schemes;
(c) private developers, who would benefit from incentives to
build for the rental market; and (d) low-income households,
who would be targeted under a new housing assistance program,
directly linked to their income level.
Risks:            In the short-term, the primary project risk lies in Algeria's
political and economic uncertainties, which could lead to an
acceleration of social tensions, and therefore negatively
impact the implementation of sectoral reforms, as well as
their management.  Mitigation of this risk for the project
would come from: (a) a strong Government commitment to reform
the housing sector, evidenced by the content of its  policy
letter; and (b) a careful implementation review of the agreed
plans of action, with dated covenants. Another short-term
risk, exacerbated by the visibility of the project and its
social impact, could come from the non-accomplishment of the
targeted Social Housing Program for Sale. A mid-term review
would assess this risk, and, if needed, would define specific
measures to ensure timely project completion. In the longer
term, as far as project sustainability is concerned, the main
risk would be the persistence of a weak supply response to
housing reforms, leading to a prolonging of the role of the
Srate as a direct provider of social housing. Mitigation of
such a risk would come from the Government's commitment to
produce strictly social safety net units, where family income
determines eligibility.



DEMOCRATIC MD POPULAR REPUBLIC OF AJLGRIA
HOUSING COMPLETTON AND SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Rounded Figures
______.__   US$  million
Local      Foreign      Total
ESTIMATED COSTS
A. Subtotal Social Housing Program
for Sale                                233.0        127.8       360.8
of which:
1. Subtotal Strategic Products              26.4         35.0        61.4
. White Wood                             2.1          3.1         5.2
. Red Wood                               3.2          4.9         8.1
. Plywood                                0.2          0.4         0.6
. Steel rods                             4.9        20.7         25.6
. Cement                                15.9          5.9        21.8
2. Subtotal Finishing Products             200.6         82.9       283.5
. On-Site Infrastructure                 7.8         12.1        19.9
. Doors                                  4.4          6.6        11.1
. Finishing Products                   188.4         64.2       252.6
3. Spare Parts                               6.0          9.9        15.9
B.  Subtotal Private Housing Program        25.9         56.6        82.5
of which:
. Strategic Products                    25.9        56.6         82.5
C. Subtotal Technical Assistance             0.1          4.9         5.0
of which:
Consultants/Studies/Advisors            0.1         4.4          4.4
E Equipment, Software materials          0.1          0.2         0.3
. Uncommitted                            -            0.3         0.3
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                       259.0        189.3       448.3
Physical Contingencies               25.3         17.4        42.7
. Price Contingencies                   86.3         7.8         94.1
FINANCING PLAN
Government/Beneficiaries                   370.6         14.6       385.2
IBRD                                         -          200.0       200.0
3V. W. .   -..             ::



X. B    RM
A. SQCIO-SCONCMZC COlqTSZT
1.1         In 1987, the Government of Algeria embarked on a far-reaching reform
and adjustment program, aimed at increasing economic efficiency and restoring
growth. At its core, the adjustment and reform program has encompassed: (a) the
correction of macroeconomic imbalances to ensure stability; (b) reform of the
trade and foreign exchange regime to encourage competition from the external and
private sectors; (c) incentive reforms to correct price distortions and eliminate
price subsidies; and (d) financial sector reform, including the establishment of
a modern legal framework for financial intermediation; and (e) structural
transformation of the productive sector, with particular emphasis on the
restructuring of public enterprises and the development of the private sector.
t
1.2         Although it remains incomplete, economic reform has affected nearly
all aspects of the economy.   The private sector is no longer subject to
discriminatory restrictions on foreign exchange and domestic credit.  Legal
import monopolies have been abolished and formal import licenses eliminated.
however, the allocation of official foreign exchange and external credit has
remained largely under administrative control. The foreign investment regime has
also been liberalized, including the authorizatIon of production-aharing
arrangements in the hydrocarbon sector with SONATRACH, the State-owned oil
company. A major tax and tariff reform has resulted in the introduction of a VAT
and new personal and corporate income taxes, as well as a reduction in the number
of import tariffs and a 50 percent cut in the maximum rate.  Recent labor
legislation has decentralized collective bargaining, dropping the centrally
determined wage scale in favor of a single minimum wage requirement. Consumer
price subsidies have been eliminated for all but three food items (flour for
bread, milk and semolina) and energy prices have been increased to better reflect
economic costs. On the whole, deregulated prices, which accounted for about 10
percent of the CPI in 1988, account for about 80 percent of the same basket
today. The complex interest rate grid has been replaced with a unified 20
percent rate ceiling. Responsibility for monetary policy and oversight of the
banking system has been formally devolved to the Central Bank, and new prudential
regulations and accounting standards have been introduced. Public enterprises
have been granted autonomy and State farms have been broken up into private
cooperatives holding long-term usufruct rights.
1.3         Despite these reform and adjustment efforts, Algeria's economy
remains hobbled by severe resource constraints. The fall in oil prices in 1986
led to a rapid build up of external debt (currently about US$27 billion or 60*
of GDP), with a particularly short average maturity. The economy has been unable
to adjust to a debt service burden which consumed an estimated 75* of foreign
exchange earnings in 1992. Between 1986 and 1992, GDP grew a scant total of 3*.
Six years of economic stagnation and 2.7* annual population growth have created
an acute social crisis. Official open unemployment, already over 16 in 1986,
now exceeds 20*. The 20-25 year old age group has been particularly affected,
with unemployment exceeding 30*. The social stresses in Algeria are perhaps most
evident in and accentuated by the very large shortage of housing units, now
estimated at more than 2 million. This critical shortage has resulted in an
average occupancy per housing unit of 8.5 persons, one of the highest in the
world.
1.4         In response to the economic and social crisis, the Government
announced a new economic program in September 1992. While the program reaffirms
the Government's codmitment to economic reform, it also calls on the State to



increase its direct role in tile economy in an attempt to manage the process more
effectively  and cushion  the  social chock.   The program aims to loosen
progressively the external resource constraint, specifically through a three-year
austerity program to restrain import demand and reduce external (especially
shorter-term)  indebtedness, together with major new investments to expand
hydrocarbon export capacity. It also includes short-term measures to address the
most pressing social problems, mainly through public spending on housing,
infrastructure, special employment programs, and social safety net arrangements.
1.5         As part of the above short-term measures, the authorities are
pursuing efforts to alleviate the housing shortage and promote employment. The
current Government is committed to accelerating the delivery of some 360,000
public housing units planned or under construction, and to launch new public
housing programs, targeted to low-income groups and fully open to private
contractors, until the conditions for market-driven supply response are met. The
authorities understand that generating a supply response sufficient to eliminate
the enormous housing shortfall requires extensive structural reform, and they
have initiated a comprehensive reform program for the housing sector (Section C).
In addition to stimulating housing construction, the Government is attempting to
promote employment through an increase in public infrastructure investment.
1.6         Bank Strat-ov. Within the housing sector, the Bank aims to support
the needed supply-side and demand-side reforms identified in the Bank "Housing
Sector Report" of April 1992 (Report No. 10435-AL). Restructuring should focus
on the severe financial, technical and institutional bottlenecks found on the
supply-side in a sector that already absorbs an unusually high share of resources
by international standards.   In the very short-term, a key problem to be
addressed is the control over the large unaccounted losses associated with
unfinished works.  In the medium-term, major increases in productivity and a
larger supply of affordable housing for rental and/or ownership can only be
achieved through the development of an efficient private sector.  A major
restructuring of the role of the public sector in the four areas of regulation,
production, finance and subsidy is thus needed. Both short and longer term
objectives would be supported by several Bank operations, starting with the
proposed project.
B. MAIN PROBLMIS AFFECTING THE HOUSING MUBJWT
1.7         Soon after independence in 1962, Algeria experienced massive rural-
urban migration whichi rapidly consumed the urban housing stock. Between 1962 and
1992 the pace of urbanization continued unabated and the population more than
doubled to reach 25 million, of which 40* are urban. During the first twenty
years, most public investment was concentrated on industrial plant and
infrastructure, with minimal attention to housing. Private housing investment
was kept to a minimum, since access to land was severely constrained and the
housing market heavily regulated. Since 1980, the Algerian Government has been
attempting to reduce the backlog and respond to the pressing demand. In its
five- year plan (1980-1984), an annual production, with the assistance of foreign
contractors, of 100,000 public housing units was targeted, whereas the private
formal sector was to produce only about 50,000 units per year. Although this
ambitious program was partially achieved by the local production system (only S7*
of planned units), the subsequent five-year plan reiterated the same broad
objective, with even less success. In the early nineties, problems in both the
supply and demand sides of the housing market, as well as in the housing stock,



- 3 -
have worsened, forcing the Government to revise its housing policy. As a first
step, the Treasury put on sale the stock of publicly owned rental housing,
amounting to some 800,000 units. To date, about 400,000 units have been sold at
bargain prices.
The Rousing Supply Side Issue
1.8         Since 1990, the Government has refrained from launching new annual
programs, and its major objective is now to catch-up with the backlog. There are
about 265,000 units in progress by the public sector, and still over 100,000
previously planned units to be launched (Table 1.1). The annual output, as well
as the number of new units which are launched each year, however, fluctuate
considerably, in large part due to imports restriction. At the peak of its
performance (1986), the public housing sector had been able to produce 88,000
units per year. Five years later, in 1991, the public production fell to a very
low level of 24,000 units. Current estimates for 1992 put this level to about
35,000 units.
Table 1.1: Housing Public Programs in Progress (9/30/92)
In        Not Yet
Programs                      Progress1     Started           Total
Housing Program for Rent (HPR)          104,900         27,000       131,900
Housing Program for Sale (HPS)           74,150         11,800        85,950
Rural                                    26,150          8,100        34,250
CNEP Promotional                         22,000          6,300        28,300
Public Enterprises                        6,600          2,450         9,050
Wilaya                                      900             70           970
MuniLipal (A.P.C.)                       28,400         19,100        47,500
Other                                     2,200            700         2,900
C.N.L.                                        -         25,000        25,000
Total                         265,300        100,520        365,820
1/  Programs in progress are those already committed, i.e. having financial
agreement.
1.9         ComDletion Delays.   Dramatic delays in housing completion are
occurring in the public production system, with damaging economic effects to the
macro-economy. According to official sources, the ratio of completed dwellings
versus dwellings under completion fell from an average of 0.32 during the 1980-84
period, to an average of 0.26 during the 1985-89 period, and further decreased
in 1990 (0.13), and in 1991 (0.08). Significantly, these ratios imply that,
while the completion period was three years during the first period, it now takes
8 to 10 years for the public sector to deliver a dwelling, in addition to the
time spent preparing and servicing the land. Assuming a completion delay of 9



- 4 -
years, on average, implying a 6 years delay with reference to standard practices,
the financial loss of the slowdown for the public developers is in the order of
DA 1.0 billion a year, representing their cumulated financial charges under the
current preferential financing conditions (2%, 40 years). The economic cost for
the collectivity is even higher, since the value added in construction (the
difference between the value of the construction unit and the value of materials
and services purchased by the contractor) includes salaries and wages, equipment
depreciation and rents, interest on working capital and the profit of the
contractor. Preliminary estimates indicate that the arnual loss of value added
due to conpletion delays is in the range of DA 20.0 billion (or 2& of GDP).
Completio- delays are also occurring in the private sector (mostly self-help
builders), where the average completion period of a family unit is estimated to
be about 6 years.
1.10        The major constraint to an immediate increase of the currer.. housing
production, whether public or private, is the deficit of critical building
materials. Until local production increases substantially, the Government has no
choice but to facilitate imports of critical building materials to complement
domestic production. However, while this production is being stimulated by recent
price liberalization (June 1992), as well as by the on-going restructuring
program of the construction industry, the following basic constraints would also
have to be removed to generate a quick supply response: weakness of the
management functions of the public developers in charge of the public housing
program for rent (SHPR); unaf fordable building and technical standards; weakness
of the production and distribution system of building materials; inhibition of
the private formal sector and self-help construction sector, particularly with
regard to access of serviced land, as well as to the rental market.
Public Developers
1.11        The OPGIs (Office de Promotlon et de Gestion Immobiliere) and the
EPLF (Entreprlses de Promotion et de Logement Familial) are key and separate
actors among the public entities which dominate the housing sector (see Table
1.2). The OPGIs are charged with managing the 400,000 unsold units of the public
housing stock. They also act as developers for the public housing program. In
this latter role, the OPGIs act as contracting authorities ("Maltres d'Ouvragen)
in the name of the State for the construction of about 40* of the public housing
program, including the entire social housing program for rent (SHPR). About
105,000 SHPR units are currently in progress and 27,000 planned units of the
1980-90 program are still to be launched.
1.12        From simple administrative agencies of the Wilaya administration, the
OPGIs were transformed into autonomous sPICs (nEtablissements Publics A caractare
Industriel et Commercial") in 1991. The newly autonomous OPGIs are now faced
with operating on a commercial basis, balancing their budgets and servicing their
considerable long-term debt (DA 80 billion) to the Treasury, via CNEP ("Caisse
Nationale d'Epargne et de Pr6voyance), Algeria's primary housing finance
institution (para 1.33).  Given that current rent levels (DA 270/month on
average) are insufficient to cover maintenance and financial costs (DA
1030/month) and that the rent collection rate barely exceeds 50%, the OPGIs are
suffering a severe cash-flow shortage. This, together with the sale of half the
rental housing stock at bargain prices, has left the OPGIs in a precarious
financial situation. However, as part of the autonomy process, the Government
is preparing a financial restructuring program for the OPGIs aimed at restoring
their financial health. This is to be complemented by an increase in rents to



-5 - 
equilibrium levels and the drawing up of contracts between the OPGIs and the
State. These contracts will specify what public services the OPaIs will furnish
in the name of the State, as well as the level of subsidies, if any, the State
will provide to the OPGIs.
Table 1.2: Main PubliC Entities in Housing Development
Project  netDeopersRentat Units
[~~~CESatin   of Pubtic|
exTecute the public housing program, the  s are geneally eratingundeounousing Stocd
Devetopers/
APC                Housing
(unicipaties)w        Development ent
=~~~~~~~~o . XPurchs
i   Constructionos tin
PoetManagemet
1.13        While most OPGes  currently lack the management skills to efficiently
eicute the public housing program, the PLFs are generally operating under sound
toediversi practices, and should play a major role in the acceleration of the
Social Housing Program for Sale (SHPS). The BPLFs are regional public sector
adousing development entities, established by Wilaya councils, and responsible for
developing most of the social housing program for sale. Only 23 8PLFs have been
established to date,  with  development activity leading to the initiation of
construction of about 60,000 residential units, plus commercial opace. Most of
the EPLFs are autonomous enterprises which must operate on a commercially viable
basis. Thiey generally act as contracting authorities for CNeP, but stand ready
to diversify their real estate activity, as soon as the new legislation, recently
adopted by the Government, an real estate development will be enacted. unlike
the OPGIs, the EPLFs achieve financial viability since they are not burdened by
the need to carry rental units at a loss.
1.14        Currently, the purchasers of HPLF units have access to subsidized 25-
year CNEP mortgage financing, provided they are saving account holders (fixed
interest rates vary from St to 9* per annum, depending on the loan amount). Non-
account holders have access to standard CNEP mortgage financing (15 years at 14%
per annum). Based on a sampling of about 25,000 eligible households, distributed



among 15 wilayas, official sources indicate that the income distribution of
current potential buyers is the following:
Monthly Income (DA)     Per Cent of Households
< 5,000                 44.0*
5,000 - 10,000             43.8%
> 10,000                12.2%
However, due to the strong demand for new housing, and even though a premium is
allocated to households belonging to the "social" category (under 7,000 DA),
fierce competition is taking place among potential EPLFs' purchasers, forcing
CNEP's small savers to regroup family saving accounts, as a strategy for being
on the top of the waiting list.
Housing Standards
1.15        High construction standards, along with the tendency to over-build
compound building material shortages, and raise the cost of housing, adversely
affecting affordability.  Apartment blocks are the more common housing types
provided by the OPOIs and the SPLFs. Most of them are designed from typical unit
plans, that are adapted again and again to different sites, leading to waste of
materials. In addition, anti-seismic standards remain very strict and require
large quantities of cement and steel.  The above practices and constraints,
exacerbated by an increasing shortage of skilled construction workers and
experienced site supervision staff, lead to high construction cost, averaging 8
times the upper category of the low-income group.  Faced with this crucial
affordability issue, aggravated by the inflationary environment, the Ministry of
Housing (MOH) recently (June, 1992) issued a directive which calls for more
affordable standards. It is also the intention of the Ministry to launch, as
soon as possible, low-cost development projects based on the sites and services
concept.
The Production and Distribution System of Building Materials
1.16        Due to the inefficient production system, as well as previous price
distortions, and high consumption per physical unit, the Algerian production of
construction materials is well below demand, andr the construction market relies
critically on imports, either for strategic products such as cement (30*
imported), wood (100l imported) and steel (60* imported), or for finishing
products. In 1990, Algeria imported about US$700 million of strategic products,
of which US$313 million for wood, and US$300 million for steel. Due to lack of
access to foreign exchange, however, imports of construction materials are
fluctuating considerably from year to year, causing considerable repercussions
on construction delays.
1.17        Most construction enterprises, either producers of materials or
building contractors, are public enterprises (P1s) and plagued with labor
redundancy, lax management and poorly maintained equipment. Because they are
vertically integrated, they carry out unprofitable activities on top of their
main trade. They are also affected by external constraints such as the lack of
a proper social safety net, payment delays from public clients, and shortage of
materials and spare parts.   As a result,  they have a very low capacity
utilization, currently well below 50 per cent. In-depth industrial restructuring



- 7 -
is needed for the construction enterprises, for which the ongoing financial
restructuring (see Annex 3, which also provides a profile of the construction
sector) is providing a breathing space to start.
1.18        The construction material distribution system has been liberalized
recently, but with limited practical impact.   Until 1990, the construction
material distribution system was managed by public monopolies for most local and
imported products. Since then, the producers and importers have been able to
freely build their distribution networks and distribution mark-up is free for all
products. However, while the distribution network for strategic products (the
Government has classified cement, wood and steel as strategic construction
materials) is reasonably competitive, this is currently not the case for the non-
strategic products network, still dominated by former distribution monopolies
EDIMCOs2. As for the strategic products, an emerging competitive market for
their importation is materializing through 36 certified importers; 12 of them
former state-monopolies, including 4 Algerian cement factories, and the remaining
24 emerging from the private sector.
Private Housing Supply
1.19        A large imbalance in terms of outputs characterizes the actual
housing supply of the emerging private formal sector and the "self-help
construction" market. While the private formal sector, still inhibited by a 30-
year moratorium on private real estate development, is producing less than 5,000
units per year, the "self-help construction" market has been stimulated by the
Government since 1980, and now accounts for approximately two-thirds of total
housing production.   Most of the emerging private and formal real estate
developers  are  architects,  contractors  or businessmen.    Although  formal
recognition of their role and place in the housing development process has been
recently granted by the Government, they still lack the specific skills and
professional networks required to be competitive, and are at present largely
crowded out by public developers.
1.20        The  "self-help construction" market  (small scale construction,
assisted by sub-contractors) provides the bulk of the private production.
According to the number of building permits ofticially granted each year (Annex
4), and assuming that completion delays are averaging 6 years, there should be
some 450,000 private units under construction. Self-help builders are performing
their task under two major constraints: a shortage of building materials, and
lack  of  access  to  serviced  land.    Despite  the  recent  market  supply
liberalization, most of the quantity of buildings materials to be supplied to the
self-builder is still determined in accordance with the quantitative survey
attached to the building permit. Usually, however, the quantity required is not
made available, and recourse to the black market or to some material swap
nu:rangement is the only way to escape from the building materials shortage. Such
practices induce considerable cost or delays, and there is a large number of
unfinished owner-built houses all over Algeria. They decrease the already low
productivity of this market, paradoxically wasteful of materials when large
traditional houses (300 m2) are being built.
2/ EDIMCOs are wilaya public enterprises which used to have the monopoly for
distribution of construction materials on the territory of their wilaya.



-8-
.c'ess to Serviced Land
1.21        Access to serviced land constitutes the other major constraint for
individual builders. Public developers only proceed on projects where the local
government has arranged financing -through central government grants- for the
infrastructure. However, the responsibility for the financing and provision of
infrastructure has always been a source of conflict between central and local
authorities and individuals. Until 1979, on-site infrastructure provision was
mandatory before the sale of land by local governments to individuals, the cost
of infrastructure being included in the sale price. Beginning in 1979, the sale
of land was authorized without the provision of infrastructure. From 1982 to
1984, it was decided that in order to stimulate individual construction, the
State would take full responsibility for infrastructure costs. In 1984, this
policy was eliminated and local governments became responsible for the financing
of tertiary infrastructure. Changes in regulation and the need to satisfy the
demand have, however, pushed local governments to focus their efforts on the sale
of unserviced plots. Overall, more than 500,000 plots hava been made available
since 1984, and 320,000 allocated with only 60,000 being fully serviced. The
task ahead of servicing the plots sold without infrastructure goes much beyond
the capacity of local governments. Faced with these difficulties, the Government
introduced ir 1991 the principle of cost-sharing for trunk infrastructure, and
the obligation for the developer to ensure maintenance of common facilities.
The Housing Rental Market Issue
1.22        The housing stock is characterized by a low proportion of rental
units (22k of the stock), out of which only 4* belong to the private sector. It
is also characterized by a high level of vacant units, which reflects the low
return on assets that the private sector would reap from renting these units.
According to the 1987 census some 550,000 dwellings (or 15* of the stock) were
counted vacant, mostly rural dwellings. Three most reported factors may explain
such vacancies in urban areas: Algerian families tend to build large dwellings
ahead of time intended for their descendants or ascendants (patrimony factor);
the owners may be worker-immigrants retaining a unit in reserve (mobility
factor); and some owners have managed to be allocated several units, and are
waiting for market conditions to profit from appreciation (speculation factor).
However, the main reason which cuts across all these factors is to be found in
the former rental legislation: strong tenancy rights extended to protection
against eviction, either for non-payment or illegitimate occupancy, and thus
prevents dwellings once rented to be repossessed by the owners.  This heavily
regulated rental market was, therefore, a strong deterrent to private sector
involvement, and chiefly explains the detrimental absence of a private sector
rental market in Algeria.
The Housing Demand Side Isue
1.23        Although less constrained than the supply side, the demand side is
currently facing three major issues: (a) an inefficient mortgage finance system
monopolized by one State-owned financial institution; (b) a regressive subsidy
system that is unsustainable and inequitable; and (c) a deficient system of
property rights registration and protection.



The Prominent Role of CNRP in Rousing Finance
1.24        Posing problems for the banking system ruled by the new Money and
Credit law, as well as for the evolution of the housing finance system, the CNEP
has been the only entity, since 1971, offering home saving accounts with Treasury
guaranties and privileged access to mortgage loans. The CNEP is omnipresent in
Algeria; more than 90% of Algerian households have an account at the CNBP. These
accounts are managed by 143 regional branches employing nearly 3,000 staff,
supplemented by a national network of 2,597 post offices, which accept deposits
into CNEP home saving accounts. Driven by these forces, the CNEP has been able
to attract more than DA 98.0 billion of household deposits by means of some 4
million saving accounts, and enjoys a sound cash flow, with a gross earnings
margin of DA 1.3 billion in 1991. Out of these DA 98.0 billion, CNEP has lent
only DA 18.0 billion of mortgage loans, with most of the remaining excess
liquidity balance having been invested in Treasury bonds at 7% per annum. In
addition, the CNEP is the main provider of housing supplier credits for the
OPGIs, either directly or on behalf of the Treasury', as well as for the BPLFs.
Despite its financial performance, however, CNEP has a poor lending performance,
as illustrated below.
1.25        Morteace Loans. The protected home-purchase savings scheme is based
on demand deposit savings accounts receiving St untaxed interest whose
accumulation over a minimum period of two years may allow access to a mortgage
at an interest rate of 14% discounted, which is highly negative in real terms
given the current inflation rate of 30% (Table 1.3). Further conditions for
access to mortgage loans include: a minimum capital outlay of 20%, amortization
over 25 years, and a maximum borrower age limit of 65.
Table 1.3: Discounting of Interest Rates for the
Construction or Acquisition of Housing
CNEP savings a/c holders          Loan Amount          Applicable rates
based on a
standard rate of
14.0%
less than 400,000        5.5&
between 400,000          7.5%
and 600,000
more than 600,000        9.5%
Non-savers                         less than 400,000        14.0%
31 Initially (1970-78) on a sharing basis principle, CNBP was sharing up to
50% of the financing, then (and until 1989) 100% funded by the Treasury, with
CNRP on-lending to the OPGIs at 1& per annum for 40 years with a 4-year grace
period. Total Treasury funding during this last period amounted to DA 80.0
billion.



- 10 -
1.26        Under the above scheme, the CNEP has granted only some 80,000 loans
over the last decade, including 13,000 loans to refinance part of the social
housing units sold by the OPGI. This relatively small number of loans granted
(2% of household accounts) does not appear to discourage savers, since savings
surpluses continue to accumulate, albeit, at a pace below inflation rates since
1989 (16* per annum, versus an accelerating inflation of 17% in 1990, 23* in
1991, and 30* in 1992). Such results are worrying: first, as a housing finance
fund, CNBP is subsidizing the more well-off households from the savings of the
lower income groups, who constitute the bulk of the savers (45% of the saving
deposits are coming from individual accounts of less than DA 500.0); second,
given their limited purchasing power, the latter would never be in a position to
borrow from CNEP, should they not use the strategy of grouping family accounts
(para. 1.23); third, even though the main incentive to save at CNEP is linked
officially, if not legally, to the prospect of a mortgage loan, and despite the
current insensitivity of households demand deposits to changes in real interest
rates, savings are particularly volatile, and CNBP remains highly vulnerable to
a major change of the socio-economic environment. During the last three years,
the balance between deposits and withdrawals shrank from a high DA 11.8 billion
in 1989 to 4.7 billion in 1991. This decline in net additional deposits is
probably the result of the increase in inflation and the decline in real
household incomes. On balance, it appears that CNBP, contrary to its official
purpose, has served principally as a scheme to mobilize private savings for the
financing of Government expenditures, through the media of Treasury and
development bonds.
1.27        Credit to Surpliers. During the last decade, the Treasury has taken
total responsibility for financing the OPGIs, advancing funds to the CNBP at an
interest rate of 0.5%, up to an amount of DA 79 billion. These funds were then
on-lent to the OPGIs at 1* over 40 years with a four-year grace period. By
subscribing Treasury bonds at a borrowing rate of 7* (about 50 billion DA in
1989), CHIP has been providing the main source of these funds to the Treasury.
This transfer of public/savings funds to the OPGIs came to an end in 1990 when
the Treasury announced its withdrawal from the financing of housing production.
Ongoing projects will continue to be funded until they are completed, but the
CNHP has no further obligation to subscribe Treasury bonds. It is now the CNBP
which must finance the OPGIs directly from its reserves and up to a ceiling of
10 billion DA. In 1990, only half this amount had been used. Conditions for
advances to OPGI are 2.5* over 30 years with a four-year grace period.
1.28        The EPLFs receive financing (at a rate of 6.0* with no grace period)
from the CHIP for their development projects. They more and more tend also
towards taking out commercial bank loans but, currently, such loans are more an
exception than the rule (only 10 to 15% of their portfolio are made of commercial
loans). The EPLFs receive no assistance from the Treasury.
1.29        One of the main issues of the housing finance system in Algeria is
that CNHP is not governed by the Money and Credit Law. To satisfy the condition
of second tranche release under the BFSAL, a decision has been taken, in
principle, to transform CNEP into a banking institution. Technical issues, such
as the privileged links with the Treasury, the financial restructuring of the
OPGIs, and the CNIP's saving network - with privileged access to the postal
offices network - have been delaying the financial reorganization of CNIP. Based
on an agreed plan of action which defines a step by step approach for the
transforming of CNEP into a banking institution ruled by the Money and Credit
Law, the proposed project would help implement this critical conversion, while



- 11 -
the agreement on the plan of action would satisfy the requirements of the 8FSAL
conditionality related to the CNEP (para. 2.11 and 3.8).
Recent Housing Subsidy Policy
1.30        In May 1991, a new housing subsidy scheme, based on household income
level, was enacted by the Government. For home buyers, the new Personalized
Housing Assistance scheme (APL) is administered by a newly created National
Housing Fund (CNL). Depending on the level of income in relation to the Minimum
National Salary (SNXG), CNL's assistance for housing units up to DA 500,000 value
includes either a lump sum payment, extended repayment period for mortgage loans,
or an interest rate subsidy based on CNEP standard interest rate (Table 1.4).
The source of the subsidies should come from an earmarked fund fed by specific
taxes. CNEP would also be involved by refinancing 20 years of the 25 to 40 year
maturity loans, at variable but still negative real interest rates.
Table 1.4: GovernmAet Housing Assistance Scheme
Household Income                    |Form of Assistance (by CNL)
Income lower than twice the          - Up-front lump sum financial
minimum guaranteed wage.               assistance
- Extension of the loan
amortization period to 40 years
- Reduction of interest rates
(2.5*)
Income between 2 and 3 times the    - Extension of the loan
minimum guaranteed wage                amortization period to 40 years
- Reduction of interest rates (3*)
Income between 3 and 4, and          - Reduction of interest rates
between 4 and 5 times the minimum      which are respectively set at 4*
guaranteed wage                        and 5%
1.31        To date, CNL is implementing a five-year program of 25,000 units per
year, targeted to low and medium income households, most of them being CNEP
saving holders. Under this program, the standard loan is averaging DA 400,000,
with a maturity period of 25 years, with CNEP financing during 20 years, and an
interest rate of 4.5%. A twenty-year simulation forecast shows that the subsidy
scheme would cost DA 17.2 billion, reaching a subsidy level of 70* per unit.
Even though this amount could be reduced (down to DA 10.8 billion) by introducing
a "double indexation" model system, the financial burden remains unsustainable
and the Government is now contemplating a new reform of the housing subsidy
scheme, to be defined and implemented under the proposed project. This reform
will include the current implicit rental subsidies of the OPGIs' program4.
4t The current housing subsidy scheme is accompanied by a lifting of the cap
on rents to enable these rents to cover at least OPGI operating expenses. A
ceiling of 15* of a household's income devoted to rent is still applicable to
housing units measuring up to 70m2. Because of the on-going financial
restructuring of the OPGIs, this scheme has not yet been implemented.



- 12 -
Property Rights Development
1.32        Two decades of nationalization, the administrative allocation of land
often not recorded, and the sprawl of informal settlements have contributed to
a situation of unclear property rights. Regularization efforts were launched by
the government without much success in 1985.   The 1990 Lands Act  ("LoL
d'Orlentatlon Foncieren) again attempts to address this issue by proposing the
delivery of occupancy rights - or certificates - if proof of occupancy can be
given. However, issues of transferability and mortgageability of these rights
have to be addressed. Also, the inadequate procedures for property transfer and
compensation under the old system have generated a large backlog of unresolved
disputes and the existing judicial institutions need to be strengthened in order
to process these claims. Aware of the need to strengthen the legal base for
issuing certificates for property registration, the Algerian Government is
embarking on a major operation to update and extend the coverage of the national
cadastre, with World Bank assistance.
C. GOVERNXNT ACTIONS ANID POLICY
1.33        Although the new Government has temporarily reversed, until the
conditions for market-driven supply response are met, the decision of previous
governments to withdraw from directly financing social housing for rent, this
reversal of policy does not call into question the need for structural reform of
the housing market and construction industry sector. Major changes are being
brought about in the legal and regulatory framework to generate a supply response
as soon as possible, and to nurture a more enabling environment to alleviate
demand constraints, with particular focus on low income households.
Supply Side Reforms
1.34        Along with the restructuring of construction PUs and OPGIs, the
reform process includes the following major actions:
(a)   Incouraging  private  sector  development:  (i)  while  private
developers' activity is currently restricted to one operation of
units for sale at a time, and requires the developer to commit a
minimum of 40* of project cost in capital outlay, a new legislation
is to be issued recognizing housing development as a commercial
activity, and will remove major obstacles to private developers'
participation, including access to serviced land; (ii) although
public contractors still enjoy comparative advantages, given their
heavy involvement in the current public housing program, new public
procurement rules allow private contractors to compete with public
enterprises; (iii) State monopoly on materials inputs has been
broken; and (iv) local production of building materials through
private investment is encouraged (Annex 4).
(b)   Improving the productivity of the housing stock: (i) to address the
important issue of vacant units, new legislation will be soon issued
defining the contractual relationships between developers/owners and
renters, with a view to reducing the need for litigation; (ii) the
regulatory framework for co-ownership has also been revised, and
will allow a more active retrenchment of the OPGls in the
maintenance of partially sold buildings, as well as a potential halt



- 13 -
of the rapid deterioration of the housing stock; and (iii) the sale
of the public housing stock at high discounted prices is coming to
an end, and the OPGIs are now willing to either sell the remaining
stock at market prices, or rehabilitate the more deteriorated stock.
(c)   Liberalizing the  land market:  the new  land  legislation  (Lol
d'Orientation Fonci6re) enacted in November 1990, has abolished the
monopoly of local govcenment authorities over land transactions.
This legislation allows urban land owners to trade their land
freely, with local authorities maintaining a right of expropriation
to be exercised in exceptional cases where land expropriation is
required to implement projects of public interest.   Also, land
management  responsibilities   related  to  vacant  urban  land
nationalized in 1974 are shifted from local government to local land
agencies  (Agences Foncieres Locales).   These agencies are also
authorized to buy and sell real estate on behalf of local
governments, classify titles to land holdings and undertake land
development for low-cost housing.   Local governments are made
responsible for creating and maintaining an inventory of private and
public land and for issuing occupancy rights. Plans to update the
cadastral system are underway with World Bank assistance.
(d) Rationalization of urban land-use planning and management: as stated
in the 1990 land legislation, full responsibility for land-use
management was given to local governments. A separate Town Planning
Act passed in 1990 introduced new urban planning instruments to
replace the old, rigid and costly instruments of zoning and land use
controls in urban areas.  New standards for urban land use and
buildings were introduced in 1991, together with simplified
procedures for development permits. The latest legislation also
introduced a cost sharing formula for the provision of trunk
infrastructure.
The Demand Side Reforms
1.35        To date, reforms have concentrated on: (a) the restructuring of the
housing subsidy scheme, through the setting-up of CNL and a new Housing
Assistance scheme, which allows an institutional separation of the subsidy
functions from the credit function of the CNBP, hence a more transparent subsidy
system, already better targeted towards low income households; and (b) a very
limited increase of the standard CNIP lending rate, which applies only in full
to households with income over 5 times the minimum wage. The Government is,
however, willing to further address the subsidy scheme issue, given its present
unsustainability, as well as   further reform the CUIP, and provide more
incentives to the banking sector to participate in the housing finance system.
Implementation of Reforms
1.36        Although the above reforms are moving in the right direction,
significant actions and time are required to translate the reforms from texts to
ground work. In the short term, dramatic acceleration of housing production is
needed to quickly meet basic social needs and support the credibility of the
reforms, as well as to reduce the devastating economic effects generated by
delays in housing completion. The deficit of building materials is, however, the
most pressing constraint to rapidly increasing the current production level,



- 14 -
either by the public or the private sector. Until local production increases
substantially, the Government has no choice but to facilitate imports of these
critical materials.
1.37         The functioning of the housing market also needs to be strongly and
gradually improved in the medium-term. As highlighted in a Sector Development
Letter attached to this report (Annex 1), the Government is firmly committed to
this basic objective, and intends to further reduce constraints to supply and
deepen reforms on the demand side, through the following key policy actions:
On the supplv-side:
(a)   liberalizing the regulatory framework for the rental housing
market, through implementation of new legislation on real
estate development, and landlord/tenant relationship, with a
view to, inter alia, ensuring a more efficient use of the
vacant housing stock in the private sector, and promoting
private real estate development;
(b)   accelerating the sale of existing public rental housing stock,
currently managed by public developers (OPGIs), through, inter
alia, implementation of new legislation regulating co-
ownership;
(c)   liberalizing the land market by redefining the role of public
and private operators and institutions, organizing a
competitive land market,   and defining appropriate fiscal
incentives;
(d)   developing housing operations more affordable to the bulk of
the population, through the launching of sites and services
type of operations, and revision of technical standards; and
(e)   rationalization of the building  industry by opening up
competition between firms.
On the demand-side:
(a)   development  of  property  rights  by  accelerating  the
regularization of land tenure, under the 1990 National Land
Law (Loi d'Orientatlon Foncibre);
(b)   ending the virtual State monopoly in housing finance, by
implementing a plan of action which calls for the complete
restructuring of CNEP's portfolio, and its conversion into a
commercial and housing bank under the Money and Credit Law,
the gradual increase of both deposit and lending rates to
market rates, and the launching of new lending instruments
adapted to the inflationary environment;
(c)   redesigning housing subsidy policy to ensure transparency,
fiscal affordability, and social safety net targeting, through
a plan of actions focusing on: a gradual decrease, during the
mid-term period and starting in 1994, of the average level of
housing subsidies reached during the past three years, to
fiscally sustainable levels; a more income-related subsidy



- 15 -
scheme targeting the poor; and a gradual substitution of
implicit import subsidies, starting in 1994 for all new
projects, by explicit budgetary subsidies.
1.38        The above two pronged strategies, where short-run versus medium to
long-run actions can be clearly discerned, underline the justification for and
the structure of the project proposed for Bank support.
II. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.1         The main objective of the Housing Completion and Sector Development
Project would be to trigger a quick housing supply response, and to .support and
enhance the medium-term objective and priorities of the market-oriented reforms
of the housing sector, through:
(a)   accelerating the completion of both the public housing program under
construction and the private unfinished stock, as well as
encouraging the private sector to use the existing housing stock
more efficiently;
(b)   assisting GOA in creating adequate policy and institutional sector
framework during the transitional period, by providing technical
assistance on sector policy formulation and implementation.
B. SUMMARY PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.2         The proposed Bank loan  (US$200 million) would be made to the
Government, and would finance the completion of a social housing program for sale
(US$130 million), an import program of critical building materials for the
private sector (US$65 million), and a technical assistance program (US$5.0
million), as follows:
(a)   Social Housing Program for Sale (SHPS).  This component (US$130
million from the Bank loan) would aim at accelerating the completion
of about 51,000 social units for sale, under KPUFs' management,
through: supply of strategic construction materials (cement, wood
and steel rods), finishing products, and small equipment and spare-
parts, for the 1993-95 import needs of the SHPS;
(b)   Private Rousing Program.  Targeted primarily to self-help builders,
this component (US$65 million from the Bank loan) would assist the
private sector in completing its unfinished housing stock. It would
supply the private sector with strategic construction materials
(cement, wood and steel rods); and
(c) Technical assistance program (TA). This component (US$5 million)
would aim at assisting the Government in implementing key housing
policy objectives in the following three critical areas: improving
housing supply incentives; reforming housing finance, through the
entry of CNEP in the banking sector; reforming and targeting housing
subsidies.   In addition, the TA program would provide specific



- 16 -
support to the Ministry of Housing to mitigate the negative
environmental impact of the housing construction sector.
C. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMBNT
2.3         Housing policy dialogue with Algeria started in 1991, at the same
time the housing market reform program started. This program, as well as the
Bank recommendations for further actions, were detailed in a Housing Sector
Report, dated April 14, 1992. As highlighted in Part I, the housing reform
program is consistent and proceeding in the right direction. However, due to the
sluggish supply response, particularly impeded by a severe deficit of critical
building materials, the resultant housing shortage (Algeria's 8.5 person per unit
occupancy ratio is one of the highest in the world) is hindering the reform
program, to the point of seriously exacerbating the current social crisis. Rapid
Bank involvement in providing urgently needed foreign exchange for the import of
critical materials is vital to ease the severe supply crisis, decrease the
damaging economic effects of delays in completing housing projects, and to
enhance the credibility of the reform program.
2.4         Bank involvement is also crucial to assist the Government in
implementing the reform program. The project would not only complement the
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL, approved in FY91) in the
housing finance sector, but also help initiate key policy actions aimed at
deepening reforms with far-reaching implications in the long-term on the demand
side. Further, it would support preparatory work for future Bank assistance
programs in key priority areas, including the provision of infrastructure and
serviced residential land, and the creation of a mortgage market.
D. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Social Housing Program for 8ale (8HPs)
2.5         The SHPS is made of 74,150 units in progress, of which 51,300 are
under construction and would be exclusively targeted by the project. The program
under construction is spread around 23 Wilayas, with an important concentration
(46%) in the six larger Algerian cities. Based on an audit of the SHPS program,
51,200 units have been selected and, it is estimated that these units will be
delivered over a three year period (Table 2.1).
Table 2.1: Planning of Current SHPS
Provisional Plarmina (Units)
. Annual                     6,997   13,000   17,000   21,310    51,310
Cumulative                           ,      30,000   51,310         -



- 17 -
The audit consisted in an in-depth in-site analysis of five BPLFs totaling 22,000
units, and was complemented by a comprehensive questionnaire survey later. The
major findings of this audit are:
(a)  this program is adequately financed; funds are provided through
financing agreements by CNEP to the BPLFs, who manage the
construction and receive a 2* fee; due to high inflation in
construction costs, these financing agreements were updated in 1992
for 85 of the program and provide now for a sufficient coverage of
the costs;
(b)   the program is well managed by the EPLFs; although some technical
assistance will be helpful to update construction management
techniques, the projects officers have the adequate technical and
managerial skills;
(c)  EPLFs have contracted construction works to local enterprises on
sound contractual arrangements; the oldest contracts were given to
public enterprises, which monopolized 90* of the construction
program; however, EPLFs have been looking for improvement in
construction efficiency through the design of smaller programs that
can more easily be contracted to private enterprises and through
subcontracting of finishing works to private enterprises; as a
result, it is estimated that 20% of the value added now comes from
private enterprises; and
(d)  the major obstacles this program faces relate to input shortages.
The input supplies needed to execute the program are presented in
Annez 4.
2.6         Targeted Imoort Products.   Funds allocated to the SHPS component
(USZ130 million) would finance a positive list of construction materials,
presented in Annez 2, with a provisional cost sharing of 59* for finishing
products (mainly finished doors, plumbing, piping, electrical accessories), 23%
for strategic construction materials (cement, wood and steel rods), 10% for on-
site infrastructure network materials, and 8% for spare-parts to contractors
involved in SHPS. With the exception of wood, steel, and doors, allocated funds
would not, however, cover all of the input-supplies required to execute the
entire program. Rather, they are intended to ease the domestic market tensions
between demand and supply, and 70% of cement and other finishing products would
be supplied by the domestic market.
2.7         ImDorts of Strategic Construction Materials.         While imports
restrictions on other building materials no longer exist, importers of strategic
materials (para. 1.27) are under strict regulation by the Import Concessions Act,
managed by the General Directorate of Trade (Direction G6n6rale de 1 'Organisation
du Commerce - DGOC), under the Ministry of Economy. Permanent import licenses
are given to importers on a demand basis, through specifications scrutinizing
their: (a) commercial status; (b) financial solvency; (c) physical stocking and
transport capacity.   For the purpose of the project, prequalification of
importers would also be based on financial and organizational criteria, and
selection of final importers would be done on the basis of the lowest commercial
margin bid, for each of the strategic products. All strategic imports would be
procured under simplified International Competitive Bidding (para. 2.18).



- 18-
Private Rousing Program
2.8         Funds allocated to this component (US$65 million) would finance only
strategic products (cement, wood and steel rods) for the exclusive use of private
builders. As for the EPLF program, prequalified professional importers would
import these critical materials through simplified international competitive
bidding (ICB), and after preshipment inspection has been done at the exit port.
Unlike the EPLF program, however, no targeted units are predetermined. Rather,
all private builders, and particularly the self-help builders, would be eligible
to purchase these building materials, made available in complement to local
production or commercial imports, through the existing detailed network.
Tracking of imported materials would not only be done by systematic preshipment
inspections, but would also be fully documented by selected importers, down to
their detailed network. An ex-post review, conducted on a sampling basis, would
also ensure that loan proceeds are used for the intended purpose of this
component.
2.9         Imolementation Arrangements. In order to eliminate price distortions
in the domestic market, avoid discouraging importers from using scarce available
comercial credits, as well as addressing the implicit subsidy issue due to the
difference between commercial and concessional loans or credits, funds allocated
to the private housing (market) component would be contracted by importers under
terms equivalent to those of commercial credits with exporting country
guarantee5.  Since the existing practices require certified importers to find
external financing under an official forward rate averaging a maturity of 12
months for strategic building materials, selected importers would have access to
the Bank loan through on-lending arrangements in foreign exchange under the same
terms and conditions, i.e. 360 days maturity with interest rate based on LIBOR,
and repayable in two equal installments. Such a procedure will not apply to the
SHPS, since the social units for sale are strictly targeted.   Under this
component, imports will be financed through a swap of loan proceeds for the
equivalent amount of dinars at the official exchange rate, the Government bearing
the full foreign exchange risk. The above implementing arrangements were agreed
during negotiations, and at least 60X (US$40 million) of the loan amount
allocated to the private sector component would have to be on-lent to selected
importers as a condition of effectiveness.
The Tecbnical Assistance Component
2.10        The technical assistance (TA) component would help to implement key
housing policy objectives, along the lines of the following matrix of housing
reforms (Table 2.2), which details the three main objectives to be pursued by the
Government, ramely:
. Reforming housing finance;
. Targeting subsidies;
Improving housing supply incentives.
i/ Given Algeria's high debt service ratio, transactions at the official 22
DA/US$ spot rate (compared with a parallel rate of some 40-45 DA/USV) are
essentially limited to debt service and down-payments for imports of basic
food and medicines.



- 19 -
In addition, the TA program would provide specific support to mitigate the
negative environmental impacts of the housing program under construction.
Reforming Housing Finance
2.1:        Under the Enterprise and Financial Adjustment Loan (EFSAL), as a
condition of second tranche release, the Government should have published in its
Official Journal a decree providing for the financial reorganization of CNEP, the
main housing finance institution.   However, the restructuring of the housing
finance system in Algeria, along with the financial restructuring of the OPGIs'
portfolio, requires substantial analyses and steps to be taken before decisions
are made. It was therefore agreed that a Government commitment on an action
plan, acceptable to the Bank, for the transforming of CNEP into an autonomous
bank, would be a substitute of the former condition attached to the EFSAL second
tranche release. Based on this agreement, the proposed project would provide
consulting services and TA for:
(a)   Launching,  as soon as possible,  a strategic study on housing
finance, according to TORs satisfactory to the Bank. This study
(about 30 men-months) would provide the tools for rapid decision-
making, and its main outputs would be the following:
- financial audit (10 men-months) to determine the quality of the
CNEP's assets and liabilities;
- institutional audit (10 men-months) to determine, inter alia, the
setting-up, role and composition of a new CNEP directorate in
charge of managing the transition period, and to detail a three
year strategic conversion plan, where fundamental issues such as
institutional leadership, savings network, and staff training
would be addressed, with short to medium-term implications on
operational procedures and management activities;
- resources mobilization study (10 men-months), to determine,
through reliable data, main sources and methods for mobilizing
financial resources adapted to the Algerian market, with
particular focus on the potential and risks of contractual
savings schemes;
- setting-up of adjustable rate loans, with particular focus on
dual-rate index mortgage loans (DRAM), adapted to the Algerian
economic and financial environment. During negotiations, TORs on
financial and institutional audits have been reviewed and agreed
upon by the Bank, so as to launch such audits soon after
effectiveness.
(b)   Assisting the restructuring of the CNEP, by providing the services
of a high level financial Advisor (18 months), and other banking and
training specialists (30 months).  Since CNEP's movement towards
commercial banking activities would significantly increase the
complexity of management functions, as well as technical, marketing
and product functions of this institution, the assistance program
would be built around the strengthening of such functions.



Table 2.2: Matrix of Housing Reforms
SUPPLY SIDE                                                                            DEMA    SIDE
OImective              Action already atak          Actlms proposed                      Objectives          Aetinshalrad Taktn             Aetioms Proposed
Radionaation of dhe    . Creation of           . Implmndtation of new                    Cre an enabling    . Agreem  on a phn of    h ipmepatioof CNEP
Constuodw industry.    utoaomous PEs.         p          procedure.                      ewnironmn fo    ade   io  allo dkw transr  pbn of acton. incd:
. Fancil reucuring                                                developmtnt of a    of CNEP ndr the Money   comlte fianial ad
of EPEs.               . Finanil fanem for                        morgage maret.    and Credit Law.             instutoal sd4t
. New procueme         acce  to inyods of strategic                                                             rehabitation of assets ad
procedures to ere      buding maerls wihout                                                                     tiabit   a4justmnt of
competion whth private   catg pric distortions.                                                                 ieres   s  ih the ba
eneprises,                                                                                                      sector, inroducto of new
. Liberaizaton of                                                                                               morgaq e insuame
coastcton prices (Jun
1992).
Uberalization of Rel    . Transfonmtion of the   . i34opt ew legislatio on real          Targetg subsidies   . Crean of the Nial    . Strategic study to dfin the
Es    Promotion.       statute of OPCs to     estate promotion.                                              Houaing FPA (CNL) as a      op      of absie,gi
EPC,.                                                                                fit aempt to enor          mcroecomic ad soca
. hprove the buildi  project                                  transpency and bete       constaints, with fwt
Draft law on Real     cycle of the SHP.                                              tgetn houslds             appcationthrughb d  FY 94
Eate P      ou                                                                        throu   com level         Faunce LAw.
llowing privat         . Fina l resructuring of the                                   criera.                                                   rU
participation          OPOI.                                                                                    . Defining the SHMt 
euilibrium level ad ;N cr
in rn  of th euram pubic 
houngstoc
. Define am ssy chelme
with focus on low income
hosds, inchlding accets
to evked plo.
. Clarification of the role of
CNL.
Impove Housing Stock   . Sales of 400,000      . Adopt ae  legisladon on
Prodctvy an            OPOs unit fo ren        ontractual rtonship between
enhance privatt nal                            owners and tena
market.                . Draft law to develop
proptrghts             . Adopt aw legistioa for a
new reguloy framewotk of cc-
New legisation on land  ownership.
develpmt and urba
Planing (1990)         . Use of taI inenives to
timuate private inwvetm   in
Liberalization of  s    the renal sctor.
(to the excbpton of
social programs) in June



- 21 -
Targeting Subsidies
2.12        Agreement has been reached, during negotiations, on an explicit
commitment by the Government for reforming the current housing subsidy system,
including rent subsidies, currently carried out through the SHPR and the OPGIs,
and home-buyers subsidies, currently carried out by CNEP and CNL. In addition,
the Government intention to progressively reduce the overall level of housing
subsidies Is clearly stated in the Sector Development Letter. Based on this
commitment, the proposed project would provide consulting services and TA for:
(a)  Launching, as soon as possible, a "sources and application of funds"
study (12 months) to: (i) determine the current aggregate level of
explicit and implicit subsidies attached to each housing operation;
(ii) assess its fiscal affordability, given Algeria's macroeconomic
constraints; (iii) define the maximum level of fiscal and central
budget subsidies to be successively included in the next three fiscal
laws; and (iv) measure the cost and benefit of each subsidy scheme,
including its social benefit.
(b)  Assisting MOH in formulating and implementing its new housing subsidy
policy, through TA (15 months) focusing on: (i) completion of the
financial restructuring of the OPGIs; (ii) definition of appropriate
levels of rents and subsidies, under the SHPR, which would allow the
OPGIs to balance their budget, and implementation of the related
program to increase rents according to targeted households; (iii)
setting-up new subsidy schemes for targeted home-buyers; and (iv)
definition of the institutional setting and of the management
functions of the entity in charge of operating the new subsidy
schemes, presumably CNL, and technical assistance (12 months), if
needed, to this entity.
Improving Housing Supply Incentives
2.13        The project would support this objective as follows:
(a)   Strengthening the regulatory  framework.   During negotlations,
agreement was reached on the following: newly adopted legislatLon on
real estate development, landlord/tenant relatlonship, and co-
ownership would have to be enacted not later than March 1, 1993.
(b)  Assistance to developers.  This assistance would primarily help the
EPLFs and some selected OPGIs to become more technically efficient,
and more market oriented. To this end, a provision of 20 men-months
of international consultants would be allocated to selected
autonomous developers, on the basis of their potential performance
to implement the Social Housing Program. Their main task would be
to help implement the recommendations of the operational audit
mission, with specific focus on the management functions of the
developers as contracting authorities (Maitres d'Ouvrage), and on
the technical functions of the principal contractors (Maitres
d'oeuvre).



- 22 -
(c)   `qsistance to the Ministry of Housing (MOB): (i) high level housing
advisory services (12 months of short-term consultants) to assist
NOR in overall policy formulation, and more specifically in housing
finance and fiscal analysis; (ii) provision of 24 months of short-
term consultants to carry out specific studies to improve the tax
incentive system (land taxation, real estate transactions etc..);
(iii) provision of 3 months of a short-term specialist to set-up a
data base management and monitoring system, in view of monitoring
the completion of the Social Housing Program; (iv) provision of 6
months of short term specialists to set-up a housing observatory at
the national levels; (v) vehicles, material and equipment for MOH
staff; and (vi) training funds for seminars and other training
activities to support the reform program.
Environmental Support
2.14        Primary environmental issues relate to the mitigation of negative
environmental impacts in the following areas: collection of sand and gravel,
water supply, wastewater, and solid wastes (para. 3.12 to 3.16) Accordingly, the
project has been rated Category B. To minimize these impacts, the project's TA
component would finance two long-term consultants (48 men-months) trained in
environmental impact assessment. Their main tasks would be to help address above
primary issues, by carrying out detailed environmental impact assessments of on-
going construction; strengthen environmental management capacity within MOH;
train urban planners and environmental specialists at the national and local
level; and increase the level of cooperation between appropriate ministries and
agencies to address housing environmental issues. One of these consultants is
to be specialized in environmental impact assessment, development of mitigation
techniques and environmental training. The second should be experienced in
environmental and urban planning (Annex 7.4). These two consultants would be
placed within MOH, in the Project Coordination Committee.
E. PROJECT COST, AND FINANCING
Project Costs
2.15        Total project cost is estimated at US$585.2 million equiva'lent (see
summary Table 2.3). The foreign cost amounts to US$214.6 million, and includes
the total value of imported goods at their border prices, starting beginning of
year 1993, as well as the foreign cost of services included in the TA program.
Local costs amount to US$267.3 million equivalent, excluding duties and taxes,
and include import domestic supplies of materials, transport, distribution and
other transaction costs. Duties and taxes amount to US$103.3 million equivalent,
with  duties  on  finishing products  accounting  for about  651.    Physical
contingencies of 10* have been applied to all cost items. Prices contingencies
are presented in Table 2.4. All local costs have been converted into US dollars
using the official exchange rate at US$1 = DA22. Detailed project costs are
presented in Annex 5.



- 23 -
Table 2.3: Project Cost Summazy
Rowdd FIures
_____   _   08$  million
ESTIMATED COSTS                            Local      Foreign       Total
A. Subtotal Social Rousing Program
for Sale                                 233.0        127.8       360.8
of which:
1.  Subtotal Strategic Products              26.4         35.0         61.4
. White Wood                              2.1          3.1         5.2
. Red Wood                                3.2          4.9         8.1
. Plywood                                 0.2          0.4         0.6
. Steel rods                              4.9         20.7        25.6
C Cement                                 15.9          5.9        21.8
2.  Subtotal Finishing Products             200.6         82.9       283.5
. On-Site Infrastructure                  7.8         12.1        19.9
D Voors                                   4.4          6.6        11.1
. Finishing Products                    188.4         64.2       252.6
3.  Spare Parts                               6.0          9.9         15.9
B.  Subtotal Private Housing Program         25.9         56.6         82.5
of which:
. Strategic Products                     25.9         56.6        82.5
C.  Subtotal Technical Assistance             0.1          4.9          5.0
of which:
Consultants/Studies/Advisors           0.1          4.4         4.4
E Equipment, Software materials           0.1          0.2         0.3
.Uncommitted                           _            0.3         0.3
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                        259.0        189.3       448.3
. Physical Contingencies                 25.3         17.4        42.7
. Price Contingencies                    86.3          7.8        94.1
...T,,AL PflO,EC COSTS                   3'7.352
FINANCING PLAN
|Government/Beneficiaries                   370.6         14.6       385.2
IBRD                                            _        200.0       200 .0
r se/;S TOTAL 1!NhC EN                                 214.RS#3
Table 2.4: Price Contingencies
o-estic ('i)  1993  2994  1995  1996
Domestic Me |30.0  24.0  20.0   19.0
Foreign  (&r) |3-8   1.9   2.7    3.5



- 24 -
Project Financing
2.16        The proposed Bank loan of US$200 million would be made to the
Government of Algeria for a term of 17 years, including five years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The loan would finance the foreign
exchange cost of imported goods at their CIF value, and the foreign cost of
technical assistance. The Borrower would finance all local costs, including
duties and taxes, as well as most of foreign costs included in the first six-
months period of 1994, due to procurement schedule. The loan sharing between the
public and the private sector would reach 53% and 47*, respectively, taking into
consideration that about 20* of SHPS contractors are private contractors.
Financial arrangements between the Government and the importers have been
presented in section D (Detailed Project Description). The project financing plan
is presented in Table 2.3.
2.17        Parallel financing.  A proposed EEC grant of ECU7O million (US$90
million) is under discussion in the framework of BBC support to the Algerian
structural adjustment program. This grant would be exclusively allocated to the
completion of the SHPR, and would provide mainly finishing products, and spare
parts for contractors involved in SHPR. This parallel financing is not included
in the project cost below, nor in the financing plan.
F. PROCUREMENT
2.18        ImXorted goods. Given the import content of the project, simplified
International Competitive Bidding (ICB), i.e. simplified advertising and use of
a single currency arrangement, would be followed for large value contracts
exceeding US$1 million equivalent.   This would mainly apply to import of
strategic and finishing products. To avoid delaying procedures, standard bidding
documents, preliminarily approved by the Bank, would be used. Accordingly, no
further reviews by Bank staff of particular bidding documents or procurement
decisions prior to contract awards would be needed, and all contracts awarded
according to ICB procedures would be sent to the Bank for ex-post review with the
following supporting documentation: evidence of bid invitation, record of bid
opening, and bid evaluation report.  It is expected that about 85% (US$170
million) would be procured through simplified ICB. Contracts below US$1 million
equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$24 million) would be procured through
International Shopping, with at least three international quotations from
prospective suppliers, from at least two member countries of the Bank. Direct
contracting, mainly for spare parts, would be accepted on a case by case basis
(about US$15 million), in accordance with Paragraph 3.5 of the Bank Guidelines.
2.19        Technical Assistance. The contracting of consulting services for the
various studies, and other services to be financed under the TA component (US$5
million) would be done according to the Bank' a Guidelines on the Use of
Consultants.
2.20        Procurement under the project would be supervised by the Project
Implementation Unit, strengthened by a procurement specialist during the initial
period of project execution. Procurement documentation subject to local post
review, i.e. transactions below the statement of expenditures threshold, would



- 25 -
be centralized at the Banque Alg6rienne de D6veloppement (BAD), and readily
available to Bank missions or to auditors. The procurement schedule is presented
in Annex 6, and summary of procurement methods in Table 2.4.
Table 2.4: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(including contingencies, taxes and duties)
(US$ millions)
Prcurement Method
ntemational
Competitive  Ilnernational  Direct  Consulting
Bidding    Shopping   Contracting  Services  N.B.F.    Total
A. Strategic Products  140.87                     -       30.48   171.35
94.66                                         94.66
B. Finishing Products  12.31   -         -                 1.32    13.63
1. Doors            6.90                                          6.90
2. Finishing Products/a  108.54  26.09  -        -       244.63  379.26
67.98     15.54                               83.51
C. Spare Parts        -         -       15.92     -                15.92
9.93                      9.93
D. Consultacies                                   4.72             4.72
-        4.72             4.72
8. Equipment&Matedal  0.28                                         028
0. _                      .                   0
ToTOa              262.01    26.09     15.92     4.72    276.43   585.16
169.82    15.54     9.93     4.72      -     20000
Note: Underlined figures are the respective amounts financed by the World Bank.
vs: lwneational Shopping for bids lower than I million US $.
G. DISBURSEEMNTS
2.21       Disbursements would be made for 100 percent of the foreign cost of
imported goods at their CIP value, and 100 percent of direct expenditures for
consultants' services, including subsistence and travel expenses, studies and
training. Unless duly specified, as in the case of vehicle and spare parts, no
disbursements would be made against local expenditures, including local freight
charges, insurance premiums in local currency, custom duties and other taxes.
2.22       The BAD would be responsible for the preparation and submission of
all withdrawal requests. Disbursements would be made against fully-documented
withdrawal applications, except for those contracts for goods below US$1 million,
which would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOBs).
Supporting documentation for the SOEs would be retained by the BAD for at least
one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the
last disbursement was made. This documentation would be made available to the
auditors and to Bank staff upon request.



- 26 -
2.23        In order to facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would
establish a special account in US dollars at the Central Bank of Algeria (Banque
d'Alg6rie). The authorized allocation would be US$7.0 million which represents
about four months of the Bank's share of eligible expenditures for contracts
valued below US$1.0 million. For contracts for imports above that amount, the
BAD acting on behalf of the Borrower, would request the Bank to issue to the
commercial bank, normally the bank of the exporter, its Special Commitment
agreeing to reimburse that bank for payments made, or to be made, under the
letter of credit. The special account would be replenished on a monthly basis,
at the latest every three months, or whenever one-third of the authorized
allocation has  been withdrawn,  whichever occurs  earlier.    Documentation
requirements for replenishment of the special account would follow the same
procedures as described in paragraph 2.22.
III. PROJECT IMPIEM3NTATION AND MONITORING
A. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
3.1         The management, administration and coordination of the project would
be the responsibility of MOH. The main responsibility of MOH would be to: (a)
monitor the completion of the Social Housing Program for Sale; (b) ensure that
imported goods effectively reach end-users; (c) administrate the TA component;
and (d) coordinate all other actions and decisions among the involved ministries,
agencies, and external lending agencies to ensure timely and effective project
implementation.
3.2         To ensure proper project coordination, the Government will establish
a Project Coordination Committee (PCC) within MOH, which would be staffed by a
multi -disciplinary team, with representatives of the primary ministries involved.
The PCC would work in close relationship with the Directorates of Town Planning
and Construction (DUC) at the Wilaya level, the BPLFs and OPGIs, as well as with
the public association of construction enterprises and any group of private
enterprises. The PCC's staff would include: (a) three representatives of the
MOH, including a project coordinator; (b) two representatives of the Ministry of
Economy; (c) one representative of the National Planning Council (CNP); (e) one
representative of the Central Bank; (f) one representative of BAD; and (g) a
permanent technical staff, including secretarial support and drivers. Agreement
on above staffing was confirmed at negotiations.
3.3         The main responsibilities of the PCC would be the following:  (e)
monitor overall project execution, and in particular the procurement procedureu
and delivery of goods under both public and private programs; (b) coordinate the
TA program, with direct responsibility for the environmental component; (c)
advise selected beneficiaries on procurement and disbursement matters, in
coordination with BAD; (d) issue quarterly progress reports, with special focus
on effective delivery and delivery schedule of SHPS units; (e) follow-up on the
preparation and maintenance of project accounts, and launch all relevant audit
missions; and (f) issue the project completion report. The establlshment of PCC,
wlth staffing and operating arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, would be a
condition of effectiveness.



- 27 -
3.4         The BAD would be made responsible for the maintenance of all loan
accounts and records of all transactions under the loan, in accordance with sound
accounting practices. However, to allow close monitoring of the project by the
PCC, the BAD will make available all accounting documents to PCC.  At the
initiative of PCC, all accounts will be audited within six months after the end
of the Government's fiscal year, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Certified copies of the audit would be submitted to the Bank and would include
a separate opinion with regard to claims submitted to the Bank on the basis of
SOEs.
3.5         The closing date of the loan would be December 31, 1996.
B. PROJECT MONITORING
3.6         To monitor project implementation and policy reform performance,
detailed implementation plans of both the SHPS and the reform program have been
set-up during appraisal. They provide benchmarks which have been reviewed and
agreed upon during negotiations. Based on these agreed benchmarks, a mid-term
review will be carried out by Bank staff not later than October 31, 1994, to
assess progress made on both the Sector Development Program and the
Implementation plans.  During negotiations, it was agreed that, should such
progress be considered unsatisfactory by the Bank, and should the Government and
the Bank fail to agree on a new timetable of actlons, the Bank will be entitled
to suspend disbursement under the loan. Prior to suspension, all feasible and
alternative options would be scrutinized to meet the objectives of the project,
including auctioning rather than finishing part of the public housing program.
3.7         Detailed  Implementation  Plan  for  the  SHPS.    Based  on  the
recommendations of the operational audit mission on EPLFs, PCC would elaborate
a data base and management information system (DABIS) for the monitoring of SHPS,
including the status of completion of each operation to measure project
performance. The DABIS system, which should be easily computable and transparent,
would include: (a) technical-administrative status of housing operations, with
key monitoring indicators (administrative authorizations, contracts awarded,
service ordera, status of various key stages of completion); (b) cost and
financial estimates, including comparative data on committed budget and paid
works; and (c) critical path of SHPS completion. Fully documented reports on the
above would be sent to the Bank quarterly, while access to DABIS would be made
readily available to Bank supervision missions. If necessary and at any time of
the project, a technical audit by independent auditors of a sample of DABIS
information sources (i.e. DUCs and related EPLFs) would be carried out at Bank
request.   Annex 4 provides a detailed schedule of implementation, and the
following benchmarks have been agreed upon during negotiations:
- Number of units to be completed by end of December 1993: 13,000;
- Cumulative number of units to be completed by end of December 1994:
30,000; and
- Total number of units to be completed by end of December 1995: 51,300.



- 28 -
3.8         Detailed Implementation Plan for Housing Finance Reform. Chart I
presents a detailed task schedule tor implementing the restructuring of CNEP.
Critical benchmarks (end of task), which lead to the launching of the "new"
housing financial institution no later than September 30, 1995, have been agreed
upon during negotiations and are the following:
- introducing, as soon as possible, a clause permitting the revision of
the terms of the loan in CNEP new mortgage loans;
- Setting-up a restructuring committee: November 1, 1993;
- CNHP's financial and institutional audits: June 1, 1994;
- Raising CNHP standard interest rates to banking sector level:
starting June 30, 1994;
- Start lending at adjustable interest rates: June 30, 1994;
- Resource mobilization study: August 1994; and
- Final proposal on legal and organizational structure: January 3, 1995;
3.9         In parallel with preparing and launching the new organization, CNEP
would have to restructure its current portfolio, namely: the OPGIs, the
promotional housing, savings accounts and the CNEP/Treasury portfolios. The
above restructuring tasks have been reviewed during appraisal, and options have
been discussed. The schedule of these tasks, based on their dependency upon
external decisions (e.g. financial restructuring of the OPGIs), or the internal
process of transforming CNHP into a housing bank (e.g. use of adjustable interest
rates for the restructuring of the promotional portfolio) is shown in Chart 1.
3.10        Detailed Implesentation Plan for Housing Subsidies Reform.
The detailed task schedule for implementing this decisive reform is presented in
Chart 2. Critical benchmarks have been agreed during negotiations and are listed
below6:
- Source and Application of Funds study (first phase): October 31, 1993;
- Determining the level of Central Budget housing subsidies for
FY94 (to be issued in the 1994 Finance Law): end of November 1993;
- For all new housing operations, replacement of the implicit import
subsidy to the sector, linked to the difference between external
commercial and concessional credit lines, with an explicit budgetary
subsidy: not later than NMrch 31, 1994; failure to comply with this
undertaking would lead to suspension of disbursements under the loan;
- Financial restructuring of the OPGIs: June 30, 1994;
{J They do not include actions related to land policy, since such actions
would be dealt with under a possible Bank financed project on land
development, currently under discussion.



Housing Finance Reform
1993                     1994                      1995                     199B
Namw                                              Qtr4  Q    |ri  Qtr2 |Qtr3  Qlr4Qtrl  Qtr2  Qtr3   Qtr4  QIr  Qtr2  MOQ3  Otb4  QtWI  Otr2  Qtr3
Effecveness of Loan                                      415*
Bank Miterm Review                                                                             10l30+
Fow of Funds sudy ls phae)                           1 11
Agreemern on ToRs                               i12s*
Left of hwbton                                   12 D  2/4
Selecon Prcess & Contract awrd                    2S5       4/15
SltaOfetd                                            4122*
OPGI Rendal Sector                                    413        711
CNEP and Bandn Sector                                 4/23         7/29
Home Buyera Sector                                    4Q3        7/t
Teasuy                                                423        711
Endofetudy                                      .11/1                               .
Ban Mdtem Review                                                                               1130*
CNEP proNo_                                            1 / 2                 6 --- 1                           2 / 2
CNEsftwan l &ittt           AudI                112E_                                  4/22
Aereemnt on ToRs                           1
Lefter of IdZtIon                             ;   2J
Selection Pcess & Conrbact awrd               2I        4116
1art Of finanuia udit                            4f3*
farndalc audt                                      4026                        4122
End of frnancial aum4t
S"tatofntutlonalaudi
InttuInal auit                                         6/21     -IY 17
1                                                               21593 5:56 pm
5.56PM~~0



Housing Fhance Reform
1S93                     1994                      1995                     1996
Narme                                              tr4  Itr1  Qtr2  Qtr3 | Qtr4  Qtr1  Qtr2          Ct      r I tr2 Q2r3  Qt Otri  Qtr2  Qtr3
End of ktttiona audit                                            12.17
OPOt Poaitolo eNaUcwtu                                           1015    _                               12131
So 5% PofoIo  es1u0, .  .
1009% Poiotodo resructured                                                     S
CNEPTrreasr eato p                                              11/2 a 11/15
New repuaon on rent                                                                        12/31
Housing for Sale Portfli restructuring                                    21                                               9/31)g
CNEP Saving EPonts reesucrig                                            1/1I                                                     1228
Raisig  sv  rate (1st step)                                         111
Raising saing rates (2nd step)
Poftolo nest 6t2n g                                          .12t28
Bank  m  Review                                                                                1030                                 I
Set up the new housng finance   ltitlon                                111121
CNEP Diretorate rnow operatlons                                   1U1 *
Raise CNEP tandard rteto bankdg irst rateb bv    .___..   ..              .          613D           O1    VA 2
Sta xtl     at variabl inrest rate                                                  am
Ressoud    mozao study                                             11/ _                            10131
Agreemt on ToRs                                                11/1*
- leofinvitation                                                11f2  11/8
Selcson Process & Co*act wd                                      11/9   a  1/17
Starofatudy                                                          1f24*
Shdy (1st pse report)                                                 1f2                  9
Study(fl hl  2pot)                                                                     gm      i 'm w s
2                                                               2/5/3.-56 pm n



_ouin Finance ReM
1993                    -1994                      199                      1996
Name                                              Qtr44  Cir I  Cr2  CQtr3  Ctr     r QI  Qtr2 Itr   Ct4   trl  Q Ctr 2  Q-tr3  tCr 4  QtrI  Q tr 2  Qtr3
End of study                                                                           1031 *
Study an HF. L orga tion and legah  atats                                                9f19                  4/3
Agreement on ToRe                                                                    9/19.
Lelr of hwtbon                                  ..9/2919/
Selcfton Proess & Contrt awd                                                           W      m -   12/5
Startof stud                                                                              12112
St.d.                                                                                      12/13          413
Ends oftdy                                                                                          413-
Bank M    m Re&iw                                                                              1ow30*
La    Ing of h new housi  fnacil nsuonk. 4t4                                                                             1M
Prepaon of Lega Documents                                       4t4         1t1
Decion on sttus and creaonm
Sdreg andW -  pol..                                                                                                  1012     1 124
Fnanwc       gment wand orgnton                                      .        .t ~                                               122
OdnflEon of brendn aiies                                                           .2 ~                                          12/29
Bankhldem Review                                                                               10130*
Trann ff                                           ...staf  415                                                                      UV
3                                                               25/93 5:56 pin
QI



Housin Subsidy Reform
1993                     1994                      199                       1998
ID  Namne                             Otr I Qtr 2 Qtr3   tr 4  Qir I  Qtr 2  Qr3  Q tr 4  Otri  Q tr2  Qtr 3   ltr 4  QAr IQM 2  CQtr3  Otr-4  Ctr ICtr 2
 Effectlveness of Loan                 s
2 8anldd-kRm  Review                                                        t,o
3 Row Of Funds stuy tflst phase)                            i
13 199S4 Fkwaclow                                         t
14 Flow df Fund. stuay (secondx!'                          1/3           6/2
15 11104 anausl suhsidly pror"                      1112              3/31
16     dratpropgrun                                  112 U112
17     progrm effetIvee                                       331 
1996S anima subsid progrun                                            W       ~          M     3/31
19     drapt pogram                                                 SW.ou 6/4
20     programs ellectIeness,331 
21 1996 annua subs*d prorn                                                                           Io
22      drafProgen                                                                                     Ion* 11I
23     progua effecIveness                                                                                        3131
24 Renta Mousing                                                    U                     1/3
28     OmO  Potfolio restucturin
26         so0% Potfolo                                  10/4
27         100 %Postflbio reshitsucud              1(1              -E    6/3
28     CNEP/Treaswyrelationswl                       11/2   It/I
29     OPOi break even stdyi                                                             12/3
30     Now egsimalnon rest                                                       12/3
31 Housing for Sale                                                                                       Wg
32     PortfoloResktructuring
42     Dralft Home Buyer Subsidy Lawm-                                              u
43     LaweffectIvewnes 
eto
I                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2(4196:41 pm



- 29 -
- Draft legal framework on home-buyers subsidies: October 31, 1994;
- Determining the level of Central Budget subsidies, on a 3 years rolling
program basis for FYs 1995 to 1997: October 31, 1994
- Decision on the future/or the reorganization of CNL: November 31, 1994;
- New regulation on public housing for rent, allowing full cost recovery
for the OPGIs: not later than December 31, 1994;
- Enactment of legislation on home-buyers subsidies: January 30, 1995.
C. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
Summary of Environmental Aspects of Project
3.11        The environmental issues associated with the project are related to
the impact of both construction and subsequent habitation of the housing units.
The impacts during the construction phase center on the use of sand and gravel
during construction and conversion of productive agricultural land. The impacts
of the habitation of the finished units center on the increased demand for
centralized distribution of potable water, waste water treatment facilities,
disposal of solid waste, and other effects resulting from increased urban
development. Accordingly, the project has been rated Category B. To minimize
these negative effects, the provision of two long-term environmental consultants
has been included in the technical assistance component (para. 2.14).
Environmental Impacts of Project Activities
3.12        Sand and Gravel.  The construction of housing units will require
approximately 12 million cubic meters of sand and gravel. Traditionally, this
material is removed from river banks, coastal areas and quarries. This material,
when taken from environmentally sensitive areas could have a significant impact
on river turbidity, erosion, fish resources and downstream wetlands. The problem
of sand and gravel collection is likely to be most serious in the coastal areas,
especially in the areas of Algiers, Annaba, and Skikda. In addition, the E1
Kalaa reserve, near the Tunisian frontier, is a wetland of particular
international importance. The removal of sand or gravel upstream from El Kalaa,
and other important wetland resources (such as El-Macta, the Marshes -of Reghaia)
could have significant downstream impacts.
3.13        Productive Aciricultural Land.  Only about 7.5 million ha (3*) of
Algeria are suitable for crop cultivation.   The extent and productivity of
agricultural land in Algeria is declining due to desertification, . urban
development and other factors. As a result, the remaining agricultural land is
of particular economic importance. The expansion of urban centers, and .the
development of "new towns" is likely to result in the conversion of agricultural
lands.
3.14        Centralized Potable Water Systems. The construction and subsequent
habitation of housing units could increase the consumption of potable water from
centralized distribution systems by up to 2 million cubic meters per day.



- 30 -
Currently, potable water systems are strained in several major urban areas,
especially the capital, Algiers. Overall, a majority of aquifers are excessively
exploited. Approximately 0.70 billion cubic meters of water are used annually
for drinking water and present demands exceed supplies in many areas. This
overuse of water, combined with the increasing desertification in some regions,
has lead to a significant degradation of water quality. Rivers such as the
Sarno, Mina, Cheliff, Tafna, El-Harrach and Seybouse are rated as severely
polluted by the Department of Water Quality. The three main northern aquifers
(Mitidja, Saida and Mascara) are all at great risk from pollution. Competition
for water between industry and human consumption and irrigation has become
particularly acute in some areas such as Algiers and Oran.
3.15        Wastewater Treatment.  The existing facilities in Algiers and other
urban areas are unable to treat much of the generated waste water stream. As a
result, sewage and storm water systems discharge over 600,000 cubic meters of
untreated wastewater directly into the Mediterranean per day.  The resulting
severe pollution of 32-km coastline along Algiers poses significant problems in
terms of human health, fisheries and tourism. In the medium-term, a proposed
Algiers Environmental project (FY95) would address the wastewater issue facing
the 33 communes of Algiers. Within other major cities, blockages and structural
failures of the sewerage systems not only force the untreated water to the
surface, but also causes it to seep into potable water reservoirs. The permeable
alluvial soils in northern Algeria pose particular risks for groundwater
contamination due to leaks and blockages in existing water treatment facilities.
For example, the Saida aquifer is becoming severely polluted by infiltration from
urban wastewaters.
3.16        Solid Waste Disposal. Current collection and disposal mechanisms are
not able to cope effectively with the rapidly increasing urban population. The
proposed Algiers Environmental Project would also evaluate the solid waste
management needs in the capital, and develop new land fill sites and incineration
facilities. In addition, the project would strengthen the local government
capacity to maintain these facilities and monitor the effectiveness of the new
operations.
3.17        Air Pollution.  Increases in both rural and urban air pollution are
likely to result from this project.   The cement industry is currently a
significant source of air pollution.   Of the twelve plants currently in
production, at least four (Cheliff, Meftah, Rais Hamidou, and Sour el Ghozlane)
do not have functioning electrostatic filters.   The air pollution control
equipment of many other cement factories are operating at sub-optimal
efficiencies.   This pollution is having a direct impact on agricultural
productivity and human health in the urban areas.
Recommended Mitigation Procedures
3.18        In coordination with the Mediterranean Environmental Technical
Assistance Program (METAP), priority will be given in strengthening planning,
managing and regulating capacities of the Ministry of Housing and his key
partners to start implementing mitigation procedures. The environmental training
and impact assessment review included in the TA component (para 2.14) should, in
this respect, play a pivotal role. By working in close cooperation with existing
environmental and planning agencies, in particular with the State Secretary of
Research, a consultative body on environmental, urban planning and water resource



- 31 -
planning would be developed. This consultative body should review the overall
planning strategy of the on-going construction program and suggest opportunities
for minimizing the most urgent negative environmental impacts. The TA will then
evaluate the most effective methods for coordinating long-term environmental
construction planning within the Ministry of Housing and the Government. Based
on the above methods, and once human and institutional capacities having been
strengthened, it is expected that adverse environmental impacts of the building
and construction sector would start being properly and preventively addressed.
3.19        Because of the significant short term environmental impact of the
sand and gravel issue, one of the first research activities associated with the
project will be the carrying out of an economic and environmental cost/benefit
study of sand and gravel collection. This study will evaluate a variety of
sources and methods of collection, and will identify those materials sources, and
collection methods, which have the lowest economic and environment costs, taking
into account the environmental sensitivity of specific sites.
D. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
3.20        Benefits. First, the project would result in immediate benefits to:
(a) the economy as a whole, by a reduction of the annual economic losses due to
construction delays, currently about 2* of GDP; (b) low and medium-income
households (44% of the potential beneficiaries have a monthly income level below
US$225) who would benefit from the anticipated availability of the targeted
51,000 social housing for sale; and (c) self-help private developers, who would
be in a better position to compete with the public sector for the acquisition of
building materials. Second, the TA program would provide longer term benefits
to: (a) the housing sector as a whole, through the acceleration of key sector
reforms, both on the supply side and on the demand side; (b) the State budget,
which currently finances, through CNEP, 100 percent of the social program for
rent, and is heavily committed in subsidizing the housing sector, through
restructuring of the current subsidy schemes; (c) private developers, who would
benefit from incentives to build for the rental market; and (d) low-income
households, who would be targeted under a new personalized housing assistance
program, directly linked to their income level.
3.21        Risks. In the short-term, the primary project risk lies in Algeria's
political and economic uncertainties, which could lead to an acceleration of
social tensions, and therefore negatively impact the implementation of sectoral
reforms, as well as their management. Mitigation of this risk for the project
would come from: (a) a strong Government commitment to reform the housing sector,
evidenced by the content of its Sector Development letter; and (b) a careful
implementation review of the agreed plans of action, with dated covenants.
Another short-term risk, exacerbated by the visibility of the project and its
social impact, could come from the non-accomplishment of the targeted Social
Housing Program for Sale. A mid-term review would assess this risk, and, if
needed, would define specific measures to ensure timely project completion. In
the longer term, as far as project sustainability is concerned, the main risk
would be the persistence of a weak supply response to housing reforms, leading
to a prolonging of the role of the State as a direct provider of social housing.
Mitigation of such a risk would come from the Government's commitment to produce
strictly social safety net units, where family income determines eligibility.



- 32 -
IV. AGREI  MTSB AND RECOMIDATZON
4.01        The following have been reached during negotiation:
(a)   Schedule of completion of the SHPS, leading to the delivery of
the entire program (51,300 units) by December 31, 1995 (para.
3.7);
(b)   Implementing arrangements:  the Treasury will on-lend the
proceeds of the loan allocated for the private housing program
to selected importers, through on-lending arrangements in
foreign exchange on the basis of the average maturity of
current commercial credit lines for strategic building
materials (360 days), at an interest rate based on LIBOR, and
repayable in two equal installments (para 2.9);
(c)   Housing finance reform: plan of action with specific dated
covenants in 1993 and 1994 for the transformation of CNRP into
a commercial housing bank, not later than September 30, 1995.
Dated covenants include measures to raise CNEP standard
interest rates to banking sector level (para. 3.8 and 3.9);
(d) Subsidy reform: plan of action with specific dated covenants
in 1993 and 1994, leading to: (i) a satisfactory budgetary
allocation of housing subsidies in 1994, including the
replacement of implicit subsidies linked to the difference
between commercial and concessional external credit lines with
an explicit budgetary subsidy; (ii) full cost recovery for
public housing for rent; and (iii) reform of the housing
purchase subsidy system (para. 3.10);
(e)   Sector Development Program: a draft policy letter outlining
key reforms to be implemented during the medium term period on
the demand and supply sides of the housing sector was
presented by the Algerian authorities, and discussed with the
Bank. This letter has been endorsed by the Government, and
reflect its commitment to reform the sector, including its
intention to progressively reduce housing subsidies, starting
in 1994 (para. 1.45, 2.12 and Annex 1).
(f)   Staffing and role of the PCC (para. 3.2 to 3.4); and
(g)   Enactment of legislation, not later than March 1, 1993, on:
real estate development; contractual relationship between
owners and renters; and rules governing co-ownership (para
2.13).
4.03        The following would be conditions for effectiveness:



- 33 -
(a)   Establishment of PCC, with staffing and operating arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.3);
(b)   On-lending arrangements for the financing of the private
housing program would have to be entered into by the
Government with selected importers in an amount equivalent to
at least US$40.0 million (para. 2.9).
4.04        The following would be conditions to continue disbursement:
(a)  By March 31, 1994, and for all new housing operations, the
budgetary law should include specific measures, including
managing procedures and targeting, to replace the implicit
import subsidy linked to the difference between commercial and
concessional credit lines, with an explicit budgetary subsidy
(para. 3.10);
(b)  At mid-term review, the SHPS should be delivered according to
the agreed schedule (para. 3.7); agreed dated covenants to
implement housing finance and subsidies reforms should be met
(para. 3.6, 3.8, and 3.9); and progress in implementing the
Sector Development Program should be satisfactory to the Bank.
Suspension of disbursement will occur only if the Government
and the Bank fail to agree on a new timetable of actions
(para. 3.6).
Recommendation
4.05        With the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$200 million equivalent. The
proposed loan would be repaid over a period of 17 years, including 5 years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.



Annex 1
Draft Policy Letter
Non official translation.



Annex 1
Page 1 of 7
The People's Democratic Republic of Algeria
Ministry of Housing
Le Ministre
No. 09/DC/MH192
Algiers, January 22, 1993
To:
The President
World Bank
Res World Bank project in the housaing sector in Algeria
Dear Mr. President:
Before introducing the various actions undertaken or scheduled for
implementation in the short, medium and long term within the framework of the
Algerian Government's housing sector policy, I should like to respond to certain
of the Bank's queries regarding:
-     the content of the Government's work program, adopted in September
1992, concerning cancellation of the decision in favor of Government
divestiture from the low-cost housing sector;
-     the problems linked to reexamination of the quasi-monopoly held by
CNBP (Caisse Nationale d'Spargne et de Pr6voyance);
I should also like to take this opportunity to emphasize how much I
have appreciated the selfless efforts and continuous availability of the Bank's
experts, in particularly of the head of mission, in expediting preparation of
this project, formalization of which in the very near future will, I hope,
provide appreciable support for the effective recovery of our housing programs,
and for the study and institution of key reforms within the housing sector.
1.          First of all, as regards the question of cancellation of the decision
on Government divestiture, I feel it useful to point out that the Algerian
Government held a quasi-monopolistic role in the supply of housing and of
building sites, particularly in urban areas, up until 1989.
The most notable results of this situation were:
-    government management of urban development sites;



Annex 1
Page 2 of 7
full-fledged Government financing for most of the site development
and infrastructure works;
-     across-the-board support for building materials prices;
-    highly attractive Treasury financing for housing programs undertaken
by the public agencies (OPGIs);
-    across-the-board rent and transfer price support for all households.
Government intervention also extended to assistance to the housing
sector through the grant of subsidies for operations initiated within the
framework of real estate development and self-help construction, and transfers
of public land on attractive terms for the construction of all types of housing.
The Government suddenly divested itself of all responsibility for the
financing of low-cost housing, so that the only ongoing programs financed by the
Government are those adopted on December 31, 1989. This sudden decision on the
part of the Government to disengage from the housing sector, without making even
minimal arrangements for a takeover by new institutions or for new financing
mechanisms, has had serious consequences at the economic and social levels, with
a sharp drop in housing starts and deliveries, a slump in the contracting
business, loss of jobs, etc.
It thus became apparent that Government intervention in the housing
area was vital for the country, until such time as the institutions and facilities
needed to replace it as a supplier of housing could be put in place.   This
decision to halt the process of Government divestiture from the housing sector can
only be explained in this way, and has no implications for the series of reforms
already under way in the sector, which will be continued.
This position is clearly affirmed in the 09/10/92 document
establishing the Government's work program, which states: "It is the Government's
responsibility to create the necessary conditions to ensure, in addition to its
own efforts (which should be seen as specifically targeting the poorest of the
poor...),  that projects of self-help builders  and developers  can develop
efficiently and on terms eliminating all forms of speculation."
2.          As to the question of reexamining CNEP's quasi-monopoly, I have
resolved, together with my colleague, the Minister-Delegate to the Treasury, that
action needs to be taken on this matter as quickly as possible. A task force has
now been set up for this purpose, composed of Ministry of Housing and Ministry
of the Treasury representatives and world Bank experts.
This task force has held many meetings at which it has studied and
defined the terms of reference for the large-scale efforts involved in the
reforms affecting CNIEPIs articles of agreement, the savings and loan system, and
Government assistance to the housing sector. Thanks to the work of this task
force, the World Bank experts were able or. December 13, 1992 to finalize the
draft action plans for the above-mentioned areas and to propose an implementation
schedule.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 7
The in-depth discussions between your representatives and those of
the Algerian authorities concerned, specifically the ministry of Housing and the
Treasury, resulted in complete unanimity of outlook on the substance of this
negotiation, to which we attach particular importance.
Thus, where these matters are concerned, we are convinced that the
findings of the CNEP audit will highlight the measures to be taken by adhering
to a realistic implementation schedule which take account of our constraints and
weakness.
The initial implementing stages of this timing, which will coincide
with the period of preparation of the 1992 finance law, will enable us to include
in the law the initial measures related to the reforms.
Following the above discussion of certain key preliminary issues, I
should like to specify the main thrusts of our short, medium and long term sector
policy as follows:
A.          HODSSNG DBM
In this area, the action programs focus mainly on:
1.          CREATION OF A MORTGAGE MARKET AND DEVELOPMENT OF OWNERSHIP RIGHTS
THROUGH:
-     Regularization  of occupancy  rights  to  land or housing stock
transferred by the Government, and clarification of the rules
governing co-ownership rights.
-    Acceleration of the process of sale of transferable public real
estate through continued upward adjustment of prices and institution
of appropriate transfer procedures.
-     Facilitation of land transactions through reactivation of the local
land agencies (AFLs), clarification of the sale process for urban
development sites belonging to the Government, and development of
the land registry.
-    Development of the public and private rental market through a
revision of the existing law on real estate development, institution
of new regulations governing owner-tenant relations, and a gradual
increase in rents to equilibrium level;
-     In the long term, development of appropriate financial institutions
through the restructuring of CNEP and overhaul of the role of
commercial banks in the area of housing financing, as well as that
of Caisse Nationale du Logement (COL).
Good progress is already being made with some of the actions designed
to achieve the above results:



Annex I
Page 4 of 7
*     The draft law (legislative decree) that will constitute the new
operating framework for real estate development and govern owner-
tenant relations is in process of being approved.
*     In the field, action is under way to provide practical support for
the rights of real estate owners, through the implementation of
court rulings to expel tenants or occupants having a dispute with
the owners.
*     An arrangement for imposing a tax system favoring the rental of
underused private property has been proposed and adopted within the
framework of the 1993 finance law.
*     The regulations on public real estate rentals were revised in 1989
(Decree 89-98 of June 20, 1989) to introduce an equilibrium-level
rental policy and an income-based rental subsidization system
instead of across-the-board aid for all tenants regardless of
income. The implementing provisions are being prepared and have
taken longer than expected, owing mainly to the complexity of the
procedures to be set up and the launching of programs designed to
achieve financial recovery of the OPGIs. These programs have been
in progress since July 1992.
A number of major actions have been undertaken in regard to the above
points.
*     Given that ownership rights and lanc: transactions are key aspects of
any housing policy, an annex will be prepared, detailing a number of
developments to present or future housing sector policy.
-    Privatization of the public real estate stock, primarily to favor the
emergence of a real estate market, is well under way.   Out of a
transferable stock of 762,000 units (existing stock and new
deliveries as of March 31, 1992), 346,000 units have been
transferred. This privatization of the public real estate stock will
continue with a new policy governing transfer prices, which have
already undergone two upward revisions since 1990, and suLject to the
new arrangements set forth in the Government's work program in this
area (see pages 24, 25 and 26 of the 09/19/1992 document) and to
provisions governing the non-transferability of the new low-cost
units. These units are intended for households targeted on the basis
of precise criteria - Decree 89-35 of March 21, 1989 governing this
issue is shortly to be revised by the Government to ensure stricter
application of the allocation criteria.
2.          STR8AMLINING OP HOUSING ASSISTANCE
Actions are under way with a view to streamlining housing assistance
and making this process more transparent. The Government is now focusing its
financial assistance on the poorest of households (accession to ownership and
proposed rental subsidies), with the objective of progressively reducing the



Annex 1
Page 5 of 7
general level of implicit and explicit subsidies to the housing sector, taking
the last three years as point of reference to start this reduction.
The CNL was created with a view to improving management of this
assistance, and more particularly to ensuring greater transparency in the use of
funds allocated to public assistance. These provisions represent a break with
the former situation in which assistance was granted across the board.
The assistance mechanism still needs to be upgraded through:
-     financial recovery of the OPGIs, so as to get an idea of the amounts
of subsidies granted to the housing units (rents, transfer prices);
-     revision of the CNL's role,  and assessment of the impact of
subsidization on the Governmeat budget.
The overall objective is:
-     to assess the cost of social policy in the matter of housing and the
different sources of financing (budget, taxes);
-     to devote the different forms of assistance (unit subsidy - income-
based subsidy) to the poorest households. In this context, it is
essential to determine the size of this social group so that a
multiyear assistance program can be established.
D.          HMSIg MWPLY
In this area, the actions to be taken are designed to maximize
housing supply through:
1.          ADAPTATION OF THE LEGAL AMD REGULATORY FRAMEWORK GOVERNING SUPPLY
-     Liberation of real estate development, definition of the role of the
public-sector  actors  in  this  area  (OPGIs,  EPLFs,  private
developers), and opening up of competition in the supply of housing
products.
-     Reduction of excessive costs through an overhaul of the regulations,
whether in the area of technical standards, land use regulations,
general conditions of contract, or certain articles of the code of
public procurement.
-     Lifting of legislative and tax obstacles hampering the placement of
unoccupied units onto the rental market.
-    Opening up of competition among contractors with a view to reaching
least-cost solutions, and gradual streamlining of the construction
industry through the design of programs appropriately sized to
enable small private firms to participate in the competition.



Annex 1
Page 6 of 7
2.          SUPPLY OF SERVICED LOTS
-    A better balance between the respective roles of the public and
private   sectors    (private   operators,   communes,   utility
concessionaires).
-    Adaptation of levels and standards of the infrastructure systems to
ensure that the households can afford them.
-     Stimulation of the land market through adaptation of regulatory and
tax provisions.
In parallel with these actions, steps will be taken to better define
and coordinate the roles and functions of the public land operators, i.e. the
land agencies and the AADLs responsible for land development. Where private
developers are concerned, the 1993 finance law promotes land development through
various tax incentives.
While still looking at the question of land supply, action programs
are planned to promote serviced sites through the development of large numbers
of small building plots affordable by low-income households. Land developers
have been approached to undertake a far-reaching program based on a cross-
subsidization mechanism with recourse to bank credit, designed to minimize
Government financial intervention as much as possible.
C.   P Y              N
From this set of measures and reforms concerning the housing sector
and its related activities, a list of priorities has been drawn up. They are:
1.          A  study of the savings and loan system and a financial and
institutional audit of CUEP with a view to reforming the system and the partial
or entire conversion of CNBP into a fully-fledged bank. With this objective in
mind, a committee will be established (at the latest by November 1993) with the
following goals:
-     completion of the study during the first half of 1994, formulation
of draft wording for the new statutes by end 1994 and, as far as
possible, their passage into law by September 1995. This should
result in the development of competitive systems to finance housing.
To reach a gradual elimination of all disparities, the following
will be necessary:
*     rapid insertion of a clause in new housing loans granted by
CNEP recognizing the principle of interest rate revision; and
*     formulation of a gradual adjustment program for interest rates
on the basis of the study's conclusions, with implementation
of the first decisions during the second half of 1994.



Annex 1
Page 7 of 7
2.          Study of the financial components of the housing sector, including
those related to State subsidies. This study should be organized in two phases,
the first comprising the level of subsidies for inclusion in the 1994 budget, and
the second, the preparation of multiyear subsidy programs taking into account
macroeconomic and budgetary constraints.
3.          The implementation and completion of the program aimed at achieving
financial recovery of the OPGIs, and the preparation of implementing provisions
for full cost recovery of the public rental housing stock during 1994.
4.          Reexamination during 1994 of provisions and criteria currently
regulating State support for housing ownership.
I should like to point out that for certain of the above points, which
represent the basic thrusts of the sector policy, I have not elaborated on a
number of action programs already in progress or in course of preparation. This
was for the sake of brevity, since it was my intention to devote this letter to
presentation of the key points of our sector policy, which is designed to
gradually rehabilitate the housing sector so that it can take its rightful place
within the national economy. The loan from the World Bank will give a definite
boost to our efforts in that direction as well as in the acceleration of ongoing
housing construction programs (imports of construction materials) and in the
pursuit of our reforms (technical assistance).
Very truly yours,
The Minister of Housing
Farouk Tebbal



Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
Positive list of Building Materials, Finishing Products,
eligible to the Project
Strategic Materials
Ciments                              s    Cement
Aciers pour beton                          Steel rods
Bois route de menuiserie                   Red wood
Contre plaqu5                        I    Plywood
Bois blanc                                 White wood
Portes isoplanes                           Flat doors
Materials and Products of Secondary Works (Finishing Products)
Fil et cable 6lectrique                    Electrical cable and wire
Gaine 6lectrique                           Electrical duct
Disioncteurs                               Circuit breakers
Distributeur d'dtage                       Floor Distributor
Distributeur d'appartement                 Apartment Distributor
Minuterie                            :    Timer
Tube cuivre tous diametres                 Universal diameter copper pipe
Tube acier noir                            Black steel pipe
Chauffe-eau                                Water Heater
M6langeurs                                 Mixers
Robinet arrOt eau                          Water Shut off valve
Robinet arr&t gaz                    I    Gas Shut off valve
Accessoire de raccordement (T6,            Connection Accessory (T-shaped rule,
coude, etc.)                               bend, etc.)
Plinthe                                    Baseboard
Carreau faience                            Earthenware tile
Lavabo                                     Sink
Receveur de douche                         Shower receiver
Baignoire                                  Bath tub
Cuvette W.C. (anglaise et turgue)   s    W.C. Tub (English and Turkish)
R6servoir et accessoire chasse d'eau:      Reservoir and lavatory accessories
Evier de cuisine                           Kitchen sink
Siphons                              s    U-bends
Verre plat ordinaire                 I    Ordinary smooth glass
Verre plat martel6                         Planished smooth glass
Verre plat arms    Wired smooth glass
Serrure complete pour porte                Complete door lock system



Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
Cremone complete pour fenOtre             Complete Espagnolette bolt for
window
Serrure portail                     s    Main entrance lock
Serrure placard                     s    Closet lock
Paumelles                           s    Door hinges
Feutre bitum4 d'6tanchelt&                Sealing roofing felt
Paxalumium
Spare parts for Materials and Engines
Pieces pour les engine de           s    Equipment spare parts for steel
fabrication du beton                      manufacturing
Pi&ces pour lea engins de transport a    Spare parts for truck spare parts
Piaces pour les engine de levage    :    Spare parts for fork lift and
et de mise en oeuvre du beton           cement mix truck
Pi&ces pour lea engine de                 Spare parts for stripping machines
terrassement
Petit outillage de chantier pour la a    Small tools for the construction
mise en oeuvre des installations        site of secondary works
des corps d'6tat secondaires



Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
The construction Industry: Profile and Financial Restructuring
1.          The Algerian construction industry is still dominated by publicly-
owned enterprises. There are about 900 public construction enterprises, divided
into 160 national public enterprises (Pis) and 740 local enterprises. The 160 PEs
account for half of the formal construction industry's output and employment.
They employ an average of 1,800 people, which qualifies them as large companies
by international standards. The majority of PEs are vertically integrated and
selectively produce their own inputs (e.g., concrete pipes, cement blocks,
prefabricated components, tiles, aggregates etc..).  This excessive vertical
integration contributes to low capacity utilization, currently well below 50% for
building contractors and producers of materials, lax management practices,
inadequate investment, and poor maintenance. It also contributes to an excess
of manpower, particularly for building contractors where labor costs amount to
over half of turnover. Whereas liquidity constraints affect all PEs, building
contractors and most producers of materials also show persistent losses, negative
equity, and a high debt burden.
2.          National Public Enterprises are being legally,  financially and
industrially restructured, with 70 public contractors now enjoying an autonomous
status. The objective of the ongoing reform is to transform public enterprises
from public administration executing agencies into fully autonomous commercial
entities, ready to compete for public and private contracts in a market-
determined environment. In January 1988, two laws were enacted to define the
framework for transformingi national public enterprises, in all sectors of the
economy, into autonomous public entities (Entreprises Publlques EconomLques,
MPEs), and for entrustinge the relevant shares to the fiduciary management of
eight public holding companies, or Fonds de Partlcipation (FPs).  Sectoral in
nature, a typical FP holds 40% of the shares of most enterprises in its sector
with the remaining shares of each enterprise held by two other FPs specializing
in other sectors.  For example, the construction FP (Fonds de ParticipatLon
Construction, FPC) holds 40% of the shares of the national contractors, and 30%
of the shares of numerous enterprises in other sectors.
3.          The financial restructuring of the construction PEs has recently
shown decisive progress for autonomous as well as for non-autonomous enterprises
and should be completed by the end of 1992. Negative net assets of potentially
viable autonomous contractors, which represented DA 18 billion by the end of
1991, are being wiped out by the conversion of bank and Treasury debt into equity
or quasi-equity and the infusion of liquidity by the Treasury (DA 3.96 billion),
financed from budget surpluses generated for that purpose.   Non-autonomous
construction enterprises ivill be granted DA33.0 billion from the Treasury (30%
for construction enterpribes) for financial restructuring, and DA.. billion of
bank credit in 1992. Enterprises deemed not potentially viable are to be closed,
although no such action has been implemented so far, because of fear of adverse
social consequences in an already high-unemployment situation.
1/ Loi 88-01 du 12 janvier 1988 portant loi d'orientation sur les entreprises
publiques 6conomiques
2/Loi 88-03 du 12 janvier 1988 relative aux fonds de participation



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
4.          Local Public Enterprises (LPEs) have an average of 200 employees, and
account for about 40% of construction employment and 27% of construction industry
output. These enterprises are operating in a local captive market, under the
direct tutelage of local administrations, either from the Wilayas (provinces) or
the municipalities. Their productivity is low, about half of that observed in
PEs, and most of them are managerially and financially unsound. Since 1985, LPEs
have been facing numerous liquidations or mergers, to the point that their
present number is less than half of what existed in 1985. The restructuring
process of the remaining LPEs has also started, albeit at a slower pace than for
PEs.
5.          The Private Sector contributes to about one-fifth of the sector
output, and 15% of the construction employment. Although vastly larger in number
than in the public sector, registered private companies are very small and
operate primarily in the production of private and individual housing. Recently,
however, the private sector has invested significantly in the production of
bricks, ceramic tile, and steel rod. The private sector also includes numerous
informal contractors who are operating exclusively in housing construction.
According to broad estimates, this informal sector has a turnover equivalent to
the formal private sector, and a work force of at least 100,000 workers. Private
formal and informal enterprises have been developing in the few "niches" left
untouched by the overly regulated public environment. Significant private sector
involvement in the construction sector would now depend on progress in reforming
the incentive framework, as well as in restructuring the public construction
sector. of particular importance would be the physical restructuring of large
PEs, since their excessive vertical integration now represses the sub-contracting
activities on which could depend the development of small scale private
enterprises.
6.          Construction Material Production System. The Algerian production of
construction materials is dominated by some 17 PEs covering over 70% of the total
turnover (an estimated DA12.3 billion in 1991). These PEs produce nearly a full
range of products used in construction, with a quasi-monopoly on cement and
special cement, asbestos derivatives, light-weight concrete blocks, concrete
pipes, glass, bitumen, sanitary fittings (ceramic and metal), plastic products
(tubes and joinery), electrical components, and light bulbs.   Local public
enterprises play an important role in the production of basic construction
materials such as sand and gravel, cement block and other cement by-products,
gypsum by-products, bricks, metal, and wood joinery. Private enterprises are
mainly artisanal in nature. Their activity mainly concerns secondary components
such as concrete slabs, lime, small metallic supply, and mastic. Since 1989, they
are more active in the production of bricks (clay and silica), earth blocks,
ceramic tile, aggregates, marble, and stone quarries. The informal sector is
estimated to play only a marginal role in the production process, although it is
active in the distribution of construction materials for the private housing
sector.



Annex 4
Page 1 of 4
Assessment of Inputs for Housing Construction
Imports in the housing sector
1.          In 1990, Algeria imported U$550 million worth of cement, steel and
wood for housing construction purposes.   In global terms inputs for housing
construction include 30% of imports. Algeria has no wood; the steel products it
produces include only a small amount of reinforcing bars for concrete; its annual
cement production does not cover its uses, and it is not yet capable of producing
the finishing products it needs.
2.          Shortage of construction materials is one of the major explanations
of the very lengthy construction process; average completion time is about 5
years, whereas it is lesser than two years in neighboring countries with similar
techniques.
3.          Three types of developers produce the urban housing: a) private
production; it is done by the households that develop their own dwellings (85,000
building permits were delivered in 1991), b) The EPLFs (public developers)
produce housing for sale (ongoing program comprises 52,000 units, and c) OPGIs
produce social housing for rent (ongoing programs comprises 70,000 units and
stock is 350,000 units). The project concentrates on the first two types.
Private housing production
4.          Although private developers do not yet exist in Algeria, private
individual production is quite active. Based on the building permits statistics,
it is estimated that the construction of 300,000 new units was launched during
the period 1989-92. The average size of privately developed units is five times
the size of the publicly developed units. The inputs that the construction of
privately developed housing units need is equivalent to the inputs needed for the
annual construction of 240,000 social housing units. US$500 million worth of
cement, steel and lumber will be imported annually . The loan will concentrate
on strategic products (cement, lumber and steel bars) and alleviate the shortages
by financing US$90 million worth of these materials.
EPLF program
5.          The 23 EPLFs are involved in an ongoing program for the construction
of 52,000 units, 83% being currently less than 50% completed. It is estimated
that, if the shortage of inputs is alleviated, the average completion time will
be reduced from a current 5 years to 3.5 years. The attached schedule is based
on the assumption that completion of structural works will take half the total
completion time and that inputs for structural works as well as for finishing
works will be regularly procured along the corresponding period of the schedule.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 4
Table I: Inputs for the EPLF program
Housing unit equivalent
Year Structural products Finishing products
1993                 12,615                9,276
1994                    983               23,194
1995                      0               12,784
inputs for the EPLF program
6.          Table II indicates the inputs that the loan will finance.  It is
based on the following assumptions:
a)    a typical housing unit built by an EPLF requires the average inputs
shown in the third column;
b)    the loan will finance 30% of cement inputs for this program, which
represent the percentage imported nation wide;
C)    the loan will finance all steel and wood products after june 1993;
d)    the loan will finance 30% of finishing products; and
e)    for the first semester 1993, the loan will only finance the cement
imports due to procurement minimum delays; it is expected that the
program will get its supplies on the regular market.
Table X:s imports financed by the loan
Imports financed
Inputs per housing unit                    by the loan
Quantity per
Items                           Unit   unit                  Total quantity
Cement                             t                15.66             63,883
White wood                        m3                 0.85              9,292
|Red wood                         m3                 0.49             18,516
Plywood                           m3                 0.13              1,133
Steel                              t                 3.41            30,178
Doors                              u                  6             226,723
Other finishing products           u                  1               11,336
I~~~~~~~~3~ . 



Inputs for the EPLF program
lIputs ftin  bed b  tbe loan     quantity
Items                  unit   Jan-Jun 1993   Jul-Dec 1993   Jan-Jun 1994   Jul-Dec 1994   Jan-Jun 1995   Jul-Dec 1995   Total
Cement                 t            22,306          36,957           4.620               0               0               0     63.883
WhIte wood _r3                            0          6,689             836               0               0               0      7.526
Red wood               .3                 0          3,296           5,648           5,717           3,855           2,409     20,925
Pltwod                 .3                 0          1,007             126               0               0               0      1,133
Steel                  t                  0         26,825           3,353               0               0               0     30,178
Doors _u                                  0         40,361          69.154          70,008          47,200          29,500    256.223
Other finish. prod.   u                   0          2,018           3,458           3,500           2,360           1,475     12,811
Localty ffnanced  qinuts        quantity  |                  _                                             _               ____,_-=,
items                 unit   Jan-Jun 1993   Jul-Dec 1993   JanrJun 1994   Jul-Dec 1994   JanJun 1995   Jul-Dec 1995   Total
cement                t            52,046          86,234         10,779               0              0               0       149,059
White wood            .3            4,037               0              0               0              0               0         4.037
Red wood              o3            1,249               0              0               0              0               0         1,249
Plyood                us              608               0              0               0              0               0           608
steel                 t            16,190               0              0               0              0               0        16,190
Doors                 u            15,293               0              0               0              0               0        15,293
Other finish. prod.   u             2,549           4,709          8,068 j         8,168          5,507           3,442        32,441
.       _                  .__              _   _       -      _                                   _.__          __
Proaw iqa                       quantity                    
Items                 unit   Jan-Jun 1993   Jul-Dec 1993   Jan-Jun 1994   Jul-Dec 1994   Jan-Jun 1995   Jut-Oec 1995   Total
Cement                 t           74,352         123,191         15,399               0              0               0       212,942
WHite wood           |3             4.037           6,689            836               0              0               0        11,563
Red wood              o3            1,249           3,296          5,648           5,717          3,855           2.409        22,174                -u
a)
Plywood              I3               608           1,007            126               0              0               0         1,741
Steel                 t            16,190          26,825          3,353               0              0               0        46,369  II
Doors                 u            15,293          40.361         69,154          70,008         47,200          29,500       271.516                0 go
Other finish. prod. | u             2,549           6,727         11,526          11,668          7,867           4,917        45,253  ||



Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
r d d =C -O         
0L          '- E        IA^ B 
I-    tl'C       , s,l
2  L  E    _ _   .  s ii
m   | g 9 $ a o  o  ;* 35- 5
U~ ti^wf    n    
41            ---t



Abwlb
ExpeafndiuAccosats Prjt Cost Summawy
W        Totld
0DA)                      Y(Us$ Minc            pote%n      am"
~~~ci            ..-f td  .-0                To       t!m ___    ost
Lfnotot_Costs
A. Socia Hosing Progm for $al
1. Statei Products
a. Sled                               107.s6     455.34    562.90     489      20.70    2559         810      .0
b.Wood                                  0.0       000        0.00
Whltwood                            452       GM        114.15     27        3.12      49         60.0      1.0
RedWood                              71.44    107.J2     178I76    325       4.88      A.3         s0o0     2
Plvo.d                               5.81       8.42      14.03    0.26       0.38     084         s0o
SubtotlWood                           12256      18428     308.94     W58       838   -13S5          60.0      30
c. Cemnt                              35038      121.94    48032    15.93       5.91    21.83        27.0      80
Subtota Srec Prodcts                    50O        76956    1,350.16    2        34 St     37          370      14D
2. Fbini     Produ                        0.00      o00        o0.
a. ,On-bb_*abucu                      171J8     28854      437.40    7.81      12.07    19.8         61.0      40
b.Doors                                9756      14627     24363      4.43      655     11.7         600       2.0
e. FWsI  po*acb                     4,14496   t,411.88   555M3   188.1         64.18   2-2.58        25.0     so
Subtot FInslbdnProhet                 4.414.18    1,69    6,237.87  W200.8       82a0   28354          29D.    63.0
& Spr.asts                              131.75     218.44    350.19     59        9.93    15.52        62.0      4.0
SubtaSodalHosProram frSal.               5.12653    2,81159    7,22   23302    1270   360.83             35.0    80
S.Privafte ho Prgm                          0.00       0.00      000
1. Stategic Prod                         OD         0Q00      O,D
a.Stel                                 81.04     34307     424.11     35       15.59    1928         81,0      4D
b Wood                                  0.00      0.00       O0m
Whbwood                             127.13     19009     318.12    5.78       8A8    14.46         60.0      30
RedWood                             224AS     33720      5S516     10.20     15.33    25.53        600       60
PlWood                               3At    5 t2           .53      0.15     023   039             60.0       -
SubtWood                              35499      533.32     6830    1.         2424    40.38         60.0      90
c. Cement                             133.80     388.4 0 50220        80       18.75    22.83        73.0      5.0
Subt l S      btatec Produt             569.2    t244.79    1.814J1    2590      S658   -82.48         690      18.0
C.TechncaAssitance                          0.00       0.00      0.00
I.Consuftmrts&Avtor                       0.78      9633      97.11    O4        438      4.41        99.0      10
2.EWpnwt&SdMmMmibs                        1.10       5.17      627      0D5       024      028         83.0        -
3. Ur _ommld                              0.00      652        652      000       030      030        100.0        -
Sublotd TacuicalAsstnce         1,8           7      108.13     110.00     0        4.91     5.00       6980       1.0
TolBASEUNECOSTS                            s,es22    4.1t451    9,882.e3   W-2,      1890    4tS31          42A    tOO                       t
Physa Con _Menoe                          56SS       363.0     94026    2529       17AS    42.74         41.0    10.0
PdoCo ^egn_                              1.88929     171.10   2.07039    so=        7.78    94.11         80      210 n
Totl PROJECT COSTS                         8,15396   4,71951   12,873A9   3704    21452    S.Wi             37.0   131. 0                       M
e ACsx
Un v
_euf"APtAtftloCos  mr



Houksin Comgtiodo ood $10tar OovdapMu
eAeuturl, ACuNcoildW
H      Coot.
Pise     fits
Be" Coot                   Phadod caoou'ds C_                                                Told kw. Co.           Coot     Pie.
Load    Dud"                   Load    ou"                     Low    Dudes                    Load    Dud"             a  0n  Cm an
For.   Ca.       a             SW.    CaK.       a             pot. saucs.      a        *            4.        a             Bose   Phydod
fc      a.., T   TL  TTMosl                            TOWt -     ch , JWO       Laxe J 3td _         Tel Tte  h   .  Td   CTas         Coot.
L lowosoust Cott
A. Soede H _Pp 1u 
S. Stee                        20.      0.6      4.4   26.6    2.1        *      04     2.0             0.1     0.1    0.7   23.2       0.6     4.9   28.0   20.2        2.6
h. Wood
Wo*oewod                      3.1      0.7     1.4    6.2    0.3      0.1      0.1    0.5    0.1      O.J        *    0.3    3.6      0.9     1.6    0.0    64         0.6
fied Wood                     4.9      1.1     2.2    8.t    0.6      0.1      0.2    0.0    0.3      0.6     0.2    1.0    6.6       1.8     2.0   10.0    9.1        '0
Plywood                       0.4     O.       0.2    0.6           *            -    0.1                                    O 0A4    0.1     0.2    O.7    0.7        0.1
Sulatol Wood                    OA       1.0     3.7   14.0    0.0      0.2      OA     1.4    0.3      0.7     0.2    1.3    9.6       2.8     4.3   16.7   16.1       16
a. Ceasd                        6.9    13.6      2.4   21.8    0.        j .4    0.2    2.2    0,1      2.               .       .     17.6     9.  LA !.3   LJi
_O*IOI.)S_O#OO)OP_OieS           28.360    6.     10.6   61.4    36        1.     1O      8.1    10       3.4     04      4.7   39.4    20.9    11.0   72.2   66.7         0.0
2Lflrdsoa P _ct
*.On.       nlrr4toommxo       12.1     4.6      3.0  19.9    1.2    O          OS     2.0    0.3      0.0     0.1    1.1   1l 6.1             3.3   23.0   20.9        2.1
b.tOW                           6.0      1.6     2.8   11.1   0O          . 0.1   3     1.1    04       0.      0.3    1.4    7.7       2.6     3.6   13      12.4       1.2
a. FiSbd*c prodl                4.2   13o.9    61.6  262.0    SA       13.7      6.1   26.3    3.4    72.7      2.3   7A    74.0 _223A  6B0. ...     323.9              32.4
60*UdN ft P8Iu                   02.9   143.2    67A   283.6    0.3    14.3        6.7   20A     4.1    74A      2.    81.0   96.2    231.6   $0.7  892.9  367.2          36.7
3. _P.                          _          I A     4.    16..                                                                    9.9      LB      4.6   16.9   t6.9
B0d*oloodHolsahI t-Fow  fawds    127.0   160.7    723   300.8   11.0    16.0         GA    34.     6.0    77.7      3.0   663   144.    264.3    02.1  481.1  438.0         42.3
1. staraPI  I
L.ObW                          16.0     0.4      3.3   10.3    1.6               0.3    1.9    0.6      0.1     0.1    0.8   17.7    O         3.0   22.0   20A         2.0
h WoodI
Wid. wood                     8.7      1.0     3.8   14.6    0.8      0.2      OA     IA      0. .4           0.3    1.9   10.0       3.1     4.6   173    10.1        1.8
Red Wood                     16.3     3A       6.0   26.6    1.6      0.3      0.7    2.     0.9      2.1     0.7    3.7   17.8       6.9     0.1   31.    20.9        2.9
Plywood                       0.2     0.1      0.1        0     .OA.                                                          0.3     a.1 .4 .          E.O.O
eod Wood                       24.2     4A    10.7   40.4    2A         0.6      1.1    4.0    1i       3.1     1.0    6.6   28.1       9.1    12.9   49.0   "4A         4.6
c. C_msed                      IS.7      2.1     4.0   22.8    t.7      0.2      0.4    2.3    0.       1.0     0.3    2.1   1933 .3            4.   2J.2   24J. _       2.A
Sd_odBuwo pu                     60.6      7.9    10.0   82.6    8.       0.0      1.0    8.2    2.8      4.2     IA  8.4    6.0    12.9    21.2   99.1   90.1             9.0
C. Todujo Aug8.
1.Coma&Admu                       4A        *        .    4A                *       .       *      .        *               *    4.4            *        4.4    44
2. qdpeno & So dwmaLotwdd         0.2       *             0.3       *       .       .       .      .        *       *       *    0.2                     0.3    0.3
3. ** O.S.           _0.3                                0.3.                                                                   0.3                     0.3    0.3
B8d    Teddd Asolsluw               4.0     0.1             6.0                                      *49                                                   6.0    6.0
Told                                 169.    1680     00A   440.3   17A       18.7     S.6   42.7    7.8    02.0       4.3   04.1  214.6   207.3   1033  686.2  633.9          61.3
to
N9 3
'3
0 a
.h x
2-1 0_edta ACotw Oreddown



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"                               w    I" am        t
TakdT t. _dW   tm    a                                                                                                    a     a
Lboaf~~~~~t""Wt   , _ s7__t_th
00_6m
__o'WOWWWA  V.OtIff                                                          OU1,                                                                                              An.W tB   _a "  tt"  _A zO  V 
dn1l_"         l          F         t         l         i        *          3.11  * 90"0    l SGA            *          O    1  
___,lfltiSfOlmto tf>    
,C__       wwxaA4                                         0                    704        610                                  120          NA            A            IS        2        " a          " A         A
C"_*S                              Xtl.tf =1 eAA                                                                          IA.$                                             VAelOM    I"    4" O   fOXM* t
com                                               I"RAM     *       *  t1S.tJ02t,t71                                                                    *             .to27      J        GASe  170 t7      tTt  |i84" tla
_e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INM                     aAldlc .<S46  am  O  74"                        WAA                                              SPUS   ontOOM   OO tum e
lc4z~~~~~~~q   4wt"   *!111  .  st  4eff Ut tQtn t 7" *3 i_ tDo eDo 2^^ tLo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~02,46                      WA       VDVn    14)"I st               e    1
-t^=g7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.11,3                     0                  SWA         t7a21f            0           0      IItI         "CM         X "am        so"        SAPA      "hain tt o iOt"     tas
___rZ   ff7.   0  *7  e  CO  t: OV7t.tS xtoSo tto et tJSs7 te7 zst40 teo *7.4 *7 tS~~~~~~71= 12                          2CAN                                "    a"OA   n
_o -   _ _    st.77a7t   s"Sc2    7tab1               u        oT*e*s   I oAgt-tZ   stt7t2.9    XO.tOt    7   S             t4tKO          Xe        : ns"I  "Afta  SAOS
la sow a                 -lj                           75MP                           SMS                ns                AMASS        4,011.7,4    l ?        SAA          OAfttO   SX"    OA. t"A ttn  SStn
amwf Id_* tsom  t                         OA4X            _           .SA                 SOASI-                         a7 oISzzA         U            tJONe  SAWA27    "AYA23   MO *                 . SA  .s     IA,
___0:4 amTo A* te7 7U   DJOWs2154   1I404                                                t         .     7 t 1= 1                 t               te       o                            S0  7"  2       J   "    "A
t*AcWO"                                                                                                                   -g*._u 2s nm   7t satStJUan t0 s t E 07. 3
t_w_d*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SISAI                 &76 7 X m             tO t4te nte UWA                                   t"IA                                               612   X         *A DO 2  v 
__^_t                            z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0Af  7JI00fin    tU700 "7  ftt             0011"       *cot              t      ro72        uSUAn        Q6":2S    tt.43 f#"    va                 PA "
C.T A_ la                                1A j_t                      a      QJ7            mi          L                       46H         MS            A         t6m         4;W        " 4               
tat>  odubAt                             teM"        O4*V    *11JI           tAOA        tAe%    *011            oA*l        $?AMA          1,A         0332        *2,13       *OS       ee   a"      **    oo   aS
_ _ _                           *tt^Se            o           o     4.4#A0       4,4t~~~~~tAO20  0  0                 *,4tW JKOM *Az  #AftU                     Op    SA.A             04
--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4A                                     a  * OA             MA                           0       GOA         OIA2    = g  _            S         aloeo  MA  oe        eoA
OSANG      0       44SA06         O"~~~~tS 
&VA~z o Oblanw                                                                                                                                                                                 tDs   WD      tsA  AA  A0    ACN1  `
Godm    SA"                                 64A                      4"SOAN                           OA    91     6.



L  cam ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~     ash mdBu  Oeqw
1. I. qua   abdp0e
1. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~00
ftd Od SMADW 04                0            0             0             0~~~~bmiwe b  ted.
SW IAW J* so                 lumve          vnmst~1~ Wod 4d                                            Te ee.wee
b.ft~ -
ft'..~                                               n*_oswe  0                                               n *_K0 
A.OSd. be         fd   d
Steel fla et eeee9  2                                0            0             0             0      10,4223               0                    1.02.2
8am' Ida. Mv 121             ...J~~~~Idf      ..L    f.........L          1. 1467 22        1710          425.24^09
WWWWAadIeeeeSIMIMM                          0t                    0             0             0         2.t48              0              0 t        4.40W
8awedetwedfa24w 0.205                                          2.019                     22"80.227       2.5           2ip4g2              0         124
aed weed Ida. Mt 001                           01620       901920 P                  1.210.742          7A60
4. WISa weed ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~0                           1%26M           %    7ma0                                    G7
-t$_                             tX"tX9-       1,72l,Zt13.M2        0      1%504ill      -%42m            42,                 O     t45t7
Do" cm    emam ox                                    0             0            0             0        .740s                0             0       2S070.l0
WIabSe weed (de  0110                                                                     t1.2t          13S                                            U
Salem' Wok, (tee-S5t                          20200          250.090            0       2.210.707      S2.400.21      190.423             0       3.52t.114
Dbtomit_t *                                                                 tI[t.MeA                                               0t7    2     _t1 4.784.47
edN      #_ e                                                 9010 0                          0                             0             0       2.1101
Ceweebt la ommia                                                                                      e.so.....uu
Sadlet Cemeal                                 6 2                               0 ..91flZJD3.J..7wt   lA.tOIl 43.Stl
0 t M oSSA*ie/ 93.                                           .2.                0      2?, t 20*30                   o,010.M            ML          5
Sdo  od  FLkv  O                                            3O o  _    2.71"            6.M.7"                       1.WlaS
S_C 6.l.24-M                        tt   1 1"  0 --    .                                       1           ^           7          4          a
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4." s_ 2t.,tB3 thtt t 30.t4t
2. h0*eS
Mve _hS                                      1X2.520.20           0             0      u.m.uo,        0.70.70               0             0       2.1070l
SO"mee*  Oaaa4 Oj                                                 0              7St 0 0 a   17..j.".a 4.E"1
_      0ai  a. *e_ar                           1t,2.5023            0             0      123,320        9.5.2                0              0          B.9.2
De, IlUaaeaeSm 01                                    0            0             0             0       1, 22,17S            4              0       1.l223170
Dem0                                         2n.50          72A         4,11t,0S0      0.8.          2.7127           7.t2i9      3.417.02        .72143
_epa,aealat_A*39a                                    0            0             0             0       I0.0.162             0              0 4.195."51
_ tAea    em0                                                                   0             0      104ooz0              0              0      10.457*2
Mvtd de .q 3                                  1 452.2      07.012.906    21.277,*0    t90.004.7d9     0007.407      25.4)7.24     15.27.420      *7.5401
Deed.dw             _0 0    m                                          ..      7               J.      L           1I7,07o4S       7i4t7 7o      0-      L
_              tmdide fidawS.203                              2322.001   20.480.716       00.4t0.057     0.42.902    142.105.54       0563.10       20.41.9
2. VAin.a O'wD                                                                               S0 
&aS w-"           al_'  1.0PA                                   .1                 0      ^S1n         .a4too_ L450t_                        0                                    202
_ t _            _bar edigUlum  au                 04522t       40.212.01     27.112.73t    ta.00.0       102.00.22      1 t.0.2        07.1e12.21      10,56.511
so   dm                                      1410             701               0     17.572.317      2,5            a.7.0                0      4 2 S4
dt       @     "                               Slt,9.4        20.907            0        261711         161.00         2,7                0        104.005
led          :l weed Id..1182                   1.12       100012tt    7*4.00         t7,02.9          WQQOt0        7.457.702     5.8ttt1       14.02620
a. ,OMeaI                                                  172.940              0     tAO                 J062       725166
SdwhS_ee_* Uode                                  15.40.5      40.720.831     0.220.22      00000          0.135.470     2127.211t3     7.090.-    21.12.2
C. T.eddAdem
to*lb                                            *74000             0           0           0C7.000            0              0             0             4
a.TAtfWtfl                                       485.000            0             0        419.000             0              0             0             0                      
d.IwileeaNaeb                                   1.050.00            0             0       1.0600 0o                          0              0             0O0
0awedCaee~~~~d.                        t4.4140.          0             0      0.414.000            0                              
t. Iguei  _ae.  _uie                               000                0             0        2B5,0D0             0             0                     0      0
Tee                                                  74.670.10-0    ~ 60.0025   2.3057    2QO,OOOAoO0   109.141.01i4    t7t,64.72         tO.5247       20lS.150,SI3                    0  0
h.  t
4.1 gam IWmebSUb                                                                                                  5U



Housing Compledon and Sector Development
Dbbuments by Gemeetr
(US*)
The Wodd         The
Bank      OGwmment           Tota
Amount        Amount         Anount
1                   0              0              0
2            9,170,760     51,013,487     60,184,24B
3            65,508,430    57,728,327    123,236,757
4            51,967,092    89,240.389    141,207,481
S            37,013,162    82X323,883    119,337,044
6            21,165,519    54.628.609     75,794,128
7            1S,175.O37    SO 223 818     65.398,8SS
Totl          200.000.000    385,158,513    585,158,513
0
0,
0 X
5-1 Disburment by Senmeers                                                          -' x



Ded Procur Sedul
1993                   1994                    19g5
ID  Name                                                          QCr4  Otr  I Qtr2 2 r3 IQTr4 |   rICr Q2 2 tr 3  Qt4  Otr I Qtr2 7 C1r3 1 ar4
1 N     _gocin                                                    lie 1M
_                   _._                                        _                   _                     ..    __           _ _
3 Mmen  In
4 p-               _          _                                    25.*ati,  ___                             .77_
5     S8o      n _ h,p,,,n    2h 8 2012
a   Pmundos_sr,AOJ.                                                 215'  2____
7     PubIoon AvisAO GnaId                                                                    - 
8     Fw a bebn l1stid bd                                                                   1 /                  _
9        Aw1sAOPubaton Av*s A_.
10        Reeiean Offles                      3n 312
-ii        A4uojdanAlSA
NacionsC415 4f1.
12        No   _l              _                                          2  *...._C..                                    _.
13        Fabd_on                                                          5/7 O   7/1
Uirs U                                                      -.                    11      5      _       _,, _ __
1S            Ltamn (1)                                                       a39  7.                        .
-160LMon (2)                                                                    7131 * 815
17           LUran (3)                                                            8131  as                             __
18            lkan  (4)
19 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~a   I     10131111._
'10    Pera ron2dms)                                                                               2/4 II
20    For a baond OW                                                        6fw2t
21        PubiOatfAn AvIsA..                                                                             _ .  ,.
22        Recsep IOtffes                                                     6lm 6128
23    A _ *4 m4
23  AdjudIcation                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~7/14 7114
21831:32ams
0 a
K



Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
XN                                                        I j    1  1   11 0  1  t    ! #
ra   .113 It                                           4I  0
_  I64 p; in A1   4111              -$ d I     IF If.
at



Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
_         - _  .i
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 L                  I If
AI~~~~~~~~ 
lii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
ffi   fi i . St,  .      j m 511.
.    2 0    0'b  0     o |   111  -t[[ l   0i    Is   Is   1  l
l ~I i~ W
, I G:  8 IIKiNI sE  l  8Bg IKI    8B  8 



Dnlded Procurem.' Sdue
1993                  1994                  1995
ID Nawe                                                       Otr4  ItC 1tr w2Qtr3 Qt4    I IQtr2 1 Cltr3 1QX4  Qtr 1Ctr2 1tr3  1r 4
70        Nifiailons hC
71        Ctdde                                                                            42- 622 
721       IJwaismbWsf_oup7m __  
_~~wlo _ol .og                                                                                 1172              __._._.
73           Uwalban                                                                            7/  I 7m 7l
74        Llwahn pott_..                         _._.___                                       712Y 7/27_
75 1      _ whm                                                                                7M  lp71
-61           Ualaapaet                                                                          7/21* 7/2
_ -~  _MhIIPl1ft                   -                           ./                         _ ,____ ......... _ 
77    PubcicAon A*k AO. -.
78    Recepfton Offres                                            3/ ._
3n    40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
79    Jkqudk4J0 n
4M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
80    lJt                                                              1751
.D
4                                                      2/9/9311:32mam
00
-.h K



Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Component
Environmental Aspects.
1.          Mitigation of potential environmental  impacts of this project
involves strengthening the capacity of the GOA to improve its effectiveness in
coordinating and implementing environmental impact assessment and mitigation
actions. The proposed Technical Assistance component of the loan includes the
provision of two long-term assistants. These assistants will be posted to the
Special Projects Unit of the Ministry of Housing and serve to increase technical
capacity within the Ministry and other government agencies, and to coordinate
long-term strategies for natural resource use and environmental management and
planning. These Technical Assistants will focus on two areas: (a) environmental
impact assessment and environmental management issues, and (b) long-term
urban/environmental planning.
Environmental Impact Assessment Specialist.
2.          The ZIA specialist will work with the Ministry of Housing, and other
housing agencies within the Government to carry out environmental impact
assessments of the on-going construction phase, and to propose realistic
mitigation procedures. In addition, the specialist should develop and implement
an ZIA training course at the national and local level.
3.          Initial VIA Activities. The initial activities of the EIA specialist
should focus on assisting the GOA in carrying out an environmental review of the
on-going construction program   The TA should work in collaboration with the
Ministry of Housing, Ministry of Equipment and other agencies.   This review
would allow the Ministry to minimize the negative environmental impacts where
possible.   The cooperation proposed in this review would also serve as a
precursor to long-term coordination of urban planning, environmental impact
assessment and water resource planning between the various national and regional
administrative bodies. Such on-going coordination would greatly assist the
Government of Algeria in promoting sustainable development.   The technical
assistance should include the following elements:
a.    Collecting sand and gravel.  The EIA specialist will review data
collected from OPGI which details the strategy for collecting sand
and gravel, where these resources are collected and the amounts to
be collected at each site.  These data should enable the TA, in
conjunction with the Ministry of Housing and the Department of
Environment of the State Ministry for Research, to assess the
potential for disturbance of environmentally sensitive sites and
propose mitigation techniques.
b.    Converting agricultural land.  The TA will assist the Ministry of
Housing to compile a report which details where agricultural land is
being used in the construction, how much land is being developed,
and whether techniques can be used to minimize the use of productive
land.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
C.   Using Potable Water.  In collaboration with OPGI, the technical
Assistant will coordinate an assessment of the housing units impact
on the demands for potable water resources, waste water systems, and
irrigation water resources. In this assessment, the TA and OPGI
should consider information such as take-off of potable water from
each river, the amount of waste water created, the level of
- treatment necessary, the capacity of existing and planned treatment
facilities, the discharges of waste water into the river system, and
the impact of discharges on overall water quality. This analysis,
should also assess the infrastructure investments required to ensure
adequate capacity at treatment facilities affected by the housing
program.
4.          Short Term Studies.  The TA will develop several short-term studies
during the course of the project. One study will focus on the air pollution
emitted by the cement factors. Currently, such emissions have a negative impact
on both human health and agricultural productivity. The study, should focus on
production efficiencies at the factors and cost-effective strategies for reducing
air pollution.
5.          The TA will develop a short-term study to define the protocols and
procedures for carrying out detailed environmental impact assessments for the
second phase of the construction phase. This phase will entail the construction
of approximately 30,000 housing un'ts.   The TA will prepare the technical
proposal for the ZIA and site analyses, and supervise consultants in carrying out
the work. In addition, the TA will work with the GOA to ensure that the results
of the EIA are implemented in the planning and construction of the housing units.
6.          During the course of the assignment, the TA will evaluate other
short-term research needs and develop the appropriate study protocols and TOR's,
and manage the short-term consultants carrying out those studies.
7.          Lona-Term Environmental Plannina Activities.  The TA will evaluate
the most effective methods for coordinating long-term environmental planning
within the government.   The existing environmental and planning capacity,
especially under the State Secretary of Research and the Ministry of Interior
should be integrated into the planning and impact assessment activities for the
on-going  construction.    In particular,  the  Agence  Nationale  Protection
Environnement (ANPE), Agence Nationale pour l'Am6nagement du Territoire (ANAT),
Centre National d'Etudes et de R6alisations en Urbanisme (CNERU), and Ministry
of Equipment should review the overall planning strategy of the on-going
construction planning and suggest opportunities for minimizing the negative
environmental impacts.   This process should be developed as an on-going
consultative body on environmental, urban planning and water resource planning.
The initial consultations could, however, review the data and analysis proposed
above, and make suggestions for improving the on-going construction andI
recommendations for future construction.
8.          Lecislative Review. Current environmental regulations do adequately
cover many critical issues in Algeria. However, some areas are not sufficiently
covered. For example, the procedures for Environmental Impact Assessment, as
presented in the 1990 Executive Decree (No. 90-78 of 27 February 1990 relative



Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
to the studies of the impact on the environment) and the 1983 Environmental Laws
(Loi no.  83-03)  do not extend to urban  planning or construction.    In
collaboration with the Ministry of Housing and other agencies, the TA will review
the relevant legislation and consider recommendations for strengthening the legal
franework for environmental management.
Urban/Environmental Planning Specialist.
9.          A second Technical Assistant to be assigned to the Special Projects
Unit will focus on urban planning. This TA will review the existing urban plans
relative to the on-going construction, and, in conjunctior. with local and
national agencies, develop cost-effective proposals to enhance the urban
environment. A majority of the housing units will be constructed in existing
cities, or in large "new towns."  These sites will require extensive urban
planning in order to provide for centralized services, such as solid waste
disposal and public transport.  The TA, in conjunction with the Ministry of
Housing will review these plans, with special reference to the opportunities to
adjust existing plans to improve the urban environmental quality for the
inhabitants. Specifically, the TA and Ministry of Housing should work with OPGI
to provide an assessment of the level of central services which will be required
from each site, how such services are to be provided, and the existence of
realistic implementation plans for these services in each commune or Wilaya.
10.         Trainina.  Currently, urban planning associated with the on-going
construction is based with planning units at the Wilaya level. At present only
400 of the 2,000 planning positions at the "Cadres Superior" level are filled.
These cadre are largely recent university graduates with little planning
experience. Consequently, the Urban Planning Specialist will develop a training
program in Urban/Environmental Planning in conjunction with the Ministry of
Housing, Centre National d'Etudes et de Realisations en Urbanisme (CNERU) and the
local Wilaya officials, and implement training courses for these cadres. These
training courses should focus on developing realistic mitigation procedures for
the on-going construction, as well as new planning tools for future construction
and urban planning projects.
11.         EauiDment Sum3ort.  In order to carry out the Terms of Reference
outlined above, the TA will require the use of basic equipment and tools of
environmental analysis and training. These tools include computers, printers,
plotters, aerial and satellite images, survey equipment, and environmental
testing equipment for water and air quality.  The cost of such equipment is
likely to be on the order of US $300,000.



IBRD 24534
HOUSING COMf-lXtk0N
SECtOfta-z DEtOMN |                                                                                                                                                                                 /-  25..rf       -,       -M/ 
--- -- -- -                                                                                                              26'                          ----------- -                            ~   -    -   ~    .  
2                                                                                                       -              Ag    q   >j;sZoM  _   . *-   WloG  \   J-         w                   STo                *   Sli-- --- -
32                       ~~~~3
WILAYA NAMES AND PROJECT LOCATIONS (4)                                                                                                      0   TOWNSANDVIILGESA
PAVED NATIONL ROADS                                                                                     fii        
ADRAR          i         2 EL BAYADN       J '    OUARGLA                                                                                        0   WAWAHERADQUARTES    I
44 AIN DEFLA               3 EL OUED                  4 OUM EL BOUAGHI                                                                                                                                                                  A-0n7f h
AIN TEMOUCHENT            36 EL TARF                 48 RELIZANE                                         PAVED WILAYA ROADS
16 ALGIERS                47 GHARDAIA                70 SAIDA                                                                                       3    NA0 C                                                                             47/ 
23 ANNABA                 21 GUELMA                      SETIF                                                                                                                                                                       /            30
5 BATNA                  3 ILZI                    22 SIDI EEL ABBES                                   RAILROADS
BECHAR                  18 JIJEL                  21 SKIKDA                                                                                                                                                     /37      >A        G       IR-+-AI
6BEJAIA                  4' KHENCHELA               A  SOUK AHRAS                                                                              ---                                                                                                      33
BISKRA                   3 LAGHOUAT                  TAMANGHASSET
9 LIDA                   29 MASCARA                 12 TEBESSA                                          AIRPOR11
I34 BORDJ BOU ARRERIDJ    26 MEDEA                   14 TIARET                                                                                          INTERNATIONALEOUNDARIES                                  2\ 
10 BOUTRA                  '1 MIIA                      TINDOUF                                                                                                                                                             N         \|.
35 BOUMERDES              27 MOSTAGANEM              42 T:PAZA                     Th                                                                                                                                                                         X moP Wod Benhn  ntnfl e  (or th e  '/
2 CHIE                                38 MSL            1SSEMSIL                  Th .ntPheeMj7A   hn,d4        W edonrI fo  e    elon 9h   ol Bon             0           SD           lDD          ISO                          N~
25 CONSTANTINE            A" NAAMA                   15 TIZIOUZOU                              h:undi ofierte7    oCrporo6oho   Th denemine6eoI                                           hGoe en the
DJELfA N31 ORAN                                       TLECIEN                    tnt6reinlPnr.CroooeP3,y                         117'Id    ey                                                                                            *,cm
thrri.ory trony endoremetor C cephtnc    eh on  ori K.-
JANUARY 1993



