                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2490



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                             (IBRD-71190, IDA-42980)

                                       ON A

                                      LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$40 MILLION

                                    AND ON A

                                     CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF XDR 24.9 MILLION
                       (US$77.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA

                                     FOR THE

       ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT (RMRP)


                                December 20, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Timor-Leste, Papua New Guinea & the Pacific Islands
East Asia and Pacific Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                  (Exchange Rate Effective, November 15, 2012)

                 Currency Unit = Papua New Guinea Kina (PGK)
                           PGK 2.06 = US$1.00
                            US$1.00 = PGK 0.47

                               FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 to December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

  AGO    Attorney General’s Office
AusAID   Australian Agency for International Development
  AWP    Annual Work Plan
 BIBMS   Bridge Inventory and Bridge Management Systems
  BMS    Bridge Management System
  BOQ    Bill of Quantities
  CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
 CSTB    Central Supply and Tenders Board
  DoW    Department of Works
 EMMP    Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan
  EPM    Employer’s Project Manager
  ERR    Economic Rate of Return
 GoPNG   Government of Papua New Guinea
   ICR   Implementation Completion and Results Report
   ISR   Implementation Status and Results Report
  MTR    Mid-Term Review
  NCB    National Competitive Bidding
  NEC    National Executive Council
  NPV    Net Present Value
  NRA    National Roads Authority
  OEC    Office of Environment and Conservation
  OED    Operations Evaluation Department
  PAD    Project Appraisal Document
  PDO    Project Development Objective
 PEPM    Provincial Employer’s Project Manager
  PGK    Papua New Guinea Kina
  PNG    Papua New Guinea
PNGSDP   Papua New Guinea Sustainable Development Program
  PWM    Provincial Works Manager
  QAG    Quality Assurance Group
 RAMS    Road Asset Management System
 RMRP    Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
  SEA    Sectoral Environmental Assessment
   SIS   Socio-Economic Impact Study
  USD    United States Dollars
  VAT    Value-Added Tax


                                       i
           Vice President: Pamela Cox
         Country Director: Ulrich Zachau
          Sector Manager: Michel Kerf
Project/ICR Team Leader: Jim Reichert
    ICR Principal Author: Scott Wilkinson




                         ii
                        INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA

                       Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (RMRP)


Datasheet ............................................................................................................................ iv

1. Project Context, Development Objectives And Design .................................................. 1

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation And Outcomes ................................................. 7

3. Assessment Of Outcomes ............................................................................................. 14

4. Assessment Of Risk To Development Outcome .......................................................... 20

5. Assessment Of Bank And Borrower Performance ....................................................... 21

6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 23

Annex 1: Project Costs And Financing ............................................................................. 28

Annex 2: Outputs By Component ..................................................................................... 31

Annex 3: Economic And Financial Analysis .................................................................... 36

Annex 4: Bank Lending And Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............... 38

Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 40

Annex 6: Summary Of Borrower's Icr And/Or Comments On Draft ICR ....................... 50

Annex 7: List Of Supporting Documents ......................................................................... 65

Map ................................................................................................................................... 66




                                                                   iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Road Maintenance and
Country:                Papua New Guinea         Project Name:
                                                                           Rehabilitation Project
                                                                           IBRD-71190,IDA-
Project ID:             P004397                  L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                           42980
ICR Date:               12/23/2012               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           THE INDEPENDENT
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           STATE OF PNG
Original Total
                        USD 40.00M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 77.52M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 76.26M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Department of Works
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 AusAID
 Papua New Guinea Sustainable Development Program Ltd
 Government of Papua New Guinea
 Provincial Governments - Papua New Guinea
 New Britain Palm Oil Ltd (NBPOL)

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/20/1995     Effectiveness:              02/07/2003        02/07/2003
                                                                                   07/03/2007
Appraisal:            05/02/2001     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                   12/15/2011
Approval:             06/06/2002     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                    12/31/2006        06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory       Implementing        Satisfactory


                                                iv
                                                     Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                                Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       11                  11
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                                80                  80
Sub-national government administration                                   9                      9


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                                        24                  24
Infrastructure services for private sector development                  25                  25
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                              13                  13
Participation and civic engagement                                      13                  13
Rural services and infrastructure                                       25                  25

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Pamela Cox                           Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:            Ulrich Zachau                        Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:              Michel Kerf                          Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project Team Leader:         James A. Reichert                    Hatim M. Hajj
ICR Team Leader:             James A. Reichert
ICR Primary Author:          Scott Jared Wilkinson




                                                 v
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To promote an efficient, safe and reliable roads transport system in the participating
provinces through: (a) the improvement of selected road segments; b) strengthening
strategic planning and management of the road sector, and (c) strengthening the
institutional arrangements for road maintenance, and (d) including private sector
participation.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not Applicable.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval          Target        Completion or
                                                documents)           Values        Target Years
                  Percentage of national roads in good or fair condition based on RAMS condition
Indicator 1 :
                  survey is sustainably maintained each year through 2009.
Value
quantitative or   20%                      70%                                 74%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/10/2002                12/31/2006                        06/30/2012
Comments          GoPNG was keen to improve road conditions so made this a priority and
(incl. %          coordinated with the funding agencies to provide needed funds for road
achievement)      maintenance.
                  Between 2002 and 2009, reduction by 20% of the percentage of households in
Indicator 2 :
                  sample villages with household income under K100/month by 2009.
Value
quantitative or 25%                        5%                                  5.5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/10/2002                   12/31/2006                          06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        This target was marginally achieved.
achievement)
                Between 2002 and 2009, reduction by 30% in percentage of students in sample
Indicator 3 : villages who report having to spend more than one hour travel time to get to
                nearest primary school each day.
Value
quantitative or 35%                        10%                                 18.8%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/10/2002                   12/31/2006                          06/30/2012
Comments
                This target was met based largely on students traveling to schools that were
(incl. %
                located along the roads that were improved.
achievement)
                Between 2002 and 2009, overall reduction of 30% in percentage of respondents
Indicator 4 :
                in sample villages who report travel time to nearest health facility of one hour or


                                                 vi
                  more.
Value
quantitative or   40%                        10%                                 37.5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/10/2002                 12/31/2006                          06/30/2012
Comments
                  This target was met based largely on patients traveling to clinics that were
(incl. %
                  located along the roads that were improved.
achievement)
                  RAMS generated program budget for periodic maintenance on national roads
Indicator 5 :
                  increases by 30% by 2009.
Value
quantitative or   70%                        100%                                55%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/10/2002                 12/31/2006                          06/30/2012
Comments
                  While GoPNG accepted and implemented the RAMS as a management tool,
(incl. %
                  funding was too low to make it fully operational.
achievement)
                  Percentage of DoW budget on maintenance and preservation in the participating
Indicator 6 :
                  provinces is maintained.
Value
quantitative or   30%                        95%                                 55%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/10/2002                 12/31/2006                          06/30/2012
Comments
                  This target was not achieved because scarce financial resources were utilized for
(incl. %
                  emergency purposes i.e., bridge and road washouts and landslips, etc.
achievement)
                  Percentage of program budget for routine maintenance of national roads based on
Indicator 7 :
                  acceptable maintenance management system increases to 75% by 2009.
Value
quantitative or   10%                        75%                                 67%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/10/2002                 12/31/2006                          06/30/2012
Comments
                  Although the target was not met, it is a big improvement as funding for routine
(incl. %
                  road maintenance is chronically underfunded.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Percent of maintenance expenditure bid competitively.
Value
quantitative or   40%                        100%                                90%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/10/2002                 12/31/2006                           06/30/2012
Comments          The ten percent shortfall can be attributed to the single force account contract on
(incl. %          Manus Island, and a couple of sole source contracts. Otherwise, a big
achievement)      improvement.
Indicator 9 :     Number of provinces that submit annual work programs in each year.
Value
quantitative or   50%                        100%                                100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/10/2002                 12/31/2006                          06/30/2012


                                                  vii
Comments
(incl. %          Provinces were trained to submit annual work programs and all subsequently did.
achievement)
                  Number of provinces that submit management claims in a timely and accurate
Indicator 10 :
                  way.
Value
quantitative or n/a                        100%                               100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/10/2002                   12/31/2006                         06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Provinces were trained to submit management claims and subsequently did so.
achievement)
                Percent of maintenance expenditure bid competitively in the project provinces is
Indicator 11 :
                increased over time.
Value
quantitative or 40%                        95%                                95%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/10/2002                   12/31/2006                         06/30/2012
Comments
                The target was achieved with increased number of maintenance contractors
(incl. %
                trained under the project.
achievement)
                Dow's policy to combat the spread of HIV/AIDS is included in all major
                contracts by 2009, as measured by the inclusion of either FIDIC Technical
Indicator 12 :
                Specifications on HIV/AIDS, or the Bank's performance based contracts by
                2009.
Value
quantitative or 0%                         100%                               100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/10/2002                   12/31/2006                         06/30/2012
Comments
                The target was met after special provisions were included in the standard bidding
(incl. %
                documents for works under the project.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                  approval                         Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                 documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Total kilometers of national roads with restoration/specific maintenance.
Value
(quantitative     0                          640                                600
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/10/2002                12/31/2006                           06/30/2012
Comments          The target was not achieved because: (i) construction costs increased after the
(incl. %          LNG project began; and (ii) more gravel roads were upgraded to seal than
achievement)      originally planned.
Indicator 2 :     Total kilometers of provincial roads with restoration/specific maintenance.



                                                   viii
Value
(quantitative     0                          220                                  174
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/10/2002                 12/31/2006                           06/30/2012
Comments
                  Provincial governments were keen to restore roads, but their budgets were very
(incl. %
                  tight, which limited the amount of kms that could be rehabilitated.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Maintenance/rehabilitation of national bridges.
Value
(quantitative     0                          65                                   46
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     05/10/2002                 12/31/2006                           06/30/2012
Comments
                  A lack of qualified bridge contractors limited the ability to restore bridges
(incl. %
                  throughout the country.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                       Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                            IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                   (USD millions)
  1     12/26/2002           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     05/06/2003           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      0.40
  3     10/17/2003           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      0.42
  4     05/28/2004           Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory                     0.43
  5     12/08/2004           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      0.55
  6     06/20/2005           Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory               3.66
                              Moderately                     Moderately
  7     06/30/2005                                                                                3.66
                            Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                              Moderately
  8     01/06/2006                                      Moderately Satisfactory                12.33
                            Unsatisfactory
 9      11/02/2006           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                       24.39
 10     04/26/2007           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                       30.82
 11     05/28/2008       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                33.77
 12     04/19/2009           Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory                43.48
 13     07/31/2009           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                       46.85
 14     01/10/2011           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                       61.99
 15     12/25/2011           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                       72.86
 16     07/25/2012           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                       77.52


H. Restructuring (if any)

Restructuring          Board       ISR Ratings at  Amount              Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)            Approved     Restructuring Disbursed at             Key Changes Made




                                                   ix
               PDO Change             Restructuring
                            DO   IP      in USD
                                        millions
                                                      Additional Financing through
  07/03/2007       N        S    S         32.33
                                                      an IDA Credit of 24.90 SDR
                                                      The reasons for restructuring
                                                      were limited to the extension of
                                                      the project closing date from
                                                      December 31, 2011 to June 30,
  12/15/2011                S    S         72.05
                                                      2012 and reallocation of
                                                      remaining funds
                                                      among existing project
                                                      categories.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Strategic Context. At the time of preparation of the Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Project (RMRP), Papua New Guinea (PNG) was ranked as a middle income
country in terms of GNP per capita (~US$1,000/capita per annum). However, it has a dualistic
economy dominated by the enclave capital intensive resource sectors, while 85 percent of the
population subsists on subsistence agriculture and fishing. Following a severe financial crisis in
1994, driven by fluctuations in primary exports, an Economic Recovery Program was put in place
with support from the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Through the late 1990s
and early 2000s, substantial economic progress was made, but basic social and service delivery
indicators continued to lag. The gains of the commodity-led recovery were not converted into
positive development outcomes for the country’s predominantly rural population.

2.      Transport infrastructure underpins the efficient flow of production inputs and goods and
ensures access to health, education and other basic services and means of livelihoods for both
rural and urban communities. The provision and maintenance of transport infrastructure in PNG
are complicated and expensive due to the country’s rugged mountainous topography, unstable
geology, high torrential rainfall, wide dispersal of population centers, unconnected modal and
road networks, and fragmented and duplicative administrative systems.

3.       There are around 30,000 km of roads in the country. The central government
(Department of Works) is responsible for the national roads network (around 9,600 kms), while
19 provincial and 86 local government levels are responsible for the remainder of the network.
Through the late 1980s and 1990s, central funding for provincial and local government services
fell from 30 percent of the national budget to 20 percent as service delivery responsibilities were
increasingly decentralized. At the central government level, budget priorities were skewed in
favor of the construction of new roads and the central Department of Works’ (DoW’s) annual
budget for road maintenance and restoration was only 20 percent of calculated needs. The
condition of the road network rapidly deteriorated: much of the paved network was potholed and
in sections reverted to gravel and the condition of the unpaved network was rough to impassable.
As a result, travel times and operating costs increased and local communities were increasingly
isolated.

4.      The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in place at the time the Project was prepared and
appraised had the overarching goal of supporting poverty reduction through improved governance
and focusing development on delivery of basic services assistance to the poorest and most
vulnerable, particularly in rural areas. The Bank's assistance strategy ranged from
macroeconomic and structural reforms, donor co-ordination and partnerships with non-
governmental organizations to a lending program aimed at improving private sector activity,
public sector reform, and general service delivery. The Project specifically supported the CAS
objective to “improve the quality and reliability of the country's infrastructure, particularly the
provincial and rural road network, to allow for more cost-effective movement of goods and
services and promote economic development in rural areas". It was also consistent with the
Government of Papua New Guinea’s (GoPNG’s) Medium-Term Development Strategy, 1997-
2002 that recommended improved quality of local services and devolution of responsibilities and
resources to lower tiers of government for more efficient and accountable service delivery.



                                                 1
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators

5.       The original project development objective (PDO) was “to promote an efficient, safe and
reliable roads transport system in the participating provinces. Specifically, the PDO would be
achieved through: (a) the improvement of selected road segments; (b) strengthening strategic
planning and management of the road sector; (c) strengthening the institutional arrangements for
road maintenance and (d) including private sector participation.?

6.      This was elaborated as key objectives with associated performance indicators as follows:
            a. Restore satisfactory physical condition and safety to parts of the network
               (improve selected road segments) of national and provincial roads and bridges
               in six of the country’s nineteen provinces based on priority needs as measured
               by:
                     i. percentage of national roads in fair or better condition; and
                     ii. percentage of provincial roads in fair or better condition.
            b. Strengthen strategic planning and management of road sector assets as
               measured by:
                     i. percentage of expenditure on maintenance and preservation; and
                     ii. percentage of budgeted work program based on Road Asset
                          Management System (RAMS).
            c. Strengthen institutional arrangements for road maintenance, including through
               an expanded provincial government role in line with the Government’s
               decentralization policy and the New Organic Law as measured by:
                     i. timeliness - number of provinces who submit Annual Work Programs in
                          each year;
                     ii. number of unified Departments of Works (DoW)/Provincial
                          Maintenance; and
                     iii. number of staff trained.
            d. Increase private sector contracting of road maintenance works, including
               through the strengthening of small and medium-sized contractors and
               participation by village communities as measured by:
                     i. percentage of maintenance expenditure bid competitively.

7.      The key outputs were:
            cumulative kilometers of national roads receiving restoration/specific
               maintenance;
            cumulative kilometers of provincial roads receiving restoration/specific
               maintenance; and
            cumulative number of bridges replaced.

1.3 Revised PDO

8.      Project Development Objectives. No formal revisions were made to the PDO over the
duration of the project.

9.      Performance Indicators. When the Additional Financing operation was approved on
April 26, 2007, the performance indicators were revised for clearer output and impact monitoring
(quantitative and qualitative indicators), and to better measure project progress and achievements,
as summarized in the following sections. It is important to note that the Project files comprise
two separate files, one for the original Loan (P004397) and a separate file for the RMRP



                                                2
“Supplemental? (Additional Finance P102792). For unknown reasons, the Task Team did not
modify the approved amended indicators at the time of the Additional Financing and the
indicators generated in the Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs) remained as per the
original Loan. The approved amended indicators are identified in paragraph 10 below, while
targets and end of project values are shown in the Data Sheet of the ICR.

10.       Additional Financing Performance Indicators (Amended).

          PDO (a) Improve selected road segments, as measured by:
             Percentage of total national roads in “Good? and “Fair? condition based on RAMS
              condition survey is sustainably maintained1 each year through 2009 (modified
              definition);
             Between 2002 and 2009, reduction by 20% of the percentage of households in
              sample villages with household income under PGK100/month (~US$1/day) by 2009
              (new);
             Between 2002 and 2009, overall reduction of 25% in percentage of students in
              sample villages who report having to spend more than one hour travel time to get to
              nearest primary school each day (new); and
             Between 2002 and 2009, overall reduction of 30% in percentage of respondents in
              sample villages who report travel time to nearest health facility of one hour or more
              (new).

          PDO (b) Strengthen strategic planning and management, as measured by:
             RAMS-generated program budget for periodic maintenance on national roads
              increases by 30% by 2009 (modified definition);
             Percentage of DOW budget on maintenance and preservation in the participating
              provinces is maintained ( modified definition);
             Percentage of program budget for routine maintenance of national roads based on
              acceptable Maintenance Management System increases to 75% by 2009 (new); and
             Percentage of maintenance expenditure bid competitively (new).

          PDO (c) Strengthen institutional arrangements, as measured by:
             Timeliness: number of provinces that submit Annual Work Programs in each year
              (unchanged); and
             Timeliness: number of provinces that submit management claims in a timely and
              accurate way (new).

          PDO (d) Increase private sector contracting, as measured by:
             Percentage of maintenance expenditure bid competitively in the Project provinces is
              increased over time (modified definition); and



1
    Roads in “Good? or “Fair? condition are those roads with an International Roughness Index of between
    5-8 and 8-15 respectively in the project area.


                                                    3
             DOW’s policy to proactively combat the spread of HIV/AIDS is fully
              institutionalized on all major contracts by 2009, as measured by the inclusion of
              FDIC Technical Specification on HIV/AIDS OR paras. 19.2 (h) and (i) of the Bank’s
              “Output and Performance Based Road Contracts? in all major contracts by 2009
              (new).

11.       Outputs. No changes.

12.     Discarded Indicators. The following indicators were dropped under the Additional
Financing: (a) percentage of provincial roads in fair or better condition (from PDO (a)); (b)
number of unified Provincial Works Managers (PWM)/Provincial Maintenance (from PDO (c));
and (c) number of staff trained (from PDO (c)).

13.      Reasons for Changes. The bulk of the original performance indicators were retained
with the introduction of the Additional Financing, with revisions to the target values made based
on the status of the project at the time. Six new indicators were included, new targets set and
three indicators were dropped so as to:
         Reflect the scaling up of the project, both in terms of additional funds (IDA US$37.31
          million equivalent), and the inclusion of two further provinces (Gulf and Western).
         Better capture several positive results found by the 2006 Socio-Economic Mid-Term
          Impact Study that found an increase in visits to towns and markets, and roadside sales
          because of more traffic and passengers on the roads, as well as improved access to
          markets and suppliers. Indicators to monitor socio-economic impacts (benefits and
          negative impacts) were therefore included for more regular monitoring and where
          possible, disaggregated by gender to monitor the impacts for men and women who
          would have different transport and security needs and priorities.
         Support the Government of Papua New Guinea’s (GoPNG) policy with respect to
          HIV/AIDS. An indicator was added to reflect the adoption of HIV/AIDS mitigation
          measures under major road contracts funded under RMRP.
         Take into account that in some provinces, more concessional bi-lateral grant funds had
          become available under other donor programs and had been utilized to complete works,
          resulting in the need to revise downwards some of the Project-funded target values. The
          indicator regarding the percent of provincial roads in fair or better condition was
          therefore dropped and replaced by two indicators to monitor the robustness of the
          provincial work programming and contract management systems.
         The indicator measuring the unification of DOW/Provincial maintenance units was
          dropped as DOW no longer saw this as a priority given the dispersed nature of the
          country and the need for isolated provincial units to be strengthened rather than be reliant
          on distant central government support.

14.     Core Indicators. “Roads in good and fair condition as a share of the classified roads?
was already being monitored prior to the introduction of Core Indicators. A further core indicator
“Size of the total classified network? was subsequently included and monitored.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

15.     The expected benefits arising from the improvement works were a reduction in vehicle
operating costs, and improved accessibility to markets, health facilities, schools, social amenities


                                                  4
and employment opportunities for local road users. An additional anticipated benefit was
fostering wider overall economic recovery and growth. Improved all-weather accessibility was
(and still is) considered to be particularly important in PNG because owing to the terrain, there
are very few substitute routes or modes of travel.

16.     The total affected population in the six provinces at the time of project appraisal was
estimated to be 1.3 million (27 percent of the country's population). Because road services,
including haulage and public passenger transport, were - and still are - reasonably competitive,
the benefits of improved road maintenance were expected to be passed on to local road users.

1.5 Original Components

17.       The original loan and additional finance credit components and associated costs were:

         Component 1: Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation of National Roads (US$40.79 M) -
          Annual routine maintenance on about 2,200 km and restoration of about 440 km of
          national roads.
         Component 2: Maintenance and Rehabilitation of Provincial Roads (US$7.39 M) -
          Annual routine maintenance on about 900 km and restoration of about 200 km of
          provincial roads.
         Component 3: National Bridges (US$5.42 M). This component consisted of bridge
          maintenance and rehabilitation and replacement of bridges on national roads, as well as
          purchase of emergency bridges and bridge parts.
         Component 4: Provincial Bridges (US$0.36 M) - maintenance and rehabilitation and
          replacement of bridges on provincial roads.
         Component 5: Implementation Support (US$7.56 M) - consulting services and purchase
          of equipment to support project implementation, namely:
              a) Project management (Employer's Project Manager - EPM);
              b) Designs and supervision of roads to be restored and bridges to be replaced;

              c) Incremental operating costs by DOW, Provincial Work Managers, and Provincial
                   Administration Staff to manage the project (including supervision of the civil
                   works and monitoring compliance with environmental management plans);
              d) Laboratory equipment, traffic counting equipment, and environmental monitoring
                  equipment;
              e) Provision of auditing services for DOW and participating provinces project
                  accounts; and
              f) Strengthening the financial management and operational capacity of DOW.
         Component 6: Road Sector Support (US$2.45 M) - consulting services and training to:
              a) Strengthen small- and medium-sized contractors for road maintenance operations;
              b) Improve the institutional capacity of DOW (Headquarters and Provincial level)
                  and provincial administrations for road maintenance;
              c) Update and improve the bridge inventory and bridge management system to be
                  more effective as a management tool for DOW; and


                                                  5
            d) Carry out a study of the socio-economic impacts of roads and bridges under the
                proposed project.

1.6 Revised Components

18.    No revisions were made to the project components when the project was scaled up to two
new provinces (Additional Finance).

1.7 Other Significant Changes

19.      Amendments to Loan Agreement. Following early delays due to GoPNG’s inability to
provide counterpart funds in a timely way, in September 2004 an Amendment was made to allow
for the special (later designated) account to be opened in local currency, six monthly external
auditing of project accounts, establishment of a project steering committee and some streamlining
to government procurement approval procedures.
20.     First Extension to Loan Closing Date and Reallocation. The closing date was
extended for twelve months to December 31, 2007 to compensate for earlier delays in project
implementation as a result of slow counterpart funding provision, lack of familiarity with Bank
procedures, and a slow response from some participating provinces.

21.     Second Extension to Loan Closing Date. The closing date was extended for two years
to December 31, 2009. As part of the Additional Financing, a second extension to the loan
closing date was processed to December 31, 2011 to accommodate delays caused by the
disruption of the work program, while the National Executive Council (NEC) was approving the
new EPM contract (nine month approval period).

22.      Additional Financing. The Additional Financing Credit of US$37.5 million was
approved by the Board on April 26, 2007. At the time, the Additional Financing did not involve
any formal restructuring of the original project or reallocations of the original loan. It primarily
provided on-going interim funding for road maintenance in the original six provinces, while
GoPNG programs and AusAID Transport Sector Support Program activities came on-line, to
provide gap financing to complete work on two national roads, and to provide scaling-up of the
original project activities to two new provinces (Gulf and Western). There was no change to the
PDO or Project Components. Changes made to the Performance Indicators and associated targets
have been described in Section 1.3.

23.     First Extension of Credit Closing Date. The closing date of the Credit (only) was
extended by two years to December 31, 2011. A new contract was negotiated with the EPM
following the approval of the Additional Financing and scaling up of activities. Government
approval procedures for this contract, which had to go through the NEC, took longer than the
expected nine months. DOW financed an interim bridging contract to support scaled-back
interim activities. This delay, which was exacerbated by lengthy visa approval times for
consultants, delayed the work program under the Additional Financing.

24.     Second Extension of Credit Closing Date. The closing date of the Credit was extended
by the Regional Vice President for a further six months to June 30, 2012 in order for the
government to fully disburse all available credit funds. At the same time, a reallocation of funds
was approved for the “unallocated? funds to be used for rehabilitation of national roads and




                                                 6
bridges. Other minor changes reflected evolving priorities and respective financing needs among
various project components.

25.      Co-Financing. There was no formal co-financing to the project. However, in order to
support its own counterpart funding requirements (varying across different categories from 30
percent to 10 percent of expenditures), GoPNG secured support from various other parties to
meet its obligations, in the following amounts: (i) 2003 and 2004: the Australian Agency for
International Development (AusAID) (US$4.05 million); (ii) 2007: New Britain Palm Oil funded
a portion of an access road near its plantation (US$1.02 million); (iii) 2003-2009: the
participating provinces (US$5.2 million); (iv) 2005-2010: the Papua New Guinea Sustainable
Development Program’s Development Fund for development projects (US$22.61 million).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

26.      Soundness of the Background Analysis. The background analysis to support the need
for RMRP was sound even though the project was designed and first became effective during a
period of significant macro-economic instability and so not without risk. Reviews of previous
land transport sector projects in PNG were carried out to better understand potential problems and
issues arising during project implementation, and successful approaches that could be adopted to
ensure that outcomes and objectives could be achieved were identified. Fundamental to the
design of RMRP was the fact that its development objectives were not limited to physical
infrastructure investments; equal emphasis was placed on developing long term planning and
budgeting capabilities for road maintenance within the government’s own systems and on
fostering a competitive, local contracting market that might service the sector in the years to come
as well as generating much needed local employment opportunities.

27.      Experiences from earlier World Bank-funded highway and transport projects in PNG
showed that while implementation of physical components had generally been satisfactory,
sustainability had been less assured and economic rates of return had been lower than at first
estimated due to ineffective contract management by implementing agencies and cost overruns
during implementation, lower than expected traffic growth, and delays in starting and completing
works. Based on these analyses, robust project preparation and realistic risk assessments would
be required to underwrite the Project design. Other risks requiring attention were also identified,
such as poor contractor performance and deficient supervision by consultants, persistent problems
in land acquisition and security, and disputes over rights-of-way (common for any projects
involving new construction or major widening of existing roads).

28.      Positive lessons of experience drawn from the Bank-funded Gazelle Restoration Program
and the AusAID-funded National Roads Regravelling and Resealing Project and the Bridge
Replacement and Upgrading Project were the establishment of a professional and competent
implementing authority; establishment of a specialized supply and tenders board that could
approve contracts of up to PGK 1.5 million; minimizing works outside of existing rights of way
to avoid the need for land acquisition; and recognizing the lack of technical capacity in provincial
offices of DOW to carry out surveys, testing and environmental management.

29.     Assessment of Project Design. The design of RMRP is rated satisfactory. It was not
overly ambitious or too complex given the volume of need. Project design identified a number of
high risks to implementation and proposed mitigating measures. One aspect that was under-



                                                 7
estimated was the ability and willingness of GoPNG to provide counterpart funds in a timely way.
The government elected to provide up to 30 percent of expenditures from its own resources and
so reduce the size of the required IBRD loan. However, in retrospect, this was too high a
requirement and the different percentages against each of the different categories made project
financial management onerous.

30.      Project objectives and performance indicators (Section 1.2) were straightforward and
were further clarified and expanded during the additional finance to better monitor all aspects of
the project investments. Six project components were proposed, which were straightforward and
provided support not only to project works, but also for implementation support by strengthening
the capacity of both the implementing agency and the private sector through dedicated training
activities and the EPM.

31.     To minimize the potential for social and environmental safeguards concerns, it was
intended that no project works would require land acquisition and the works were designed to
occur within existing rights-of-way although safeguards documentation on Involuntary
Resettlement was prepared and disclosed in the event that it was needed.

32.     Adequacy of the Government’s Commitment. During project preparation,
Government commitment was strong, as evidenced through discussions during preparation
missions. However, there was a delay of some eight months between Board approval and
effectiveness, while the necessary government approvals were obtained.

33.     Assessment of Risks. A number of significant risks were identified during project
preparation, resulting in an overall project risk rating of High.

34.       Risks from Outputs to Objective:
         Inadequate and/or late receipt of counterpart funds (rated as High). To be mitigated
          through the establishment of accounts for the national Government and six provincial
          governments and making initial deposits;
         The potential for political interference in the drawing up of Annual Work Plans (AWPs)
          (rated as Substantial). The use of RAMS and the Bridge Inventory and Bridge
          Management Systems (BIBMS) was to be used to reduce this risk;
         Lack of local support for proposed works (rated as Moderate). This would be mitigated
          by encouraging involvement of village groups in routine maintenance, training activities
          for local contractors and employment creation for local villagers on the maintenance
          contracts; and
         Knowledge drain from DoW and provincial administrators seeking better positions in the
          mineral resources sector (rated as High). This was offset through training programs and
          implementation of contract management systems.

35.       Risks from Components to Outputs:
         Inability of GoPNG to acquire any additional land required (rated as High). Only minor
          land purchases were considered likely. Voluntary land donations and consent to use
          communal properties when land must be required were cited as mitigation measures;




                                                 8
       Selection of inappropriate contractors and/or not awarding contracts in a timely manner
        (rated as Substantial). This was to be mitigated by the EPM, Bank’s prior review on
        contracts and use of Central Supply and Tenders Board (CSTB) procedures;
       Inability to recruit competent works supervisors (rated as Moderate). To mitigate this,
        the EPM had authority to reject works and supervisors assigned by PWMs and provincial
        administrations and recruit replacements;
       Inability to ensure that participating communities doing routine maintenance would
        comply with contract conditions (rated as Moderate). The employment of works
        supervisors with suitable and appropriate communication skills would be used to mitigate
        this; and
       Possibility of inappropriate procurement and misuse of funds (rated as High). To
        mitigate this, the EPM was to be involved in the procurement process with the relevant
        authority to endorse vouchers for payments under the project.

36.      The project identified and put in place measures to mitigate the risks. This included the
establishment of a strong EPM team with appropriate experience and competent staff. The EPM
provided strong managerial and technical input to works, assisted DoW and provincial DoW
staff, provided valuable inputs into the procurement process and prepared regular reports on
implementation, including the AWPs. EPM staff was employed in the provinces, which acted to
decentralize knowledge and experience and provided support to provincial authorities.
Additionally, RAMS and BIBMS were utilized to ensure that technically and economically sound
investments were made during the project.

2.2 Implementation

37.      Factors that contributed to successful implementation and problems encountered.
The relative success of the project can be attributed to strong ownership exhibited by DOW and
to professional and decentralized management by the EPM. As a result of the good working
relationship that was established between the DOW and EPM at the central and provincial levels
and the collegial approach of the Bank’s project teams, PNGSDP interest in the project grew.
Understanding the process of identifying and prioritizing sub-projects for funding based on
technical, social and environmental assessments convinced PNGSDP that channeling funds
through the project would be money well spent. It also benefitted GoPNG, since the funds
PNGSDP provided were used to meet their counterpart funding responsibilities.

38.     Through careful packaging of proposed works and strong contract management by the
DOW and EPM, the Project was able to let a large number and range of contracts for routine,
periodic and restoration maintenance of national and provincial roads. In total, some 39 major
contracts, including bridges, valued between US$2.5 million and US$5.0 million (two of which
were on the order of US$10 million), 120 national competitively bid contracts of up to
US$150,000, and 559 small contracts around US$2,500 each were let through the life of the
project. Following a training needs analysis, from December 2005 an 18-month training
component was prepared and implemented by specialist consultants to provide practical road and
bridge maintenance training to 79 small and medium domestic contractors (identified by the
Department of Trade and Industry) and 45 central and Provincial DOW staff in six provinces.
The training covered subjects such as construction project management, cost control and financial
management, materials management, estimating quantities, understanding contract documents,
claims management and environmental training. A set of more advanced training was also
provided on dispute resolution, road maintenance line and level checks, drainage, and machine


                                                9
maintenance. In addition to the above, DOW staff were provided specific training in
administration of contracts procedures and site records, bid evaluations, and survey and piling.
Training provided was largely classroom based although decentralized to all six provinces.
However, the planned use of on-the-job- training through demonstration contracts did not
eventuate. Ideally, such training would have been provided at regular intervals through the
extended life of the project to facilitate market entry by new small contractors and for refresher
and hands-on training for contractors once they had gained some additional experience. To be
sustainable, the training could have been accompanied by active publication of forward work
programs and funding envelopes to demonstrate the longer term business opportunities that would
be available to local firms.

39.     In 2008, after the firm contracted to rehabilitate the East-West Highway on Manus Island
encountered problems due to logistics in the remote location and prolonged wet weather, and was
released under the frustration provisions of the contract, a force account contract was awarded to
the DoW to complete the Works. The use of force account was considered because of the
challenging conditions, including the limited availability of suitable construction materials,
adverse weather conditions, and the works were located in remote areas, which required
equipment and supplies to be shipped in from other provinces. Despite these difficulties, the
works were completed within the estimated costs and in a timely manner.

40.      The use of force account to complete this critical section of civil works in the absence of
effective private contractors was considered a success. Several factors contributed to this success
including: (i) the keenness of the departmental and provincial authorities to take on the job; (ii)
the presence of a skilled technical motivator and mentor in the form of the provincial EPM; (iii)
DoW staff with past Force Account experience; (iv) staff assigned to the rehabilitation works
with a sound technical understanding of the challenges at hand and the work required; (v)
knowledgeable and experienced supervisory staff; and (vi) a solid organizational structure in
place to appraise and approve initial cost estimates and subsequently to track expenditures, make
timely payments, and submit reports.

41.      Annual audit reports in the early years of RMRP (2003 -2005) were not submitted on
time to the Bank for its review. In part this was due to lack of staff in the Auditor General’s
Office. From 2007 onwards, the project audits were carried out by independent auditors and only
required certification by the Auditor General. Thereafter, from mid-2009 onwards, as the initial
arrangements for external audits did not take into account the statutory mandate of the Auditor
General to conduct the audit, the procurement of external auditing services was implemented
through the Auditor General’s office, resulting in more timely approvals.

42.      Effects of Project Restructurings. The additional financing was primarily sought to
allow for a scaling-up of activities. This saw an extension of benefits to two additional provinces.
The restructuring also brought about the revision of existing, or inclusion of new, performance
indicators to reflect the addition of the two provinces. In addition, the restructurings allowed
small scale re-allocation of funds as the need arose. No changes were made to the PDO during
the restructuring. At the time of restructuring, the project was rated as Satisfactory, both in terms
of the overall implementation progress, and for progress toward achievement of the PDO.
Following restructuring, project implementation progress and progress toward achieving
development objectives continued to be rated as satisfactory through the end of the project.

43.      Mid-Term Review. A specific mid-term review (MTR) was not carried out for RMRP.
Initially, an MTR was proposed for the end of 2003, however, due to significant delays in
implementation, the MTR was pushed back to a later date. With the timing of GoPNG’s request


                                                 10
for Additional Financing, a detailed review of project performance was undertaken as part of the
appraisal for the Additional Financing in lieu of an MTR.

44.     Response to Problems/Issues. No major problems were encountered during the project
although issues arose which saw the project ratings being downgraded on several occasions.

45.     The downgrading in implementation progress ratings was the result of the lag in
provision of counterpart funding (ISR #4), particularly provincial support (and the associated
unsatisfactory rating for Component 2 - Provincial Roads Maintenance and Rehabilitation).

46.      To address the moderately unsatisfactory status of overall implementation progress and
progress towards achieving the PDO, PNGSDP provided funding to improve the availability of
counterpart funding (in addition to the financial support provided by AusAID), long overdue
audits were finally provided to the Bank and found to be satisfactory. In turn, this allowed for an
increase in the Special Account from US$1.5 million to US$5.5 million to help address payment
delay problems, and strong supervision support ensured that works being undertaken were carried
out to a high standard and in a timely manner.

47.     Quality Assurance Group Ratings. This was not applicable and at no time was RMRP
considered an At Risk Project. It was considered a Potential Problem Project from project
effectiveness until January 2006 largely due to the government shortfalls in providing counterpart
funding. By requiring funds to be deposited at the start of each financial year and with the PNG
Sustainable Development Fund taking out some of GoPNG’s counterpart funding commitments,
both steps facilitated by the Bank’s project team, counterpart funding was made available and,
towards the end of the project, government counterpart contributions were increased so as to
extend some contracts (e.g., Manus).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

48.     Monitoring and Evaluation. DoW, with assistance of EPM, prepared Quarterly Project
Management Reports describing physical progress in implementation and achievement of the
development objectives. In addition, DoW annually updated the project monitoring indicators,
describing physical, procurement and financial expenditure progress, updated estimates of project
costs versus available funding, and explained variances between actual and previously forecast
implementation targets. Monitoring and evaluation activities were summarized through the
Performance Indicators, which were either linked to the development objective (Project
Development Objective Indicators), or reflected physical outputs achieved through the project
works.

49.      The EPM maintained data on the supervision of all road and bridge maintenance and/or
rehabilitation works and worked closely with DoW in reviewing budget allocations for road
maintenance and rehabilitation works, assigning contracts and signing off on works.

50.     Baseline data was prepared and reported by DoW and used in project design and to assess
progress during project implementation. A DoW Environmental officer was responsible for
monitoring and reported on compliance with environmental management plans.

51.    Socio-Economic Impact Studies were launched in 2005 and completed in 2011, and
covered all eight provinces where RMRP applied. The studies quantified the socio-economic




                                                11
impacts of the project with results disaggregated by gender. The GoPNG presented the results of
the socio-economic studies at a number of international fora.

52.      Issues with Data Collection. During implementation, data collection was not always
accurate and was at times problematic given that maintenance was being carried out over the
same length of roads each year. In limited instances, where routine maintenance occurred more
often than annually, works were counted more than once, adding up to an inflated estimate of the
length of roads being routinely maintained. In addition, during the period that AusAID
counterpart funding was being provided, works outside of RMRP, funded by AusAID in the
RMRP project provinces, were mistakenly included in the monitoring data but this was brought to
the attention of the government by a supervision mission and appropriate corrections were made.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

53.      OP4.01 on Environmental Assessment, and OP4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement were
triggered by RMRP. A Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA) and an Environmental
Management and Monitoring Plan (EMMP) were prepared and approved in 1997. However, due
to the delayed effectiveness, the SEA and EMMP subsequently had to be revised in 2001. This
revision also covered a social assessment, a framework for land acquisition and resettlement, and
community participation.

54.     Social Safeguards. Under RMRP, OP4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement was triggered as
even existing road corridors are on customary land in PNG. Only minimal land acquisition was
anticipated during preparation, and the ESIAMMP was the document to be used in the event that
land acquisition was needed during implementation. A consultative process was put in place by
appointing provincial government land officers to be in-charge of consultation and
communication with all stakeholders to ensure there was a common understanding and local
ownership of project goals, to the advantage of all parties. There were limited instances of
community resistance which resulted in delays to the contractors. These were resolved via the
consultative process, with facilitation by DoW staff.

55.      Environmental Safeguards. OP4.01 on Environmental Assessment was triggered, and
the project was classified as Environmental Category B. Because the works associated with road
rehabilitation and/or maintenance were located within existing rights-of-way, the environmental
impact of the project was minor and limited mainly to effects associated with rehabilitation
works, such as the production of dust and noise, use of bitumen, disposal of limited amounts of
solid or hazardous waste, erosion control, quarrying, silt control and labor camp construction and
management. No changes were deemed necessary under the Additional Financing, and the
existing environmental safeguards were considered adequate. Further, no sub-projects were
assessed by the environmental authorities to require a full Environmental Impact Assessment.

56.     As part of the project, an Environmental Officer was appointed to DoW, specifically to
assist with monitoring environmental safeguards issues arising on sub-projects, and to train and
support provincial DoW staff and contractors on environmental issues. The work performed by
the Environmental Officer generally was reported as satisfactory with closer supervision carried
out when the work program appeared to be slipping. Training of Community Development
Officers, who were charged with improving relations with local communities along the roads to
be restored and also to assist with carrying out Socio-Economic Impact Assessment studies, also
took place.




                                                12
57.      Financial Management. The recipient complied with the financial management (FM)
conditions outlined in all financing agreements and satisfied the Bank's requirements under
OP/BP 10.02. Following the initial FM assessment of substantial risk due to various deficiencies
identified, the project was structured to include mitigating strategies to address these risks,
including a full time international project financial controller to implement and oversee additional
internal controls and reporting. These mitigating strategies were successfully implemented and
the financial management was initially rated "satisfactory". From June 2005 through June 2009,
the rating was reduced to "moderately satisfactory." The lower rating was due in part to delays in
submission of audit reports and to the build-up of an eight months backlog of data entry by the
EPM. While the latter did not impact on payments to contractors, it did mean that withdrawal
applications could not be processed and FMR reporting to the Bank was not completed on time.
Modifications were made to the financial reporting software and the backlog was cleared,
resulting in an improvement of rating to satisfactory from July 2009 to the close of the project.

58.      All audits of the project were received and accepted by the Bank. A number of audits
were not received by their due dates as the initial arrangements for external audits did not take
into account the statutory mandate of the Auditor General to conduct the audit. From mid-2009,
the procurement of external auditing services was implemented through the Auditor General’s
office, resulting in more timely approvals. All but one audit was unqualified; the one qualified
audit was qualified because of a specific issue related to the implementing agencies internal
accounting and reporting of counterpart funding and expenditure, which did not relate to
IBRD/IDA funds/expenditures. The final audit of the project’s financial statements is not due
until 30 June 2013.

59.      All interim financial reports were received, the majority on time, and all financial reports
were accepted by the Bank. Withdrawal Applications were submitted regularly and there were no
cash flow issues relating to IBRD/IDA funds other than the backlog in late 2008/2009 (above).
However, this project had a large counterpart funding requirement and there were significant
problems in the receipt of counterpart funds, both in terms of time and amount in the early years
of the project, which caused not only cash flow problems, but delays to the project
implementation. These problems were progressively addressed and in the second half of the
project no longer existed. Advances to the Designated Account were fully accounted for or
refunded to the Bank. No ineligible expenditures were identified.

60.     The project progressively increased the use of country systems in a number of FM areas,
with the project's planning and budgeting, accounting, and external auditing all using country
systems. Full use of country systems for internal controls, internal audits, treasury, and reporting
was not adopted due to a combination of deficiencies identified in the FM assessment and
borrower and Bank preferences, but in some of these areas, the base country systems were used
and simply added to in order to provide the controls required.

61.     Procurement. In a challenging set of circumstances the procurement of works, goods
and services was generally carried out satisfactorily by Department of Works, which was assisted
by the EPM. With no foreign interest in the mostly small-scale works involved in relatively
remote areas and an overstretched and relatively small domestic construction industry in PNG,
contracts typically drew a limited number of bids. However, the project introduced a number of
innovative approaches in order to facilitate the involvement of small- and medium-sized local
contractors, while maintaining fiduciary oversight. These included processing of progress claims
within two weeks (although 28 days from certification was allowed in the contract) to assist the
cash flow of the small businesses. Also, dedicated pre-bid small contractor training in both
technical aspects, as well as contract documentation was provided.


                                                 13
62.      DOW had to contend with significant delays during implementation because of lengthy
GoPNG approval processes for major contracts (above PNGK10m), requiring approval by the
National Executive Council that typically can take between six to nine months. A particular issue
arose in relation to the EPM assignment. In order to ensure a smooth transition between the end
of the original Loan and the commencement of the Additional Finance Credit operations, DOW
had planned a bridging contract with the EPM for a six-month period. However, approval
processes through to the NEC finally took 12 months to complete. Several parallel and
subsequent tasks also had to be adjusted because of the time needed to process the EPM contract.
This required the DOW itself to fully-fund the EPM interim contract and related costs to ensure
continuity of activities, which had to be scaled down until the NEC approval was forthcoming.
Two other factors in the administration of the EPM contract were significant challenges for both
DoW and the EPM, these being (i) the need to downsize the EPM staffing during these periods of
delay in order to minimise costs; and (ii) higher turnover of EPM key personnel (PEPMs), due to
the extension and delays. The EPM cooperated with the DoW in address these challenges.

63.      Deviations or Waivers. Throughout implementation, no deviations or waivers under
either of the two safeguard policies were triggered.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

64.     RMRP II. At the request of GoPNG, the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
II (RMRP II), was prepared, and subsequently approved, by the World Bank Board on April 7,
2011. RMRP II built on the achievements of RMRP, and lessons learned from RMRP (reported
on in Section 6 of this report) were taken into consideration in the design of RMRP II. GoPNG
requested that RMRP II continue working in the provinces that were included under RMRP, with
the addition of two other provinces (Madang and Milne Bay).

65.      Transition Arrangements. Prior to 2003, DoW was responsible for the maintenance,
restoration and rehabilitation of all roads and bridges in PNG. With the creation of the National
Roads Authority (NRA) in 2003 and full transfer of responsibilities by 2007, roads that have been
rehabilitated, or that are already in satisfactory and maintainable condition, have been transferred
to the NRA. NRA is responsible for raising funding for road maintenance, preparing
maintenance plans, and overseeing road maintenance to ensure that road assets are preserved to a
satisfactory standard.

66.     DoW maintains responsibility for bridges throughout PNG, and is also responsible for
operating the RAMS and BIBMS and ensuring that the inventory and asset register is fully
maintained. Limitations on funding have often impacted its ability to gather data, store the data
and make full use of these asset management systems.

67.     Performance Indicators. Under RMRP, most of the performance indicators were output
based, such as cumulative kilometers of roads maintained and numbers of bridges maintained,
and so were pertinent only to RMRP. For RMRP II, new performance indicators were developed,
but some of the performance indicators under RMRP will continue to be monitored.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation




                                                14
68.      Objectives. The Papua New Guinea Medium-Term Development Plan 2011 – 2015
states that 25,000km of national roads are to be in good condition by 2030. The document cites
the need to provide ongoing funding to the sector to encourage private sector participation and
growth, in order to achieve this goal.

69.      The World Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (FY2008 to FY2011) defines seven pro-
poor expenditure priorities: (i) rehabilitation and maintenance of transport infrastructure; (ii)
promotion of income earning opportunities; (iii) basic education; (iv) development-oriented
informal adult education; (v) primary health care; (vi) HIV/AIDS prevention; and (vii) law and
justice.

70.     Based on the objectives of the Medium-Term Development strategy and the Country
Assistance Strategy, the objectives of the RMRP remain highly relevant overall.

71.      Design. Individually, the project components and activities included in project design
were relevant to the needs of GoPNG and people of PNG. The project design included
rehabilitation and maintenance of roads and bridges to improve their condition to “good,? and to
provide continuous linkages of the road network. The design also included allowance for
building capacity within the sector, and for providing assistance to growing the private sector,
which remains a key part of GoPNGs goals and objectives.

72.     Implementation. During implementation, there were no significant changes that
affected the relevance of objectives or project design.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

73.     The following is an evaluation of project outputs and how they relate to project
objectives. More details on component outputs are presented in Annex 2.

74. Rating: Satisfactory.

75.      Overall, progress in achieving project development objectives is considered Satisfactory
and reliably so in the last five years of implementation.

76.     Key Objective 1: restoring satisfactory physical condition and safety to parts of the
network of national and provincial roads and bridges in six of the country’s nineteen provinces
based on priority needs, was achieved. This assessment is based on RMRP final outputs, which
included nearly 450 km of national roads maintained and 600 km of national roads restored
annually, and 46 national and provincial bridges rehabilitated, maintained and/or replaced.
Annex 2 provides detail pertaining to the outputs achieved under this objective.

77.     Key Objective 2: strengthen strategic planning and management of road sector assets.
The RAMS was adopted as a means to more systematically identify and prioritize roads requiring
maintenance or rehabilitation. This was widely used throughout implementation and continues to
be used. There are, however, some concerns around its ongoing use due to funding limitations.
The percentage of budgeted work program based on RAMS fell short of the project target.
Similarly, the percentage of expenditure on maintenance and preservation did not meet the
targeted amount. Nonetheless, because the RAMS system was utilized under the RMRP and is
effectively producing data, this objective is considered to have been substantially achieved,
despite outputs not meeting the project targets.



                                                15
78.     Key Objective 3: strengthen institutional arrangements for road maintenance, including
through an expanding provincial government role in line with the Government’s decentralization
policy and the New Organic Law. Outputs pertaining to this objective were the number of
provinces submitting AWPs, and the number of provinces that submit management claims in a
timely manner. The outputs for these indicators had met the target values at the time of the
Additional Financing. The project also contributed to the establishment of the NRA, which
assumed responsibility in 2007 for road maintenance. The objective of strengthening institutional
arrangements for road maintenance was achieved.

79.      Key Objective 4: increase private sector contracting of road maintenance works,
including through the strengthening of small and medium-sized contractors and participation by
village communities. Based on figures provided by GoPNG, under RMRP, 457 and 100 contracts
were let to local contractors for roadside and pavement maintenance on national roads
respectively, while another 39 contracts were awarded for national road and bridge rehabilitation.
For provincial roads, 102 and 20 contracts were awarded for roadside and pavement maintenance
respectively. These outputs went a considerable way to reaching the objective of increasing
private sector contracting in road maintenance. It also supported village communities in road
maintenance works as many of the maintenance activities were undertaken by local villagers and
community groups. Greater impact may have been attained had the preparation and approval of
simplified bidding documents for small- and medium-sized contractors and training on their use
been offered at the start of the project, rather than after a number of contracts had been awarded.
This may have encouraged more small-contractors to compete and avoided crowding out of
smaller firms by larger more experienced companies.

80.      Another limiting factor was that during the course of the RMRP, the country experienced
growth in the mineral resources sector, which drew contractors and private firms to the lucrative
opportunities in the mining, oil and gas sectors. This created challenges in terms of attracting
qualified contractors to carry out road works, and exacerbated efforts to build local capacity
within the roads departments. The DoW and other relevant Governmental institutions bemoaned
the loss of key staff to the private sector, particularly to companies working in the resources
sector, which diminished their capacity.

3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Satisfactory.

81.      The objective of the project’s maintenance and improvement program was to minimize
the total life-cycle costs for roads in terms of both agency and user costs, given the existing traffic
volumes and road conditions. The project road works program was developed by DOW using the
RAMS and was subjected to economic analysis by consultants using the Highway Development
and Management Model - 4. Periodic and specific maintenance requirements were determined
from the RAMS in a coarse screening process for sub-projects based on net present values (NPV)
divided by costs. Upgrading of gravel roads to sealed roads and pavement reconstruction were
determined from a fine screening process.

82.      The ex-post evaluation calculated the economic rates of return (ERR) of the
representative roads, adopting the actual average costs of each road work type. The following
table presents the results of the ex-post economic evaluation.




                                                  16
                                  Ex-Post Economic Evaluation

                                  Road Work                 ERR (%)
                                  Reconstruction            60
                                  Regravelling              22
                                  Sealing                   27
                                  Upgrading                 21

Considering the actual average road works unit costs per km, the ex-post ERR is higher than 12
percent for all road work types. The ex-post ERR ranges from 21 percent for upgrading works to
60 percent for reconstruction works. Thus, the program remains economically justified
considering the actual road works costs.

83.      The RMRP is more than ten years old. Part of the delayed implementation was due to the
lack of counterpart funding, which was a big reason for the need to extend the closing date of the
original Loan by twelve months. Implementation was further hampered by the torturous national
approval process of the EPM contract, which took nine months before it was approved, as well as
a general lack of familiarity with Bank procedures.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory.

84.     The rating of Satisfactory is based on the relative achievement of objectives, efficiency,
and relevance. The project objectives remain highly relevant to current day objectives and goals
of GoPNG and are consistent with the CAS available at the time of the ICR. Overall, the
RMRP’s development objectives were achieved. Significant lengths of national and provincial
roads and bridges were restored, while the use of a systematic approach to prioritizing road
maintenance activities was adopted. There were some shortcomings in building private sector
capacity as a result of many contractors moving to the mining, oil and gas sectors where more
lucrative work exists. However, this was something beyond the control of the RMRP. This also
had an effect on institutional strengthening, with the decrease in capacity of the DoW and other
relevant Governmental institutions being put down to staff moving into the private sector,
particularly to companies working in the resources sector.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

85.      The Socio-Economic Impact Assessment study played a clear role in assessing the effects
and impacts on poverty and social development. An executive summary of the findings from the
study is presented in Annex 5. One of the objectives forming the PDO was to increase private
sector involvement in the participating provinces, particularly that of small- and medium-sized
contractors. With hundreds of minor maintenance contracts being awarded to local community
groups, income was generated in areas with high rates of unemployment. The RMRP helped to
strengthen institutional capacity in attempting to ensure the sustainability of road maintenance
and ongoing contracts for such works in areas where small- to medium-contractor involvement is
needed.



                                                17
86.     The impact on beneficiaries of one road project funded under RMRP was captured in a
short documentary film, The Road to Kerema, commissioned and completed in 2011, which
looked at the issues facing the population of Kerema, the capital of Gulf Province, which until the
recently-completed works under RMRP, had no continuous road access to Port Moresby.

87.       Generally, women are pleased with the road improvements, particularly on the Kerema
Road, as it has made access to Port Moresby easier for them. Women now travel more often to
Port Moresby to shop, market their goods, and bank. Due to better road access, prices at Kerema
market for goods like sago have increased, which benefits village women. It was also reported
being easier to travel to special events like the church basket exchange. Women also reported
finding travel safer as a result of road improvements. Earlier the road had been in such a bad
condition during the wet season that they had to walk some parts of the way or travel by boat,
which was expensive. As a result, the road improvements have also decreased the price for
travelling to Port Moresby. Some women with children studying in Port Moresby say it is easier
to visit them.

88.     One drawback has been increased speeds and reckless driving along improved roads,
often under the influence of alcohol. Many indicated that it was safer to walk close to the village,
but not on the main road as the driving was unpredictable.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

89.      RMRP had a positive impact on institutional development, primarily through the above
training inputs and also through the day to day assistance the EPM provided to DoW, and the use
of Force Account in Manus Province. The latter allowed DoW staff to experience firsthand the
difficult conditions facing road contractors. It also required DoW to provide detailed costings to
carry out road rehabilitation works, and to gain a greater understanding of the challenges
associated with this exercise.

90.      Non-quantifiable benefits included strengthening the capabilities of the Department of
Works (DoW), and the six (and later eight) provincial administrations, which were responsible
for the planning, design, financing, supervision, construction, operation and maintenance of roads
and bridges. Furthermore, the project assisted in strengthening small- and medium-sized
contractors, and with the exception of the works that were undertaken by the Government to
complete the limited road rehabilitation activities on remote Manus Island, reduced the amount of
works done through force account. The project also fostered improved practices in environmental
protection, land acquisition, and participatory approaches to project preparation and
implementation by the provincial authorities.

91.      The appointment of an EPM was critical to the relative success of RMRP, and as
identified during project design, DoW on its own would have lacked the capacity and resources to
fully implement the project. The EPM supplemented and facilitated the transfer of skills and
knowledge to DoW staff in areas such as technical knowledge, contract management and
financial reporting.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

92.   An unintended outcome was the use of force account to complete the East-West Highway
on Manus Island after the firm contracted to rehabilitate it encountered problems. The use of



                                                18
force account in this instance was pursued because of the challenging conditions, which included
the remote location and prolonged wet weather. The contractor was released under the frustration
provisions of the contract, a force account contract was awarded to the DoW to complete the
Works. While not appropriate for most road works, force account does have a role to play under
certain circumstances, such as for remote locations, when there are adverse (weather) conditions,
the need to expedite works, or when small contracts are unlikely to attract a number of private
contracting firms. Another critical factor is the need for an implementing agency with in-house
and/or access to suitable project management skills, staffing resources, equipment and plant to
carry out the work and ensure expenditure and reporting discipline. Based, in part, on the success
of this contract, at least one other donor in PNG is planning to fund periodic road maintenance
using force account.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

93.      A longitudinal socio-economic survey was carried out to evaluate the impacts of the road
rehabilitation on the households' income and expenditure, on access to health and education
services and the reduction of poverty in two sampled villages located along main roads under the
maintenance program and two control villages at some distance from the roads in each of the six
participating provinces of Manus, East and West New Britain, Oro, Central, and Morobe. The
baseline survey and report was carried out in 2004-2005, a mid-term survey and report was
carried out in 2006, and a final survey and report was undertaken in 2007. Each year, the same
households in the same villages were surveyed, allowing for longitudinal analysis over time.
Under the Additional Financing, a baseline socio-economic impact survey was carried out in
2008 in the two new provinces, Gulf and Western, and included more in-depth , qualitative
analysis of the impacts, including poverty, vulnerable groups, and specific disaggregation of the
data by gender to differentiate between the needs of men and women in Central and East New
Britain provinces. The results of the surveys were presented to a National Workshop in 2009 and
distributed to each of the provinces in 2010.

94.     The purpose of the socioeconomic impact study was to evaluate the impacts of the road
improvements on the households' income and expenditures, on access to health and education
services, and the reduction of poverty. The results of the surveys were unambiguous regarding
the positive and widespread benefits for those villagers living alongside the improved roads.

       After the rehabilitation of the main roads, visits to towns and markets increased 1.7 times
        in the sample villages by the rehabilitated roads, and 1.4 times in the control villages.
        The increases were less for the non-rehabilitated roads, where the visits increased 1.2
        times in the sample villages and 0.7 times in the control villages. Although transportation
        costs increased in all villages, the increases were greater in villages on non-rehabilitated
        roads.
       Related to the improved levels of access to markets, while incomes increased over the
        time period in all villages, they increased more in villages close to rehabilitated roads. In
        particular, roadside sales increased because of more traffic and passengers on the roads.
        This was of particular benefit to women who have been able to earn money near the
        home and at the same time can take care of children and other domestic tasks. Roadside
        sales also have helped unemployed villagers to earn cash income.
       Somewhat unexpectedly, the rehabilitation of roads was found to have had little impact
        on the travel time to health or education facilities as villagers typically used social
        services that were provided within the village, or made use of shortcuts through the bush



                                                 19
          and on tracks, rather than walking along the main road. However, it was reported that
          improvements to the roads did benefit the secondary school students by permitting more
          convenient and faster public motor vehicle rides.
         Comparing the 2007 and 2009 data, households living below the poverty line along the
          rehabilitated roads decreased from 57 percent to 40 percent, based on a monthly income
          of PGK500 or less.

95.     Details of the Socio-Economic Impact Assessment carried out under the project are
presented in Annex 5.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

96.     The risk to development outcome at the time of the project closing is rated as Moderate,
due to a number of factors discussed below.

97.      Political and institutional risks are moderate. Important preconditions for sustainable
road maintenance programs in the participating provinces are in place. For example, roads have
improved over the last decade due to sustained financing and technical assistance from AusAID,
the Asian Development Bank, Japanese International Cooperation Agency and the World Bank.
GoPNG has recognized the importance of adequate transport infrastructure in its strategic
documents2 and is currently finalizing its National Transport Strategy plan, which calls for
significant investments to rehabilitate and adequately maintain the roads transport infrastructure
in the country. Following rehabilitation of roads carried out by DoW across the country, NRA is
increasingly assuming the responsibility to maintain National Roads of PNG as prescribed under
the NRA Act of 2003. Nevertheless, NRA is a relatively new institution that needs support with
developing appropriate maintenance modalities (planning, specific contractual arrangements, etc).

98.      Technical risks are moderate. The planning and setting of priorities for roads is currently
constrained by lack of data, inadequate planning tools and limited engagement by provincial
governments. Roles and responsibilities of DoW and NRA are well defined legally and there is
common understanding about the scope of their activities. Nevertheless, because of chronic lack
of adequate funding, both institutions have been facing difficulties in attracting and keeping
quality staff. The capacity situation at regional and local offices is challenging and can cause
delays in implementing works programs. A further risk is that of private sector contractors
seeking higher paid contracts in the booming mining sector. Nonetheless, the predictable,
medium-term road maintenance funding allowed for the emergence of numerous small- and
medium-sized companies to enter the market and several communities to enjoy casual day labor
employment.

99.     RMRP II, which follows on the achievements made under RMRP and takes into account
lessons learned, helps minimizes the risk that development outcomes under RMRP will not be
maintained.




2
    Papua New Guinea Vision 2050 (November 2009); Papua New Guinea Development Strategic Plan
    2010-2030 (March 2010); Medium-Term Development Plan 2011-2015.



                                                20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory.

100.    The project team drew lessons of experience from previous highway and transport
projects in PNG and throughout the Pacific Region and provided a well-balanced approach to
project design to include both tangible physical investments, as well as institutional
strengthening, socio-economic impact studies that in time might build political support for the
need for maintenance and a proactive training approach for small- and medium-scale local
contractors to participate in the economic opportunities of the project.

101.     Potential risks were realistically identified and measures put in place to mitigate them
(see Section 2.1). The design of RMRP limited works and involvement to six provinces, in an
effort to ensure that the staffing and resources of an institutionally weak implementing agency
were not overstretched and overcommitted. Project design was also consistent with the country’s
development strategy and key objectives to be achieved under the project tied in with the
country’s objectives.

102.     Care was taken in design to mitigate any potential safeguards issues. The overall
principle was to only conduct works within existing rights-of-way, and to avoid the need for land
acquisition. Documentation was prepared to mitigate both environmental and social impacts, and
the consistent Satisfactory ratings for safeguards throughout implementation are testament to
good consideration of safeguards aspects in project design.

103.     The project design required the implementing agency to regularly submit progress
reports, as well as Annual Works Programs, which were viewed as a good option for keeping
implementation on track. The design of the project included allowance for the EPM to implement
the project on the government’s behalf. This was a critical decision in the design and made a
significant contribution to the project’s success.

104.      Considerable delays in implementation were experienced during the early years of the
project. The design called for counterpart contributions of 33 percent, which GoPNG wanted
because this was an IBRD loan, not IDA Credit. However, changing economic conditions made
it difficult for GoPNG to finance its contribution, and it wasn’t until PNGSDP intervened with
funding that the project took off. Although these types of changes cannot be anticipated, the
Bank Team could have been more proactive when it became apparent that counterpart funding
was not forthcoming.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory.

105.   Implementation support was provided throughout the project, not only in project
management matters, but also specifically to financial management, procurement, and
environmental and social safeguards. Regular supervision missions were carried out by the Task
Team, which was consistently staffed with qualified staff and consultants.


                                                21
106.     During supervision when difficulties arose, the Bank provided adequate support when
needed. For example, ISR #7 of June 2005 rated both progress towards achievement of the
development objectives and overall implementation progress as Moderately Unsatisfactory. This
was largely due to issues with counterpart funds, audit reports not being provided, and letters of
credit not being signed. To improve implementation, the Bank provided close supervision
support to the implementing agency, and also later on prepared Additional Financing to account
for increased project costs, a less favorable exchange rate, and to further progress of works
undertaken under the project. The close supervision resulted in the upgrading of ratings, as
reported in ISR #9 (November 2006). From that point on, the ratings remained Satisfactory with
the exception of one occasion when a Moderately Satisfactory rating was given for progress
towards achievement of development objectives and twice for overall implementation progress.

107.     The indicators generated in the ISRs remained as per the original Loan throughout
implementation, which was a system error. The Bank Team should have made efforts to correct
this, but the regular project reports did provide information on the revised indicators. While this
is a shortcoming, it is not enough to override the Bank’s satisfactory performance over the
RMRP’s ten-year implementation period.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

108.     The Bank conducted supervision missions at least two times per year, with additional
special visits made when needed. During these missions, Bank staff regularly met with various
stakeholders, periodically inspected physical works in the field, and carried out rapid appraisal
interviews with community groups. In addition, at key junctures, the task team reacted
proactively to address implementation delays as they arose, for example by: (i) facilitating the
Government’s access to supplementary counterpart funds from AusAID and PNGSDP; (ii)
processing a number of extensions to the closing date that were accompanied by time bound
action plans for the Government to make full use of the available funds; (iii) encouraging DOW
to employ a full-time Environmental Management Officer to verify compliance by the contractors
with approved environmental management plans; and (iv) incorporating good practice
international examples of HIV/AIDs information education and communication campaigns to
strengthen DOW’s initiatives in introducing these measures on all major contracts (even those
below US$10 mil.). Over the course of the project, there were only three task team leaders, thus
providing a degree of continuity to the Borrower. In late-2004, responsibility for the project
passed from a headquarters-based task manager and team to a Sydney-based task manager and
team, which had an appropriate skill mix for the task.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

109.     Although performance improved over the life of the project, the lack of counterpart
funding, particularly in the early years of implementation (2002 to 2005), contributed to
significant delays. It wasn’t until the PNGSDP provided funds to GoPNG that implementation
took off. Inter-ministerial support to DOW during design was, at times, lacking. For example,
the Ministry of Communications, which was responsible for identifying local contractors to



                                                22
participate in the project, was lacking, so oversight for the entire training component was given to
DOW. The timeliness of project audits by the Auditor General’s Office was not well appreciated,
and the length of time for NEC approvals of large contracts led to implementation delays and
higher contract costs. Despite the lack of funding in the early years, the Government’s
commitment to the RMRP’s development objectives, particularly in the last five years of the
project when tangible improvements in the condition of some of the main roads in the
participating provinces materialized, was strong.

110.     The Government actively participated during project preparation and was proactive in
identifying practical solutions to overcome challenges during implementation.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

111.   DOW demonstrated its commitment to the project by being responsive to project needs
throughout implementation and by providing strong, experienced and dedicated direction and
management at Head Quarters via the Project Director for the full duration of the project period,
and consistently providing qualified counterpart staff in all provinces.

112.     Recognizing the need to have additional help to implement the project, DOW contracted
a firm to serve as its project manager. Throughout the duration of the project, the EPM provided
both technical and fiduciary support. Additionally, an Environmental Officer from within DoW
was appointed following project effectiveness (2002) to provide environmental input on project
works and training to provincial DoW staff. This assisted in the project meeting environmental
safeguards obligations throughout implementation.

113.    During preparation, the DOW played an active role in identifying roads and bridges to be
improved under the project, and ensured effective project design and contract documentation
during implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

114.     The rating for Overall Borrower performance is Moderately Satisfactory, based on the
ratings for performance of the Government and Implementing Agency.

6. Lessons Learned

115.     The RMRP was implemented in a challenging operating environment and was at times
constrained by circumstances beyond the immediate control of those implementing the project.
The country environment risk was flagged for the duration of the project and yet the project was
able to maintain satisfactory or moderately satisfactory achievement of the development
objectives in all but ten months of its 9.5 years duration, and satisfactory or moderately
satisfactory implementation progress for all but around 14 months. The reasons for this were
fourfold and inter-related.

116.     Firstly, the project design was rigorous and realistic in its identification of potential
risks. It accurately pre-identified a number of high risks that surfaced during the course of



                                                23
implementation and as such, could be addressed by the project team in a timely manner. Among
the highest risks identified were inadequate or late counterpart funding, potential political
interference in drawing up annual work programs, inability of the government to acquire
additional land, if required, selection of inappropriate contractors, and inability to motivate
participating communities to comply with contract conditions. The open and frank early
identification of the risks created an entry point for their solutions, as explained below.

117.     The second reason for the project’s success was that recognizing the small size of the
civil service in PNG, and the relative inexperience with Bank guidelines and procedures, the
project funded a long term, full time Employer’s Project Manager to supplement (not
supplant) DOW’s staff numbers and capabilities. The EPM comprised not only the usual
central project management unit responsible for project fiduciary functions, but also Provincial
EPMs, who worked alongside the Department of Works’ own provincial officers in the
participating provinces. The professional and collegial approach of the EPM staff at both central
and provincial levels, supplemented by periodic formal work-shopping of common issues and
concerns between provinces, resulted in the engagement of government counterpart staff in
meaningful learning-by-doing project implementation. Whereas early risks to the project had
been identified as the potential inability to recruit competent works supervisors and the possibility
of inappropriate procurement and/or misuse of funds, throughout the life of the project,
procurement performance was consistently rated as satisfactory, and in the last two years, DOW
itself was enforcing strong contractual measures against under-performing contractors. This
learning-by-doing in turn inculcated a strong sense of local ownership and, for example, whereas
shortfalls in counterpart funds was the cause of delay for the first two years of the project, by the
last two years, the government (through the PNG Sustainable Development Fund) was
contributing more than the agreed contribution to make up for shortfalls resulting from the
appreciation of the local currency against the US dollar, and to extend some contracts beyond the
project work program.

118.     Thirdly, recognizing the large number of potential risks, the Bank project team was
proactive in closely supervising the project through regular missions and site visits with
government counterparts to verify implementation progress against agreed work plans, the quality
of remote works, and compliance with safeguards. This resulted for example, in the Bank’s
project team recognizing the needs of the client and being able to flexibly support a range of
procurement methods to cover the requested large and inclusive range of maintenance contracts
from international competitively bid major contracts on the country’s national highways to the
dozens of community-based maintenance contracts to the use of force account by DOW in remote
and inaccessible provinces, such as Manus. It also resulted in the government obtaining a better
understanding and honoring the principles behind safeguards and, for example, DOW staff
assuming responsibility for monitoring contractors in the field to ensure they were following the
provisions of approved environmental management plans and HIV/AIDS IECC outreach on all
major contracts.

119.    Fourthly, the socio-economic impacts of the project works were systematically
monitored across beneficiary and control (non-beneficiary) communities in all provinces.
The results of these surveys were presented to DOW and other technical staff during the course of
the project, highlighting the educational, health and local economic development benefits of
improved access, and also identified some of the negative impacts of the program. This not only
allowed for adjustments to the work program to include not only road sections with high
economic rates of return, but also to better target communities most in need. The public
dissemination of some of these results (for example, a popular video that was released) served to
build public support for the project and helped mitigate against the earlier identified risks of lack


                                                 24
of local support for the proposed works and inability to motivate communities to comply with
contract conditions.

120.    The project was one of the first in the EAP region to benefit from (at the time) the
recently introduced additional finance instrument. The availability of significant additional
finance and its rapid processing meant that the project could be scaled-up from six to eight
participating provinces. This scale-up and the subsequent increase in the number of small
contracts that were awarded, minimized the potential for conflict between communities that
benefitted and those that did not.

121.    Finally, RMRP was a large-scale infrastructure project, implemented by the DOW, but
the local economic benefits and improved access to markets, health and education that
resulted from the maintenance of roads and bridges have brought positive and quantifiable
benefits to rural communities and groups within the communities, notably women, children and
the poor.

122.     The overriding lesson to emerge from RMRP is that even when both country and project
risks may be high, where the risks are robustly identified and the project is implemented in a
close, but collaborative way at a pace appropriate to uptake by local institutions and with a focus
on sustainability and not asset building, the risks, by and large, can be managed for positive
outcomes. As a post-ICR activity, together with the Borrower, the Bank team intends to conduct
an ex-post risk validation exercise, in which the risk framework outlined in paragraphs 33-36 will
be examined by asking three questions in hindsight: (i) did this risk materialize; (ii) if so, what
mitigation measures were used (by any parties, and specifically did the Bank and Borrower use
the mitigation measures identified ex ante); and (iii) what other risks eventuated that were not
flagged in the project design, and how were those mitigated? The results of this ex-post risk
validation exercise will be shared internally and with partners, along with the findings of this ICR
and the specific results of the lessons learned exercise on the Manus force account pilot.

123.    Recommendations. Extrapolating from RMRP’s lessons learned generates the
following operational principles for successful implementation in fragile institutional settings and
low-capacity operating environments:

         (i)   Avoid overly ambitious timetables or complex project designs, and sustain
               engagement with Borrower and other stakeholders during long delays (whether
               caused by effectiveness conditions or delayed key actions in implementation).
                  In fragile operating environments, “aspirational? timetables that may be
                   “inspirational? in other settings end up having divisive and discouraging
                   impacts on implementing partners and can risk reputational damage to the
                   Bank. Allowing for a more realistic timetable, while sustaining constant
                   monitoring and encouragement to take small steps and make intermittent
                   progress allows for a sense of joint positive engagement.
                  While dealing with lengthy delays, use other activities (low-key workshops on
                   implementation topics, periodic VCs with stakeholders) to sustain engagement
                   and build rapport.
         (ii) Customize the approach and tools used to engage with the private sector so as to
              facilitate the robust involvement of small- and medium sized firms and “level the
              playing field? for domestic firms while not missing out on the technical expertise
              offered by international firms. In addition to aggressive outreach to the local



                                                25
     market and training in IDA/IBRD processes/documents/procedures, this may
     include explicit choices about bid sizes and sequencing of bids, consider fast-
     tracking payments for small contractors against valid progress reports, and
     enhancement of the standard bidding document for small works.
(iii) Anticipate delays in areas where weak or low-capacity national functions will
      impede the project (central tenders board, national audit authority, cash-flow
      management for release of counterpart funding), and combine pragmatism with
      proactivity. Budget for supplementary inputs (funds for external auditors in project
      budget, albeit supervised by national audit office), plan more time for the project to
      meet key benchmarks, embed early warning signals and assertively use Bank
      relationships with central economic agencies to unblock obstacles, and develop
      alternatives for critical path items like counterpart funding (e.g., third-party co-
      financing in lieu of Government budget releases).
(iv) Explore the unexpected benefits that might be created when alternatives are
     activated in managing risks, and actively build upon those choices. In RMRP,
     supporting GoPNG’s search for a solution to delayed counterpart funds resulted in
     co-financing from several key development partners. Rather than leaving this as a
     purely financial arms-length relationship, the project team actively cultivated the
     quadrilateral relationship between the Bank, the Borrower, a key bilateral donor
     Australia, and PNG Sustainable Development Program. Through shared field
     visits and workshops these co-financiers were converted into champions for more
     effective and higher quality implementation support to major civil works projects,
     and the aggressive use of PNG media allowed the stakeholders to demonstrate
     these effective partnerships to a generally skeptical public, which in turn built more
     support for and trust in the DoW.
(v) Continually review and update the risk framework during implementation with
    attention to which risk mitigation measures are most effective. Also, review the
    entire implementation experience with the Borrower after the ICR is complete in
    order to validate the risk framework and formalize lessons learned. Cultivate a
    shared approach that emphasizes that risk is not inherently damaging, but
    unmanaged risk is.
(vi) “Close the loop? using post-ICR workshops and other mechanisms to proactively
     feed operational learning into Borrower institutional processes, design of new Bank
     operations, and design of non-Bank operations (through collaborative events with
     other sector donors), and create upstream and downstream project-specific lessons
     to other projects in the portfolio (just as the RMRP team used lessons from the
     earlier Bank-financed Gazelle Restoration Program in PNG and fed RMRP
     experience into the design of RMRP-2).
(vii) The transport, access and personal security needs of men and women may be
      different. Disaggregated data collection was not a focus of the 2007 socio-
      economic survey, but it had a more prominent role in the 2008 survey. Early
      disaggregation by gender of the results of socio-economic surveys of the benefits
      and negative impacts of project activities and outcomes should be carried out early
      on. It is important to do so because good baseline data and information is essential
      in formulating policies and measures that effectively addresses women’s issues,
      and for ensuring that project impacts are socially and economically inclusive.
      Robust participation by a wide range of stakeholders in reviewing and learning
      from those data will build a broader shared understanding of both the differential



                                       26
     needs of men and women, but can also nurture a shared approach for placing a
     higher priority on inclusion across all partners’ projects.
(viii) The business needs and capabilities of large and small contractors are markedly
       distinct in small countries with limited private sector contracting capacity. To
       encourage the participation of small- and medium-sized contractors, the early
       preparation and approval of simplified bidding documents and training on their use
       should be offered to smaller firms at the start of the project, rather than after a
       number of contracts have been awarded in an effort to avoid crowding out of
       smaller firms by larger more experienced companies. Specific actions during
       contract management (as discussed in paragraph 61) can also further support small-
       and medium-sized contractors.
(ix) In countries with limited capacity, measures should be structured into a project’s
     design to ensure that counterparts have adequate training on Bank processes and
     procedures, and have regular access to qualified staff and consultants, especially on
     fiduciary matters. Best results will be obtained by not relying only on one-off
     classroom training events (which generally focus on information delivery), but
     rather including semi-formal problem-based “solution sessions? as part of regular
     supervision/implementation support missions. These project-specific investments
     in client capacity can be complemented by having project staff join periodic CMU-
     sponsored portfolio-wide capacity building workshops that are emerging as good
     practice because of their ability to build a community of practice across Bank-
     financed implementing agency teams in a country.




                                       27
                         Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing

  (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent) – Original Loan

                                                       Appraisal       Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Components                                             Estimate          Estimate       Appraisal
                                                      (US$ mil.)*      (US$ mil.)**
1: Maintenance & Rehabilitation of National Roads       22.52             35.62           158.1
2: Maintenance & Rehabilitation of Provincial
Roads                                                     6.37             9.64           151.3
3: National Bridges                                       7.33             5.12            69.8
4: Provincial Bridges                                     4.78             0.52            10.9
5: Implementation Support                                 6.65             5.39            81.1
6: Road Sector Support                                    1.93             1.93            99.9
                             Total Baseline Cost:        49.58             58.21          117.4
Physical Contingencies                                    4.96
Price Contingencies                                       4.24
                             Total Project Cost:         58.78             58.21           99.0
Front-end fee PPF
Front-end fee IBRD                                        0.4
                      Total Financing Required:          59.18             58.21
* These amounts do not include VAT and are both IBRD and Borrower amounts combined.
** These amounts include VAT and are both IBRD and Borrower amounts
   combined.




                                             28
    (b) Project Cost by Component (in US$ mil. equivalent) - Additional Financing Credit

                                                     Appraisal        Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Components                                           Estimate           Estimate       Appraisal
                                                    (US$ mil.)*       (US$ mil.)**
1: Maintenance & Rehabilitation of National Roads     28.72              40.86            142.3
2: Maintenance & Rehabilitation of Provincial Roads    2.97               2.77             93.4
3: National Bridges                                    7.76               4.07             52.4
4: Provincial Bridges                                    0                0.00            100.0
5: Implementation Support                              6.11               5.71             93.4
6: Road Sector Support                                 1.01               1.02            101.1
                               Total Baseline Cost:   46.57              54.44            116.9
Physical Contingencies                                 3.49
Price Contingencies                                    3.49
                               Total Project Cost:    53.55               54.44           101.7
Front-end fee PPF
Front-end fee IBRD                                      0.4
                        Total Financing Required:         53.95           54.44
* These amounts do not include VAT and are both IBRD and Borrower amounts combined.
** These amounts include VAT and are both IBRD and Borrower amounts combined.




                                              29
    (c) Financing
                                                        Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                         Type of Co-                                     Percentage of
            Source of Funds                             Estimate         Estimate
                                          financing                                       Appraisal
                                                       (USD mil.)*     (USD mil.)**
Original Loan:
                                             Loan
 International Bank for Reconstruction     (IBRD-
                                                               40.00            40.00        100.0
and Development                            71190)

Borrower:                 (GoPNG)                              25.07             2.28
              Provincial Governments                               -              5.2
                                     Counterpart
            New Britain Palm Oil Ltd                               -             1.02          73
                                       funds
                            PNGSDP                                 -             5.68
                             AusAID                                -             4.05
Sub-Total for Original Loan                                    65.07            58.23         90

Additional Financing:
 IDA Credit (Additional Financing)    (IDA-42980)               37.3              37.5       100
Borrower:                  (GoPNG)                              21.6                         56.8
                                       Counterpart
              Provincial Governments                               -              16.9         -
                                         funds
                             PNGSDP                                -                           -
Sub-Total for Additional Financing                              58.9             54.4        91.2
                     Total Financing:                         123.97           112.67         91
* Borrower amounts include VAT/GST (10%) of total financing
** These amounts include VAT/GST and are based on exchange rate of USD 1.0 = K 2.96
Note: At project appraisal, the exchange rate was PGK1.0 = US$0.27 and US$1.0 = PGK3.703.
      At project closing, the exchange rate was PGK.1.0 = 0.484 and US $1.0 = PGK2.066.




                                                30
                                                Annex 2: Outputs by Component

Component/Sub-       Major Outputs,       Major Outputs
  Component        with Targets (dates)   at Completion                                       Comments
                                           (latest data)
Project Component 1: Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation of National Roads
Routine              750 km (annual       447 km (annual   Roadside maintenance contracted three times annually.
Maintenance of       target) - revised     average from    Pavement maintenance also carried out annually, involved some 100 contracts
National Roads      under AF from 543      2003 to 2007)   from 2003 to 2011.
                            km
                                                           The reasons cited for target shortfall included the following, as reported by the
                                                           Borrower:
                                                               Funds provided by GoPNG and AusAID through their own programs
                                                                   for routine maintenance in some of the RMRP provinces.
                                                               Some road sections to be maintained had deteriorated so badly they
                                                                   required rehabilitation and not maintenance as planned.
                                                               Limited number of contractors available to perform maintenance works.
                                                               From 2007, NRA assumed responsibility for maintaining roads in
                                                                   Central Province, Moroboe, and West New Britain effectively limiting
                                                                   the roads for maintenance under RMRP.
Restoration of       640 km (revised         600 km        Reasons provided by the Borrower for the shortfall include:
National Roads      under AF from 440                          The cost of construction increased significantly from 2007 on.
                           km)                                     Contractor capacity weakened due to lucrative work in the mining and
                                                                   oil/gas sector, plus larger contracts in other provinces financed by other
                                                                   Donors.
                                                               DoW opted to reseal selected sections of roads which were originally
                                                                   anticipated to be finished with an unsealed surface.

                                                               This sub-component was fundamental to achieving the project development
                                                               objective through contributing to the promotion of an efficient, safe and
                                                               reliable roads transport system.




                                                                31
Project Component 2: Maintenance and Rehabilitation of Provincial Roads
Routine               50 km annually     166 km (annual   There was significant appetite among provinces for better maintenance of
Maintenance of                            average from    provincial roads supported by community involvement. This helped to increase
Provincial Roads                          2003 to 2008)   the level of routine maintenance about three times over what was anticipated.
Restoration of           220 km              174 km       Reason for shortfall involves lack of provincial counterpart funding. This sub-
Provincial Roads                                          component was fundamental to achieving the project development objective
                                                          through contributing to the promotion of an efficient, safe and reliable roads
                                                          transport system and for building private sector participation.
Project Component 3: National Bridges
Bridge                     65                  46         Reasons for the shortfall provided by the Borrower include:
Maintenance and                                                DoW lacked a bridge engineer who was needed to scope bridge works.
Rehabilitation                                                     The EPM Director filled this void at times, but was unable to commit
                                                                   enough time to oversee achievement of the target amount.
                                                               Bridge works contractors are very limited in PNG. This resulted in three
                                                                   cancelled tenders in West New Britain alone, due to lack of responses.
                                                               Necessary bridge parts were not readily available in PNG.
                                                               “Yumiyet Bridge Program" financed by the GoPNG led to
                                                                   construction/replacement of bridges in six provinces, which reduced the
                                                                   urgency for bridge replacement under RMRP. Further, construction of
                                                                   some of the planned bridges was cancelled due to inaccessibility to the
                                                                   proposed sites, or low economic rates of return caused by high
                                                                   construction costs and/or relatively lower than expected traffic volumes.
Bridge                      6                   6         Replacement of national bridges ensured good road connectivity and supported
Replacement                                               a safer and more reliable road system.
Emergency                   6                   0         Cancelled. The Borrower reported that the contract for the supply of six bridges
Bridges and Parts                                         was awarded in 2004, and it was thought that this would be fulfilled within 12
                                                          months. Delays were encountered, the main reason cited being the
                                                          establishment of the letter of credit by GoPNG and twelve months passed, and
                                                          ‘no objection’ for a contract price variation was not granted by the World Bank.




                                                               32
Project Component 4: Provincial Bridges
Bridge                        2                     2           Fundamental to achieving the project development objective through
Maintenance and                                                 contributing to the promotion of an efficient, safe and reliable roads transport
Rehabilitation                                                  system.
Bridge                        1                     1           This bridge restored reliable transport along an important provincial road.
Replacement
Project Component 5: Implementation Support
Employers Project     EPM established        EPM established    EPM established as agency to implement RMRP on behalf of GoPNG. The
Manager                                                         EPM consisted of a Project Manager/Team Leader, Financial Controller,
                                                                Provincial Engineers to supervise works in RMRP provinces, and other short-
                                                                term staff.
Design              Provision of             Assistance         A number of consultants were engaged to carry out feasibility studies, design,
                    necessary assistance     provided           preparation of bidding documents and alike. Difficulties reported by the
                    to Implementation        throughout         Borrower were:
                    Agency.                  implementation.         DoW design office lacking in experience design engineers to check the
                                                                        consultants work and approve.
                                                                     There were delays in providing the services by design consultants on
                                                                        time.
Incremental         Provision of funding     Funding provided   These covered necessary costs associated with travel/incidentals for the DoW
Operating Costs     to support               throughout         environmental monitoring and road supervision activities.
                    incremental operating    implementation.
                    costs as necessitated
                    under the project.
Purchase of         To assist with project   Equipment          Purchase of laboratory equipment – Basic laboratory facilities were set up in
Equipment           implementation,          acquired.          East New Britain, Manus, Oro, and West New Britain to facilitate the testing of
                    equipment was                               material; grading, compaction, liquid limit, etc., in the provinces as a
                    acquired to support                         mechanism for quality control. Personnel were trained to operate the
                    the following:                              laboratories and this worked well. Major tests such as California Bearing Ratio
                      Laboratory;                              for example, were carried out at the Lae and Boroko regional laboratories.
                      Traffic
                         Counting; and                          Traffic counting equipment – Three automatic traffic counters were purchased




                                                                     33
                       Environmental                       for DoW maintenance Coordination Branch to facilitate the traffic counts for
                        Monitoring                          the seal roads more accurately and efficiently. The Borrower has reported that a
                                                            lack of funding support for RAMS limits the use of traffic counters, and
                                                            installing and protecting this equipment from vandalism and theft is costly.
                                                            Also, staff trained in the use of this equipment have mostly been transferred to
                                                            other departments or have resigned to join the private sector workforce.

                                                            Purchase of Environmental Monitoring Equipment – Cancelled. DoW decided
                                                            to remove this sub-component due to the equipment being considered sensitive
                                                            and requiring special storage and maintenance. An alternative option to loan
                                                            equipment from the Department of Environment and Conservation was cited.
Audit Services      Independent auditing   Audits carried   One of the financing conditions for RMRP was for GoPNG to appoint
                    of project accounts.   out.             independent auditors to audit the project accounts. The Borrower reported that
                                                            the Auditor General’s Office is the mandated agency for the management of
                                                            audits for all PNG funds. The arrangement of an annual independent auditor had
                                                            to be done through the AG. The Attorney General’s Office (AGO) then was to
                                                            contract out to external companies the auditing of the project accounts. The
                                                            AGO insisted on using their standard tender and contract documents for
                                                            engaging an independent auditor to audit the project accounts. The World Bank
                                                            requested that their standard bidding documents be used and no progress was
                                                            made over this conflict for some time. Eventually, DOW decided to fully fund
                                                            the external auditor fees from the GoPNG counterpart funds to enable the audits
                                                            to proceed.
Strengthening the   Limited capacity in    DoW capacity     Discontinued. The Borrower has reported that initially this item was to be
Financial and       DoW for carrying out   strengthened.    undertaken by the original RMRP Project Financial Controller who worked with
Operational         Financial and                           the Departments’ audit committee to address serious issues raised by the AGO’s
Capacity of DOW     operational tasks.                      office after undertaking a full audit of the Departments operations. By all
                                                            accounts, this proved to be less than satisfactory and eventually was
                                                            discontinued with the commencement of the AusAID funded Transport Sector
                                                            Support Program. This project saw the appointment of a Financial Management
                                                            Advisor whose role was to provide financial management and direction and to
                                                            assist in strengthening the capacity of the senior management to effectively
                                                            control the resources of the Department.




                                                                 34
Project Component 6: Road Sector Support
Strengthening       Intention to improve     Practical road        This sub-component was used to strengthen private sector participation in road
Small- and          capacity amongst         and bridge            and bridge maintenance and rehabilitation. The training was undertaken by two
Medium-Sized        S&M sized                maintenance           consultants between 2004 and 2009.
Contractors         contractors to bid and   training provide
                    carry out works.         to 79 small and
                                             medium domestic
                                             contractors.
Capacity Building   Strengthening of         45 DoW central        This sub-component was used to build capacity of DoW and Provincial
of the DoW and      DoW and Provincial       and provincial        Administrations, in order to strengthen the strategic planning and management
Provincial          Administrations.         level staff trained   of the road sector which would contribute to promoting an efficient, safe and
Administrations                              in six provinces.     reliable roads transport system in the RMRP participating provinces.
Bridge Inventory    Establishment of         BIBMS                 A Bridge Management System (BMS) was developed by a consulting firm
and Bridge          BIBMS/BMS to             established.          engaged under RMRP to cover all the provinces in PNG. Since the funding was
Management          allow data collection                          limited, the updating of bridge data and condition surveys was limited to the
Systems (BIBMS)     and usage for                                  project provinces. The BMS was developed to strengthen the strategic planning
                    sustainable planning                           and management of the road sector.
                    and management of
                    bridge assets.
Study of Socio-     Study to assess          Study launched        The study was commissioned with the aim of identifying the socio-economic
economic Impacts    benefits arising from    in 2005 and           changes resulting from the road and/or bridge improvements under RMRP.
of Road and         project works to local   completed in
Bridge              communities and          2011.
Improvements        individuals.




                                                                        35
                              Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis

1.       The objective of the project’s maintenance and improvement program was to minimize the total
costs over the life cycle for a road for both agency and users considering the existing traffic volume and
condition of a road section. The project road works program was developed by DOW using the Road
Asset Management System (RAMS) and was subjected to economic analysis by consultants using the
Highway Development and Management Model. Periodic and specific maintenance were determined
from the RAMS in a coarse screening process for sub-projects based on net present value (NPV) divided
by cost. Upgrading gravel roads to sealed roads and pavement reconstruction were determined from a
fine screening process.

2.      Based on the above, a three-year works program with a value of US$52.1 million (in March 2001
prices) was developed comprising routine maintenance for national and provincial roads and selected
upgrading or pavement rehabilitation. The project appraisal document presented a list of 56 roads
showing the province, road name and length of sections requiring restoration, together with the NPV
divided by costs and the economic rates of return (ERR) and the proposed year of implementation. Under
the most likely traffic growth scenario, the NPV estimated at appraisal was US$36.5 million and the
corresponding ERR was estimated at 30 percent. The ERR for the sub-projects ranged from 14 percent to
over 100 percent. Those rates were calculated by comparing the most effective treatment with the do
minimum case.

3.      The table below presents the average road work costs per km given in the 2001 project appraisal
document, and corresponding 2011 prices. The road works correspond to the planned 2002, 2003, and
2004 road works program that totals 377 km, of which 22%, 49%, 23%, and 7% are for pavement
reconstruction, regravelling, sealing and upgrading works, respectively.

                                         Table 1: PAD3 Average Costs
                                                 (US$ per km)

                                     Road Work      2001 prices   2011 prices
                                  Reconstruction      134,670       171,031
                                  Regravelling         20,323       25,810
                                  Sealing              58,866       74,760
                                  Upgrading            97,586       123,934

4.      The evaluation of the actual road works financed with IBRD and IDA funds, show that around
788 km of road works were rehabilitated or upgraded from 2003 to 2012, of which 29%, 28%, 31%, and
12% are for pavement reconstruction, regravelling, sealing and upgrading works, respectively. Most of
the road works (67%) were executed during the 2004 to 2007 period. The following table presents the
average actual road work costs per km (in 2011 prices).




3
    Project Appraisal Document.


                                                     36
                                     Table 2: Actual Average Costs
                                             (US$ per km)

                                   Road Work                   2011 prices
                           Reconstruction                        131,767
                           Regravelling                           64,642
                           Sealing                                58,152
                           Upgrading                             283,645

5.       The comparison of the actual and estimated costs at appraisal show that the actual reconstruction
and sealing costs are around 78% of the estimated costs at appraisal, while the regravelling an upgrading
costs are around 230% to 250% of the estimated costs at appraisal. Considering the percentage of road
works executed under the project per road work type, the actual cost of the overall program is 13% higher
than the one estimated at appraisal.

6.      The following table shows, for each type of road works, the average traffic, in vehicles per day,
and the average ERR, in percent, as estimated at appraisal. Regravelling road works carry the least traffic,
while the sealing works yielded the lowest average ERR.

                                Table 3: PAD Average Traffic and ERR
                                                     Traffic                 ERR
                        Road Work               (vehicles per day)           (%)
                       Reconstruction                  971                    47
                       Regravelling                    206                    52
                       Sealing                         769                    21
                       Upgrading                       487                    47

7.       The ex-post economic evaluation first replicated the ERR results given in Table 3, for each road
work type, simulating a representative road carrying the given daily traffic and rehabilitated or improved
with the given road work type. The ex-post evaluation then recalculated the ERR of the representative
roads, this time adopting the actual average costs of each road work type. The following table presents
the results of the ex-post economic evaluation.

                              Table 4: Ex-Post Economic Evaluation

                                   Road Work                 ERR (%)
                              Reconstruction                   60
                              Regravelling                     22
                              Sealing                          27
                              Upgrading                        21

8.       Considering the actual average road works unit costs per km, the ex-post ERR is higher than 12
percent for all road work types. The ex-post ERR ranges from 21 percent for upgrading works to 60
percent for reconstruction works. Thus, the program remains economically justified considering the
actual road works costs.




                                                    37
          Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members
                                                                                    Responsibility/
           Names                              Title                    Unit
                                                                                      Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Jim Reichert                  Task Team Leader                       EASNS
Laura E. Bailey               Country Manager                        EACGF
Demetrios Papathanasiou       Sector Leader                          AFTSN     Infrastructure Economist
Cristiano Costa e Silva Nunes Sr. Procurement Specialist             EAPPR     Procurement
Miriam Witana                 Procurement Specialist                 EAPPR     Procurement
David Michael Chandler        Sr. Financial Management Specialist    EASOS
Christopher Robert Fabling    Sr. Financial Management Specialist    EASFM
Thakoor Persaud               Consultant                               ENV     Economist
Colleen M. Gollach            Consultant                             EASNS     Infrastructure Finance
Hatim M. Hajj                 Consultant                             MNSSD
Bruce M. Harris               Consultant                            EASTE-HIS Social Development
John A. Lowsby                Consultant                             EASNS     Civil Engineering
Lawrence William Carlson      Consultant                             EACGF     Civil Engineer
Sudesh Ponnappa               Operations Analyst                     EACNF
Paul Richard Wansbrough       Consultant                               ENV     Civil Engineer
                                                                               Transport and
Scott Jared Wilkinson         JPA, Transport and Infrastructure      EASNS
                                                                               Infrastructure
                                                                               Transport and
Daniel Jason Toga             JPA, Transport and Infrastructure      EASNS
                                                                               Infrastructure
Fiona Doube                   ACS                                    EACNF




                                                   38
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
    Stage of Project Cycle                                 USD Thousands (including
                                    No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel & consultant costs)
    Lending
              FY1994                                                  0.77
              FY1995                                                 52.42
              FY1996                                                177.15
              FY1997                                                304.37
              FY1998                                                 99.53
              FY1999                                                  8.86
              FY2000                       11                        54.34
              FY2001                       16                       129.92
              FY2002                       14                        91.49
                          Totals:          41                       918.85
    Supervision/ICR
            FY1996                                                   12.87
            FY1997                                                   20.23
            FY1998                                                    0.00
            FY1999                                                    0.00
            FY2000                                                    0.00
            FY2001                                                    0.00
            FY2002                                                    0.00
            FY2003                          9                        53.25
            FY2004                          7                        47.86
            FY2005                         10                        75.06
            FY2006                          9                        77.77
            FY2007                          2                        67.09
            FY2008                          5                        80.13
            FY2009                          2                        97.11
            FY2010                          7                        99.66
            FY2011                          9                        67.62
            FY2012                         12                        72.59
            FY2013                          1                         1.59
                          Totals:          73                       772.83

    Lending
    (Additional Financing)
             FY2007                        11                        99.35
                       Total:              11                        99.35




                                                 39
                                 Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results

                ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
                          CONSULTANCY SERVICES FOR
                        SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACT STUDY
                           Contract No: CS/DOW/IBRD/07

                                         2009 Evaluation Report

Prepared by Finnroad, Helsinki, July 2010

                                            Executive Summary

Background

        The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project is expected to speed-up national development
by providing better roads and transportation system in the country. The roads are also seen to reduce
poverty. Some economic changes can be seen quite soon, such as increased employment possibilities and
incomes, or after several years or even after one generation, for example, as a healthy and educated labor
force.

         The purpose of the Socio-economic Impact Study is to evaluate the impacts of the road
rehabilitation on the households' income and expenditure, on access to health and education services and
the reduction of poverty in the selected sample and control villages in the six participating provinces of
Manus, East and West New Britain, Oro, Central, and Morobe starting in 2004 and ending in 2007. This
report includes also the Western province, where the baseline study was made in 2008. The study villages
were divided into the sample villages by the main roads and the control villages away from the main road.

         This report covers the final round of the study and combines and compares the previous data, and
the data collected in 2009.

Survey Population

        In 2009, 387 households were interviewed in 22 villages, 172 households in ten sample and 215
households in the twelve control villages. The same households were interviewed also in the previous
study rounds. In the survey households, subsistence farmer was reported as occupation by 70 percent of
the respondents and 30 percent report some other occupation than subsistence farmer. The main income
sources of the households are vegetable and cash crop sales and salaries and wages. In the sample villages,
the vegetable sales bring 27 percent, cash crop sales 26 percent and salaries and wages 29 percent of all
incomes. The respective percentages in the control villages are 41, 29 and 13.

Main Findings

Impacts on road use to towns and market visits:
         After the rehabilitation of the main roads, visits to towns increased in 5 out of 8 sample villages,
but only in 3 out of 10 control villages. Also the market visits increased. The trips to markets are not
identical with the town visit, but are overlapping, because people use several market places. On average,
the trips increased 1.7 times in the sample villages by the rehabilitated roads, and 1.4 times in their
control villages. The increases were less for the non-rehabilitated roads, where the visits increased 1.2
times in the sample villages and 0.7 times in their control villages. Although people refute that the
rehabilitation is the primary reason for their trips, nevertheless the trips increased according to the
location of the villages and the road status. People do admit that the rehabilitation makes it easier to travel

                                                      40
to the vegetable markets, when they use the main roads, especially because the rehabilitation has
increased the road services.

Impacts on the PMV fees:
         The rehabilitation has not had any positive impacts on the PMV fees, which on average have
increased 20-25 percent. The increases have been bigger on the non-rehabilitated than on the rehabilitated
roads. It is clear from the previous study rounds that people did not expect the fees to go down either,
mainly because of the minimum fees set by the authorities. Despite the increases in the PMV services,
according to the responses, there are still too few PMVs operating and no competition affecting the fees.
Additionally, people face problems to get access to PMVs, and sometimes they have to wait for hours to
get in.

Impacts on income sources:
         Impacts on the vegetable market income. Independent of the number of visits, the single trip
incomes have increased in all villages, except in one. These increases mainly follow the general trend of
price increases of all goods and services. However, combined with more market trips, the average
monthly income from the vegetable sales has increased 1.6 times in the sample and 1.7 times in the
control villages.

         Roadside and village store sales. The roadside sales have increased and clearly benefited from
the rehabilitated roads, because of more traffic and passengers on the roads. This is seen as a good income
generating activity especially for women who can earn money near the home and at the same time can
take care of children and other domestic tasks. Roadside sales are also seen to help unemployed to earn
money. Additionally there is no need to pay transportation fees. Six villages have no roadside sales due to
their location. Store owners in the villages can more easily transport needed commodities from the towns.
However, in some villages store keepers have fewer sales because people prefer to buy store food and
goods in the towns where the prices are less.

         Cash crop sales. Impacts on cash crop sales are modest because the prices are usually fixed, or
fluctuate for other than rehabilitation reasons, but if the road is good, it is easier for the farmers to take
their produce to factories and storehouses in the towns. From some villages, the company drivers collect
rubber and oil palm produce and this collection system was there already before rehabilitation.
The bad or missing feeder roads to the control villages show how important the good roads are. Presently
in the control villages, many households could sell much more vegetables and/or cash crops in the
markets if they could transport them at least to the main roads. Presently many cash crop sites lie idle
because of the combined problem of no markets and bad feeder roads.

       Impacts on salaries and wages. The rehabilitation has had no impact on the people's salaries,
which are fixed and decided by the employers. However, the rehabilitation is making the travel more
convenient and faster.

         Impacts on the monthly incomes of the survey household
On average, monthly incomes of the survey households have increased. 73 percent of the respondents say
that their household income has increased. The share is bigger in the sample villages by the rehabilitated
roads, where the percentage is 82. The road rehabilitation mainly has increased the incomes from the sales
of vegetables and other agricultural products.

        The share of households with an income of K100 or less has decreased from 17 percent to 1
percent comparing the 2007 and 2009 data. For the share of households with an income of K500 or less,
the decrease has been from 62 to 47 percent.

Impacts on access to health services
        The rehabilitation of roads has had very little impact on the travel time to the nearest and most
often used health services. Either people have services in their villages or their walk to the other villages,

                                                      41
but they do not usually use the main roads, but short cuts and bush tracts. From 18 villages people walk,
less than half an hour from 12 villages, from 3 villages about one hour, although from one village walking
takes 2 hours without a possibility to use PMVs. From 4 villages, people use PMVs to reach the health
services. The rehabilitation has a positive impact on the PMV travel times, and people use them when
they have to travel to the hospitals. On average, only ten percent of all health service visits are to the
hospitals. Nobody mentions that they have no access to health services because of the distance or costs.

Impacts on access to education services
         The rehabilitation of the roads has no positive impacts on access to schools, either because the
schools exist in the villages or children walk to the schools in the near-by villages, using short cuts, bush
tracks and river banks. Only in three villages children partly use the main road. For most, the walking
time is from a few minutes to about half an hour, but also over one hour from a few villages.

         The biggest obstacles to education in some villages are too long walking distances for small
children and in all villages the shortage of money to cover the ever increasing school fees. A surprisingly
common reason was also that parents do not see the importance of schools and education. In some
villages also children are needed to work on the family gardens and cash crop blocks. Road rehabilitation
is benefiting the secondary school students by more convenient and faster PMV rides, but the access to
secondary schools is better explained by the parents'/fathers' education level and attitudes and by the
households' income level.

Impacts on poverty
         According to most responses, very few households are poor in the villages. This was mainly
based on the food security; people have food from their gardens. However, according to their own
definition, respondents included the shortage of money stronger than food, to the poverty
features/indicators: “Food is no problem, the school fees are.?

        Comparing the 2007 and 2009 data, there was a decrease of the share of households below the
poverty line, from 57 percent to 40 percent, based on the monthly income of K500 or less. In 2007 the
poverty line for a household was K500 according to the international definition, now that poverty line
shows severe poverty, and the new definition of the poverty line requires at least K800 as a monthly
household income. According to this poverty line, 67 percent of the households were below the poverty
line.

        Only Manus, as a province, had more people above the poverty line (of K800) in 2009 than in
2007 (K500). In other provinces, only five sample villages, all by good rehabilitated roads, and one
control village, had fewer households under the poverty line than in 2007.

         The comparison among the sample and control villages shows that the villages by the
rehabilitated roads have better incomes and less poor, and have benefited more than the villages by non-
rehabilitated roads. The importance of the good roads is becoming especially clear, when the sample and
control villages are compared. The bad or missing feeder roads are negatively affecting the people's lives
and incomes, by preventing people to visit more often markets and/or sell more their produce, because of
no transportation to markets. In some villages cash crops are not sold for the same reason. In these
villages the shares of the poor have increased.

        It is clear, based also on this study data, that the good roads are necessary preconditions for
socioeconomic development.




                                                     42
   Annex 6: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




          PAPUA NEW GUINEA ROAD MAINTENANCE AND
                  REHABILITATION PROJECT

                    Project Completion Report- Summary
             (Covering both Loan 7119PNG and Credit 4298PNG)




Financing:                World Bank and Government of Papua New Guinea

Implementing Agency:      Department of Works, PNG

Management Consultant:    Cardno Acil Pty Ltd (Cardno Emerging Markets)

Issued:                   15 December 2012




                                 43
NOTE; This Document is a Summary of the Project Completion Report dated July 2012,
prepared for the Department of Works by the Employer's Project Manager, Cardno Acil
Pty Limited. (Cardno Emerging Markets Pty Limited), and reference should be made to
that Document for full details of all issues discussed in this Summary.

                                LIST OF ACRONYMS
            ADB               Asian Development Bank
          AusAID              Australian Agency for International Development
            BMS               Bridge Management System
            DoW               Department of Works
           CSTB               Central Supply and Tenders Board
            EPM               Employer’s Project Manager
           FIDIC              International Federation of Consulting Engineers
            FMS               Financial Management System
          GoPNG               Government of Papua New Guinea
            GST               Goods and Services Tax
           IBRD               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
            IDA               International Development Association
            km                Kilometres
             K                Kina
            LNG               Liquefied Natural Gas
             M                Million
           MDB                Multilateral Development Banks
          NBPOL               New Britain Palm Oil Limited
            NRA               National Roads Authority
            NEC               National Executive Council
           PEPM               Provincial Employer’s Project Manager
            PFC               Project Financial Controller
           PMV                Public Motor Vehicle
            PNG               Papua New Guinea
          PNGSDP              PNG Sustainable Development Program
           PWM                Provincial Works Manager
           RAMS               Road Asset Management System
           RMRP               Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
          RMRP II             Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project II
            SIS               Socio-economic Impacts Study
            SDR               Special Drawing Rights




                                            44
1: INTRODUCTION AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (RMRP) was National Government initiative
funded by the World Bank; the National Government; and co-funders; and was implemented by the
Department of Works (DoW) with assistance by Cardno Acil Pty Ltd as the Employer’s Project
Manager (EPM).

This successful project had duration of more than nine years commencing in February 2003 and
finishing in June 2012.

The National Government provided funding of Kina (K) 86.53 Million (M), and the World Bank
financing was K94.16M. Co-funders consisted of PNG Sustainable Development Program
(PNGSDP) which provided K48.26M, Provincial Governments which provided K11.10M, the
Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID) which provided K8.64M, and New
Britain Palm Oil Limited (NBPOL) which provided K2.17M.

The total expenditure under RMRP was K358.67M. Residual funds from the National
Government’s contribution to RMRP will be transferred to the follow on project, RMRP II.

Some highlights from RMRP include:
 Rehabilitated 788 kilometres (Km) of roads.
 Repaired and maintained 5,980 Km of roads.
 Constructed 6 new bridges and rehabilitated/maintained 47 bridges.
 Set the pattern for sealing the roads which cut down on maintenance costs.
 Capacity building via on the job training.
 Conducted a study on the impacts of the road improvements on socio-economic which is the
  first of its kind in PNG.

A good deal of the success of RMRP can be contributed to the National Government, which, after a
slow start, provided sufficient and timely counterpart contributions; and the excellent working
relationship between DoW as Executing Agency, the World Bank, and the EPM team. This project
highlights how much can be achieved through dedication and commitment to provide substantial
and sustainable benefits to the people of Papua New Guinea. RMRP was hailed as a model of
development expenditure by key stakeholders specifically the Ministerial Economic Committee
and it was the only project considered appropriate to be extended under the same arrangements in
2006.

Acknowledgment is also made for the excellent support provided by the Department of National
Planning and Monitoring; Department of Treasury; Central Supply and Tenders Board (CSTB);
and the World Bank Team headed by the respective Task Team Leaders (Hatim Hajj, Thakoor
Persaud and Demetrios Papathansiou).

Special thanks and appreciation goes to the PNGSDP which pro-actively assisted by providing co-
funding to support the National Government. The PNGSDP commitment to provide substantial
funding, and to support the outcomes of RMRP were greatly appreciated.

The achievements and successful outcomes under RMRP have resulted in a follow-on project
RMRP II being strongly supported and approved by both the National Government and World
Bank.




                                           45
2: PROJECT BACKGROUND

The Government of Papua New Guinea (GoPNG) launched the medium term development strategy
with emphasis on maintenance of the existing infrastructure in 1995. Due to changing priorities,
both political and social, implementation of the medium term development strategy concept was
held in abeyance for some five years. In the meantime the quality of the existing road network
deteriorated drastically as the result of lack of funding due to the country’s financial constraints.

The National Government remained committed to restore the national and provincial road network
and the World Bank was requested to provide funds for the road maintenance and rehabilitation.
Consequently the World Bank agreed to fund road maintenance in specified areas of PNG under a
loan agreement named the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project RMRP. The RMRP was
designed to cover maintenance and rehabilitation of roads and bridges both national and provincial,
in Central, East New Britain, Manus, Morobe, Oro and West New Britain Provinces. The
remaining provinces (excluding Gulf and Western) were to be shared between AusAID and the
Asian Development Bank (ADB) with the objective of bringing the entire national road network to
an acceptable condition within a reasonable time frame.

DETAILS

1.    Country                      Papua New Guinea
2.    Project Title                Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
3.    Borrower                     Independent State of Papua New Guinea
4.    Executing Agency             Department of Works

LOAN DATA

Loan Number                        7119PNG
Loan Amount                        US$40million (K125million)
Loan Signed Date                   12 August 2002
Loan Effectiveness Date            7 February 2003
Original Closing Date              31 December 2006
1st Revised Closing Date           31 December 2007
2nd Revised Closing Date           31 December 2009

CREDIT DATA (ADDITIONAL FINANCING)

Credit Number                      4298PNG
Credit Amount                      SDR24.9million (US$37.3million, K98.2million)
Credit Signed Date                 3 July 2007
Credit Effectiveness Date          19 September 2007
Original Closing Date              31 December 2009
1st Revised Completion Date        31 December 2011
2nd Revised Completion Date        30 June 2012

3: PROJECT OBJECTIVE AND COMPONENTS

The objective of the project was to assist the GoPNG in promoting an efficient, safe and reliable
roads transport system in the participating provinces through: (a) the improvement of selected road
segments; (b) strengthening strategic planning and management of the road sector; and (c)


                                             46
   strengthening the institutional arrangements for road maintenance, including private sector
   participation.

   The above objective was achieved through the following six components: (A) maintenance and
   restoration of national roads; (B) maintenance and restoration of provincial roads; (C) maintenance,
   rehabilitation and replacement of national bridges; (D) maintenance, rehabilitation and replacement
   of provincial bridges; (E) implementation support and (F) road sector support.

4: IMPLEMENTATION

   4.1   EXECUTING AGENCIES

   The two Executing Agencies responsible for implementation and their respective areas of
   responsibilities were as follows:
   1. Department of Works (DoW) – all project components other than the loan category ‘Training
      and Support of the Construction Industry’; and
   2. Department of Trade and Industry – the ‘Training and Support of the Construction Industry’
      component.

   4.2   IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS

   Department of Works, assisted by the EPM, was responsible for:

   a) Plan, design, and implement the component activities and initiatives outlined in this scope of
      service.
   b) Together with other GoPNG agencies involved, procure the works, goods and services in
      accordance with GoPNG regulations and guidelines and to the approval of the World Bank.
   c) Providing administrative, procurement, personnel, operational, contract management support
      and implementation of program activities.
   d) Ensuring that all project-related documents and records are maintained efficiently to enable ease
      of access during post reviews by authorized GoPNG and World Bank staff, and stored securely
      to ensure access to only authorized personnel.
   e) Stringent financial controls were necessary to ensure all funds were managed and controlled
      within both the World Bank guidelines and GoPNG legislative parameters. A financial
      management system was designed and implemented to meet the Bank’s specific requirements in
      regards to financial reporting and management including withdrawal applications.

   5: PROJECT LOANS, FINANCIALS AND DISBURSEMENTS

   5.1   INTRODUCTION

   One of the loan conditions under covenant was for GoPNG to provide counterpart funds in a timely
   basis. There were some delays in the early stages up to and including 2003 due to unavailability of
   sufficient counterpart funds for this project which resulted in financial payment cash-flow
   difficulties. This was addressed by GoPNG in arrangements with AusAID initially in 2004, and
   then PNGSDP from 2005 to 2012, to provide additional required counterpart funds on behalf of
   GoPNG. NBPOL provided some funds in 2007 for a section of the New Britain Highway in which
   they had an interest.

   Overall the GoPNG co-funding performance has been satisfactory in meeting the needs and goals
   of the project.

                                                47
5.2       PROJECT FINANCING

          Funded By                     IBRD Program              IDA Program            Total
  World Bank                                118,410,508                94,164,605       212,575,113
  GoPNG                                      50,249,065                36,284,541        86,533,606
  AusAID                                      8,639,485                         0         8,639,485
  PNGSDP                                     18,284,164                29,980,727        48,264,891
  Provincial Governments                     18,997,318                -1,466,296        17,531,022
  New Britain Palm Oil Ltd                    2,170,547                         0         2,170,547
                     Totals:                216,751,087               158,963,577       375,714,664

5.3       DISBURSEMENTS

PROJECT COST BREAKDOWN BY COMPONENT/CATEGORY

IBRD LOAN AND IDA CREDIT PROGRAMS COMBINED

                                                     World Bank          IBRD             IDA            Total
 Category                 Description
                                                      Financing
                                                                                    Kina (million)

 Civil Works
 National Roads
      1A     Routine Maintenance                         37%          11,666,405      12,037,828      23,704,234
   1B       Restoration                                  70%          95,679,366      91,677,001      187,356,367
 Provincial Roads
      1C     Routine Maintenance                         37%           3,699,966        100,117        3,800,083
   1D      Restoration                                   70%          24,733,813      7,510,972       32,244,785
 National Bridges
      1E     Maintenance and Rehabilitation              70%           3,068,438      6,003,938        9,072,376
   1F        Replacement                                 70%          11,446,660      4,007,191       15,453,851
 Provincial Bridges
      1G     Maintenance and Rehabilitation              70%           205,425              0          205,425
      1H     Replacement                                 70%           1,150,383            0          1,150,383
                                        Sub-total                     151,650,457    121,337,047      272,987,504
 Goods
      2      Emergency Bridges and Parts                 100%             0                 0             0
      2      Laboratory Equipment                        100%          324,103              0          324,103
      2      Traffic Counting Equipment                  100%           32,341              0           32,341
             Environmental Monitoring
                                                         100%             0                 0             0
      2      Equipment
                                    Sub-total                          356,444              0          356,444
Training
      3      Training Workshops Conferences              91%           287,785              0          287,785
                                        Sub-total                      287,785              0          287,785
 Consultants Services



                                                    48
                                                          World Bank      IBRD             IDA           Total
  Category                  Description
                                                           Financing
                                                                                     Kina (million)

      4A      EPM/PEPM                                        83%      16,392,805      26,455,111     42,847,916
              Design, Bid Documents and
                                                              75%       820,965        1,142,794       1,962,000
      4B      Supervision
              Bridge Inventory and Management
                                                              100%      2,155,452            0         2,155,452
      4B      System
      4B      Socio-economic Impact Study                     100%      876,256        1,985,894       2,862,150
      4C      Construction Industry Training                  100%      1,756,281            0         1,756,281
      4D      Strengthening FMS                               100%         0                 0            0
      4E      Auditing and Accounting Services                100%      856,641        1,689,348       2,545,989
                                             Sub-total                 22,858,400      31,273,138     54,131,538
 Incremental Operating Costs
    5         Incremental Operating Costs                     80%        28,861          139,041       167,902
 Other
      6       Fee                                             100%      1,481,481            0         1,481,481
      7       Unallocated                                     69%          0                 0            0
      8       GST                                                      16,852,032      12,032,586     28,847,118
      9       Other                                                      34,542          17,268         51,830
              Total                                                    193,551,957    164,799,175     358,351,132


6: PROJECT TARGETS AND ACHIEVEMENTS

6.1       COMPONENT A - MAINTENANCE AND RESTORATION OF NATIONAL ROADS

A.1 - Routine Maintenance of National Roads

Target (annually) ............ 750km
Achieved.......................... 447km (average over 2003 to 2007)
Expenditure (M) .............. K23.70

A.2 – Restoration of National Roads

Target.............................. 640km
Achieved.......................... 622.4km
Expenditure (M) .............. K187.36

6.2       COMPONENT B - MAINTENANCE AND RESTORATION OF PROVINCIAL ROADS

B.1 - Routine Maintenance of Provincial Roads

Target (annually) ............ 50km
Achieved (average) ......... 166km (2003 to 2008)
Expenditure (M) .............. K3.80

B.2 - Restoration of Provincial Roads


                                                         49
Target.............................. 220km
Achieved.......................... 156km
Expenditure (M) .............. K32.2

6.3     COMPONENT C – MAINTENANCE, RESTORATION OF REPLACEMENT OF
        NATIONAL BRIDGES

C.1 - Maintenance and Rehabilitation of National Bridges

Target.............................. 65
Achieved.......................... 47
Expenditure (M) .............. K9.07

C.2 - Replacement of National Bridges

Target.............................. 6
Achieved.......................... 6
Expenditure (M) .............. K15.45

C.3 – Supply of 6 Emergency Bridging Sets
The Government had started the ‘Umiyet’ bridge construction program to supply and construct
bridges nationwide and thus DoW elected to cancel this component from the RMRP Program.

6.4     COMPONENT D – MAINTENANCE, REHABILITATION AND REPLACEMENT
        OF PROVINCIAL BRIDGES

D.1 - Maintenance and Rehabilitation of Provincial Bridges

Target.............................. 2
Achieved.......................... 2
Expenditure (M) .............. K0.21

D.2 – Replacement of Provincial Bridges

Target.............................. 1
Achieved.......................... 1
Expenditure (M) .............. K1.15

7: LESSONS LEARNED

7.1 ENHANCED BIDDING DOCUMENT
The DoW standard contract which uses the World Bank’s standard bidding document for small
works is general in form and content, and created a number of problems with contractors during
supervision of the contract works. The standard bidding document was enhanced with the
following new sub-clauses added under the specification, special provisions during the
implementation of the IDA program.

(i)     quality assurance system requirements;
(ii)    environmental management plan requirements;
(iii)   HIV/AIDS prevention program requirements ( program delivered by an accredited agency);

                                             50
      (iv)   health and safety of workers requirements; and
      (v)    prior performance within the bid documents qualification criteria.

      The new clauses placed a clear obligation on the contractor to produce management plans with
      defined methodology to achieve the expected outcomes which are listed under these clauses, as
      guidance for the contractor to prepare its plan. All plans, including the implementation of same, are
      pay items in the contract bill of quantities, with payment divided between as a lump sum for the
      plan and progressive payment for implementation period. These additional provisions have proven
      effective in achieving the social objectives.

      7.2 PROCUREMENT OF WORKS AND EXECUTION OF CONTRACTS
      Village Groups

      The RMRP initially procured routine maintenance via village groups. The issues faced in
      implementing routine maintenance by village groups were many:
      a)   Payments were demanded immediately after completion of each cycle of maintenance which
           put extra pressure on DoW work supervisors and account section to process claims and issue
           cheques within a short period of time, and demands for payments to be made in cash.
      b)   Long delays in the reconciliation of accounts and application for reimbursement of
           expenditure by the provinces.
      c)   The village groups often did not having bank accounts and thus found it difficult to cash
           cheques and therefore demanded cash payments, which was an unsafe method of payment.
      d)   In number of instances, an office bearer absconded with the cash.
      e)   Opinion as to the quality of output differed and this lead to disputes.
      f)   Claims of villagers demanding toll from road users for them maintaining the roads.

Solution: In the later stages of the project, larger sections of the road were procured under one contract
through national shopping (minimum of three quotes) with the provision that the contractor would
employ and pay the villagers to perform tasks.

      Minor Works Contracts (Up to K300,000)
      The issues faced with minor works contractors were:
      a)     Small contractors experienced cash flow problems in purchasing the materials such as
             premix for pothole repairs, gabion baskets etc, leading to delays in the work.
      b)     There was a provision in the contract to receive 10% advance payment, but most contractors
             could not use this facility as their bank credit rating was poor, preventing them from being
             able to secure an advance payment guarantee from a bank.

Solution: The cash flow problem was addressed to certain extent by paying the progress claims within a
short period of time, i.e. in most cases less than two weeks against 28 days in contract.

      Major Contracts

      a)     There is a limited number of national contractors able to carry out major contracts, therefore
             a small pool of would bid the same projects.
      b)     Delayed delivery of the completed works by the contractors, even though liquidated damages
             were applied, impacting on the RMRP program for implementation.
      c)     Contracts processed within the CSTB system must be less than K10M, and this low limit
             discouraged some of the better resourced contractors. Propose limit be lifted to K.

                                                    51
 d)    The alternative of awarding the contracts and signing the agreements by the NEC normally
       results in long delays, taking perhaps six to nine months or longer.
 e)    Limited number of bridge contractors meant that some proposed/planned bridge projects
       could not proceed either due to extremely high bid prices or no bids received.
 f)    Insufficient counterpart funds were available at the start of the project. The situation
       improved markedly after PNGSDP provided the necessary counterpart funds for this
       component.
 g)    Contractor’s faced unreasonable compensation claims and/or damage to equipment from
       local villages for issues outside the contractor’s control.

 Solution: Make the contract packages large enough to attract better resourced local contractors and
 foreign contractors. To achieve interest, the lower limit may be K50M. Ensure provincial
 governments and DoW work closely with villagers to assist the understanding of the importance of
 improved road infrastructure and avoid land disputes.

 7.3 CONTRACT WORKS SUPERVISION

       a) DoW unable to provide sufficient experienced supervisory staff. This is being
          exacerbated by the recruitment of engineers into the oil and gas and mining industries.
       b) Lack of funding to support supervisory staff to carry out the work, eg for vehicle fuel and
          repairs.

 Solution: This was addressed by DoW in agreeing to employ national engineers in the EPM team.
 Otherwise, there is a need for DoW to consider the use of consultants.

 7.4   DOW FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

 a)    Lack of experienced financial staff to undertake basic DoW financial processes.
 b)    Lack of motivation or interest by financial staff to undertake basic DoW financial processes
       leading to very slow processing time (i.e. payments to contractors and consultants; bank
       reconciliations; making numerous errors; not fixing transaction errors etc).
 c)    DoW not meeting legal taxation obligations by not raising withholding tax cheques or by not
       releasing them to the Internal Revenue Commission for many months.

 Solution: This was addressed by: EPM putting in place very strong internal controls and stringent
 monitoring and checking of all transactions; constant follow up and review of outstanding issues;
 and working closely with DoW senior management to raise issues for action.

 7.4 ANNUAL EXTERNAL AUDIT

Slowness of conducting the annual external audit managed by the Auditor General’s Office resulting
in the issue of the audit certificate constantly being late. Also, relationship issues between the
Auditor General and external auditors.

 Solution: Advanced meetings with the Auditor General’s Office to discuss the timeframe required
 under the Loan/Credit Agreement, and constant follow-up to expedite the issue of the certificate.
 Agreement reached for the AG’s Office to tender and contract the external audit company.




                                              52
      7.6   FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

    Complex nature of World Bank’s loan categories, various reimbursement percentages, disbursement
    applications and reporting requirements in conjunction with multi funding sources (i.e. World Bank,
    GoPNG, AusAID, PNGSDP, provincial governments) necessitated strong financial management.
    This became even more important with the combination of both IBRD and IDA funding.

Solution: The development of a stand-alone financial management system individually designed to cater
for the specific RMRP requirements.

      7.7   LAND DISPUTES

      Road corridors are in the customary land, except few sections which were purchased by the
      government. Land owners have agreed with the government to build the roads through their
      customary land. A consultative process was put in place by appointing provincial government land
      officers to be in-charge of consultation and communication with all stakeholders to ensure there
      was a common understanding and acceptance (ownership) of project goals and to the advantages to
      all parties. Nevertheless there were occasional issues with local communities which lead to delays
      to the contractors. These were resolved via the consultative process, with the intervention of DoW.
      Solution: A consultative process to be carried out at the planning stages and a formal agreement
      signed with all land owners.




                                                   53
APPENDIX A – KEY STAFF INVOLVED IN THE IMPLEMENTATION

DEPARTMENT OF WORKS
Secretary
Deputy Secretary (Technical)
First Assistant Secretary (Operations)
First Assistant Secretary (Contract Management)
First Assistant Secretary (Design Services)
Assistant Secretary (Maintenance Coordination Services)
Project Director (World Bank Projects)
Environmental Manager
Regional Works Manager (Northern and Southern)
Regional Works Manager (Islands)

Provincial Works Manager (Central)
Provincial Works Manager (East New Britain)
Provincial Works Manager (Gulf)
Provincial Works Manager (Manus)
Provincial Works Manager (Morobe)
Provincial Works Manager (Oro)
Provincial Works Manager (West New Britain)

CENTRAL SUPPLY AND TENDERS BOARD
The Chairman
Board Secretary
Road Sector Officer

DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
First Assistant Secretary

DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY
Deputy Director
First Assistant Secretary
Assistant Secretary
Senior Financial Analyst (World Bank)

DEPARTMENT OF NATIONAL PLANNING & MONITORING
Deputy Secretary
First Assistant Secretary
Planning Officer (World Bank Desk)

DEPARTMENT OF TRADE AND INDUSTRY
Deputy Secretary
Assistant Secretary (Training)
Training Officers

DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT
First Assistant Secretary
Assistant Secretary


                                        54
AUDITOR GENERAL’S OFFICE
Auditor General
Assistant Auditor General
Assistant Auditor General Special Audits
Auditor National Government Branch

PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENTS
Central Provincial Administration
East New Britain Provincial Administration
Gulf Provincial Administration
Manus Provincial Administration
Morobe Provincial Administration
Oro Provincial Administration
West New Britain Provincial Administration

WORLD BANK
Task Team Leader
Civil Engineering Consultant
Procurement Specialist
Financial Management Specialist
Social Development Specialist
Environmental Specialist
Senior Operations Officer
Senior Program Assistant

MANAGING CONSULTANT – CARDNO ACIL PTY LTD (CARDNO EMERGING
MARKETS)
Project Director (part time)
Full-time assignments
Team Leader
Project Financial Controller
Senior Provincial Engineer (Central and Gulf)
Senior Provincial Engineer (Oro and West New Britain)
Provincial Engineer (East New Britain and Manus)
Provincial Engineer (Morobe)
Assistant Provincial Engineer (Central)
Assistant Provincial Engineer (Gulf)
Assistant Provincial Engineer (Oro)
Short term assignments
Procurement and Contracts Engineer
Project Accountant
Senior Bridge Design Engineer (checking of bridge designs)
Bridge Engineer (Karama Bridge load capacity assessment)




                                       55
                     Annex 6a: Borrower's Comments on Bank ICR




                               DEPARTMENT OF WORKS
                                  HEADQUARTERS
                   World Bank Project Co-ordination Branch
P O Box 1108                                                      Telephone: 3241 482
BOROKO, NCD                                                       Facsimile: 3241 481
Papua New Guinea                                               E-mail : gkgabi@works.gov.pg
Our Ref :     128P-60MP-820/M34
Date     :    19th December 2012

Mr. Jim Reichert
Task Team Leader, RMRP II
Level 19, 14 Martin Place
CML Building
Sydney NSW 2000
Australia

Dear Jim,

RE:           DoW COMMENTS ON “IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT?
                FOR ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
                     FUNDED UNDER IBRD LOAN NO. 7119-PNG AND
                             IDA CREDIT NO. 4298-PNG

The version of the Bank’s ICR was in pdf so we were not abl e to mark the suggested changes
in the text. Instead we have listed our comments below, and suggest that you amend the ICR
accordingly.

DoW Comments on World Bank Draft ICR, dated 5 December 2012.

   1. The Bank’s ICR is considered comprehensive and accurate and DoW is in general
      agreement. A few detail comments are provided as follows.

   2. DoW has produced a Summary Project Completion Report and proposes that this be
      included as Annex 7 – Summary of Borrower’s in the Bank’s ICR, which was sent to
      you yesterday.

   3. Paragraph 38. The figures are not correct or complete, if both National and Provincial
      Roads are included. Also, DoW suggests that the amounts be stated in PGK. The
      following corrections are proposed:
            At the end of the first sentence, add after “…. maintenance?, the words “of
              National and Provincial Roads.?




                                         56
              There were 39 major contracts (including bridges), generally in the range
               PGK 5 to 10 million, but with two contracts of the order of PGK20
               million;
              There were 120 nationally bid contracts up to PGK300,000;
              There were 559 small village contracts averaging about PGK 5,000

   4. Paragraph 39: the term “hired? is used and DoW believes that this should be
       “contracted?. Also, the term “encountered problems? is used. DoW suggests that
       this should be expanded for clarity, and should read : “ … on Manus Island
       encountered problems due to logistics in the remote location and prolonged wet
       weather, and was released under the frustration provisions of the contract, a
       force account contract was awarded to the DoW to complete the Works. etc….?

   5. Paragraph 51. The dates are not correct. The sets of Socio-Economic Impact
      Studies were launched in 2005 and completed in 2011, and covered all eight
      provinces where RMRP applied.

   6. Paragraph 62. DoW suggests that the final sentence (“A high turnover … etc?) should
      be deleted and replaced with the following: “Two other factors in the administration
      of the EPM contract were significant challenges for both DoW and the EPM,
      these being i) the need to downsize the EPM staffing during these periods of
      delay in order to minimise costs, and ii) higher turnover of EPM key personnel
      (PEPMs), due to the extension and delays. The EPM co-operated with the DoW in
      these challenges.?

   7. Paragraph 76. Line 8. The RAMS system was established under ADB funding and not
       under the RMRP. The words “established and? should be deleted.

   8. Paragraph 89. Similar comment as in 4 above. Suggest use the term “ contracted?
       rather than “hired?. Expand the term “encountered problems? in line 2, as indicated
       in 4 above.

   9.   Paragraph 103. DoW proposes to add to the second sentence as follows: “ DoW
        demonstrated its commitment to the project by providing strong, experienced
        and dedicated direction and management at Head Quarters via the Project
        Director for the full duration of the project period, and consistently providing
        qualified counterpart staff in all provinces, employing ….?

   10. Paragraph 104. Line 3. DoW suggests that “Environmental Officer? should read
       “Environmental Officer from within DoW?.

We would be happy to accept the revised ICR as soon as these amendments have been made.

Yours Faithfully,




GARIGA K. GABI
Project Director (World Bank – RMRPII)


                                         57
                        Annex 7: List of Supporting Documents


World Bank Documents

   Project Appraisal Document
   Various Aide Memoires and ISRs
   Annual Audit Reports
   Country Assistance Strategy for Papua New Guinea for the Period FYO8-FY 11, Report No.
   41571 (November 20, 2007).
   Interim Strategy Note for Papua New Guinea, Report No: 31790-PG (March 18, 2005).
   Project Paper for Additional financing
   Socio-Economic Impact Assessment Report

GoPNG Documents

   The Medium-Term Development Strategy, 2005-2010 (November 2004).
   Papua New Guinea Development Strategic Plan, 2010-2030, Department of National
   Planning and Monitoring, Port Moresby (March 2010).
   Papua New Guinea Medium-Term Development Plan, 2011-2015, Department of National
   Planning and Monitoring, Port Moresby (October 2010).




                                            58
                                                 142°E                                           144°E                                        146°E                            148°E                                   150°E                                152°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PAPUA NEW GUINEA
                 0°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ROAD MAINTENANCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AND
                                         0                      100                  200 Kilometers

                                                                                                                                                      SO UT H PA CIFIC O CEA N                                                                                              REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                         0                     50              100           150 Miles                                                                                                                                                                                        PROVINCES INCLUDED UNDER ORIGINAL LOAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mussau
                                                                                                                                     MANUS                                                                          Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROVINCES ADDED UNDER ADDITIONAL FINANCING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NEW                                          CITIES AND TOWNS

                 2°S
                                                                                                                                                           Lorengau                                                                            IRELAND              2°S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                              Admiralty                    Momote
                                                                                                                                               Islands                                                                                                                                        RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Kavieng
                                       Vanimo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                       Bismark                                                                                                PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Arc                                        New Ireland
                                                 Aitape                                                                                                                                                                hip                  Laefu                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             el
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ag
                                                 Lumi                                          Wewak                                                                                                                                   o                            Namatanai          154°E                         156°E
                                      SANDAUN                          Maprik
                                                                                                                                                                                       Bismark Sea
                 4°S                                                                                        Angoram                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4°S
                                                                                 Ambunti                                                                                                                                                                Rabaul
                                                           Sepik                                                           Awar
                                IAA




                                                                               EAST                                                    MADANG
                       INDO NES I




                                                                               SEPIK                                                                                                              WEST                                                                                                 BOUGAINVILLE
                                              Cen                                                                  WESTERN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Maliom
                                                         tral
                                                                       Range                                                                                                                 N E W B R I TA I N                     Nantamba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Lemankoa
                                                                                         is     B                 HIGHLANDS
                                       Tabubil
                                                                                     ENGA m a r                                 Ra            Madang
                                                                                                                                                                                             Gloucester
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Talasea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ewase
                                                                                         Wabag k R
                                                      Koroba
                                                                                                                                 mu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             North
                                                                                      Mount Hagen
                                                                                                   a                  ng              Mt. Wilhelm          Saidor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Kimbe           Hoskins                  EAST                                            Solomons
                                                                       Tari                                                 e         (4509 m)
                 6°S                   Kiunga                                                                                           Goroka                                                                                                          N E W B R I TA I N                                                               6°S
                                                  Strickland




                                                                                     Mendi                    Kundiawa                                                        Sialum                                                                                                                              Arawa
                                                                                                                                              Kainantu                                                                                       New Britain
                                                                                                                              U
                                                                                 SOUTHERN                              I   MB         EASTERN                  Nadzab
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kandrian                                                                                                        Aropa
                                                                                 HIGHLANDS                        CH
                                                                                                                       ur            HIGHLANDS                       Lae        Finschhafen
                                                                                                                      P




                                                                                               Kik                       ari                                                                                                                                                                                  Buin
                                              Lake                                                 o   ri
                                              Murray                                                                                             MOROBE
                                                                                 Ara
                                                                                                 Kikori
                                                                                                                                                      Bulolo
                                                                                                                                                               Wau                                                                                                        S ol om on                                 S OL OM ON
                                             WESTERN                                m   ia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sea
                                                                                                                                                                            Morobe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I S L AN DS
                 8°S                                                                                                                 Kerema                                                                                                                                                                                              8°S
                                                               Fly             Balimo
                    To
                  Merauke             Weam
                                                                                                                      GULF                                                       NORTHERN                                                       Trobriand
                                                                                                                                                           Bereina
                                                                                                                                                                                          Popondetta                                Losuja      Island
                                              Morehead                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Woodlard
                                                                                                                                                                     Kokoda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Goodenough                                         Island
                                                                    Sibidiri            Daru                           Gulf o f
                                                                                                                                                         PORT                   O                                        Island
                                       Bula                                                                            Papua                          MORESBY                       we                                                                       Kulumadau
                                                                                                                                                                                         n                  Wanigela                       Fergussson
                                                                                                                                                                                             Sta                                             Island
                                                                                                                                              NATIONAL                                             nle
                                                                                                                                                CAPITAL                                                  y R                               Esa’ala          D’Entrecasteaux
                                                                                                                                                                                                             an                                                                                                              PAPUA NEW
                 10°S                                                                                                                                                                    Kupiano
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ge                            Normandy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Islands                                                      GUINEA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Island
                        Ar a f ur a                                                                                   C o r al Sea                                  CENTRAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Abau                           Alotau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MILNE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Misima
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Island

                          Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                          Samarai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      B AY                Bwagaola
                                                                                                                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                     Rossel
                                                                                                                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                       Island
SEPTEMBER 2012




                                                                                                                 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 39488
                                              A US TR ALI A                                                      endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                            Tagula
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Island
                 12°S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12°S
                                                 142°E                                           144°E                                        146°E                            148°E                                   150°E                                152°E                      154°E                         156°E
