Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4298- PNG            
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 3, 2007 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 3 , 2007, entered into between THE INDEPENDENT 
STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing 
additional financing for the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, in 
Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement, and in the Appendix to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE II – FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
twenty four million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 24,900,000) (variously, 
“Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
Page  4
2
ARTICLE III 
–
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out: (a) Parts A, C, E, F.3 and F.4 of the Project 
through DOW; (b) Parts F.1 and F.2 of the Project through its DOCI; and  
(c) Part B and Part D of the Project through the Participating Provinces; all in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.  
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the provisions of Schedule 5 to the Loan 
Agreement incorporated by reference herein pursuant to paragraph 1 of  
Section I(A) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:  that the 
Recipient and the Association have entered into an amendment agreement to the 
Loan Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matters consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Land Acquisition and Compensation Framework adopted by the 
Recipient’s National Executive Council remains legally binding upon the 
Recipient and each Participating Province in accordance with its terms; 
and 
 
(b) 
The Environmental and Social Impact Assessment Management and 
Monitoring Plan adopted by the Recipient on June 1, 2001 remains 
legally binding upon the Recipient and each Participating Province in 
accordance with its respective terms. 
 
4.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
4.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. T
he
Recipient’s Representative is the Minister for Treasury of the Recipient. 
 
Page  5
3
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Department of Treasury  
Vulupindi Haus 4
th
 floor 
P.O. Box 542 
Waigani, 131 NCD 
Papua New Guinea 
 
Telex:  
Facsimile: 
 
22218  
(675) 
3128213 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
AGREED at Washington, District of Columbia, U.S.A., as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA 
 
By 
/s/ Evan Paki 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Nigel Roberts 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is the objective of the Original Project:  to assist the 
Recipient in promoting an efficient, safe and reliable roads transport system in the 
Participating Provinces through: (a) the improvement of selected road segments; (b) 
strengthening strategic planning and management of the road sector; and (c) 
strengthening the institutional arrangements for road maintenance, including private 
sector participation.  
 
The Project consists of the Original Project. 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Project Management and Project Implementation. 
 
1. 
Section 1.02, Schedule 2, Schedule 5 and Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement are 
incorporated in this Agreement, and the provisions thereof shall apply 
mutatis mutandis
 
to this Agreement, with the following modifications in said Section and Schedules, unless 
the context otherwise requires: 
 
(a) 
the term “Bank” shall be read as “Association”; 
 
(b) 
the term “Loan” and “Loan Account” shall be read as “Credit” and 
“Credit Account”; 
 
(c) 
the term “Borrower” shall be read as “Recipient”;  
 
(d) 
the term “this Agreement” shall be read as “the Financing Agreement”;  
 
(e) 
the term “Executing Agency Trust Account” shall be read as “Project 
Implementing Agency Trust Account”; 
 
(f) 
the term “Provincial Executing Agency Trust Account” shall be read as 
“Provincial Implementing Agency Trust Account”; and 
 
(g) 
the provisions of paragraph 8 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement shall 
be modified as set out in paragraph 5 to this Section. 
 
2. 
(a) 
Subject to sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, the Recipient undertakes 
to comply with the provisions referred to in paragraph 1 of this Section 
as if those provisions had been set out and reproduced in full in this 
Agreement. 
 
(b) 
So long as any part of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement 
shall remain outstanding and unless the Recipient has been notified 
otherwise by the Association: 
 
(i) 
all actions taken, including approvals given by the Association, 
pursuant to any of the provisions referred to in paragraph 1 of 
this Section, shall be deemed to have been taken or given 
pursuant to this Agreement; and 
 
Page  8
6
(ii) 
all information or documentation furnished by the Recipient to 
the Association pursuant to any of the provisions referred to in 
paragraph 1 of this Section shall be deemed to have been 
furnished pursuant to this Agreement. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with: (a) the project 
management and project implementation arrangements set out in Schedule 5 to the Loan 
Agreement; and (b) the provisions of this Schedule 2. 
 
4. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.03 of the General 
Conditions, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain until completion of the Project, an Implementing Agency Trust 
Account in Kina in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment, for 
purposes of channeling in a timely manner the Recipient’s funding for 
the costs of works, goods and services required for the carrying out of 
Parts A, C, E and F of the Project, not financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit; and shall ensure that such funding is deposited into such account 
as required and in a timely manner; 
 
(b) 
maintain until completion of the Project, a Provincial Implementing 
Agency Trust Account in Kina in the name of the respective 
Participating Province, each in a commercial bank, acceptable to the 
Association,
 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment, 
for purposes of channeling in a timely manner each Participating 
Provinces’ funding for the costs of works, goods and services required 
for the carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project not financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit; and shall ensure that such Participating 
Provinces’ funding is deposited into such account as required and in a 
timely manner; and 
 
(c) 
maintain until completion of the Project, an Imprest Account in Kina in 
the name of the respective DOW province office, each in a commercial 
bank, acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment, for purposes of channeling in a timely manner 
each Participating Provinces’ funding for the costs of works for routine 
maintenance of provincial roads procured under paragraph 7 of 
 
Section III(B) of this Schedule required for the carrying out of the 
respective Part B.1 of the Project not financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit; and shall ensure that such Participating Provinces’ funding is 
deposited into such account as required and in a timely manner. 
Page  9
7
5. 
A Participating Province shall, prior to and as a condition for receiving financing 
for Eligible Expenditures under this Agreement, enter into a Memorandum of Agreement 
acceptable to the Association meeting the requirements set out in paragraph 8 of 
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, subject to the following modifications: 
 
(a) 
the expected provincial road maintenance works for each Participating 
Province shall be programmed annually and prepared under demand-
based financial commitments made by the Participating Province; and 
 
(b) 
the requirements set forth in sub-paragraph (ix) of said paragraph 8 shall 
be modified to read as follows: that the accounts and records of 
expenditure adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Respective Part of the Project in the Participating Province shall be 
maintained in the DOW provincial office. 
 
6. 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, no contract under the 
Procurement Plan that is financed as an Eligible Expenditure under this Agreement shall 
be an Eligible Expenditure for financing under the Loan Agreement. 
 
B. Anti-Corruption. 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports. 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement.  
Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period 
covered by such report.    
 
2. 
The Recipient shall carry out the monitoring, evaluation and reporting activities 
set out in Section 4.02 and paragraph 12 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement. 
 
3. 
For purposes of Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date. 
 
Page  10
8
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General.
 
1. 
Goods and Works
.
(a) 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
(b) 
Sections 1.6, 1.7 and 1.8 (Eligibility), 1.13 (Misprocurement), and 1.15 
and 1.16 (Fraud and Corruption) of the Procurement Guidelines are 
modified by replacing such sections with the text of Sections 1.6, 1.7 and 
1.8 (Eligibility), 1.12 (Misprocurement), and 1.14 and 1.15 (Fraud and 
Corruption), respectively, of the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Association in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services
.
(a) 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I and in Section IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
(b) 
 
Sections 1.9 (Conflict of Interest), 1.10 (Eligibility), 1.18 
(Misprocurement), and 1.25 and 1.26 (Fraud and Corruption) of the 
Consultant Guidelines are modified by replacing such sections with the 
text of Sections 1.9 (Conflict of Interest), 1.11 (Eligibility), 1.17 
(Misprocurement), and 1.22 and 1.23 (Fraud and Corruption), 
respectively, and by adding Section 1.10 (Unfair Competitive 
Advantage) of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Page  11
9
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in 
May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
3. 
Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular 
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works to be Financed out 
of the Proceeds of the Financing.
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of the provisions of Section II of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto (International Competitive Bidding). 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following 
paragraphs specify the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.   
 
3. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
(a) 
Civil works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be 
those set forth in the Annex to this Schedule 2 required to comply with the 
provisions of the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Force Account
.
Civil works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of 
the Procurement Guidelines may be carried out by force account in accordance with the 
provisions of said paragraph of the Procurement Guidelines.  
 
6. 
Community Participation
.
Civil works required for roads routine maintenance 
under Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project estimated to cost less than $8,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the 
Procurement Guidelines, under procurement procedures satisfactory to the Association.  
 
7. 
Procurement of Small Works
.
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded 
Page  12
10
on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three (3) qualified domestic contractors 
in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of 
the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services to be Financed 
out of the Proceeds of the Financing. 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragra
ph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13  
through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants 
(Quality- and Cost-based Selection). 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following 
paragraphs specify methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.   
 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services under Part E of the Project for tasks in 
circumstances which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.9 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for Single Source Selection, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a 
sole-source basis. 
 
4. 
Individual Consultants
.
Services under Parts F.1 and F.2 of the Project may be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions. 
 
1. 
Goods and Works
.
(a) Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods 
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such Procurement Plan 
Page  13
11
as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions 
of such paragraph 1. 
 
(b) Prior 
Review
(i) 
With respect to each contract for: (A) goods estimated to cost 
$200,000 equivalent or more; (B) works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000; and (C) goods or works procured in 
accordance with paragraph 1 of Part B of this Section 
(International Competitive Bidding); the procedures for prior 
review set forth in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Procurement Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(ii) 
The first three (3) contracts awarded on the basis of the 
procedures referred to in paragraph 4 of Part B of this Section 
(Shopping), shall be subject to the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement 
Guidelines. 
 
(c) Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by preceding Prior Review 
procedures, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Procurement Guidelines shall apply. 
 
2. 
Consultants Services
.
(a) Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the procurement of consultants under the Project shall 
be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such Procurement Plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
 
paragraph 1. 
 
(b) Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  14
12
(c) Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding Prior 
Review procedures, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of 
 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General. 
 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from 
time to time by the Association and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to 
such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated  
(expressed in SDR)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be Financed 
(exclusive of Taxes)
1. Civil 
Works 
 
(a)  Under Part A.1 of the Project 
 
1,070,000 37% 
(b)  Under Part A.2 of the Project 
 
11,470,000 70% 
(c)  Under Part B.1 of the Project 
 
80,000 37% 
(d)  Under Part B.2 of the Project 
 
1,240,000 70% 
(e)  Under Part C.1 of the Project 
 
1,550,000 70% 
(f)  Under Part C.2 of the Project 
 
2,100,000 70% 
(g)  Under Part D.1 of the Project 
 
-
70%
(h)  Under Part D.2 of the Project 
 
- 
70% 
 
Page  15
13
 
Category
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated  
(expressed in SDR)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be Financed 
(exclusive of Taxes)
2. 
Goods under Parts C.3, E.1 and E.2 
of the Project 
 
30,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of local 
expenditures (ex-factory cost) 
and 65% of local 
expenditures for other items 
procured locally. 
 
3. 
Training, workshops, seminars and 
conferences under Parts F.1 and F.2 of 
the Project 
 
280,000 90% 
4. 
Consultants’ Services 
 
(a)  Under Part E.3 of the Project 
 
2,230,000 
83% for foreign firms and 
75% for local firms. 
 
(b)  Under Parts E.4, F.3 and F.4 of 
the Project 
 
780,000 
100% for foreign firms,  
75% for local firms and  
70% for individuals. 
 
(c) For training under Parts F.1 
and F.2 of the Project 
 
180,000 
100% for foreign firms, 
75% for local firms and  
70% for individuals. 
 
(d)  Under Part E.6 of the Project 
 
- 
100% for foreign firms,  
75% for local firms and 
70% for individuals. 
 
(e)  For audits of Project Accounts 
 
130,000 
100% for foreign firms,  
75% for local firms and  
70% for individuals. 
 
5. 
Incremental Operating Costs 
 
160,000 
 
80% 
6. Unallocated 
 
3,600,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
24,900,000
Page  16
14
3. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:  
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods, works or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Recipient; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of 
the Recipient; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means reasonable expenditures 
directly related to the Project, incurred by the Recipient (which 
expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project), including 
expenditures for the cost of per diem and local transportation costs of 
Project staff, but excluding salaries. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period. 
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $750,000 equivalent may be made for payments 
made prior to this date but on or after January 1, 2007, for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2009. 
Page  17
15
ANNEX to SCHEDULE 2 
 
National Competitive Bidding 
 
National Competitive Bidding: Mandatory Provisions 
1.      In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with 
the provisions included in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines (as required by 
paragraph 3.3 of the Procurement Guidelines), goods and works shall be procured in 
accordance with the following paragraphs. 
 
Participation in Bidding
2. 
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
3.       
Government-owned enterprises in Papua New Guinea shall be eligible to bid 
only if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under 
commercial law, and are not a dependent agency of the Recipient.  
 
4. 
A firm declared ineligible by the Association, based on a determination by the 
Association that the firm has engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or 
obstructive practices in competing for or in executing an Association-financed contract, 
shall be ineligible to be awarded an Association-financed contract during the period of 
time determined by the Association. 
 
5. 
A firm which has been engaged by the Recipient to provide consulting services 
for the preparation or implementation of a project, and any of its affiliates, shall be 
disqualified from subsequently providing goods or works resulting from or directly 
related to the firm’s consulting services for such preparation or implementation. This 
provision does not apply to the various firms which together are performing the 
contractor’s obligations under a turnkey or design and build contract. 
 
6. 
Foreign bidders shall be eligible to participate in bidding under the same 
conditions as national bidders.  In particular, no domestic preference over foreign bidders 
shall be granted to national bidders or goods in bid evaluation. 
 
Advertising; Time for Submission of Bids
7.     Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) newspaper of national 
circulation, allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of 
bids, such thirty (30) days to begin with the date of availability of the bid documents or 
the date of the advertisement, whichever is later.  
 
Page  18
16
Bidding Documents
8. 
Until national standard bidding documents approved by the Association are 
available, bidding documents approved by the Association shall be used.   
 
Bid Security
9. 
All bidders should provide bid security if indicated in the bidding documents, in 
the amount and form so indicated. A bidder
’s bid security shall apply only to a specific 
bid.  A bidder shall be permitted to withdraw or modify its bid prior to the bid submission 
deadline without forfeiting its bid security.   
 
Classification of Contractors; Qualification; Post-qualification
10. 
Bidding shall not be restricted to any particular class of contractors, and non-
classified contractors shall also be eligible to bid. Qualification criteria (in case 
prequalification is not carried out) shall be stated in the bidding documents and shall be 
based entirely upon the capability and resources of prospective bidders to perform the 
particular contract satisfactorily, taking into account their experience and past 
performance on similar contracts, capabilities with respect to personnel, equipment and 
construction or manufacturing facilities, as well as their financial position. Before 
contract award, the bidder having submitted the lowest evaluated, substantially 
responsive bid shall be subject to post-qualification. 
 
Registration of Bidders
11. 
If a registration process is required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest 
evaluated responsive bidder shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without 
any let or hindrance.  Bidders shall not be required to register as a precondition for 
bidding. 
 
Evaluation Criteria
12. 
Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in bidding documents, and 
evaluation criteria other than price shall be quantified in monetary terms. 
 
Bid Submission, Opening; and Bid Evaluation
13. 
Bidders may submit bids, at their option, either in person or by courier service or 
by mail. 
 
14. 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of 
bids.  Bidders’ representatives shall be allowed to attend.  The name of the bidder, the 
total amount of each bid, and any discounts shall be read aloud and recorded in the 
minutes of the public bid opening.  A copy of the minutes of the public bid opening shall 
Page  19
17
be promptly provided to all bidders who submitted bids.  With respect to contracts which 
are subject to the Association’s prior review, the Recipient shall promptly provide the 
Association a copy of the minutes of the public bid opening.  No bid shall be rejected 
during the public bid opening.  Bids received after the bid submission deadline shall be 
promptly returned unopened to the bidder. 
 
15. 
The evaluation of bids shall be done in strict adherence to the criteria declared in 
the bidding documents and contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder which 
submitted the lowest evaluated, substantially responsive bid. 
 
16. 
No bid shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the owner’s 
estimate or budget ceiling without the Association’s prior written concurrence. 
 
17. 
The Recipient shall publish the following information on contract award on a free 
and open access website when that website becomes operational, or on another means of 
publication acceptable to the Bank: (i) name of each bidder who submitted a bid; (ii)     
bid prices as read out at bid opening; (iii)  name and evaluated price of each bid that was 
evaluated; (iv) names of bidders whose bids were rejected and the reasons for the 
rejection; and (v) name of the winning bidder, price it offered, as well as the duration and 
summary scope of the contract awarded. This publication will be updated at least 
quarterly. 
 
Rejection of Bids
18. 
Rejection of all bids and re-bidding shall not be carried out without the 
Association’s prior written concurrence. 
 
Extension of the Validity of Bids
19. 
In exceptional circumstances, the procuring entity may, before the expiration of 
bid validity, request all bidders in writing to extend the validity of their bids.  In such 
cases, bidders shall not be requested nor permitted to amend the price or any other 
condition of their bids.  Bidders shall have the right to refuse to grant such an extension 
without forfeiting their bid securities, but bidders granting such an extension shall be 
required to provide a corresponding extension of the validity of their bid securities. 
 
No Contract Negotiations
20. 
There shall be no negotiation of contracts, even with the lowest evaluated bidder, 
without the Association’s prior concurrence.  A bidder shall not be required, as a 
condition of award of contract, to undertake obligations not specified in the bidding 
documents, or otherwise to modify its bid as originally submitted. 
 
Page  20
18
Suppliers, Contractors and Subcontractors
21. 
The Association shall declare a firm ineligible, either indefinitely or for a stated 
period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Association, if it at any time determines 
that the firm has, directly or through an agent, engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, 
coercive or obstructive practices in competing for, or in executing, a contract financed by 
the Association. 
 
22. 
Each contract financed from the proceeds of a Credit shall provide that the 
suppliers, contractors and subcontractors shall permit the Association, at its request, to 
inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance of the contract and to have 
said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the Association. The 
deliberate and material violation by the supplier, contractor or subcontractor of such 
provision may amount to obstructive practice.  
 
Conflict of Interest
23. 
Suppliers and contractors that have a business or family relationship with a senior 
member of 
the project implementing agency’s staff may not be awarded a contract, unless 
the conflict of interest stemming from this relationship has been resolved in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association throughout the process of evaluation of the bids and the 
execution of the contract.  
 
Bid Protest Mechanism
24. 
The Recipient shall establish an effective bid protest mechanism related to the 
procurement process and contract award, acceptable to the Association that allows for 
bidder protests and the timely handling of such protests.  The procedures to receive and 
handle complaints shall be disclosed in the bidding documents. 
Page  21
19
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each March 15 and September 15: 
 
commencing September 15, 2017 to and including 
March 15, 2027 
1.25% 
commencing September 15, 2027 to and including 
March 15, 2042 
2.5% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions.  
Page  22
20
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions   
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 
1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002, and the 
modifications set out in the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
 
5. 
“Implementing Agency Trust Account” means the Recipient account established 
and maintained pursuant to paragraph 4(a) of Section I(A) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
6. 
“Imprest Accounts” means the Participating Provinces’ accounts established and 
maintained pursuant to paragraph 4(c) of Section I(A) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.  
 
7. 
“Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for the Project between the 
Recipient and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, dated 
August 12, 2002, as amended to the date of this Agreement, and thereafter as 
amended from time to time (Loan No. 7119-PNG).  “Loan Agreement” includes 
all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement. 
 
8. 
“Memorandum of Agreement” means the memorandum between the Recipient 
and a Participating Province, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 5 of  
Section I(A) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Memorandum may be 
amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Association.   
 
9. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement. 
 
10. 
“Participating Provinces” means, collectively, the Recipient’s provinces of 
Central, East New Britain, Manus, Morobe, Oro and West New Britain, and for 
Page  23
21
the purposes of this Agreement only and not for the purposes of the Loan 
Agreement, Western Province and Gulf Province; and “Participating Province” 
means singularly any one of the said Provinces. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Association in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 and the 
modifications set out in the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
12. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 5, 2007, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
13. 
“Provincial Executing Agency Trust Accounts means the Participating 
Provinces’ accounts established pursuant to paragraph 4(b) of Section I(A) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
