Page  1
CONFOREMD COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4010 SE
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(First Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC of SENEGAL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 16, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4010 SE 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
October 25, 2004, describing therein a program of actions, objectives and policies designed 
to reduce poverty in its territory by strengthening public sector management and 
governance by way of fiduciary reforms; implementing its decentralization process, 
including the financial and human resources in relation thereto; increasing access of its 
population to basic health services through human and financial reorganization of the sector 
(hereinafter called the Program); declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of 
the Program; and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof;  
 (B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described 
in Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; 
 (C) 
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in 
a
single tranche as hereinafter provided; and 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 2004), 
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
Page  3
-
2
-
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is 
made.”; 
 (b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions 
of the Development Credit Agreement and of these General 
Conditions”; 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and 
the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Credit.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Auditor General” means the Borrower’s 
Cour des Comptes
;
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
“BCEAO” means 
Banque Centrale des Etats de l’Afrique de l’Ouest,
 the 
Borrower’s central bank; 
(c)  “Consumer Advisory Board” means the Organe de Coordination et de 
Conseil aux Acheteurs; 
(d) 
“Control of Financial Transactions” means the Borrower’s principles and 
procedures for  Contrôle des Opérations Financières; 
(e) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(f) 
“FCFA” means Franc de la Communauté financière Africaine, the currency 
of the Borrower ; 
(g)  “FDD” means Fonds de Dotation à la Décentralisation, the Borrower’s 
appropriated funds for decentralization;  
(h) “FECL” means Fonds d’Equipement des Collectivités Locales, the 
Borrower’s fund for capital goods acquisition of local communities; 
(i) 
“Financial Transactions Management Accounts” mean the Borrower’s 
Comptes de Gestion;  
(j) 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower’s fiscal year beginning  
January 1 and ending December 31 of the same calendar year; 
(k) 
“HIMS” means Health Information Management System; 
(l) 
“ICC” means Comité de Coordination Inter-Agences, the Borrower’s Inter-
Agency Coordination Committee of the Expanded Program for Immunization
 
chaired by 
the secretary of the MOH (as hereinafter defined) and with membership including Donors;  
(m) “Loi, Décret, Ordonnance, Arrêté” mean various laws of the Borrower 
adopted by different organs of the Borrower, as defined in the Borrower’s constitution; 
(n) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(o) 
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health; and 
Page  5
-
4
-
(p) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower, in an amount of SDR 658,000 pursuant to a 
letter signed between the Association and the Borrower on May 18, 2004. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 20,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, 
a
deposit account in FCFA on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit 
Account. 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay 
the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of 
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the 
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled. 
(d) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon 
such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by 
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as 
of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set 
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in 
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and  August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each February 15 and August 15 commencing February 
15, 2015 and ending  August 15, 2044. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on August 15, 2024, shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of 
such principal amount.  
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibili
ty to access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of 
Page  7
-
6
-
the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph 
(a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after 
the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the 
events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under 
the above-mentioned  repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated 
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the 
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program . 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination  
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement  is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance is 
designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 For 
the 
Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance  
 
Rue René N'diaye 
B.P. 4017 
Dakar 
Senegal 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
MINIFINANCES 
 3203 
G 
  221 
– 
821 
16 
30 
Dakar 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or 
(202) 
477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
   
64145 (MCI) 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in  
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
By 
 
/s/ Amadou Lamine B
â
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
/s/ Mahmood A. Ayub 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall 
not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower, provided, however, that, if the currency of the Borrower 
is also that of another country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, 
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign 
expenditures”; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall 
have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
Page  13
-
12
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party);  
6. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
Page  14
-
13
-
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation. 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B)  
of the Preamble to this Agreement 
 
Public expenditures management 
 
In accordance with paragraphs (15), (16), (18), (40), (70) and (71) of its Letter of 
Development Policy, the Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, of the following: 
 
·
Decentralization of  budgetary execution is initiated in at least four line 
ministries, including the Ministry of Health; 
 
·
The financial and technical audits of the Borrower’s public wage bill are  
initiated; 
 
·
The legal and regulatory framework governing the control and monitoring 
of State’s financial transactions is adopted through relevant 
arrêtés
 of 
MOF; 
 
·
The Financial Transactions Management Accounts for the fiscal years 
1998  
through 2001, are submitted to 
the Auditor General’s office; and 
 
·
The studies describing the legal and strategic context towards the 
establishment of the Borrower’s Consumer Advisory Board are initiated. 
 
Decentralization of State functions and resources
In accordance with paragraphs (20) and  (68) of its Letter of Development Policy, 
the Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, of the following: 
 
·
PRSP committees are established in all of the Borrower’s eleven regions, 
and are operational; and 
 
·
The FDD and FECL transfers from MOF to local governments are 
effected through relevant 
arrêtés
 of
MOF. 
Page  16
-
15
-
Strengthening of the health sector 
 
In accordance with paragraphs 55 and 56 of its Letter of Development Policy,  
the Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, of the following: 
 
·
the second phase of the Borrower’s National health policy paper is 
prepared by a multisectoral task committee; 
 
·
the 3 year action plan for increasing the immunization coverage of people 
in the territory of the Borrower is validated by ICC and the financial 
sustainability study  in respect thereof is appraised by ICC; 
 
·
the Borrower’s 
décret
 setting forth the reorganization of MOH is signed 
by the Prime Minister and the key staff in relation thereto are identified to 
the public; and 
 
·
the Borrower’s HIMS is established fully operational in all health districts 
in the territory of the Borrower with hardware and software capable of 
producing expected statistical data and reports. 
 
 
