Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB765 
Project Name 
SN - PRSC I 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (40%);Other social services (30%);General 
education sector (30%) 
Project ID 
P074065 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF SENEGAL 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Economy, Cellule de suivi et de lutte 
contre la pauvreté (CSPLP), Dakar, Senegal 
Mr. Thierno Niane 
Chef de la Cellule de Cellule de suivi et de lutte contre la pauvreté 
(CSPLP) 
Tel. 221-889 -2166 
Fax. 221-30-18-51 
 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
March 9, 2004 (sent March 11, 2004) 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
July, 5-25, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 15, 2004 
 
 
I. Country and Sector Background 
 
1. 
Senegal is located on West Coast of Africa and is part of the West African Economic and Monetary Union 
(WAMEU).  With a population estimated at about 10 million, its economy is dominated by a few strategic sectors, 
including groundnut, fisheries, and services.  The informal sector accounts for about 60 percent of its economy.  Its 
rural economy frequently suffers from drought, leading to high emigration and higher poverty rates in rural areas. 
About half of the population lives in cities, principally Dakar. Over the past years, Senegal has enjoyed a stable 
political climate, and has remained largely unaffected by regional instability. Sustaining the relatively strong 
economic performance over the past decade, Senegal’s performance in 2003 is encouraging with a real GDP growth 
rate projected at 6.3 percent and the absence of major macroeconomic imbalances. The overall fiscal deficit, 
including grants, is projected to have increased marginally to 1.8 percent of GDP in 2003
, 
reflecting higher 
domestically-financed government spending on PRSP priorities, accelerated use of HIPC resources carried over 
from previous years, and some relief spending in rural areas affected by the 2002 drought. Economic prospects for 
the 2004-2006 period are positive: GDP growth rate is expected to average 6 percent with an inflation rate under 2 
percent while the current account deficit (excluding grants) is projected to remain approximately at the current level 
of 7.0 percent of GDP.  Fiscal policy is expected to remain prudent even though the overall fiscal deficit (excluding 
all grants) may expand due to HIPC initiative expenditures. 
II. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
2. 
The overarching objectives of the proposed PRSC series are to support the 
implementation of Senegal’s PRSP and to strengthen the Government's capacity to design and 
carry out its own development and poverty reduction programs. The proposed PRSCs will focus 
on policies and reforms with the highest poverty impact and where IDA has a comparative 
advantage. Also given the comprehensiveness of the PRSP and the high cost of its 
Page  2
 
 
implementation, PRSCs will be designed to assist the Government in establishing priorities and 
implementing a rolling core reform program. 
3. 
More specifically, the objective of the two PRSCs planned during the 2004-06 period are to: (a) improve 
the effectiveness and transparency of the national budget process and expenditure management, including at the 
decentralization levels, as the main instrument to achieve national development goals and reduce poverty; (b) 
support PRSP outcomes in terms of improved living conditions of the poor within the PRSP time horizon.  During 
the initial phase, to ensure selectivity, the emphasis will be on improving the delivery of public services, notably 
through the rationalization of budgetary and financial procedures within the State, supporting the decentralization 
process, and improvements in health services.  Over the medium term, the PRSC series will also aim at supporting 
the Government in its efforts to offer better employment opportunities, and improve the living conditions of 
vulnerable groups 
 
III. Project Design 
 
4. 
The series of PRSCs is intended to cover one PRSP cycle and be synchronized with Government's budget 
cycle.  There would be clear performance benchmarks, policy measures, and outcome indicators for each of the 
PRSCs. The PRSCs would provide an anchor for the Bank's overall support to Senegal's policy and institutional 
reform and public expenditure priorities. Each individual PRSC will be put in place and disbursed on the basis of the 
up-front completion of a set of prior actions that demonstrate satisfactory progress of the country's social and 
structural reform agenda in support of its poverty reduction strategy. Each annual tranche, as part of the rolling 
medium-term program framework, will build on the previous one; its prior actions will be formulated and agreed 
upon drawing on the progress towards benchmarks laid out at the outset 
 
IV. Project Selectivity and Sequencing 
 
5. 
The proposed PRSC concentrates on areas where such support is expected to provide the 
greatest value added to the ongoing effort undertaken by the Government and its development 
partners to reduce poverty in Senegal. The PRSCs support policy measures detailed in the PRSP 
in a selective manner. More specifically, criteria for inclusion of priority sectors and themes in 
the PRSC included: a) the importance to effective PRSP implementation; b) the Bank’s 
comparative advantage in leading the policy dialogue, c) the absence of significant support from 
donors, including IDA, through project lending, and d) essential cross-cutting reforms aimed at 
improving  the national budget process to channel assistance. 
6. 
The PRSC is based on a sequencing approach. PRSC-1 will focus on strengthening 
budgetary and financial reforms of the State, improving health services delivery, and enhancing 
financial decentralization because these three areas constitute the backbone of the PRS and they 
are already well advanced in terms of their implementation.  This focus will be kept over time.  
Yet, over the medium term, the PRSC series will also support  efforts to promote wealth creation 
and improve the living conditions of vulnerable groups.  The inclusion of these two last areas 
will be gradual and will depend on a number of triggers to be determined jointly with the 
authorities. 
7. 
The content of the proposed PRSC is the outcome of a highly intensive participatory processes between 
first the World Bank’s team and the PRSP Secretariat and subsequently all development partners, including other 
donors and representatives of the civil society 
 
V. Project Environmental Aspects 
 
Page  3
 
 
8. 
Based on the objectives and sectoral coverage of PRSC-1, the operation was classified as 
a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) in accordance with the Interim Guidelines for PRSCs of 
May, 2001. According to Bank policy, the Operational Directive (OD) 8.60, Adjustment 
Lending, and Operational Policy (OP) 4.01, Environmental Assessment, apply.  
9. 
In accordance with OP 4.01, the credit was categorized as a C without a separate Environmental 
Assessment 
 
VI. Project Benefits and Risks 
 
10. 
The PRSC instrument has a number of benefits over the traditional combination of 
adjustments credits and projects operations. These benefits include: (i) the programmatic 
approach increases Senegal's ownership of its development programs, strengthens budgetary 
institutions and reduces transactions costs in delivery of external assistance; and (ii) the multi-
sectoral approach promotes collaboration and coordination while maximizing the impact on 
poverty reduction. In addition, the reform program to be supported by PRSC- 1 is expected to 
contribute to the PRSP's ultimate goals, with greater effects on the following areas: (i) improved 
budgeting and public expenditure management; and (ii) improved basic services delivery in the 
regions, specifically in the health sector. 
11. 
There are several risks in achieving these benefits.  While the risk of macroeconomic collapse, through 
unsustainable inflation or through sustained negative growth, is minimal, there is the more insidious risk of stalled 
growth.  This risk would increase if the increasing politicization of the economic debate would result in a slowdown 
of the reform process.  Possible escalation of the conflict in Southern Casamance region remains a risk.  
Administrative inertia and political indecisiveness might also affect the pace of implementation of budgetary, 
financial and civil service reforms envisioned under the program.  Finally, there is  a risk that the relative weak 
capacity of local institutions will delay the decentralization process and expected improvement in service delivery in 
the regions 
 
 
 
VII. Project Implementation 
 
12. 
The program will be supervised by an Inter-ministerial Committee chaired by the Minister of Finance. 
Coordination and monitoring will be managed by Cellule de suivi et de lutte contre la pauvreté (CSPLP).  The 
preparation of the credit will benefit from a PPF which is currently proposed by the authorities 
 
 
1. Tentative 
financing 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
30 
 
Total 30 
 
13. Contact 
point 
Contact: Jacques Morisset 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-0127 
Fax: (202) 473-8136 
Email: Jmorisset@ifc.org
 
