FILE  COjPYTh Document of
The World Bank
Report No. P-2305-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
April 27, 1978
This report may not be published nor may it be quotell as representing the views of the World Bank.
The World Bank does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Kenya Sh.          -         US$0.12
Kenya El           3         US$2.40
US$1.00            -         KSh.8.3
(As the Kenya Shilling is officially valued
at a fixed rate of 9.66 KSh to the SDR, the
US Dollar/Kenya Shilling exchange rate is
subject to change. Conversions in this re-
port were made at US$1.00 to KSh 8.3 which
is close to the short-term average exchange
rate.)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30-
ABBREVIATIONS
NCEOP        -      National Committee on Educational
Objectives 'and Policies
KIA          -      Kenya Institute of Administration
KIE          -      Kenya Institute of Education
AHITI        -      Animal Health and Industry
Training Institute
CTCs         -       Craft Training Centers



FM OFFICAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF KENYA FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                  Republic of Kenya
AMOUNT:                    US$23.0 million equivalent
TERMS:                     Standard IDA terms
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:       The project would, over a 4-1/4 year period,
implement some of the highest priority items
recommended in the National Committee on
Educational Objectives and Policies (NCEOP)
report. Its components would
(i) improve and increase agricultural, technical,
and administrative training by expanding
two agricultural institutes and the Univer-
sity's Faculty of Agriculture, constructing
a new Animal Health and Industry Training
Institute, and strengthening management
and development courses at the Kenya Institute
of Administration;
(ii)  improve equity in access to primary and
post-primary levels of education through
the construction of 13 Nomadic Boarding
Primary Schools, provision of equipment
for 30 Craft Training Centers and storage
facilities for rural primary schools, and
provision of further support for Craft Train-
ing Centers through expansion of the Karen
Centre for Research and Training;
(iii) provide supporting educational services,
largely through technical assistance to
the Kenya Institute of Education (KIE)
and the Ministry of Education's Planning
Unit and Educational Facilities Unit.
The Project faces no special risks. A sectoral
risk exists that the Government will not be able
to maintain its determination to control the rate
of increase in recurrent educational expenditures.
At some later date, this could precipitate restric-
tive measures influencing many aspects of the sector,
including this Project.
[ This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Word lank authorization.



- ii -
-------- --- (US$ Million)----------------
% of Foreign
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS:                  Foreign   Local   Total   Exchange Component
Faculty of Agriculture and
Agriculture Institutes                   3.24     2.90    6.14          53
Animal Health and Industry
Training Institute                       1.13     1.56    2.69          42
Kenya Institute of Administration           0.97     0.28    1.25           78
Nomadic Primary Schools and
Educational Storage Facilities           4.02     4.96    8.98          45
Craft Training Centers                      0.74     0.27    1.01          73
Project Administration, Training,
& Incremental Operational Costs          1.44     1.85    3.29          44
BASE COST                               11.54    11.82   23.36          49
Physical Contingencies                      0.81     0.99    1.80          45
Price Contingencies                         2.63     3.21    5.84          45
PROJECT COST                            14.98    16.02   31.00          48
s====    e==      ===~===
of which taxes and duties                 -       1.00    1.00
Project cost net of taxes and duties  14.98    15.02   30.00            50
5==5==    =====   =======
=----(US$ Million)-----      % of Total
FINANCING PLAN:                           Foreign   Local   Total    Net of Taxes
Association                                14.98     8.02   23.00           77
Government                                   -       7.00    7.00          23
Total Excluding Taxes & Duties             14.98    15.02   30.00         100
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:                              Bank Fiscal Year
1979     1980      1981    1982      1983
--------(US$ Million Equivalent)-------
Annual                                   .25     3.65    11.50    6.60       1.00
Cumulative                               .25     3.90    15.40   22.00    23.00
APPRAISAL REPORTS:                        Report No. 1839-KE dated April 17, 1978
Education Projects Division, Eastern
Africa Regional Office.
MAP:                                      IBRD No. 13189R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of US$23.0
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a fourth education project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.          A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Kenya" (Report No.
1793a-KE, dated December 28, 1977) has been distributed to the Executive
Directors.
Basic Development Constraints, Objectives and Strategy
3.          With an average per capita income of $240 in 1976, Kenya is still
a poor country despite a rate of economic growth of over 6 percent per year
from Independence until 1973.  This rapid growth was checked in 1974 and 1975
when world inflation (including increases in oil prices) accelerated, while
export demand stagnated and a persistent drought affected the country. The
1974-75 termq of trade deterioration has brought to the fore the fundamental
foreign exchange constraint whic Kenva faces. This means that in the coming
years the country will have to achieve its twin objectives of resuming the
past rate of economic growth and of ensJring that the lowest income earners
share in the economic and social progress through a less rapid growth of imports
than before and a more rapid growth of its exports. Import dependence (defined
as raLio of imports to GDP) seems to have declined in volume terms since 1972,
bur the gains from his have been lost to relative price changes. Export
performance in volume terms appears to have also been declining while price
increases are likely to be temporary only. Agriculture represents about 30%
of CDP and has shown good growth in vears,with favorable weather conditions,
alternating with disappointing performances in years of drought or floods.
Smallholders contribute substantially to food as well as export crop produc-
tion. Mianufacturing has shown rapid growth and now,stands for about 12% of
GDP, but appears to have exhausted most import substitution opportunities.
Industrial policy reform as well as more emphasis on agricultural development
will be essential to reverse the import and export trends.
1/ This section is substantially the same as that submitted to the Board in
the Second Urban Project President's Report dated April 6, 1978.



-2-
Recent Developments
4.        Economic recovery from the 1974-1975 recession started in 1976 with a 5.1%
increase of GDP thanks to improved weather conditions, high world coffee prices, and
expansionary credit and budgetary policies, and the balance of payments showed a
surplus, in contrast to the deficits of the previous years. GDP grew by more than 5%
(probably 7.5%) in 1977 and imports picked up significantly in 1977 but, although
the price of coffee was falling, exports grew even more rapidly than imports. Hence
a large overall surplus was realized in 1977. Continued growth of imports coupled
with a drop in exports may lead to a much less favorable outcome, maybe even a small
overall deficit in 1978. After a decline in 1975, wage employment in the modern
sector also resumed its growth in 1976, and continued to rise in 1977. Over the
period 1972-76, however, employment grew at an average annual rate of only 3 percent,
which is well below the labor force growth rate. This reflects the structural gap
which lies at the root of Kenya's unemployment and under-employment problems. The
urban cost of living increases slowed down in 1976 but accelerated again in 1977,
partly as a result of major food price increases in 1977.
Progress in Implementation of Restructuring Program
5.          The G&vernment responded to the economic crisis in 1974 on three
levels.  First, it introduced'measures to minimize the loss of foreign ex-
change reserves and control domestic demand. These included an increase in
sales-taxes, credV restrictions, passing on the increases in oil prices to
users and a freeze in government recruitment. Secondly, since the Development
Plan had been overtaken by events, it formulated a medium-term Restructuring
Program with more modest growth and equity targets. Achieving these targets
requires restrainiAg consumption in favor of investments, lowering Kenya's
high import dependence and making the economy more export-oriented. In the
economic sectors, this meant that agriculture would have to improve on its
previous record while industry would have to be more efficient, more outward-
looking and based more on domestic resources. Thirdly, the Government appealed
to foreign aid donors to increase their financial assistance in response to
the larger need for foreign resources Kenya would be facing in coming years.
6.          The Government has, to date, made good progress in implementing the
Restructuring Program, although there are some areas where further action is
still needed. In the fiscal field, it has introduced procedures to ensure
better control of expenditure, and by increasing expenditure in directly pro-
ductive activities in the FY 76-78 budgets it has moved the composition of
development expenditure in the direction required by the restructuring policy.
Budgetary developments in FY 76 and FY 77,, including increased defense expend-
itures, however, resulted in larger'than anticipated deficits-. Some success
was achieved in enhancing the employment impact of public investments, as the
composition of projects in highway construction is being shifted from large
trunk roads which are capital'intensive, to rural access roads and regravelling
programs which use more labor-intensive tecinology.



-3-
7.        The Government continues to emphasize agricultural sector
development, although policies in recent years were often frustrated by
weather conditions. It has strengthened its system of annual price reviews
and farmgate prices have generally been raised close to export an', import
parities. In the past, agriculture contributed significantly to rapid
growth, increases in productivity of lower-income earners and distribution
of development benefits; monetary agriculture grew at an average annual
rate of 6 percent as the governmentbrought several hundred thousand small
farmers into the market economy through special programs in coffee, tea,
pyrethrum, maize and dairy production. Nevertheless, the majority of the
rural population still lives in poverty. The Government is trying to assist
smallholders by providing support services through programs such as the
Integrated Agricultural Development Program, but as these expand to more
remote and less fertile areas, solutions to novel problems have to be
devised and this makes progress slower than intended.
8.          In industrial policy progress to date has been less than satisfactory.
The Government introduced duties on hitherto duty-free imports of intermediate
and capital goods as steps towards a more rational protective system, increased
the sales tax on luxury goods and introduced an export subsidy of 10 percent to
stimulate the export of manufactured goods and certain other commodities. The
devaluation of the shilling in'"October 1975 has also helped to make Kenya's
manufactured exports more competitive. Nevertheless, a comprehensive policy
package to eliminate the disadvantages under which export-oriented industries
presently operate as compared to import substitution industries which are
protected by selective tariff rates remains to be formulated. In addition to
policy formulation, strengthening of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, over
and above steps recently undertaken to expand its project preparation arm, the
Industrial Survey and Promotion Centre (ISPC), is a necessary condition for an
effective industrial policy reform.
Impact of the De Facto-Dissolution of the East African Community (EAC)
9.          Recent developments of the East African Community were outlined in
a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R 77-312). The
de facto breakup of the EAC is expected to have some impact on Kenya's budget
initially but little effect on trade and tourism. Kenya's share of the Community's
General Fund Services (GFS) used to be financed from customs revenue, and although
the services to replace the GFS are now included in Kenya's expenditure, this. in-
crease is largely offset by the additional customs revenue which Kenya will retain.
Theestablishment of national corporations to replace the former East African Com-
munity Corporations will.require initial investment outlays plus operating subsidies
from the government, but the burden on the government budget will hopefully be tem-
porary, as the Corporations are expected to become self-financing.



-4-
10.          Exports to Tanzania and Uganda averaged 28 percent of Kenya's
total exports and imports from these countries averaged 5 percent of total
imports during 1972-76. Kenya has always enjoyed a positive balance in its
trade with Tanzania and Uganda. The curtailment of community trade would
not materially affect Kenya's supplies of total imports, since Kenya has
accelerated its self-sufficiency programs in cotton and tobacco, two major
imports from Tanzania. Moreover, the proportion of exports to Tanzania
and Uganda represents only 3-4 percent of total production in the affected
branches. The closure of the border with Tanzania does, however, a-ffect
a significant portion of total production of lubricants and greases.  None-
theless Kenya is expected to recover.-this l6ss in exports through export
expansion to other African countries and some success has already been
achieved in this regard. The border closure with Tanzania may have a slightly
negative impact on tourism although Kenya is expected to overcome this by
developing its beach resorts and game parks in other parts of the country.
Development Plan FY 79-83
11.          Background studies are now under way to analyze major economic and
social issues in preparation for the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan. The
major objective for the next Plan period is probably going to be alleviation
of poverty through generating income earning possibilities and providing for
basic needs in nutrition, health, education, housing and other social services.
Two approaches are being considered in-alleviating poverty: rural development,
in the framework of correcting the existing rural-urban imbalance, and employ-
ment creation. Thus, the.Plan would provide for a large degree of continuity
in Kenya's.development strategy, but with heightened attention on social ob-
jectives as compared with the ongoing Restructuring Program and the Third Plan.
At the Government's request, the Bank is providing assistance in developing
strategies in--urban development and resource mobilization.
External Debt
12.          The current low overall debt service ratio of about 5 percent
(including a notional share of the debt of the East African Community Corpora-
tions) is expected to rise to about 11.5 percent by 1985. Including the
notional share of EAC debt, the IBRD is presently holding 29 percent of Kenya's
outstanding external debt and IDA 11 percent; the IBRD share is expected to
rise to 33 percent and the IDA share to 12 percent.  Debt service payments to
the Bank are about 30 percent of total debt service payments; IDA share is about
one percent. These two figures are projected to be about the same by 1985.
Kenya has seen a gradual switch by other donors from loans to straight grants
or to loans on very concessional terims and the Government has. purs4ed a rather
conservative commercial borrowing policy in recent years. Despite the recovery
of Kenya's overall savings performance to a notable 18% of Gross Domestic Income,
Kenya's sound development program will require substantial finance in excess of
public savings and available external capital to cover costs including local costs.
We therefore continue our practice of financing a substantial proportion of total
project costs including local costs.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA 2/
13.        Hitherto, Kenya has received 25 Bank loans and 33 IDA credits
amounting to $447.9 million and $195.7 million, respectively, supporting 41
operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans
totalling $244.8 million which have been extended for the development of
common services (railways, ports, telecommunications and finance for industry),
operated regionally for the three Partner States of the East African Community.
Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya
and East African Community Corporations, a summary of IFC investments in Kenya,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
14.       The Bank has assisted the Government in its efforts to restructure
the economy. In connection with loan and credit negotiations, the Government
has taken a number of steps to implement its Restructuring Program (paras. 5-8).
Institution building measures have also been undertaken. The planning and
implementation capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture has been strengthened,
the Cotton Board has been reorganized, a Land Use Committee has been set up
and the National Committee on Educational Objectives and Priorities, established
in connection with the Third Education Project, has now completed its work.
However, progress in shifting the focus of the Government's industrial policies
from import-substitution to domestic resource-based production capable of
competing in export markets is slow.
15.       Significant progress has been made in restructuring the Bank's lending
program towards the directly productive sectors, in giving it a rural focus,
and in concentrating on employment and income distribution objectives. During
the last fiscal year seven projects were approved. These include the first
Integrated Agricultural Development Project (IADP) aimed directly at small
subsistence farmers; the Rural Access Roads Project supporting labor-intensive
infrastructural developments; a Sugar Project; a Third Agricultural Credit
Project; and an Irrigation Project. The Bank also supported the tourism
sector in Kenya for the first time -- an effort intended to help Kenya conserve
its wildlife and exploit the foreign exchange earning potential. The indus-
trial lending program included a third loan to the Industrial Development Bank.
Recently a small-scale industry project and a water supply project for Nairobi
and a second urban project have been approved. Loans and credits for a sugar
rehabilitation project and an agricultural project for the development of Narok
district have been appraised. In the future, it is planned to emphasize rural
development. However, such newer types of project are inherently difficult,
with necessary implications for the pace of disbursements, notwithstanding
determined implementation efforts by the Government. Also, sectoral lending
is contemplated in education and highways, in line with past Bank efforts to
build institutions capable of viable sectoral planning. Further support is
planned for agricultural processing, provision of rural water supplies, popu-
lation and family planning, the transport sector, telecommunications, and
power development.
16.       Overall, project implementation performance is satisfactory.  One
major exception was the Second Livestock Development Project which was suffering
from inadequate beef prices as well as organizational difficulties reflecting in
part the complexity of the project. The Government has recently given its commit-
ment to substantially increase beef prices and prospects for utilizing the credit
have now improved. Progress on the Group Farm Rehabilitation Project has also
been slow due to administrative difficulties and reluctance of group owners to
2/ This section is substantially the same as that submitted to the Board in
the Second Urban Project President's Report dated April 6, 1978.



-6-
participate, but this is now improving. Finally, Kenya has experienced
serious cost overruns, most notably on the Nairobi Airport Project and
road construction projects. The Government of Kenya has made funds avail-
able to complete the projects.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
17.       IFC has committed a total of $36.8 million for four companies in
Kenya: Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism
Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). A credit
line for medium- and small-scale industries was extended to the Commercial
Bank of Kenya.   As of March 31, 1978, IFC held for its own account $28.5
million comprising $20.5 million of loans and $8.0 million of equity.
PART III - THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
Growth and Structure of the Sector
18.       Since Independence in 1963, sustained political and social
pressure for increased education and training opportunities has moved the
Kenyan Government rapidly to expand educational institutions at all levels.
As a result, primary school enrollment doubled in the first decade of
Independence (1964-73) and since the abolition of tuition fees in the lower
standards at the end of 1973, enrollment has more than doubled again,
bringing primary education in Kenya close to being universal. Enrollment
in secondary schools has increased eightfold since 1964 so that now
approximately 16% of the age group is receiving secondary education.
University level education now enrolls about 5,000 students. During this
period of rapid expansion, the Government has emphasized primary education,
the abolishment of tuition fees for lower primary standards and introduction
of a Remote Areas Programme (para. 25) to make basic education more
accessible.
19.       The Kenyan educational system consists of general educational and
technical training institutions which are operated both by the Government
and by self-help harambee efforts with Government assistance; on-the-job
training and adult education, which are both privately and governmentally
supported; and governmentally managed support facilities inter alia for
teacher training, book production and distribution, and educational uses
of mass communication.
20.       The formal, Government-operated educational structure is as
follows: seven years of primary school at the end of which students sit
for the Certificate of Primary Education (C.P.E.); four years of lower
secondary education, at the end of which passage of the East African
Certificate of Education (E.A.C.E.) permits entry into intermediate tech-
nical and teacher training institutes; two years of more senior secondary



- 7 -
education, culminating in the East African Advanced Certificate of Education
(E.A.A.C.E.), passage of which permits entry into university; intermediate
and post-secondary polytechnical, agricultural, medical, and teacher-training
institutes, varying from two to four year courses of study; and university
education, lasting from three to five years depending on the extent of
specialization.
21.       Self-help harambee schools which have existed since before
Independence and now complement the Government educational system, currently
consist of three types of institutions. As of 1978, Harambee Secondary
Schools enroll 18% of primary school leavers (16,000), as compared with
13% (12,000) who can find places in Government secondary schools. Graduates
from the two-year harambee program sit for the Kenya Junior Secondary Exami-
nation (K.J.S.E.), which does not permit automatic entry into further educa-
tion or training. Harambee Village Polytechnics, renamed Craft Training
Centers (CTCs) in 1978, were instituted to enhance the employability of pri-
mary school leavers; these provide a two-year course in locally relevant
skills for C.P.E. holders. Beginning with its 1970-74 Development Plan,
the Government of Kenya has provided assistance to expand the Craft Training
Centers and established the Karen Research and Training Centre to train CTC
staff and coordinate and revise their curricula. At the current time, there
are 160 registered Craft Training Centers with a combined enrolment of 12,000
to 13,000.  Recently, the harambee mnovemea.: has constructed three and planned
13 more Harambee TIs.itutes of Technology to teach intermediate skills to
E.A.C.E. recipients. While the harambee movement has been a valuable response
tc the ever-rising demand for education and training to provide qualifications
for wage employment, tlic sprouting up of nearly 1,000 such institutions,
needing teachers and supplies. has haLl severe cost implicetions for the Kenyan
Government. Pressure for expansion cf both harambee and Government schools has
been answered by the allocation of an ever-increasing proportion of the national
recurrent budget to education. Meanwhile, educational support services have had
difficulty keeping pace with the mounting demand for skilled educational per-
sonnel and low-cost educational materials, particularly at primary and second-
ary levels.
Previous Bank Group Lending to Education
22.       The Bank Group has provided three credits/loans to assist
educational development in Kenya. In 1966 Credit 93-KE of US$7.0 million
equivalent helped to finance a major expansion program involving the
construction and equipping of 42 general secondary schools, nine technical
schools, and 11 primary-teacher-training colleges, including boarding
facilities and staff housing. A second Credit 185-KE, of US$6.1 million
equivalent, which was approved in 1970, financed a program involving the
Faculty of Agriculture at the Uliversity of Nairobi, three Agricultural
Institutes, five Farmer Training Centers, six secondary schools, a
Secondary Teacher Training College and a Technical Institute, and helped
to create the Planning Unit in the Ministry of Education which has, with
input from other sources, prepared the background work of the Naticnal
Committee on Educational Objectives and Policies (NCEOP), discussed below.



-8-
The Third Education Project Loan 1184-KE of US$10.0 million equivalent,
approved at the end of 1975, aims to improve 17 teacher-training colleges;
provide transport and storage facilities for the Kenya School Equipment
Scheme; widen the curriculum development capacity of the Kenya Institute
of Education (KIE); establish a multi-media center to unite all educational
broadcasting services and render adult and rural education services; and
assist the NCEOP, which issued its report in January 1977.
23.       The First Education Project was evaluated during 1974.  The audit
indicated some shortcomings in the attainment of the qualitative objectives
and in the use of the equipment and facilities provided; however, the overall
project objectives were met and the project physically completed within the
anticipated time period. The Second Education Project has been completed,
and an audit is expected in 1978. The Project was physically completed and
disbursed largely according to the agreed upon schedule except for the
addition of a new secondary technical school, at the Government's request,
where upgrading of an existing facility had previously been contemplated.
This caused a two year delay in project completion but minimal implications
for disbursement. The UNESCO completion mission which carried out its
evaluation of this project on IDA's behalf at the end of 1977 found that the
average teacher-student ratio in the two agricultural institutes at Bukura
and Embu and the Anila Health and Industry Training Institute at Kabete was,
at 1:11, too high to be economical, and recommended that it be changed. In
this connection, the proposed Fourth Education Project stipulates that the
Borrower shall ensure that the number of students per teacher at the insti-
tutes shall be not less than fifteen for every academic year commencing in
1981 (Section 4.02(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The imple-
mentation of the Third Education Project has experienced some difficulties
in improving curriculum development strategies within the KIE; however, on
the whole the project is progressing well.
Emerging Problems
24.       The Government's past concern for quantitative expansion of educa-
tional opportunties has resulted in a number of qualitative and distributional
problems which it now feels it must address. The most pressing of these deal
with the need to make access to basic education more equitable, to make cur-
ricula and examinations more relevant to conveying and testing occupational
skills presently required by the community, to ameliorate inefficiencies in
the use of educational facilities, to improve the management of educational
systems, and to hold down recurrent expenditures on education.
25.       Imbalances in educational opportunities between provinces, districts,
urban and rural areas and the sexes continue to exist despite rapid institutional
expansion since independence. The apparent national enrollment ratio of 109%
for primary education is misleading because about 74% of all primary students
(1975) are over-age. In some remote areas, only a small fraction of the school
age population is found at school. The Government attempted to alleviate this
problem through the institution of a "Remote Areas Programme" in 1970 to supply
boarding facilities for existing primary schools in remote areas and to
establish new boarding primary schools. Boarding schools are an expensive
alternative, but the Government has investigated and experimented with other
methods, such as mobile units and the assignment of teachers to travel with
nomadic groups, and has found boarding schools to be the most effective method
to carry out its educational objectives. More remote facilities are needed.



- 9 -
26.       The unemployment of school leavers has become an escalating
problem. A comparison of projected job seekers at different educational
levels with employment opportunities in the modern sector from 1974-1985
indicates that in every year of the projection period there will be,on the
average, an increase of about 200,000 young people with various educational
qualifications v7ho, as primary school leavers, will be unqualified to seek,
or as secondary-school leavers, will be unable to find employment in the
modern sector. The competition for employment is and will be further
aggravated by the tendency of employers steadily to increase their educational
requirements, so that more openings will continue to be taken by secondary
school leavers, even in the 'informal sector", which requires less education.
27.       Educational preparation is not relevant enough to the rural sector
that currently offers the most job opportunities. In the general education
institutions, current curricula are not adequate enough, nor teachers properly
equipped to generate interest and convey information about math, science and
technical subjects. Examinations to date have been biased in favor of urban
English-speakers and wJll need to be revised if they are to reinforce a rural,
agricultural orientation. Training institutions such as Craft Training Centers
(para. 21) will need to be expanded at an even greater rate than in the past
to equip the growing number of primary school leavers (420,000 p.a. by 1980)
with rural skills.
28.       Specific educational manpower problems have been exacerbated by
the urgent need to focus on rural development: the Faculty of Agriculture
of the University of Nairobi, the two Agricultural Institutes at Bukura and
Embu   and the Animal Health and Industry Training Institute at Kabete
cannot accommodate the country's increasing demand for trained agricultural-
ists  and extension workers.   More coherent staff development strategies are
also required.
29.       Internal inefficiencies characterize the formal educational system
with student repetition and poor student-teacher ratios. Educational
administration has been weakened by duplications of supervisory roles
among a variety of national bodies, and between the local arm of the Ministry
of Education and educational institutions themselves. Financial control
remains insufficient, with the Ministry of Education exhibiting some difficul-
ties in monitoring the spending of funds. Quality control in schools also needs
improvement. The inspectorate has grown substantially over the last few
years but still lacks the legal power to enforce minimum requirements in
educational facilities and pedagogical performance of teachers.
30.       The costs of education have risen dramatically in the past decade.
Since 1967, the total Ministry of Education expenditures have escalated to
an average annual growth rate of 21.6% at current prices. This is higher
than the rate of growth of total government expenditures of 14.8% and much
higher than the rate of growth of GDP of 7%. The result has been that the
Ministry of Education's recurrent expenditures have risen from 19.1% of
Government Revenues in 1967 to about 28% in 1976. If recurrent expenditures
on education and training by other ministries are included with those of the
Ministry of Education, the proportion of the Government's budget devoted to
the sector reaches 31%. This has created an urgent need for expenditure control
and heightened the Government's awareness that the development of the education
sector should be more efficiently directed and programmed than in the past.



- 10 -
31.       Within these financial constraints, the Kenyan educational
system as of 1978 stands in need not merely of expansion, but primarily
of institutional reorganization, curricular reorientation, and provision
of educational materials, trained personnel, and support facilities to make
it both equitable and useful in preparing the population to contribute to
those economic sectors where immediate development is feasible.
Qualitative Changes in Policy Recommendation: The NCEOP Report
32.       The Government of Kenya has addressed the above problems by
planning the objectives and institutional development of education more
comprehensively. In this effort the Government established in December
1975 the National Committee on Educational Objectives and Policies (NCEOP),
with a mandate to prepare a report which would have "far-reaching effects
on the objectives, structure and content of the education system", while
holding down recurrent expenditures on education to no more than 7% annual
increase in real terms and thereby keeping it at its current share of 28%
of the national recurrent budget. The NCEOP report presents a comprehensive
package of sound educational policies. It is aimed at making educational
content more relevant to the rural occupations that are available, improving
access to education, and providing educational and administrative services
to improve the overall quality of education.
33.       According to Bank assessment, the NCEOP has met its mandate to
recommend policies to hold down recurrent expenditure on education. A
current stagnation of primary school enrollment, governmental measures to
curb expenditure on teacher's salaries, and the standardization of the
non-tuition fee system for all primary and secondary educational institutions
will coalesce to afford the Government a financial safety margin for the
implementation of its proposals. By the mid-1980's the share of education as
a percentage of the recurrent budget is projected to stabilize at the
present level or, under favorable conditions, to decrease to about 26%.
34.       The Government's adoption of the NCEOP recommendations as
authoritative policy seems assured. The Cabinet has accepted in principle
the Sessional Paper embodying the NCEOP recommendations. However, it has
recommended useful changes in the Paper designed to avoid misunderstanding
by the public should implementation of the program prove difficult due
to financial or other constraints. The Paper was remanded to committee for
redrafting, and this redrafting has subsequently been completed. Formal
adoption of the Sessional Paper by the Cabinent and its submission to
Parliament as a government policy document is expected in the near future.
Relevance
35.       To make education more appropriate to Kenya's occupational needs
and openings, structural and curricular changes are proposed at all levels.
Beginning in 1981, if the availability of funds permit, there are plans to
introduce a new nine-year basic education course, replacing seven-year
primary and junior secondary education I and II; this would offer a new
curriculum which, though not prevocational, should make school leavers
more trainable in crafts and trades. Secondary education would be
restructured so that the bulk of those proceeding to secondary levels



- 11 -
would attend technical and vocational centers, while the enrollment in
general secondary education would be stabilized and the curriculum in
such schools made more scientific and vocationally relevant. Overall,
the enrollment and content of secondary education would be controlled to
meet projected manpower needs. The NCEOP has also recommended the full
integration of harambee secondary schools into the government education
system and an increase in assistance to registered Craft Training Centers,
so that both types of institutions can be upgraded and their content made
more germane to manpower needs. Technical education and training at
secondary and higher level would be intensified, with stronger participation
of private industry and the National Industrial Training Scheme in the
planning and financing of such training. Higher education would be
expanded based on manpower training requirements.
Equity
36.       Despite the Government's attempts to keep recurrent educational
expenditures under control, the political pressure to promote suitable
access to education has necessitated the institution of a policy of free
primary education, to be implemented gradually in the 1980's and to be
made universal and compulsory. The program of building remote areas
boarding primary schools, instituted in 1970 (para. 25),is to be
intensified. Access of women is to be increased through co-educational
secondary education, expansion of female boarding school facilities and
related measures. Adult education programs will be coordinated by a
restructured Board of Adult Education, rather than by several ministries,
in order to produce universal literacy more effectively in the forthcoming
decade.
Supportive Services
37.       To facilitate these changes, proposals are made to improve
teacher training, provision of educational materials and equipment, the
reformulation of examinations to reflect the new emphasis on locally
relevant science and training, and the improvement of educational planning
and management.
38.       A Unesco/Bank mission reviewing the NCEOP report in January 1977
concluded that its recommendations need to be further specified before
they will present an investment program sufficently developed to be
supported by sector-wide lending. Consequently, the Government has
entrusted a Standing Committee with the task of the detailed programming
of the NCEOP report. The Government's support of the NCEOP report
nevertheless provides a sound and well-conceived basis to clarify high
priority items which the Association can currently support, and lays a
comprehensive foundation for future sector-wide lending.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       Appraisal of this Project took place during August/September 1977.
The appraisal mission had been preceded by a Bank/UNESCO review of the NCEOP
Report in January 1977, followed by a project identification mission in April
1977 and a UNESCO preparation mission in May/June 1977. Negotiations were held
in Washington in March 1978 with Mr. Gachathi, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of
Education, leading the Kenyan delegation. The main features of the Project are
highlighted in the Credit and Project Summary given at the beginning of this
report, supplemented by Annex III at its end. A Staff Appraisal Report on the
Fourth Education Project in the Republic of Kenya (Report No. 1839-KE, dated
April 17, 1978) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives and Description
40.       Following upon the expansion of Kenya's educational system
facilitated by the prior three Bank Group supported education projects, the
Fourth Education Project would focus on qualitative improvements and con-
solidation of the growth of the sector. The proposed credit of US$23.0
million equivalent would support some of the highest priority items
recommended by the NCEOP: the need to supply more training opportunities
suitable to rural development, to remedy inequities in access to basic
education,and to provide increased educational support services including
detailed programming of the NCEOP proposals.
41.       The Project would seek to accomplish its objectives through the
following programs:
(a) Specialized education to fill critical gaps in agricultural
and administrative manpower:
(i)   Expansion of the Faculty of Agriculture of the
University of Nairobi and the two agricultural
institutes at Embu and Bukura;
(ii) Construction, furnishing, and equipping of a new
Animal Health and Industry Training Institute (AHITI); and
(iii) Assistance for a Project Development and Management
Course to be operated at the Kenya Institute of
Administration.
(b) Improvement in equity at primary and post-primary levels
by assistance to the "Remote Areas Programme" and vocational
training for primary school leavers:
(i)   Construction of 13 new Nomadic Boarding Primary
Schools in the educationally least provided areas
of the country;
(ii) Provision of storage facilities for educational materials
to about 5,000 rural primary schools; and



- 13 -
(iii) Assistance to selected Craft Training Centers
together with the related Karen Centre for
Research and Training.
(c)  Supporting Educational Services essential for the
consolidation of the rapid growth of the education system
and for qualitative improvement of education, particularly
at the primary level:
(i)  Assistance for development of curricula and education
materials at the Kenya Institute of Education, and
in-service training of tutors at the 17 existing
primary teacher colleges;
(ii) Strengthening of the Planning Unit of the Ministry
of Education and technical assistance to help in
the programming of the NCEOP;
(iii)  Strengthening of an Educational Facilities Unit which is
designed to rationalize school building in Kenya: and
(iv) Provision of computer hardware and specialist services
to the examinations section of the Ministry of Education.
Detailed Features
Specialized Education
(i) Faculty of Agriculture of the University of Nairobi
42.       The proposed Project would provide boarding and teaching facilities
to expand the Faculty of Agriculture by another 305 student places, leading
to a new capacity of 690 students with an annual output of about 200 under-
graduates and about 30 at graduate level after Project completion. Technical
assistance to a staff development program would also be included. This would
provide 26 man-years of specialized teaching staff to assist in the training
of students, drawn from advanced degree programs within the Faculty of
Agriculture and research posts, to take on staff positions within that
Faculty, and 24 man-years of overseas fellowships.
(ii)  Two Agricultural Institutes at Bukura and Embu and the
Animal Health and Industry Training Institute (AHITI) at
Ndomba
43.       To meet the demand for certificate holders, an expansion of the
two agricultural institutes at Bukura and Embu and a new AHITI at Ndoma would
be included in the Project to allow a total enrollment of 400 in each agri-
cultural institute and 360 in the new AHITI. At all places, because of their
remote locations and the lack of accommodation facilities, a minimum of staff
housing would be included (Bukura 18, Embu 10, Ndomba 40) to cater to the
housing needs of new teaching staff. To facilitate access of staff and
teachers to the institutes and for field. work, a limited amount of transport
would be provided for all three institutions.



- 14 -
(iii) Project Development and Management Courses at the Kenya
Institute of Administration
44.       The KIA is a training center for senior and mid-level civil servants,
operated by the Directorate of Personnel of the Office of the President. It
is viewed by both the Government and the Association as an important
vehicle to improve public administration, in general, and development project
processing, in particular.   Upgrading of the staff and program content of the
KIA would be central to this expanded role. The proposed Project would, with
the Associationts assistance, fully institutionalize a pilot project which
the KIA has operated for 8 years. The Project would provide for two phases:
phase I would entail the preparation of detailed course plans and associated
staff development programs; phase II would include about 20 man-years of tech-
nical assistance, as well as overseas fellowship training and incremental
operational costs to carry out the courses and staff development program
Equity Measures
(i) Rural Primary Education
45.       The project would include expansion of the Government's "Remote
Areas Programme", designed to reduce the severe imbalances in educational
opportunity noted above (para. 25). Thirteen Nomadic Primary Schools would
be provided for a total of 4550 pupil places of which 73% would be boarding.
To enlarge female enrollment, these boarding facilities would be constructed
in such a manner that at least 45% of the boarding capacity at each school
may be used by female pupils (Schedule 2, para. B.l. of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Eight austere teacher and staff houses would be included
would be included at each school, as experience in Kenya has shown that remote
area schools attract the same proportion of qualified teachers as other schools,
provided that staff houses are made available. To assist in extending the life-
time of textbooks and other educational materials, particularly in schools built
by self-help methods in rural areas,   simple storage facilities (including
shelves and cabinets) for about 5,000 of the country's rural primary schools
would also be included. It is expected that the local communities themselves
would construct the actual storage buildings.
(ii) Craft Training Centers
46.       Equipment would be provided for 30 existing Craft Training Centers
(CTCs) to upgrade the CTC Program. The Karen Centre for Research and Training,
which is responsible inter alia for developing work programs and in-service
training of CTC instructors (para. 21) would monitor and evaluate the impact
of this improved equipment on the effectiveness of training, as a guide to
future planning. Also, the physical facilities of the Karen Centre would be
expanded, and vehicles would be provided for the transportation of educational
materials and for the Karen Centre's in-service training teams.
Supporting Educational Services
(i) Kenya Institute of Education
47.       The Project would also provide technical assistance for the planning
and monitoring of educational development. The restructuring of primary school
curricula by the Kenya Institute of Education would be assisted by about six
man-months of technical assistance and provision of equipment and incremental
operational costs for primary school curricula development and testing.



- 15 -
(ii) Planning Unit of the Ministry of Education
48.       The Project would also provide about 4.5 man-years of technical
assistance to strengthen the long-term planning capacity of the Planning Unit
of the Ministry of Education, which bears the responsibility for implementation
of the NCEOP recommendations accepted by the Government. Also entailed would
be funds for incremental operational costs for specialists' services to the
Unit, including short-term consultants' services.
(iii) Educational Facilities Unit of the Ministry of Education
49.       The technical capabilities of the Educational Facilities Unit of
the Ministry of Education would be upgraded. This would be accomplished
through seven man-years of technical assistance to support the appointment of
an architect, two building supervisors, and a school furniture designer.
(iv) Data Processing at the Ministry of Education
50.       The project would provide for the installation of a computer terminal
at the Ministry of Education, linked through appropriate multiple lines to the
existing computer center at the Ministry of Finance. Also included would be
four man-years of technical assistance to enable appointment of a systems
analyst and a programmer, and to provide about two years of incremental
operational costs.
Project Implementation
51.       The Project Unit in the Ministry of Education, which satisfactorily
implemented the first and second Bank Group financed education projects and
is implementing the Third Project, would also be responsible for the implementa-
tion of the proposed Fourth Project. The Unit would work in close collabora-
tion with the Ministry of Works which has prime responsibility for construction
of civil works in Kenya, and which would maintain its staff assigned to assist
in the implementation of the previous education projects. The Project Unit
and the Ministry of Works would be adequately staffed throughout the period
of project implementation (Schedule 2, para. II.C, of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The Project would be implemented in about 4-1/4 years.
52.       Consultants, selected and appointed on terms and conditions mutually
agreeable to the Borrower and the Association would be appointed for the design
and preparation of construction documents and supervision of the expansion of
the Faculty of Agriculture. It is expected that consultants would also under-
take such services for the other project components to supplement the imple-
mentation capacity of the Ministry of Works. Should the Ministry of Works
have the capacity to undertake such services for components other than the
Faculty of Agriculture, this would be without financing by the Association.
Technical assistance specialists employed under the Project shall have quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to
the Association (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
53.       The development of the Project Development and Management Courses
at the KIA (para. 44) is an item of high priority within the Project, and
formulation of satisfactory course plans is considered the premier feature



- 16 -
of this component. KIA would prepare detailed programs with the assistance
of consultants if necessary. These programs, which would have to be acceptable
to the Association, would have to be submitted by June 30, 1979 (Section 3.04(b)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
54.       The Government would have the University of Nairobi submit to the
Association for review and comments an annual report on the progress of the
staff development program fQr the Faculty Qf Agriculture (para. 42) within
six months of the end of each academic year up to and including the 1980
academic year (Section 4.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
55.       The 30 Craft Training Centers to receive equipment under the Project
(para. 47) would be selected, and a program for monitoring and evaluation
would be submitted by the Borrower to the Association for its comments by
December 31, 1978 (Schedule 2, para. II.D. of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
56.       The total Project cost is estimated at US$30.0 million equivalent
excluding taxes (US$1.0 million equivalent) of which the foreign exchange
component would be about US$15.0 million or 50%. The proposed IDA Credit of
US$23.0 million equivalent would finance the entire foreign exchange compo-
nent and contribute US$8.0 million equivalent to local costs. The resource
constraints operating within Kenya noted above (para. 12) and the relative
importance of implementation of this Project both justify the financing of
a substantial portion of its local costs.
57.       Unit costs are comparable to similar institutions financed by
other Bank Group education projects. Base unit construction costs per square
meter would vary from US$140 for Nomadic Primary Schools to US$250 for the
new Agricultural Institutes (1978), while the Bank Group mid-1977 median value per
square meter for non-formal basic education facilities and post-secondary
agricultural institutes was US$117 and US$25  respectively.   The proposed
schedules of accommodations are functional, and areas per student place are
realistic. Technical Assistance Specialists have been costed at US$55,000
per man-year and fellowships at about US$8,000 per man-year. Furniture and
equipment would be kept to a minimum and of a type pertinent to the basic
needs of the Project.
Procurement
58.       Contracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement. Qualified domestic civil works contractors would be allowed a
preferential margin of 7.5% over bid prices of competing foreign contractors
(Schedule 3, para. D of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Exempted
from international competitive bidding would be civil works contracts costing
less than US$300,000 equivalent each (estimated at US$3.0 million total),
which would be small and widely dispersed, and thus not likely to attract
international bidders. These would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures satis-
factory to the Association (Schedule 3, para. B.1. of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Contracts for furniture and equipment and imported cons-
truction materials would be awarded on the basis of international competitive



- 17 -
bidding according to Bank Guidelines. Domestic manufacturers of furniture
and equipment would be allowed a preference of 15%, or the existing rate of
import duties, whichever is lower, nver the c.i.f. price of competing foreign
suppliers (Schedule 3, para. C.2.)   of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). Furniture and equipment contracts to be exempted from international
competitive bidding would be those costing less than US$50,000 equivalent
each (estimated at US$0.2 million total) . They would be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally and in accordance with
local procedures satisfactory to the Association (Schedule 3, para. 3(1) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).  Review of tender evaluation doL>.-
ments by the Association prior to award would not be required for civil works
contracts costing less than US$500,000 equivalent and contracts for equipment,
furniture, and construction materials less than US$50,000 equivalent.
Disbursement
59.       The Credit would be disbursed over a period of 4-1/4 years and
would cover (i) 60% of total expenditures for civil works; (ii) 100% of
foreign expenditures and 70% of local expenditures for professional services
and technical assistance; (iii) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported furniture, equipment and vehicles; 70% of local expenditures when
such imported items have been purchased locally; or 100% of ex-factory cost
when these items have been manufactured locally;and (iv) 70% of local ex-
penditures for local transportation of furniture and equipment; and for the
incremental operational cost of KIA, KIE, Project Unit, Planning Unit and
data processing at the Ministry of Education (Schedule 1, para. 1 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
60.       Disbursements against (i), (ii), and (iii) above would be fully
documented. Disbursements for (iv), estimated at US$1.2 million equivalent,
would be against a certificate of expenditure, the documentation of which
would not be submitted for review, but would be retained by the Borrower
and be available for inspection by the Association during the course of a
project supervision mission. Annual auditing of expenditures would be
carried out by Government auditors acceptable to the Association. The
Project would be expected to be completed by June 30, 1982, with a proposed
Closing Date of December 31, 1982.
61.       Submission by the Borrower of detailed programs satisfactory to
the Association for the Project Development and Management Courses to be
given at the KIA and associated staff development plan (para. 53) would be
a condition of disbursement for that portion of the Credit supporting the
implementation of these project items (Schedule 1, para. 4 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Justifi.ation
62.       The proposed Project would provide financial and technial assist-
ance to carry out some of the high priority recommendations of the NCEOP.
Specialized education contemplated by the project would contribute to agri-
cultural development by supplying vital reinforcement for the understaffed
agricultural extension service and replacing many under-qualified extension
workers by well-trained technicians. The upgrading of about 2,300 middle-
and upper-level civil servants, to be carried out at the KIA, would improve



- 18 -
the Kenyan Government's project planning and implementation abilities. Ex-
pansion of Nomadic Boarding Schools would broaden the access of the remote
rural population, including women, to basic education. Assistance to Craft Train-
ing Centers and the Karen Centre would increase training opportunities for
unemployed rurai youth and, by supplying skills for identified rural job
opportunities, would stimulate rural development. The proposed assistance
to educa icnal planning, management and support facilities would facilitate
qualitative improvements in education and continuing educational planning on
a national scale in accordance with the NCEOP recommendations. The training
of needed manpower and the improvement of educational equity and quality
provide ample justification for this Project.
Risks
63.       Given the Kenyan Governmentts good record in implementing the
previous education projects and the measures incorporated in this Project
to strengthen the Planning Unit of the Ministry of Education, there are
few risks in the implementation of the Project. The principal risk deals
with educational expenditure, relating to the sector as a whole. Despite
the determination of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance
and Planning, it will continue to be difficult for them to keep recurrent
expenditures under control. Although the Government has been able to
control rapidly increasing costs of teacherst salaries and has kept
institution creation within its financial means, social pressures for
expansion of the sector and increased teacherst compensation will present
persistent financial problems. Should the Government yield to these
pressures, the qualitative improvements envisioned by this Project could
be jeopardized, or sector-wide austerity measures could be necessitated
at some future date, possibly affecting this Project. However, both the
Association and the Government are watching recurrent expenditures closely,
and all indications are that the Government is succeeding in keeping the
rate of increase in expenditures under reasonable control.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Kenya and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
65.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are referred to in Annex III of this report. There are no special
conditions of effectiveness. Submission by the Borrower of a course plan
satisfactory to the Association for the Project Development and Management
Courses at KIA, and an associated staff development plan, would be a condi-
tion of disbursement for those portions of the Credit supporting the imple-
mentation of these components (para. 61). (Schedule 1, para. 4 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement.)



-19-
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOJMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
April 27, 1978



-20-                                       ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
KENYA              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU K2)                  -KENYA                                         REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TTL  562.6                                      MOST RECENT
TOTAL Go992 29'0                                 1970   ESTIMATE          TANZANIA       IVORY COAST * KOREA REP. OF **
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     60.0     140.0   240.0                100.0/a    340-0        280.0
--- ------
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)           S.3       11.2    13.8                  12.9 /a     5.4        32.2
POPULATION DENSITY                     14.0      1s.0    24.0                  14.0       16.0       327.0
PER SQUARE KM.
PER So. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       S4.0      113.0   1311.0                25.0        32.0      1371.0
VtTAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)        46.5       45.0      48.7                Wso        48.1        35.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THU,AV)           19.8      17.0      1                  23.0        23.3        11.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)      159.0        ..      129 .           160-165/b         ..       60.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY At BIRTH (YRS)      42.5       40.1      50.0               41.8        41.0       85.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..       3.4       3.3                3.2         3.1         2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (IC)             30        31        3530a                          34I          .
TO3!AL                               3.0        3.1      e3. 5               3. ella     3.4 /a      2.34
U4BAN                                 5.6       6.5       6.1                5.8         8.7 /b      6.4
URBAN POPULATION (s OF TOTAL)           7.3       9.9      13.0                 5.5 /b    28.0        41.2
AGE STRUCtURE (PERCENT)b  4                                                   4           42.5        42.1
0 TO 14 YEARS                      4   /     944.                                       25        4.
15 TO 64 YEARS                      4Sif  46.0              ..               3.0        54.6       54.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                    4.6/a,b   3.6                           2.6         2.7         3.4
A"E DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.0/a b   1.1         *-               0.s         0.         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3       1-                            1 ' 2/a    09/c        1.4
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..     86.1      24e.6                  *-         *-     4424.7
USERS (s OF MARRIED WOMEN)             .    .      .                 .                    .        42.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        3300.0    50oo.o /b 6100.0              5600.0      2600.0    10200.0
LABOR FORCE IN .GRICULTURE (5)           ..      0.0/b   84.0/a               s1.0/a.b   62.0        605
UNEMPLOYED (x oF LABOR FORCE)            ..        ..         ..                 ..         ..         4.
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PR IVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHESt  55 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..      20.2/C       ..              33.5          ..        17.1
HIGHEST 205 OF HOUSEHOLOS              ..      S2.6 /       .  *3.3                       ..        44.5
LOWEST  201 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        3.9         ..F              2.3          *.         t.t
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSNOELS                ..      1.,f  ..                      7.8*                   17.7
DISTRIBUTION Of LANG OWNERSHIP
I OWNED SY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..        ..         ..                ..          ..        2S.0
; OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..        ..         ..                 ..         ..         2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           10840.0/a *81o.o/d 5800.0/b.c           21570 .0   1s320.0       2180.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      2290.0 /A147.TlC1300.:Qb C               4690:07a  2830.0 /d  2170.0 /b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BEO          830.0/a  770.0       760.0/b            700.0 /a  1150-0  -  1900.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REOUIREMENTS)        103.0       98.0    91.0                73.0       108.0       103.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             75.0       71.0      59.6               43.0        60.0        65.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        32.0       29.0      22.8               23.0        I ..oe      19.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             ..        1.9         ..
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO              4
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      47.0       S4.0    109.0                35.0        76.0       104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     2.0/.      9.0      13.0                 3.0       11.0        41.0
YEARS Of SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            13.0       13.0      13.0               1 13.0      13.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                    12.o/e      2.0       2 o0.0 /C                      7 o        E0
ADULT LITERACY R:ATE (5)                 ..      30.0       40.0                 ..       20.0        87.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                2.5/a      ..         ..                 ..         ..         2.7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT                  -
PIPEO WATER (M)                        ..        ..         ..               30.0 /b.d    ..        so.o /c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(S OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  ..         ..         ..                 ..         ..        so.o
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (x)                     ..         .         ..                 ..          ..       30.0
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          9.0        ..      40.0                11.0          ..      126.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           6.0       9.0       10.0                3.0        10.0        2.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           50.0      68.0       66.0               31.0       96.0       307.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.4       0.5        0.5                0.1         0.2        3.5
SEE NOTES AND DEFtNITIONS ON REVERSE



-21-                                                 ANNEX I
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961. for 1970 between 1969 and 1971, and for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 and 176.
-  Ivory Coant has been aelected as the second comparison country because of its similarities in economic policies.
05  Xorea has been selected a. a country with sound industrialization and emport promotion policies.
KENYA             1960    /a  1962;    /b  Rased on complete enumeration of non-African population, and on a 10 percent sample of rural African pops-
lation age 0-14, 15-59 and 60 years and over respectively;            /c  Ratio of population  under 15 and 60 and over to total
labor force;    /d  Registered, not all practicing in the country;    /e  Totgl secondary includes teacher training at
the third level.
1970    /I  Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and ever to labor force age 15-59 years;    /b  Labor force age 15-59 years;
/c  Urban only;    /d  Registered, not a11 practicing in the country.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /s  Staff estimate;    /b  1972;    /c  Registered not all practicing in the country.
TANZANIA          1970    /a  Mainland Tancania;    /b  1967;    /c  1965;    /d  As percentage of urb.n households.
IVORY COAST       1970    /a  Due to immigration population growth rate is higher than rate of natural increase;                 /b  1965-70;    /c  Ratio of popu-
lation under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /d  Governaent only, including midwives;    /.  1964-66.
KOREA REP. OF   1970    /a  As percentage of employment;    /b  Registered, not all practicing in the country;    /c  Water piped inside.
R13, April 21, 1978
pnliTl(lS OF SOCUiL MIACtA
Land Areaj.tbou kmp2)                                                                           ?oeulfatien get nursing npreen - Populatiol  divided by .neber of practicing
Total - Total surface area comprising land ares  nd inland matrs. rs and fe=rale graduate n-reno, "trained" or "certified" nurses, and
Agri.. - Nest recent  stiSste of agricultural area ued temporarily sr perna-                      aauiliary personnel with training or experience.
nemtly for crops, pastures, market & kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                        posulaticn  per hospital bed - population divided by member of hosyitol bode
available is public and private general ond speciali.ed hospital and
GNP par capita 6PSS) - GNP per capita estimates at current mrket prices,                           rehabilitation centers; excludes nursing hones and e.tabliehlscilt ftr
cairsl.tnd by same conversion eethod as Wrld Bank Atlas (1974-76 basis);                        custodial end preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1976 data.                                                                     Per capita suppv of caloric  (17 of rrguir-nt.) - Computed frnm  energy
equivalent of net food supplies avtilsble io country per capita per day;
population and vital statistice                                                                   available supplies comprise dorestic prod-ctirm, tmports less exports, and
population (midy-ear million) - As of July first;  if not vailable, average                       changes in stock; net *upplien seclude onimol feed, seeds, quantities used
of two end-year eeti.stee; 1960, 1970 and 1976 data,                                            in food processing and losses in distribution; roqoirements were e-tl-oted
by FAO based on physiological needs for normal arrivity and health conid-
PopI latton drait_t -er square km - Mid-year population per square kilometer                      *ring environmental temperature, body weights, age and aes distribuions o_.
(100 hectares) oF total area,                                                                   population, and .l1o1ing 10t. for waste at household le-l.
Ppc,ulstion density - ear sqsets ks of sarie  lend - Coeputed ae above for                      Per c.sita aupply _oPrPri. (trene net day) - Protetn content of por caPita
agric.ltur.l land only.                                                                         net supply of food per day; neL rupply  cf tcOd in define.d  s sose; requiro-
assts for all countries established by ItSDA Eicnoni  .esea.ch Necvices
vital statistics                                                                                   provide for a minimum allowance of 60 irtms rcf ttal prota In per day, and
Crude birth rate ot thousand. averaz  - Annua  liv  births per thousand af                         20 grs  of animal and pulse protein, of whtch 10 gramss should be  ntimal
.id-year population; tea-year aritimetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                      protein; thse standsrds ore lower than tho-c of 75 groins of total protein
aDd f-ve-ya   vrage ending in 1975 for oet recet estmte,                                        and 23 grees of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by FAO
Crude dath ragsrarbs   d. averees -    .nl deaths per thousand -f aid-year                         in the Third  eNrld Food Survey.
population; tan-year  titeic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                       Per capit  protein eupply from  animal nsd pulse - Protein s-pply of food
year  eyrragending in 1975 for mat recant astimate,                                             derived fr esninals nd pu1ses in grees per day.
Infant nortality rate  /Uthu) - Annual dath  of infants under one year of age                   Death rat  1/thosl ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1_4
per thousnd live births.                                                                        yers  e children in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Lif e *.peetcta     at birth  (vr a  - Aerage muumr of years  f life remaining at                 mlnutritin.
birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing co,ntria.                                                                                 Edunatim
Grens reproduetilm  rate - Average number of live daughters a woman  ill bear                   Adjusted enrollont ratio - Primary school - Enrollment of all ngen no per-
in her normal reproductive period if she emparienmes praeent age-specific                       cantage of primary  ch0ool-age population; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                       but adjusted for different Iangths of primary education; for coontrie. with
for developing countries,                                                                       universal eduatis., enrollment may e-ced 1007. sine asc-ns pupils are belso
population arfth rats (X1 - total - Compound sonual greeth rate  of mid-year                      or above th  official school age.
population tar 1930-60  1960-70  and 1970-75.                                                 Adlted enrolment ratio - secondary school - C-mputed as above; secndary
Posulation 1rmeth rate (i) - urban - Computed like greeth rate of total                           education requires at least four years of approved primary inmtru-Lion;
populstion; different definitions of urban area  may affect conparbility of                     provides general, vocational or teacher training instructions for pupils
data  mong countries,                                                                           of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally encluded.
Urban p.Pulation (7 of total) - Ratio of urban i to tal population; different                   Years of sehooliog Provided (first and necond leveln) - Tot-l years of
definitions of urban areas my affect comparability of data  amg countries.                      echonling; at secondary level, vocational instruction nwy be partially or
-eop4Uty *ecluded.
- Cbildre" (0-14 yeses)' _eeJ_-W  (15-9  yars),                         la   ollnet (X of secondary; - Vocational institutione inclade
*nd retired (63   a    _      e)  s petas  ad amdear pmliett                                    te      a, industrial or other programs which operate independently ar as
As. dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ever to those                      departmnts of secoodary institutiona.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                        Adult literacy rate  (TI - Literate adults (able to read snd write) as per-
Economic dependency ratio - Ratis of population under 13 end 65 and over te                       canrage of total adult populatioo aged 15 y.asr  and over.
th  labor fore in age group of 15-64 years.
F.,il  planning - ..ceptors (cuemulative. thou) - Cumelative nuhbr of acceptors                 Housing
of birth-control devinem under auspices of national f_ily planning pengrom                    pesons Por room  (.rbn  - Average number of persons per  room in oo.upied
inie inception.                                                                                 eonventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings exclude non-peensnent
Fa-ily PI .nin  - userm ( of married woen) - percentages of usried women  f                       structures and unoccupied parts.
child-bearing age (15-44 years) who as. birth-control devices  to all married                 Occupied deellinga without piped water (%) - Occupied conventional dwellings
woman in ee age group.                                                                          in urban  nd rtral areas withouc iooide or outside piped water tfcilities
as percentage of a11 occupied dwellings.
mplovment                                                                                       Acc"s to electricity  (% of a11 dwellings) - Conve-tional dwellimgs with
Total labar fercn  (thousnd) - EconoicaIly active peraons, including armed                        electricity  is living quarters as percent of tutal dwellings in urban  nd
forces and  enplsy.d hut secluding hoas"ives, atudents, etc.; definition                        rural sras.
in vvriour countrie; ar  not cutparbel.                                                       Rur t duellings connected ts electricity [X) - Computed as above for rural
Lab.r fceco in%rc Irco(. - AgricuIt.ral labor force  (ifring, forestry,                           dwelings only.
hoLting sod fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Une-ployed (% of lIhor  force) - Unemployed are usually defined as persons who                  Consumption
ncr  able and  1illing to tkhe a 1 ,b, out of a Job 0n a given day, remainmd out             Radio rec-iv-rs (Per thon pop) - All typet of cecciver  for radio broadcasts
of    job, and seeking work for A specified minimum period not o....ding one                    to general poblic per thaouand of population; excludes unlicensed re..ivara
week; -av sot be comparablo barwee.  com,n tries due to different definitions                   i, co-ntrias and in years when registration of radio .ets wsu in effect;
of onemplyed and source of data, e.g., employment office  tntistic. snmple                     data for recent years may not be comparable since nost countri-o abolished
--.rvoyu, cunpulsory unemployment in.aurance.                                                   licensing.
Pasnencercara  (p-n  thou popl -P..... ger cars ouspri.e ..totcrs sea..ting
Income dltribh,tion - Percentage of private imoue (both in c-ah and kind)                         less thn sight por-uno; onIlnds  mb,,lancen, hearses and military
rec-iv-d by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, nnd poorest 40% of honus-                     vehicle.
holds.                                                                                        Electricity (kwh/yr per cop) - An-ol cons-sption of industril, caumsrcial,
public and private electricity io kilowntt hoors per capita, generally
2_iscributc; of laod ownership - percentages  of Innd otned by wealthiest 10%                     based on prod-etion data, without allowance for losses in grida but allow-
.nd po-rcL IO1Y of land owners.                                                                 ing for imports and exportn of electricity.
Newsprint (kg/yr per cap) - Per .upit,, o,mcai consumption in kilogr,umms
Hritli aod Nutrition                                                                              estimated fran domestic production plus net imports of ,owsprint.
Pooplotio- per phvyicinn - Popolatiun dividsd by number of practiciag
pmysicians qmsliffid frpm a medical school at oniversity I.-v.



-22-
Aloac I
icdeonic DeveloeI it Dt- Seat
1972 ctu__  ____ l ___   Pr_i        1977       1978        Nro 9cted                                Avorage Annual lat, of Crovth   19,4
1972        U       73197~4    1 V 751 7 U            77 t97_i                     1980      1985        1990     i967-70 1972-76 1976-5 5   1985-90  thre
of GDP
A. National Accounts
(million , US at 1972 Prices)
1.  GDP                            2022.6    2155.8    2258.3    2272.7    2390.2    2510.5    2662.5    2824.9    2997.1    4052.7         5543.7       6.7     4.3     6.1      6.5    100.0
2.  Cainer fo  TT                      -      -94.6      -73.6    -105.0     -72.2      102.8      17.1       -8.1     -33.9    -112.6      -163.2       *.                               -3.0
3.  007                            2022 6    2061.2    2184.6    2167.7    2318.0    2613.2    2679.9    2816.8    2963.2    3940.2         5380.8       6.9     3.5     6.1      6.4     97.0
4.  Iortt                           605.2     587.1      665.8     308.4     520.3      668.6     758.0      781.2     826.3    1015.8      1216.3       8.3    -3.7     7.7      5.3     21.8
5.  nport  - Vol a                  660.3     655.6     621.9      565.9     5".5       639.0     679.6      723.5     768.0    1031.8      1401.1       6.0     1.7     6.2      6.3     25.1
6.  fortat- TT adjetd   -           560.3     560.8       46.2 2   40.9      527.2      741.7     696.6      715.4     734.4      919.0     1*2.2        6.7    -1.5     6.4      6.1     22.1
7.  Aaorea Gap - iT adjmuted         44.9      26.3      117.6      47.5      -6.7      -73.1      61.3  .  65.5        91.8       96.9       78.1                .        .       .         .3
8.  Tetal Cosreption               1620.8    1681.2    1736.5    1832.3    1893.9    1919.4    2U3.8    2240.0    2384.5    3121.7          4234.4       6.7     4.0      5.7     6.3     79.2
9.  0nvteet_                        446.8     406.1      409.8    4D0.4      417.3      620.8     617.4      642.3     670.9      915.3     1224.4      10.2   -1.7       9.1     6.0     17.5
10. National Savingt                379.2     292.9      379.8     267.6     333.9      632.0     501.3      516.6     514.9      721.0     1006.3      12.3   -1.7      8.2      6.9     14.8
11. Detic Savins                    401.8     380.0      448.1     335.4     424.1      694.1    533.1       576.8     579.0      818.4     1146.3       7.8     1.4      7.6     7.0     17.7
12. CDP at current U8$             2022.6    2362.6   2850.7    3155.5    3410.1   40282    4699.4    5359.7    6084.2   11359.7    22139.3             16.8    13.9    14.5    13.9
8. Sector Qutent
(thre of CDP at 1972 Prices)                                                          I
1.  Iduetry                         21 3       21 9      2 18      21.9       2..8      2.t.      23 8       2  0      24.2      25.3        27,2      7.8      5.5     7.0     8.0
2   Agrculture                       32 7       31 4      30.7      30.4       29.8      24.2       22 0      2t 9       24.7      24.0        2 .2      5.6      1.3     5.6     5.8
3.  Srvice.                          46 0       46 6      47,6      47.7       4J6       . 47.8     41. i  .1.2          47i1      48.6        45.6      7.5      4.7     6.0     6.0
C. pi.e
1.  Il.'rt Price Iode               100.0     117.5      149.4     171.2     187.7      242.9     226.7      236.8     244.4      322.6      450.1        .      17.1     4.9     6.9
2.  I_nrt Price  Ind                100.0      120.6     173.0     203.1      196.1     209.3     221.1      239.5     255.6      362.1      509.3         .     19.4     7.4      7.1
3.   er  of Trade                   100.0      97.4      .86.4      84.3       95.7     116.1     102,5       98.9      95.6       99.1       88.4
4.  GOP Deflator (U10)              100.0      109.6     126.2     138.8      142.7     160.5     176.5      189.7     203.0      284.7      399.4         .      9.3    .7.1      7.0
5. Avara   Rechange Data
(U39/Uf)                          2.80      2.85      2.80       2.70      2.40
D.  Sol-ctad Indiater             1965-70   1972-76   197t-85   1985-90
1.  ICOR                              3.0       4.5        3.6       3.5
2.  I7ort Elasticity                  1.0      -0.8         1.1      0.8
3. A-grace Do_tic Saving  tate   19.0           18.5      20.9      21.1
4.  Averago National Savings Rate   18.6        16.1      19.0      18.5
5.  Nargial National Savgs R. t  22.0            33       22.9      20.3
6.  7wirte/GDP                       29.8      26.2       26.5      24.5
7.  Inva-t_nt/GDY                    20.3      19.4       22.7      23.1
8.  Giaonr Sp/WIY                     0.7       2.3        2.4       2.0
Av. Annual
Cr. Rate
E.   ploy_nt                        1970      1975       1976    1970-76
1.  Labor Force Total                .*   6,400,000
2.  W He ployynet                 644500    819,100   857,200    4.92
F.  Publi Finance                                                                                                    Prov.
([f Million)                    1968/70    1970/71    1871/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77
1.  Recurrent Nenicer                 97.9       124.0      141.6      149.0       190.1      226.1       269.3      311.8
2.  Raourrent banditures              88.4       110.4      128.7      139.6       163.7      207.2       245.4      285.0
3.  R            pcurr nt O,O8l,     .t84       +13.5       +12.9       +9.4       +26.3      +18.9       +23.9      +16.8
4.  Developmnt Projact
rning. & otber
Miaaln1 oe R ..eipt.               0.4        0.4         0.4        0.6         0.6        0.4         _          _
5.  Foreign  r nts                     1.4        0.8         1.8        0.5         3.3        6.6         7.6       19.1
6.  Surplus A  ilable for
Financin  Dv_lop_nt
r.nditura                         10.3       14.7        13.1       10.5        30.4       25.4       31.5        35.9
7.  nDveloymnt tepeditura             32.1       46.5        51.9       61.8        66.4       94.2       127.7      148.9
9.   .rarll Nafieit                  zAI         -31.7      M3.8       -L3.         M.0       MiL         19.       -LUc0
9. Fitnacing of thb Dficit:
-   trrnal lane                 10.8       10.9        11.5       24.7        14.4       22.0       43.1        41.1
a_tic:
Lon8g-teem Ir-iig             13.6        8.         15.6       21.3        16.9       15.5       52.8        25.0
rSort-ten Borreming            5.1       15.0         1.1        6.8        -2.9       12.7       32.5        20.6
casnta                         0.05       0.03       0.02        0.02        -          0.4
Ch-ng. in Cash ]alane.
(Increaaa -)                   -7.8        -2.4       -8.5        +1.5       -5.6       -4.1       +32.2       -26.3
TElN, CPI-A
February 13, 1978



-23-
Annex I
BDaes. of PsUnt!sinde    1 Aesiete
1972        1973         1974        1975         1976.        1977         1978        1979         1980          1988          1990
A.  Sumary of Balance of is1anta
1.  Exports (incI  NFg)                      560.0       698.6       1005.3       1058.7      1147.5       1552.4       1540.6      1713.5       1877.2        3328.2        6306.4
2.  IWoret (inel.   s)                       632.0       732.6       1237.3       1161.3      1149.4       1399.3       1676.0      1870.5       2112.1        3678.7        6704.4
3.   Roeeurce BalanCe                        -72.0       -54.0       -231.8       -122.6        -1.9        153.1       -135.4      -157.0       -234.8        -350.6        -398.0
4.  Net Setor Service Inco_                  -34.1      -101.9       -101.1       -113.4      -113.8       -129.6       -124.1       -143.5      -165.5        -325.1        -630.3
4!1 nbt Intereat Nddti of which.             -20.1      --21.9        -24.6        -25.9        -22.5       -37.6        -29.1        -39.0       -30.6        -140.0        -332.1
(Interest on Public K & LS LT1as)    ( -14.5)    ( -16.3)    ( -18.2)    ( -19.6)    ( -22.5)    ( -33.0)    ( -41.3)    ( -53.2)             -6-  )      (-159.3)      (-362.2)
4.2 Diret invesMt_at Income (Net) 
4.3 Workers  lttance (bt)               )    -14.0       -80.0        -76.5        -87.5        -91.3       -92.0        -95.0       -104.5       -115.0       -163.1        -298.2
4.4 Other Fector Srvice lace  (Nt)
5.  Current Trensfere (Bet)                   38.1        22.2         19.3         18.4         15.3   .    20.0         20.0         20.0         25.0         25.0          25.0
6.  BeIC         u  nt_t                     -6.        -133.7       -313.6       -217.6 --.00.4             43.5       -239.5       -280.5       -375.4       -U0.7       -_toU.
7.  Frivt irect Ct vee" nt                    34.1        74.7        12.           42.9        42.9           .          53.8         60.3         67.5        119.0         209.7
8.  capital Granas                            39.5        39.4         69.9         39.4         40.0        60.0         64.2         68.7         73          103.1         144.6
Puvblic M  LT 1.
9.  Dfibur_tmo    5                           U.68:7      67.8         74.6         87.7        183.5       255.7        245.6        270.1        298.5         704.3       1560.2
10  Anortimatioa 1                           -W0.4       -12.6        -13.8        -13.1        -19.7       -32.5        -42.8        -47.1        -69.9       -231.3        -813.3
11. Net Disbureants                           58.3        55.2         60.8         74.6        165.8       223.2        202.8        223.0        228.6        473.0         746.9
OCther H  L 
12.    ei ntj1r                               10.5        18.6         22.7         24.8         14.5         9.0          5.9          1.6          0.8          0.0           0.0
13. Aortisetioua/                             -5.'        -5.5         -3.7         -4.0         -7.7        -8.9         -6.4         -6.5        -6.8          -6.7          -7.4
14. Not Disbuahrntr2                           4.8        13.1         29.0         20.8          6.8         0.1         -0.5         -4.9         -6.0         -6.7          -7.4
15  Use of DFe geoubceA                        0.0        -0.6         53.5         51.6         18.9       -35.0        -35.0          0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0
16  Short-tern Capital Transactio-             5.6         15.1        31.1         31.9         33.2        15.0         15.0         15.0         15.0          31.8         36.9
17. Capital Traneactions. n.a.i              -49.1       -31.8        -74.2        -27.7        -88.4                      _ -          -            -                           _
18. Change in Reserval (- . inereae)         -25.2       -31.4         29.7        -15.9      -118.8       -354.9        -60.8        -81.5         -3.2        -69.5        -127.5
B.  Grnts  nd Lrne CoiSent5
1.  Official Grant4/                          39.5         39.4        69.9         39.4         40.0
2   Public M & LT Loans                       99.4        102.7       170.11       373.2        217.6
2.1  GIRD                                     29.0         34.0        10.4        193.5         31.0
2.2  IDA                                      28.0          .          33.5         25.5         14.0
2.3  Other Multilateral                         .           1.1         3.6          7.2         10.8
2.4  Goverents                                22.7         66.0       122.6         76.0         33.6
of which centrally
planned econonia                        -           0.3          -            -            -
2.2  SBpeliers                                 2.3          -            -          47.5         65.8
2.6  Financial Inetitutions                   17.3          1.6          -           8.4         56.6
2.7. Bonds                                     -            -            -           -            -
2.8  public Loans  n.e.i.                 _    -            _-                      15.0          5.8
3   Other M & LT Loan  (where availeble) /  33.0           23.2         6.9          3.6          7.5
C.  Meorand_ Itena
6/
1.  Grant Bl_mot of Total Comitents           45.5        45.4         66.0         23.8         21.0
2.  Average Interest (Porcent)                 4.1          4.2         2.1          6.7          6.6
3   Average Maturity (Years)                  29.2         28.6        36.4         24.6         18.1
1/ Includes financing of projected balace. of payment deficit (1977-1990) by suppliers' credits.
l Reprepent diebursent and repayenot of loan  for 8AC projects of which Kenya's share is a notional 50%.
5/ Net of Drawing" and "Bapayent by Purchase'.
4/ Ecludes Technical Assistance granta.
5For 1972-76 representa a notional 50% of loan omitnents for RAC promjcts.
6/ For 1972-76 represents only Srent elcent of loans.
iAN, C7I-A
February 7, 1978



-24-
KENYA                                      Annex I
Debt and Creditworthiness-/
Actual
1972      1973       1974       1975       1976       1977
A. Medium and Long-Term Debt (Disbursed Only)
(US$ Million)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (DOD:  End of Period)           441.6      514.5      602.8      656.8      807.9    1029.8
2,  Including Undisburse1/                                 674.3      787.9      958.7    1235.0    1401.0    1537.4
3U Public Debt Service -                                    36.3       39.9       42.1       43.0       57.7       82.4
3.1 Interest                                                20.2       21.7       24.5       25.9       30.3       41.1
4.  Other M & LT Debt Service                                 ..         ..         .
B   Debt Burden-/
1   Debt Service Ratio                                       6.5        5.7        4.2        4.1        5.0        5.3
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                         1.8        1.9        1.9        1.9        2.4        2.0
3.  Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                   8.9        8.3        7.2        6.4        8.3
C   Termsl/
1.  Interest on Total DOD/TotalDOD                           4.6        4.2        4.1        3.9        3.8        4.0
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOD                             8.2        7.8        7.0        6.5        7.1        8.0
D.  Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt-
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                 12.5       11.5        7.9        9.7       17.4       18.9
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                        10.0        9.1        6.4        8.2       15.0       16.0
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                        79.7       79.0       82.0       84.8       86.3       84.4
1/
E. Exposure-/
1.  IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements            34.6       38.5       23.8       53.5      38.8       20.0
2.  Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements  42.0           55.6       35.4       59.5      45.6       27.6
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                      16.2       19.9       20.6       27.7      31.5       29.4
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD               2/               26.1       32.2       32.9       40.1      43.2       40.5
5.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service-                   14.6       19.3       21.6       27.2      38.2       29.4
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service2/            15.4       20.6       22.8       28.6      39.6       30.6
Outstanding Dec. 31, 1976
Amount          Percent
3/                              (US$ Million)
F.  External Debt (Disbursed only)-
1   IBRD                                                                 169.5            25.6
2.  Bank Group                                                           264.1            39.9
3.  Other Multilateral                                                    10.3             1.6
4   Governments                                                          299.8            45.3
of which centrally planned economies                                0.2               -
5.  Suppliers                                                             35.9             5.4
6.  Financial Institutions                                                21.5             3.2
7.  Bonds                                                                 18.4             2.8
8.  Public debt. n.e.i.                                                   11.8             1.8
9   Total Public M & IjJ Debt                                            661.7           100.0
10. Other M & LT Debt-                                                   146.2            22.1
11. Total Public Debt (incl. Undisbursed)                               1237.1           187.0
12. Total M & LT Debt (incl. Undisbursed)                               1401.0           211.7
1/ Includes a notional 50% share of loans to the EAC.
2/ Includes a notional 50% share of debt service on loans to the EAC.                                     EACPIA
T/ Excludes EAC.
February 7, 1978



- 25 -                     ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of March 31, 1978
Loan or                                                                    US$ Million
Credit #  Year  Borrower  Purpose                                 Amount (Less Cancellations)
Bank!/  TW    IDA1'   Undisbursed
Seven (7) Loans and eleven (11) credits fully disbursed    96.0               52.1
224       1970  Kenya      Road Maintenance                                   12.6      1.8
276       1972  Kenya      Highways                                           22.0      0.2
826       1972  Kenya      Nairobi Airport                     29.0                     1.0
932       1973  Kenya      Highways                            29.0                    11.4
946       1973  IDB        DFC I                                5.0                     0.6
468       1974  Kenya      Population                                         12.0      3.7
477       1974  Kenya      Livestock                                          21.5    19.0
993       1974  Kenya      Tea Factories                       10.4                     6.4
1093       1975  Kenya       Group Farm Credit                   7.5                     7.5
537       1975  Kenya      Group Farm Credit                                    7.5     5.5
1105       1975  Kenya       Site and Service                    8.0                     8.0
543       1975  Kenya      Site and Service                                    8.0      3.0
565       1975  Kenya      Agriculture - Forestry                             10.0      5.9
1132       1975  Kenya      Agriculture - Forestry              10.0                     7.1
1133       1975  Kenya      Transportation - Pipeline           20.0                     0.3
1147       1975  TRDC       Hydroelectric Development           63.0                    24.8
1148       1975  IDB        DFC II                              10.0                     4.0
1167       1975  Kenya      Mombasa & Coastal Water Supply   35.0                       33.3
1184       1975  Kenya       Education III                      10.0                     9.1
650       1976  Kenya       Integrated Agricultural
Development                                     10.0      9.8
1303-T     1976  Kenya       Integrated Agricultural
Development                               10.0           10.0
1304-T     1976  Kenya      Wildlife & Tourism                           17.0           16.9
651       1976  Kenya      Rural Access Roads                                  4.0      4.0
1305       1976  Kenya       Rural Access Roads                  4.0                     4.0
1389       1977  Kenya       South Nyanza Sugar                 25.0                    24.0
692       1977  Kenya      Agricultural Credit III                            20.0    19.2
1390-T     1977  Kenya       Agricultural Credit III                      5.0            5.0
1438       1977  IDB         DFC III                            20.0                    20.0
722 3/    1977  Kenya      Bura Irrigation Settlement                          6.0      6.0
1449 3/    1977  Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement         34.0                    34.0
750 3/    1977  Kenya      Small Scale Industry                               10.0    10.0
1520 3/    1978  NCC         Second Nairobi Water Supply        30.0                    30.0
TOTAL                                      445.9    32.0 195.7   345.5
of which has been repaid                 14.9      -      0.6
Total now outstanding                   431.0    32.0 195.1
Amount sold                   5.1
of which has been repaid  4.8A/         0.3
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDATT-         430.7    32.0 195.1
TOTAL undisbursed                         225.5    31.9  88.1   345.5
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment
2/ Includes $3.9 million undisbursed grant participation.
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ Includes repayments through February 28, 1978.



- 26-
ANNEX II
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF MARCH 31, 1978
US$ Million
Loan                                                         Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year    Borrower      Purpose                       Bankl/           Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                                   93.4
638-EA   1969    EAHC          Harbours                      35.0                1.3
674-EA   1970    EARC          Railways                      42.4                3.8
865-EA   1972    EAHC          Harbours                      26.5                1.4
914-EA   1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications            32.5                5.6
1204-EA   1976    EADB          Development Finance           15.0               11.3
Total                                       244.8               23.4
of which has been repaid 2/                42.3
Total now outstanding                       202.5
Amount sold                   24.4
of which has been repaid   24.4             0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                   202.5
Total undisbursed                            23.4               23.4
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.
2/ Includes repayments through February 28, 1978.



1-1
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 31, 1978)
There are currently 25 projects under execution in Kenya
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: $10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
A combined Bank/CDC (the cofinancing partner) mission carried out an in-
depth supervision in October. A combined report will be issued in April
1978. Due to better international tea prices followed by high second pay-
ments the growers have shown increased interest in tea as a cash crop which,
coupled with the fertilizer credit scheme, financed by CDC, will result in
improved yields. The project factory building program is behind schedule
and due to cost escalations funds will only enable 12 factories to be
built instead of 17 if the originally agreed disbursement percentages are
adhered to. A revised financing plan for the balance of five factories will
be determined shortly. The standard of KTDA's management and organization
is high although certain departments work under strain due to the recent
rapid development. The Marketing Department problems should be resolved
shortly. Disbursements are behind schedule: US$4 million against an
appraisal figure of US$8.5 million at March 1978 due to the delaved-
factory program.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock: $21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow and there have been substantive
problems in organization, cost overruns and pricing. An in-depth review of
the project was undertaken in March 1976; the mission's report was presented
to the Government in September 1976 and a series of discussions have been
held since that date. The project was adversely affected by the Government's
failure to raise certain cattle and beef prices to adequate incentive levels.
After a long delay, the Government has recently raised beef prices to more
l/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
appropriate incentive levels. It is expected that the viability of
project subcomponents will improve as a result of this action.
Credit No. 537-KE/Loan No. 1093-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation:
$7.5 million Credit and $7.5 million Loan of March 26, 1975;
Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Impressive yield and production increases have been accomplished on
some participating farms, and cooperation between the various Government
ministries and agencies concerned has improved. The initial reluctance of
groups of farmers to participate in the rehabilitation program has been
largely overcome, due partly to the example set by the first group farms
participating in the project and partly to the active campaign for the
program by politicians and high-ranking Government officials. However,
farm recruitment overall has reached only 37 percent of appraisal targets,
and it seems unlikely that the appraisal targets will be reached before
the present closing date. Moreover, project costs have increased
substantially. A study prepared by consultants on the large farm sector
is presently being reviewed by the Government.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation Project:
$10.0 million Credit and $10.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective
Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The planting program is progressing fairly satisfactorily, but the
cumulative total to date is 18 percent below target, due to unfavorable
weather conditions in 1975 and 1976, shortage of equipment and, in some
cases, of labor (both now remedied). The building and road construction
programs are both considerably behind schedule. However, all the backlogs
can be made good during the last 3 years of the Project. Progress has been
very slow in implementing most of the covenants of the Credit Agreement,
particularly regarding the sawmilling sector, the national land use study,
the gazetting of nature reserves and new forest reserves, and the study of
stumpage rates for sawlogs. Government is now providing very substantial
budgetary allocations to make up for past cuts. Procurement is proceeding
normally. Disbursements and total project expenditure are both slightly
behind schedule, but they should soon catch up with estimates. The general
situation of this project is improving, slowly but steadily.
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural Develop-
ment Project: $10.0 million Loan and $10.0 million Credit of July 9,
1976; Effective Date: March 15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Annual Work Plan for FY77 was prepared on time and the first group
of smallholders is receiving assistance. The Annual Work Plan for FY78
was also submitted to the Association and BADEA on time, and has been
approved with suggested curtailment of the number of beneficiaries. The



- 29 -
ANNEX II
focus ot the project has changed towards assisting large number of
subsistence farmers rather than progressive smallholder farmers. This
change has led to a number of difficulties, but the project objective
of improving the productivity and incomes of smallholder farmers continues
to be met. Some adjustment to the administrative framework is required,
and discussions on this subject are ongoing.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: $25.0 million Loan
of April 15, 1977; Effective Date:  November 3,-1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
This loan became effective on November 3, 1977. Progress with regard
to initial staffing and procurement as well as start-up activities of road
and building construction, land development and planting of nurseries has
been according to schedule. A recent Government decision not to increase
sugar prices in 1978 could have a detrimental effect on the project and this
issue is being kept under close review by the Bank.
Credit No. 692-KE/Loan No.1390T-KE - Third Agricultural Credit Project:
$20.0 million Credit and $5.0 million Loan of April 15, 1977; Effective
Date: September 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
This credit and this loan became effective on September 14, 1977.
Progress during the first six months of the project period has been slower
than expected. However, recruitment of additional staff required to implement
the project is underway. Loan recovery from Phase I and II Projects is
satisfactory and steps are being taken to improve control of utilization of
disbursed loans.
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement Project:
$34.0 million Loan and $6.0 million Credit of June 22, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
This loan and this credit have not yet been declared effective due to
delays by cofinancing parties in processing their documentation, and delays
in finalization of arrangements for land acquisition.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: $10 million loan of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March-17, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is off to a good start. The Project Unit is fully staffed;
a survey of the physical facilities to be extended at the 17 primary teachers
colleges has been conducted. Architects.briefs for the Educational



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Broadcasting and Multi-Media Services Station, the Kenya Institute or
Education and the Central Resource Unit have been prepared and design
work is proceeding. The National Committee on Educational Objectives
and Policies (NCEOP) has now completed its report. A Bank/UNESCO
meeting to review the NCEOP report took place in January 1977 and
at its suggestion the Government created a Standing Committee to develop
and clarify the NCEOP proposals as the basis for an investment program.
The NCEOP report, now in the form of a Sessional Paper to be tabled before
the Parliament, provides the basis for the proposed Fourth Education Project.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply; $35 million Loan
of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Completion is now forecast about the end of 1979, a year later than
the original schedule, primarily because of long delays in the awards of
contracts. All major contracts, representing financial commitments
equivalent to 85 percent of total estimated project costs have now been
awarded and good progress is being made on equipment manufacture and
construction. Total project costs are now estimated at US$78 million
equivalent, which is about US$3 million (4 percent) above the appraisal
estimate. Estimated foreign exchange costshave not changed. There has
also been some delay in the development of the Coast Province Water Branch
due to difficulties in recruiting managerial and technical personnel
but the staffing position is now improving.
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply; $30.0 million Loan
of March 27, 1978 ; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This loan is not yet effective.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 224-KE - Road Maintenance: $12.6 million Credit of December 28,
1970; Effective Date: March 18, 1971; Closing Date: December 30, 1978
The project, about a year and a half behind schedule, is now substan-
tially completed, with final completion expected by June 1978. The delay
was primarily caused by a slow start in construction of the regional work-
shops and camps due to unforeseen difficulties in the acquisition of sites
and procurement of steel. The revised cost estimate of US$16.0 million is
about US$2.1 million below the appraisal estimate because of savings on



- 31 -
ANNEX II
staffing costs and equipment and spare parts. There will be a US$1.3
million savings from the credit funds. This remaining balance of US$1.3
million of the Credit funds will be used for rehabilitation or replace-
ment of maintenance quipment and purchase of additional workshop equip-
ment and tools in order to achieve the project's objectives. The
Closing Date has been extended to December 30, 1978 to allow additional
time for completion of procurement.
Credit No. 276-KE - Highways: $22.0 million Credit of January 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 22, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project, although behind schedule, is now well advanced in terms
of the improvement of the Ulu-Sultan Hamud section of the Nairobi-Mombasa
road and the construction of the tea roads in the Mount Kenya and Meru
areas. However, slow progress is being made on construction of the
settlement roads in the Eldoret area. The vehicle weighbridges at Nairobi
and Mombasa have recently gone into operation. The final estimated cost of
the project in terms of Kenya shillings is expected to exceed appraisal
estimates by 47 percent; this cost overrun will be borne by the Government.
Loan No. 826-KE - Nairobi Airport: $29 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Solutions to the problems of disputes with contractors and cost over-
runs are well in hand, and the contractors are now working again. Construc-
tion is substantially completed and the new facilities opened in March
1978. The main problem now is in the area of recruiting and training
technicians in the various skills in sufficient numbers to operate the
new facilities. Planning and execution of maintenance programs as well as
the unification and proper management of financial and accounting systems
and controls also continue to be problem areas. The Aerodromes Department
is giving due recognition to these problems, and is now actively seeking
solutions.
Loan No. 932-KE - Highways:  $29.0 million loan of September 6, 1973;
Effective Date: November 9, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
*             Implementation started two years behind schedule and as a result of
recent inflation and heavy cost overruns, contracts for the improvement of
two roads have not yet gone to tender.  In view of heavy cost overruns
it is proposed to exclude the Thuchi-Nkubu (51 km.) road from the project.
The Closing Date has been postponed from December 31, 1977 to December 31,
1979.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project:
$20 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 31,
1975; Closing Date: February 1, 1979
Construction was completed in October 1977 and commercial operations
commenced in February 1978 as originally planned. The oil industry, the
Railways and KPC have agreed to install central railroad loading facilities
at KPC's Nairobi terminal. Financing of the US$1.54 million cost is being
arranged. KPC has updated project cost and financial forecast. The
project is now estimated to have a cost overrun of 17 percent.  The increase            a
is primarily due to escalation in construction costs. Agreement has been
reached on a tariff structure which will enable KPC to show operating profits
from the outset. Although there will be a cash shortfall during mid-1978,
the cash flow in total for calendar year 1978 should be positive.
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project:
$4 million Loan and $4 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Although the Loan/Credit became effective in October 1976, no funds
have yet been disbursed. The project is one year behind schedule, though
costs are not expected to increase. Economic evaluations for the eight
districts in which Bank-financed units would be set up have been reviewed
and approved by the Bank; four construction units are now operating, an
additional unit is expected to start road construction shortly, and start
up of the remaining three units is dependent on the recruitment of
engineers. Efforts to recruit the necessary staff are underway.
POPULATION SECTOR
Credit No. 468-KE - Population: $12.0 million Credit of April 1,
1974; Effective Date: July 31, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The four-year population project forms an integral part of Kenya's
Five Year MCH/FP program, FY1975-79.  All of the IDA financed components
of the project are proceeding satisfactorily. All construction work has
been contracted and 67 percent of the facilities completed. Supply of
vehicles and furniture and equipment has been contracted and delivery is
scheduled in early 1978. The Nursing Activities study is nearly complete
and the IDA-financed program advisor is effectively carrying out his
responsibilities. The program components financed by other donors and the
GOK are also moving ahead and are expected to be completed on schedule.
A major mid-term review of the program in March 1977 by the co-financing
partners expressed general satisfaction with Kenya's MCH/FP program
strategy and progress.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru HYdroelectric Ptidect: $63.0 -million Loan
of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: January29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Construction of the project is proceeding satisfactorily on schedule
and within estimated cost. By December 31, 1977, the actual expenditure on
the project amounted to 59% of the total estimated completion cost. On the
basis of contracts awarded for civil works and electrical and mechanical
equipment, present estimates show that the project cost in Kenyan pounds is
likely to be about 1% lower than the appraisal estimate. Due to the devaluation
of Kenyan currency in October 1975, however, the project cost saving expressed
in US dollar equivalent will be about 15% of the appraisal estimate. This
will result in a saving in the Bank loan of about US$5 million, in spite of
the increase made on June 15, 1977 in the percentage of civil works expenditure
to be financed by the Bank loan from 60% to 80%. Consultants' studies on
possible alternatives for future development and a long-term power development
plan are being reviewed by the Government. A Government request to finance drilling
of wells for geothermal energy production out of the savings under the Bank loan
is under consideration.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 946-KE - Industrial Development Bank Project: $5.0 million
Loan of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 26, 1974; Closing
Date: March 31, 1979
The first Bank loan of $5 million to IDB, which became effective on
March 26, 1974 was 88 percent committed as of December 31, 1977 and
was fully committed in March 1978, two years behind schedule. This
delay is due to the cancellation prior to disbursement of a number of
projects previously approved. As at March 31, 1978. US$4.4 million
of this loan had been disbursed. The Closing Date has been extended by
one year to March 31, 1979.
Loan No. 1148-KE - Second Industrial Development Bank Project: $10.0
million Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 9, 1975;
Closing Date: July 1, 1979
The second Bank loan of $10 million became effective on October 9,
1975. This loan is likely to be fully committed by May 31, 1978, about
eleven months behind schedule. As of March 31, 1978 US$9.3 million had
been committed and US$5.9 million had been disbursed.
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: $20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date: November 10, 1977;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
This loan was declared effective on November 10, 1977.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project:  $10.0 million
Credit of-November 28, 1977; Closing Date -December 31,-1982
This credit has not yet been declared effective.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 543-KE/Loan-No. 1105-KE - Site and Service Project:
$8.0 million Credit and $8.0 million Loan of May-6, 1975; Effective
Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Execution of the Nairobi Site and Service is proceeding satisfactorily.
Housing construction by allottees is making good progress in Phase I (1,000
lots). Tendering for Phase II comprising of the remaining site and service lots is
in progress and is to be constructed in two stages beginning in March 1978
(Areas 2 and 3) and August 1978 (Areas 4 and 5). Provision of communitv
facilities is behind schedule. Construction of the off-site sewerage components
is nearing completion. Overall management of project implementation by the
project unit continues to be satisfactory.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: $17.0 million Loan
of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The loan was declared effective on November 10, 1976. Preparation
for project implementation has been considerably slower than expected,
due largely to delays in recruitment of personnel for the Project
Management Unit (PMU) and the Wildlife Planning Unit (WPU). Project
implementation should now accelerate as officers have recently been
or will soon be appointed for the PMU. CIDA has expressed an interest
in funding WPU posts, and has seconded the acting head of the unit for
about six months. Preparations for the Tourism Pricing Study and the
Very Large Herbivores Study are proceeding satisfactorily. A supple-
mentary letter augmenting the Government's proposal for anti-poaching
operations to be financed by the Loan has been negotiated and signed, but
disbursements on this component will not begin until the Bank has
satisfied itself as to Government progress on the actions described
and scheduled in the letter. A draft proposal for the anti-poaching
program and units as outlined in the supplementary letter has been
discussed with the Government and is now being finalized.



- 35
ANNEX II
There are currently 5 projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: December 15, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:- April 16, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es
Salaam; two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa;
tugs, lighters, cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general
improvements for both ports. The Third Harbours project included three
new deep water berths, modernization of two berths and a lighterage
quay, a training school building and central repair area for Dar es
Salaam; modernization of several berths and a lighterage quay, construc-
tion of a tug berth, cold storage facilities and a training building in
Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in Tanga. Construction of
all major project elements has been completed. Of the minor project
elements, only two are still under construction, namely the improvement
of lighterage facilities in Tanga and reconstruction of sheds in Mombasa.
Both are expected to be completed before mid-1978. Because of shortage
of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have not
been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of
the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; and moderni-
zation of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally
financed contracts have been awarded for these project elements with
tl         the exception of the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa.
General cargo throughput has increased above appraisal forecasts for
1/ Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling productivity has improved with increasing
throughput; however, port labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa
where general cargo throughput has declined considerably. The ports of
Kenya and Tanzania are now functioning completely independently of each
other. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority has been
enacted, and a Kenya Port Authority is expected to be established soon.
Management of ports in both countries is competent. Some $33.7 million
of Loan 638-EA and $25.1 million of Loan 865-EA has already been
disbursed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1,
1977 between the countries concerned is given below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                  (US$ million)
Kenya                               0.7
Tanzania                            0.6
Total                           1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                               1.7
Tanzania                            0.3
Total                           2.0
The Closing Date for Loan No. 638-EA has passed. However, since the
amount allocated to and guaranteed by each partner state is clearly identified
under the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978 (referred to
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 - R77-312), we
are continuing disbursements.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30, 1970;
Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement
of rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the
economic feasibility of certain railway lines and services.  The physical
execution of the original project has been seriously delayed due to
administrative and political problems within the Community.  In November
1974, the Executive Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted
balance of the Loan to be used for consultant services and emergency
investments in track material. All three countries have now enacted
legislation to establish their own Railways Corporations. The agreed
allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 among the various
countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya           2.0
Tanzania        3.8
Uganda          1.9
Total           7.7
Disbursements at March 31, 1978 totalled $38.6 million.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: $32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness - September 19, 1973;
Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/
VHF systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires,
ol         automatic switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data
equipment, and training. All major works other than microwave and UHF/VHF
system construction have now been completed, despite initial delays
caused by staffing and other problems associated with the reallocation
of the headquarters. Funds disbursed to date total $26.9 million and a
further amount of $0.6 million has been committed for cables and
subscriber apparatus, microwave and multiplex telex and telegraph equipment.
A contract for the provision of the remaining microwave and associated
multiplex equipment required for completion of the project is about to be
awarded. The remaining funds are expected to be used for
these systems. Because of the long lead time required for the microwave
equipment, the project is expected to be fully completed by mid-1979.
The Closing Date has accordingly been postponed to December 31, 1979.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October, 1977 among Lte
countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya               2.4
Tanzania            3.5
Uganda               0.1
Total               6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development: $15.0 million Loan
of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7, 1976; Closing
Date - March 31, 1979
Over the last year, the environment within the Community has had
a negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for
appraisal and supervision has been depressed, and there has been some
deterioration in the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected
portfolio rising to 50% as of June 30, 1977. However EADB has been able
to retain nearly all its staff who are both adequate in number and
technically competent to continue the operation of the institution and
effect some recovery in the portfolio. Some $3.7 million has been
disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to $3.3 million.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
D.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN KENYA AS AT
MARCH 31, 1978
Fiscal Year          Obligor              Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity    Total
1967, 1968
and 1973      Kenya Hotel Properties    Hotels                 5.2      0.7       5.9
1970, 1974    Pan African Paper Mills   Pulp and Paper        13.1      6.3      19.4
and 1977
1972          Tourism Promotion          Hotels                2.4       -        2.4
Services
1976          Rift Valley Textiles        Textiles             6.3      2.8       9.1
Ltd.
1977          Kenya Commercial Bank       Capital Market       2.0       -        2.0
Ltd.
TOTAL Gross Commitments                      29.0      9.8      38.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                        8.5      1.8      10.3
TOTAL Commitments now held by IFC            20.5      8.0      28.5
TOTAL Undisbursed                             2.6      0.6       3.2



- 40 -
ANNEX III
KENYA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the Project'                         20 months
(b) Prepared by Government/Unesco
(c) Date of first major presentation
to the Bank:                                 January 1977
Identification Mission:                      April 1977
Unesco Preparation Mission:                  May/June 1977
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                           August - September 1977
(e)  Negotiations:                                April 3 - 7, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:               August  1978
II.    Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
III.   Special Conditions
(i) Submission by the Borrower, by June 30, 1979, of a plan
satisfactory to the Association of Project Development and
Management Courses to be given at the KIA, and associated
staff development plan, would be a condition of disbursement
for implementation of the courses (paras. 53 and 61).
(ii) The Borrower shall ensure that at each of the two
agricultural institutes at Bukura and Embu and the
Animal Health and Industry Training Institute at
Ndomba the number of students per teacher is not
less than fifteen by the beginning of each of their
academic years commencing in 1981. (para. 23).
(iii)  The Borrower shall ensure that by December 31, 1978, the 30
Craft Training Centers to receive the equipment under this
proposed Project will have been selected and a program for
monitoring and evaluation will have been submitted to the
Association for its review and comments (para. 55).



- 41 -
(iv) The Borrower shall cause the University of Nairobi to
submit to the Association for its review and comments
an annual report on the progress of the staff development
program for the Faculty of Agriculture, for each of its
academic years up to and including the academic year of
1980, within 6 months of the end of each such academic
year (para. 54).
(v) Boarding facilities at the 13 Project Nomadic Primary
Schools would be constructed in such a manner that at
least 45% of the boarding capacity at each school may
be used for female pupils (para. 45).



- 42 -
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
KEY TO MAP
(Locations and Type of Project Institutiozu
University of Nairobi
Faculty of Agriculture, Kabete, Nairobi
Institutes of Agriculture
Embu Institute, Embu District
Bukura Institute, Kakamega District
Animal Realth and IndustrY Training Institute (AHITI)
Ndomba Institute, Kirinyaga District
Nomadic Primary Schools
Olololunga Center, Narok District
Olkeramatian Center, Kajiado District
Garsen Center, Tana River District
Mbalambala Center, Garissa District
Merti Center, Isiolo District
Bute Center, Wajir District
Ramu Center, Mandera District
Songa Center, Marsabit District
Barsaloi Center, Samburu District
Kanyao Center, West Pokot District
Kakuma Center, Turkana District
Katilu Center, Turkana District
Lamu Center, Lamu District
Craft Training Centers
Karen Center for Training and Research, Karen, Nairobi



V ? C | -;: jTURKANA                                                                                                              I    : .:0  
t ,2\;f * UsX X / !j h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fAVDFkA .n
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M P   0-I5A R . Nll/ 
i.0!2 ' :: ti: t e li::  /T->  7:b  '' {&  \   Q _   *   \\                         \   h1   0/          1  <                        9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
X0X;'V~~~~~~ F   M-reU
0'.t'.0SE.EES;X<of~~~~~~~~~ S;3, T                                                         , E R,^wl;.>. N
W                                                                                              a 0   [   50  3 0  <    S :    u , rr \ SX \\ ' St Q vr>Xef tF,4fl9'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-I f
0'   ':  il':FOSTh'Et.iATi1D,b'Q' P.aR@ETu;.iC':.,  i:  '-,'R:: ........................................... : -'," 2' \k \ ,i / E B 
t  B;  ft  pr9W4<y  5<Wt  = W; Wi De . s sQorgl <(>,-%l - * l; S < X N t= ~~~~~-<rS /ano F W C 0 L tV ^r$wtw^=E
-   r * .0rr5iNib    L,                            L    E0 .;        qi=s    :0  =iC:_ 5\v : 41ye     
=t X xlrtc:eSf FyFeireX ;t ; P,ieX;r rrisb ; : 2 j; ; zt?A: -V'JN } 0                                                        ,:,  .4
f ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~K                tfXH.>ik>EocT-rr  Stnts t.   .  fi3.   )=:E_u
X 0 EsXret)t MAFfTt  *   RiV    S-;   !00  l 0  i9TA:A>t00;QD|/
Q :0.fi0_  lvvO Sois=b5...........:   )J  ,'  - V  Ka \  %. /:C 10,     i   t
-i   ;  : 00  D   J:  C      t;Q *IA *      --PAreonoie   t- E1  0             ...      . 5;t~2                                         ; 0                             @    i
:  luE        0X:      : S  J.-.=  rtlffrr,=ttnol t991Aktntit    ' 0    ,  X   , X        k! V9  t  i E E 2                              R    FE ",, 
,j  ~       X        XX                                                        E      ,tE.                                      - W     -   -i  7A 
blN OME              T                        ;0f EXA  H AR-IA ; -.iG.-. .O,'''(  0x
L 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~A V0 5J?02V X'E   '     0    -_,'''.ti  V'< @e e)'p W 



