Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24018
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-.; IwUU)
ON A
CREDiT
IN THE AMO-UNT OF SDR 29.7 MILLION (USS40.O MILLION EQUPIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR THE
EL NINO EZM,KRGNe CY PRKOJCT
June 24, 2002
Water and Urban 1
East and Southern Africa
Africa Region
Ts document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
Iofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective Yearly Averages as Noted Below)
Currency Unit = Kenya Shilling (KSh)
STR I =   US9 1.27 (2001)
1.32 (2000)
1.37 (10001
1.36 (1998)
US$ 1 = 78.56 KSh (2001)
76. 1 A T h (200)
I -.. ._. P-0,
70.27 KSh (1999)
60.4n TKCh (1998)
FITCrAT VF.AR
July 1  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          African Development Bank
AflF          African Develonment Fund
AFD           Agence Francaise de Development
FNFP          F.l Ninn  mme Pneprnvient
ERL           Emergency Recovery Loan / Credit
-OK           Gornvmexnt of Kenya
IDA           International Development Association
KUJTIP        Kenya U rbain Transport Tnlfratr,nc.tlre Prnoet-t
MOP           Manual of Procedures
PSC           Project Steering Committee
pDvSTAT 7.oJc MraenT T-,+
I Lvi t.J                       W 'J.s  UI15.U . -LtI
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
%AIXrJIVIE    miUaAI~ IVIaniila14h1U I' UVI A  IVI   -unUU
TOR           Terms of Reference
~TU Teli; T aT-'
Vice Presidntit  Callistn Mqdnvn
Country Director:   Makhtar Diop
StorJ  MzrerIretr £1a5.......II IJI AJI  rLocussl J Jsu33.JJ / PrI;1LJ  I PatelI  I
Task Team Leader:    Lance Morrell



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
KENYA
FT, NINO EMERGENCY PRO.JF.CT
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. rIuJsL Uram                                                                       j
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           i
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                8
6. Sustainability                                                                   10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  14
9. Partner Comments                                                                 17
i0. Additinnal Infnrmation                                                          18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                19
A ---- '. Prec Costs --F.ancrg2
FULZICK L. I 10M%  ES MGI I 1MICi1KR11r
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                23
Annex 4. Bank inputs                                                                24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               28
Annex 8. Outputs --- Contract Details                                               29
Annex 9. Project Costs for AfDF and AFD Financing                                   34
Annex 10. Accelerated Procurement Processing Analysis                               36
Anntx 11 RorrowiesR Cnntrihiutinn tn Tr.R                                           37
Map IBRD29632
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their oMicial duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.






| Project ID: P056595                                  |Project Name:, EL NINO EMERGENCY PROJECT
I eam Leaaer; lcle;r Miol.uHTI IIr, unu. ,IrzuI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                     JReport Date: June 24, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: EL NINO EMERGENCY PROJECT                    L/C/TF Number: IDA-31200
Sector/subsector: UY - Other Urban Development
KEY DATES
PCD: 03/27/1998                              Effective: 10/23/1998        10/23/1998
Appr.;sl:. n3.n0ioo9                               AM11TR:
Approval:  07/16/1998                             Closing: 12/31/2000         12/31/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: Government of Kenya/Office of the President
Other Par.      African Developm..ent BJ5-Ful- f4.. Ager.ee   A-            IA F s e nAFD
as parallel financing partners.
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Y.ce Pr-esi;dent:   Ca!!isto E. M.Ada,Z                       Ca!!isto E. Madavo
Country Manager:     Makhtar Diop                             Harold E. Wackman
Sector Mlanage.-r:   Alain Locusso! (ActAig)                  Je fAy S. -Vcki
Team Leader at ICR:  Lance A. Morrell                         Michael Gillette
ICR P."ma'-y Au,thor:  joSpnli A. r A4kA Tonres Kar-ir;
Lu Kang
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Sabsfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
SRutainahiliti . L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAr. (if avai,.'e        ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
PrAie't nt RPicl nt A.". -T.ima YVes
3. Assessment of Development Obiective and Design; and of QOality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The following is the development objective as taken exactly trom the Memorandum and Recommendation
of the President of the Intemational Development Association to the Executive Directors, June 9, 1998.
The project would support the Government's ongoing efforts to mitigate the serious effects offlooding



attributed to the El Nino phenomenon. The project aims to minimize.life threatening condition in 23
&IIU(4I~ ~ ; - # ' _fV'_-  -4&4 U5Z  A D_ _ _VIjiL, '  ... I L ., JI  ) S. .3iWiI   U .. -L~  J  &I.L J' --:-..-1~A.. ~ Fi
,r,pated" d.:s. .;c_ of Ke-,ya a,.dthers Prov,r',.ce of 1V"'airb by restori,-g "a rs"t much ofthpre-vio/.3Yusly xs£rg
potable water supply and health facilities as possible, and to facilitate reprise of ecbnomic activity
iIroUghs fhec res)to, .&&u's oJ i'y roUtes 1 in1to cu4t oJJ Ureuas. It wuldu Salu try, wLiLthin thie fmeUlans aVUSLUale, tU
save afew economic assets in danger of total collapse (e.g. bridges). In addition, the project would
dem,onsLae ,-LaeseamrLL'IZlneduUprocurer,.erntando5 u o,therr ranageri-l'-u iechniilq-ue l-whiul d be u iu mure uruuudy
applied within the GOK administration.
3.2 Revised Objective:
(GOK) came back to IDA with requests to support repair and rehabilitation efforts in an additional 12
LiUSUiVLO. I IUa WZS Wac L(A u by UJ LI'LsF LmIiiaiCa-IL anag   ULr.  VUJ%,%,LI V% %AIa.UUU UoUy iLr ilCai.L11 LU u1i
geographic areas of focus. The sectors for intervention remained as urban and rural roads, water supply,
aU heu< laWLmuU. IIISV LVV1OVU dUJVIecUve was uauzmu al loiUiw:.
I nu prujoci wuul s.uppurt inc LGUVernmeni's orgoirLg qJJUrls io i=1gUie Lfe sericus cejjcis offj'ooing
attributed to the El Nino phenomenon. The project aimed to: (i) minimize life threatening condition in
se J!s~      f:_ L_.      _ _rv  _    _ _  s            _ ^ _ - __  … rc _L * L_ _  -_  _  __ -L_ .   _-__ _ _ Z _ J  - _ . 1
J impactuc-u Uisrt-iuis ojCVenyu uanus mne r-ruvince oJ iwutruui uy reswurng pusuoe wuter supply and nealth
facilities; (ii) facilitate improved economic activity through the restoration of key routes badly damaged
during tne El Nvina storms; and (iii) demonstraie streamlined procurement and oiner managerial
techniques which could be more broadly applied within the Government administration.
3.3 Original Components:
AI. uIAs tA__C-;- A;--.>;-. -YLUL fI'NV -UA LISA-A ;--.-+-A UA US'..  SI *A P-UtA.- AU. JJA1_A-___
to the project were agreed upon:
(i) Emergency Rehabilitation Infrastructure:
*   Civil works and goods contracts for (i) rural roads and bridges, (ii) water supply, (iii)
hea.lth fhnfitities
- 93 civil works contracts and 2 goods contracts (see Annex No. 8 for details of all
*   Engineefrnng =ons ming ser3nices for desi,01. eand c-.nn-ction. cu-. cn to over toe 95
World Bank civil works and goods contracts and the 26 AfDF civil works and goods
-- 6 consultant services contracts.
*   Audit consulting services for financial and technical audits.
-- I consultant services contract.
*   Monitoring and Evaluation
- 3 Ci.~JMiulii(.y ss-vI1LV toru11L5LL.
*   Operating costs for the Project Management Unit - individuals recruited from the private
sector to staff the PMU
-- 3 consultant services contracts.
The project was exempted from all taxes and duties under special legislation enacted by the Government of
- 2 -



Kenya. At the time of the El Nino storm events in 1997/1998, the macroeconomic situation of the country
was stressed so the Credit was approved by the Board with 100% IDA financing for the above components.
All engineering costs for design, preparation of the bidding documents, evaluation of the bids, and
supervision of construction for the IDA financed works (95 contracts from this credit) and the 26 African
Development Bank contracts were financed from the El Nino Emergency Credit.
Under OP 8.50 - Emergency Recovery Assistance, paragraph 3(b) states that "restructuring of the Bank's
existing portfolio for the country, to support recovery activities" should be considered before or at the same
time as an Emergency Recoverv Loan (ERL). The Urban Transport Infrastructure Proiect (Credit No.
281 1-KE) became effective on June 27, 1996 and was scheduled to close on June 30, 2003. The Credit of
US$ 115 million was intended to rehabilitate urban road networks in 26 towns throughout Kenya. As a
result of the El Nino storm events and the damage to urban roads throughout the country, US$ 37.5 million
of the KUTTTP credit was reallocated to finance 8 civil works contracts: consultant services: and'onerating
costs in three newly established categories under Credit No. 281 1-KE. This financing focused'on the repair
and rehahilitation of flAo damaaed roads in 6 lurban centers most heavily hit hy the flood damacre
Annex No. R lists the details of 93 civil wnrks and two roodq contractts inndter the El Wino Pmeoenc_v
Credit (Cr. 3120-KE) and the 8 civil works under the El Nino Emergency component of the Urban
Trancnort irnfimtinnhir Proje-t (C!r ?R1 TCF1 TUinder th-ese their were. (i) 2n3 mrral roads nd b.ridioe
civil works contracts; (ii) 25 water supply and sewerage civil works contracts and 2 goods contracts; (iii)
45 hpalth facilities civil works contracts; anAd (iv) u itrban roads c  ivi wor-k contractc
A oral1-'el invpetmnpnt inAclroe waine 4anc,m1 hu the- A&fi4ctan T lnenlopnrt Thlund (IAfMM - the onft 1on
facility of the African Development Bank (AfDB)- addressing water supplies and rura roads repairs and
rehabilita.fion. UTnder this paraLlel fin-ancing TJS$ 15 million equi"aieat), G0K was reqred to rnnt,1kntn
an additional US$ 2 million equivalent towards the project costs. The AfDF loan was approved on
NKTover.br 12, 1002; sg.;-  n To-r-, 10 1 000. I - -o n  on S    , -I19.n      d '7   .-A closeA on
December 31, 2001. The original closing date was March 31, 2001, then extended to September 30, 2001,
arA  -11tr fa flbean 31, 21 . There.vere 26 r..L or ..,ara fIr -r-,...,,*n  -   3A-  e.-.
.At InU4JMJJ  J.fl'%  -lU.  .1 K, A J  I.v   ZUK 1  weL . , fl.t vL lLlCjt  tJllUat.   4fl5aULluLUtA UJALA   UnJ  ~ka L5f
operation, 11 rural roads and bridges contracts and 15 water supply contracts (13 civil works and 2 goods)
AAeA -   i_nt ,,V. 7 V,       AA-I  V Al- -A A> AA.
S11flWA fu. 7 jUlVi. I WU VC1L1MO ,aiU aUJUC iu Vr U S vqwpiiiuiIL Wlt WC jJLUtIVU 4u WV-S   WUCUI LUIC
loan. As mentioned above,'all the engineering costs have been financed by the IDA Credit.
3.4 Revised Components:
In October 2001. the Proiect Management Unit (PM!]') renuested that an additional US% 1.2 million of
uncommitted IDA Credit funds be permitted to be utilized for the execution of 15 additional contracts. Six
nf these conntract were in the water mrinnlv qectnr, and nine were for the health fsailities sertnr whinh
brought the total number of IDA financed civil works contracts up to 116. See Annex No. 8 for the
cnntract detnils of these 15 cnntracts All works w-re cnrriMed out on these suppclempntnl contrasts on or
before December 31, 2001 with the exception of two health facilities contracts of which one was 32%
onmpleted a-nd the othe-r 0.5% omplete at th,e tims. of the Credit closing.
The A nence Francoise Ad- Developrm.nn intepAed an, agm,nent wiAth GO- m.Minh bear..e a-$fV+,;.v on J.l1 4A
2000 and scheduled to close on March 31, 2003, for the repair and rehabilitation of urban and rural roads
uA a,,tn oupplies. The- finonn.,nnt pckage cn,nnn.40 32 nnnrnn#eo to'lir.g flnrn 10 28 llnn n.e UNA Jis
managing these contracts with a French/Kenyan Joint Venture consulting firm engaged to design the works,
prer    .-e k  AAbdr A- a-l.n+¢, ev ae the bids .-A +znd   t o  s  e+-e-t. C_ An-ex XTo. 0 frt
eJ%JA  L  JtWA  JUIAL,% ACl. A~Ut3 5(     DLuJ 3ULO.1 l V 5%. 441(UOU tIU.tj  IhLA.I.7JU
more details on this financing package.
-3 -



3.5 Quality atEnthy:
There were four fundamental categories of design considerations which were critical during the preparation
stage of the El Nino Emergency Project. These were: (i) a geographic focus for the possible relief and
rehabilitation interventions; (ii) identification criteria and process for selecting the beneficiaries; (iii) the
critical sectors for intervention; and (iv) the institutional arrangements for the management of the
emergency operations. These were duly taken into consideration and addressed by the Government of
Kenya and the World Bank preparation mission in the following manner.
Geog   hic Focus for the Relief and Rehabilitation Interventions - The GOK assembled a group of
multi-sectoral specialists from the Ministries of Roads and Public Works, Environment and Natural
Resources, Health, Local Government. Finance and Plannineg and the Office of the President (OP) in
December 1997 to begin the damage assessment caused by the rains and to plan for emergency operations
in those areas most critically impacted by the flooding. The El Nino Disaster Coordinating Committee waic
housed within the OP. Many of the hardest hit areas in the northeastern part of the country were
completely cut off by road. Food supnlies were being alifted into the-e arPe.a hv the Kenyan military and
the OP emergency task force was coordinating these efforts together with some external relief agencies such
as the World Food Proaram. The OP task force's initial renort declared 23 of the sixty districts plus the
province of Nairobi as being disaster areas warranting priority emergency operations in order to forestall
the additional loss of life in these areas due to dlisease and stsrvation. The emergency management unt
within the OP was in constant liaison with the District Disaster Conmmittees and the District
Commissioners. The first World Bank m issinn to assess fhe damrnage an-d the proposals bein.g prepared by
the OP task force was fielded in February 1998 followed by the appraisal/negotiations mission of April -
May 1Q98. During the course of the GCOK/World Bar ,l nrn;Act p -rtions, the A_hF began its ow
appraisal of possible AfDF parallel financing as requested by GOK. During the course of the appraisal,
the criteria for determination of those districts to be assisted under the ermergency oper-ations were
broadened, and an additional 13 districts were added to the list of those eligible for emergency assistance,
bringing the total to 36 Aistrictst and the pnrnv-e of M_-on.
identification Criteria and Process for Selecting the Benefici&ies - flis.C.t Disaster CoZ--es were set
up in all El Nino storm impacted districts beginning in November 1997. These comnmittees were chaired by
the re  tive Di strct C-i-.--;ssioners n.d comprised of Oficers frl.l t'Le vnlul siSmisryj departneits
having responsibility for health, food relief, roads, bridges, water supply, transport, and communications.
The toomhighest j1ities Oide.nutied by) -U-se comu. itiees weafood reliefund aunug supplies. IVIUCfl o1 L[i
early food relief was distributed by air transport (mainly to the northeastern part of the country) as the road
networks were cut off by the flooding for severa m-nonths. Drug supplies -were; of an equally high priority in
many areas as a result of the flooding and were similarly distributed by air. The World Baniks comparative
I_ ,Ji               r2                   ns   eu   1reDititDsse
advanLages did not incl-ude tuese eairy enoi-Lts of ouuu and drug s-uppuies. saresultOftheDistrictDisaster
Committees investigations and proposals to the OP, it became clear that the restoration of roads and
bridges, water supplies, ard heealth falc ies were the hignest priorities being presented. During project
preparation, it was agreed by GOK and IDA that projects presented by each of the districts would be
prioritized, and beieficiaries tageted by a methodology based on the following ranking hierarchy: (i) life
saving interventions, (ii) restoration of essential services; (iii) restoration of economic activities; and (iv)
the saving of existing assets. Each district was allocated a part of the budget from the IDA credit based on
the population and the severity of the flood damage to that district The districts then presented their
priorities with justifications following the above criteria. Verification checks were conducted in the field by
consultants engaged by the El Nino Emergency Project Management Unit (more below). Adjustments were
made to the priority lists based on a fine tuning of the application of these criteria and guideiines.
-4 -



A Manual of Procedures (MOP) was agreed upon during Negotiations which formalized the criteria for
sub-project selection, as well as setting up all other project management guidelines such as procurement
and payment procedures.
Sectors for Intervention - As described above, while food and drug distribution were the highest relief
priorities, the role of IDA's financing efforts were to be directed towards the most urgent repairs and
rehabilitation of infrastructure. It was very clear from the outset that the highest infrastructure priorities
were associated with the rehabilitation of urban and rural roads, restoration of water supply services, and
the repair and rehabilitation of district health facilities which had been damaged by the rains and flooding.
These were the areas of focus which were presented by the District Disaster Committees to the OP, and in
turn presented by GOK to IDA for urgent financing.
Institutional and Procedural Arrangements for the Manaaement of the Emergenyv Operations - In 1998 the
Govermment of Kenya was slotted into a "low case" lending scenario by the World Bank's management due
to governance and corruption issues. Given that, it was only on an exceptional basis that the World Bank
Board of Directors agreed in July 1998 to approve the El Nino Emergency Credit for US$ 40.0 million.
The Board approved the Credit with strongly worded accountability concerns, noting that those concerns
were only overridden by the deeper concems directed towards assisting those potential beneficiaries worst
affected by the El Nino stonn events. The Board transformed those strong accountability concerns into
mandated quarterly technical and financial audits to be conducted by an internationally recognized
accounting finn. The cost of these audits was bome by the borrower as a part of the Credit.
Given the multi-sectoral targets for investment. discussions were conducted between IDA and GOK on how
these interventions would best be operationalized. The initial proposals by GOK were to have separate
management units within each of the responsible ministries. These would have been the Ministries of: (i?
Public Works and Housing; (ii) Environment and Natural Resources; and (iii) Health. After extensive
negotiations, it was agreed that the quickest and most efficient way to implement these urgent interventions
would be to recruit skilled project management specialists from the local private sector and have them
manage the onerations out of a fairly autonomous govemment entity located witiin the Office of the
President. The agreed management structure called for the recruitment of 3 officers with extensive private
sectnr exnerience to fill the management nositions of- (i) nmiect manager- (ii) nmprorement qnerinliqt- aind
(iii) financial management specialist. These people were recruited, and after some initial turnover - the
originally hired prmect manager and financial msanagment specialist were dismissed - settled into thteir
positions and worked with the other technical staff seconded from the line ministries to manage both the
MTA fin'pndA inrve_ttnet,t ,_ well s, q the Afrig'gn flPvepnrnmpint Bannk filman,rPA invpgtmpntc Th. dvau.tnd5v
operations of the El Nino Emergency Project (ENEP) were under the control of the Project Management
T Tnit (PMT n) A cnepnis T carnl Nftir,p (Wn  w ruvac prpat, tn frmnilFu Petahlich thp PM! T nn Maox T)
1-1 .-,I            -- x- 'k,I --/ 1-       r   - -1-1            -- -o-- -- -- --IX
1998. It should be noted that the advertisement in local and regional newspapers for the position of Project
Manager attruetpei nuvr I20 resnsiesia  and the QAA-e_tinn pro,-es as conducted h,y a" noroAAi  non-
with one World Bank staff member as an observer.
The PMU immediately engaged six engineering consultant firms (the targeted districts broken into six
geo-1-.,s zones) to-: (i) .vie   t.'. -Ubr*"2A p..o..ties (ii , .ede:'ed Ae s of*u --- ad
&L"5Flll1. £AJ'/ ~J.  fls . uLl' au"1IZV%U jJlLJLLl16,0 killJUU' Lu%LWO~V U%.aLa IU .IUI VI LV qrLVU
sub-projects, (iii) develop the associated tender documents, (iv) support the PMU during the tender process
iUncluing eVaUUaUti UoL VIVO, nId (v) OuJ vJiVse LUJ, seIle eAd 1 UolILLUaLrL ILULIr 1r.Uobl: LMU1t LU UV LUI WipiUUn
of contract - including the full duration of the 12-month defects liability period.
A Project Steering Committee (PSC) was established under the design of the project to provide an overall
ILiLl IveI I o Luo,IIILUng anU Uvua1U4LIU f Ul U1 ec PIUJeC% irlle,-U,InLULUUii peUrf^U21A  Unu LU UbssL LuIh rivLu in
-5-



making management changes when and where required to deliver the project outputs on time. The PSC
was intended to meet at least once a month to review the overall management and direction of the project.
It was comprised of nine Permanent Secretaries, chaired by the Permanent Secretary, Head of Civil
Service. One of the primary roles of the PSC was to oversee the annual indicative plans and assist the
PMU in matters, where appropriate, in streamlining bottlenecks.
Ouality at Entry Overall Ratin2
Based on the above description of the preparation and design of the project, the rating of the quality of the
project at entry has been assessed to be satisfactory - see the ratings listed in Section 2. There was no
O alitv Assurance Groun (OAG) review of the nroiect to assess the OQuality at Fntrv
4. Achievement of Obiective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
As mentioned in Section 3, the primary objective of the project was to support the Govemments ongoing
efforts to mitigate the serious effects of flooding attributed to the El Nino phenomenon. The project aimed
to: (i) minimize life threatening condition in 35 impacted districts of Kenya and the Province of Nairobi by
restoring potable water supply and health facilities; (ii) facilitate improved economic activity through the
restoration of key routes badly damaged during the El Nino storms; and (iii) demonstrate that streamlined
procurement and payment procedures improved the efficiency of project implementation, and that some of
these procedures might be adopted by GOK into their mainstream project implementation practices.
At the time of Credit effectiveness in October 1998, there were actually no life threatening interventions
required. All food and drug supplies to the isolated and vulnerable areas had been addressed by the GOK
and relief agencies more appropriately suited towards disaster response. However, the other stated
objectives of restoration of essential services, infrastructure assets, and economic activities were achieved
as measured by the agreed targets and outputs. The restoration of essential services was achieved through
the implementation of 33 IDA financed and 15 AfDB financed water supply contracts, and 54 IDA
financed health facilities contracts. Restoration of economic activities was achieved through the
implementation of the 23 IDA financed and 11 AfDB rural roads and bridges contracts, and 8 IDA
financed urban roads contracts.
The demonstration of improved project implementation efficiency is discussed in Section 7 - Bank and
Borrower Performance. This objective was certainly achieved through the reduction of turn-around times
for procurement and payments to contractors and consultants. As a result of agreed upon special
procurement and payment procedures for this project, as detailed in the negotiated Manual of Procedures,
the turn-around time from advertisement of the bid to the mobilization of the contractor was reduced by
about 50% when compared to other similar civil works contracts recently financed by IDA. Annex 10
shows this comparison in the form of graphs, comparing the average time taken from advertisement to
completion of contracts for the 116 ENEP implemnented civil works contracts in relation to the average time
for 11 urban roads contracts under the Urban Transport Infrastructure Project (KUTIP). In relation to
payments, the average time for payments to contractors and consultants for ENEP was 40 days while for a
similar civil works project - KUTIP - it was 66 days.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The following table summarizes the physical outputs of the El Nino Emergency Project, including the El
Nino component of the Urban Transport Infrastructure Project, Credit 281 1-KE.
- 6 -



Annex No. 8 presents details for all 116 IDA financed civil works contracts. These details include contract
value, co,t".-Mn.e.e.- .=.t a-n,d c-ompeftion f-at-es, fj;q:et, nf%nftet+r, aln.d rneoilnstt f;rM resporCiIA'e for ti.e-
design, bidding, and supervision.
Components                          Outputs under IDA Financing|       Outputs under AfDB Financing1
|Civil Works for:           __                                   ___
- Duural IlnalIa A, Rr.dop,e                    ?3 r^-nntrntJ-t                      1 1 nontrnrtl
|  1  1,634 km of roads and numerous bridge
1l634 km of    and drifts rehabilitated
- Water Supply        |                         31 contractq                         13 contracts
l  l        45 water supplies rehabilitatedl
- Health Facilities  {                          54 contracts                         Not covered
IGoods                     2 contracts for water supply chemicals anc 2 contracts for water supply chemicals and
equipment plus numerous office equipmenj  equipment plus several office equipmenti
l  l          and vehicles small contracti        and vehicles small contracts|
Consulting Services      I   10 major consultancy services contractsl                  IDA financed
including audil
Operating Costs             3 professional staff to manage the projecq                  Not coveredi
plus other office support such as rent anl
_                                    i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~raVuiling cUSLS.J 
Civil works for:         j                           8 contrac                          Not covered
Jrbar. roads UI..-.  CUTIA     67 h-r. of urbani roads lhilUl:ed ol-
Credit 2811-KE                                     reconstructec
As previously mentioned in section 3, a condition for approval of this Credit stipulated by the Board of
Direet-ors, wras that--+ quff.erfly linn-a",i ar.d teCl--ie  -audit  --ere - egu   to- --a;pA out by a,-
A.U flA~  , V L  tLCf ~.bL  fl  1  -fftfldff  C.elfl-f L.dlf aflu -ift   werS.  L& n4 .   t,WUV   fl'.uI.  01.5
independent professionally accepted accounting firm. At various times over the three years of
i,-plenIentIration, LlVVLUUa1 ar, fiU11.1CJ i,s3LCS were iUdeLLif1i1 by U UL aludiL jUL1 arLI,  urL U L VUUU L   at'.ertio
of the PMU and IDA for resolution and improvement in the management of the identified contracts.
dLUuILiVnIa1ly, ULe qU 'LILy Uf eoVl..UtarL,IL bVLieVe Lre11UdLe by .r LUVIIllS UI UIV six 1TeL,U1.1-u UliUL Ws raiseU Uby
the technical audits. Through this extra layer of quality control, the consulting services were improved and
uir LL)'lY Uo use Iu irus u Ibum .-re cons5uuc Utted u ider ulile civi11 Works lnItI s Was kwpt io a hiug standnmu for
all the 116 IDA civil works contracts. In a few cases where the quality of civil works did not meet the
specifications of quality sup-ulated in uie conutlats, and where the coniractor refused to comply witn these
specifications following notice as per the contracts, the contracts were terminated. Two eontracts in the
health faciliiies rehabilitation sub-component were ierminated, both were witn tne same contractor.
Actions were also initiated against one of the six Technical Unit consultant firms for poor performance but
this did not lead to the termination of the contract. Termination of contracts due to poor perfornance or
nonperformance is a standard remedy embedded in contracts which had not been enforced as a remedy in
the contracting business in Kenya for a considerable time.
Tlhree consuitancy contracts were awarded in the final year of implementation of the project to fuirther
independently assess the social impacts of the project investments and the quality of the works constructed.
The conclusions of these reports are positive and can be found in summary fbrm in Annex No. 11. There
were therefore four layers of checks on the quality of the contracts: (i) the PMU; (ii) their consultants - the
- 7-



zonal Technical Units; (iii) the audit firm; and (iv) the monitoring and evaluation consultants. The Bank
SupeirviSion missioUL5 alsu reguiar:y visiteU iiC conULdci sites on a rdnuoM oasis to confirn anu veriuy tie
information provided from the various other layers of supervision.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
* 1'Jlicable .^or em %.4fgle,^cY -.JLPIAtfoi
4.4  nanc.ial ra-.e nf,return-
Not apolicable for emergency oTerations
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Strearnliinin the ,roject procurement and payment procedures was one of the project obiectives. While the
PMU organizational structure may not be one that is particularly recommended as a general institutional
model (Section 8). the more efficient delivery of outnuts; i-e= comnleted civil works contratqs are a resnIit
which can be further replicated within any other formalized contracts delivery institutional framework by
simnlv modif,ving existing nrocediireL. The in-titntiona1 develornment impact iS very clerly demnnqitrated
by the improved turn-around times achieved for payments and procurement.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or i-mplementing agency:
Security Issues - Partial Impact
Tnere were several short periods during the implementaiion of the project whereby the security of ,
contractors, consultants, and PMU staff was at risk. Unfortunately there were 4 deaths of contractors' staff
due to ethnic conflicts and banditry. Tlese deaths placed certain contracts on hold for periods of time and
there were also times when the Technical Unit consultants (engaged by the PMU) had to vacate their zonal
headquarters until the conflicts were brought under control by government security forces.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Initial Resistance by the Government to the Establishment of an Independent Project Management Unit -
SuDstan uai impact
The Credit was approved by the World Bank Board of Directors in July 1998 and declared effective in
October 1998. However, due to GOKs ensuing reluctance to abide by the terms of the agreements reacnea
during the Credit Negotiations related to: (i) the selection of project management staff; (ii) the relationship
between the PM'L and the Project Steering Committee; and (iii) issues relating to the secondment staffing, it
took until April 1999 before the project fully began implementation. Seven months of implementation
start-up time were wasted on an 'emergency" project.
Replenishment of the Special Accounts (SAs) and Proiect Account - Substantial impact
GOK's requests for replenishment of the SAs were not made on a regular time frequency basis, e.g.
monthly or bi-weekly. As a result, the SA was periodically drawn down to very low levels whereby
transfers could not be made from the SA to the Project Account causing serious delays in payments to
contractors and consultants. There were two SAs, one for the El Nino Emergency Credit (Cr. 3120-KE)
and one for the El Nino Emergency component of the Urban Transport Infiastructure Credit (Cr.
281 1-KE). Both were held in offshore accounts and were managed by the Kenya Central Bank. Delays
were also experienced in the seemingly routine transfer of funds from the SAs into the Project Account for
reasons which were not clear.
Payment from the SA in US Dollars - Partial Impact
The banking regulations in Kenya did not allow for the SA funds to be paid out in US dollars directly to
- 8 -



certified creditors. Rather, funds were transferred into the Central Bank of Kenya from the SA, converted
itO Kenyan   iluirgs,and uieir, if a pa-yrnenL was [req-Uire Lo be paiu LU[ Hi UL UUS alb, .hi nmllyaui
Shillings were reconverted back into US dollars. Exchange losses were accrued and delays in these foreign
currency payments unnecessanily expenenced because oi uiese c uiiDeusoine idusauuon prucedures.
Relationship Between the Project Management Unit and the Project Steering Comuiutee - Partia impact
At times during the implementation of the project, the PSC became involved in micro-managing the project,
whereas their function was intended to be one of a higher level mandate in ensuring the overall performance
of the project's objectives. It was never envisaged that the PSC be involved in the day-to-day details of
project management. in a few cases as well, the OP became involved with management issues of tne
project, making the PMU's responsibility and authority unclear at times.
Sustained Poor Performance of One Consultant Firm - Substantial Impact
On numerous occasions the continual poor performance of one of the consultant finns engaged by the PMU
was identified by the PMU, the audit firm, and the IDA supervision missions. The issue was raised with
the PMU and Government on several occasions by the IDA mission supervision team but no actions were
ever taken by the PMU or PSC in order to remedy the situation. The position taken by the supervision
team was to have the client invoke the appropriate clauses within the contract and have the firm's scope of
work reduced, or have the firm terminated, based on documented poor performance and falsification of
design and supervision work. These recommendations were contained in several of the mission Aide
Memoires, and at one point in a letter written by the PMU to the particular firm reducing their scope of
work by 50%. However, that letter was rescinded by GOK before it could be put into effect. Following the
GOK decision not to take any punitive actions against the firm, it was decided that the PMU would need to
supervise the consultant firn more closely and have the firm more closely monitored by the audit firm
undertaking the quarterly technical and financial audits.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Performance of the Project Management Unit - Substantial Impact
Overall, the performance of the PMU's management of the project was highly satisfactory. The majority of
the technical staff from the relevant line ministries were of a high technical caliber and worked long hours
in achieving an ambitious set of targets. Delivering 116 IDA financed civil works contracts and 26 AfDB
financed civil works contracts totalling nearly US$ 90 million within a three year period. The ability of the
PMU to effectively coordinate and manage the line ministries, district authorities, beneficiaries,
consultants, contractors, and donors was the key to the successful delivery of the project outputs.
Significant reductions in tum-around times for the procurement of consultancy services and civil works
contracts were realized - see Annex 10 for tabular and graphical details of the procurement results. The
average amount of time it took to sign contracts from the time of advertising the civil works bids was
reduced from over 400 days for KUTIP to just under 200 days for ENEP. Reductions in the length of time
to affect payments to the contractors and consultants were also realized. Average payment turn around
times for ENEP were reduced from 60 days for KUTEP to 44 days under the ENEP project management.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Budgeting Process - Partial Impact
For this Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL), IDA funds financed 100% of the project costs and there were
no significant costs that the GOK was required to bear. There were occasions when the Govemment
budgeting mechanisms did not allocate sufficient funds for the IDA credit in the annual GOK ENEP budget
because of macro-economic ceiling constraints. So while the IDA financing was available, the
macro-economic budget ceilings on occasions created constraints on the disbursements of project funds.
These problems were eventually resolved through budget adjustments but significant payment delays were
-9-



experienced at various times throughout the project implementation period.
Reduced US Dollar Financing Available - Partial Impact
As a result of the erosion of the US Doliar against the SDR over the 3 years of project impiementation,
there was a reduction of financing available for contracts of roughly US$ 2 million.
Reduction of Scope of Works for the Nairobi and Mombasa Urban Roads - Partial Impact
Due to contract prices which were considerably higher than the original engineers' estimates, tme numt)er of
roads that were able to be accommodated within the budgeted amounts were reduced. For Nairobi, the
number of roads included in the contract went from the originally planned 21 down to 13; and for
Mombasa, the number of roads went from 28 down to 25. This was mainly attributed to the very rough
preliminary designs - due to time limitations - which were used to draw up the engineer's estimates. The
final detailed designs incorporated significantly more drainage works than the initial preliminary designs
considered.
6. Sustainability
6S 1 Rntional fnrssaivni-ili- v rnting-
For the urban and rural roads investments, the roads and bridges will benefit from regular maintenance
inniits thrni,oh the Rond Mnintenanrfe Fue! T.Pvv Fundz (RMFr F) generpted firm file! salep  The RMFT F
mechanism has been in place for over 4 years now (a condition for the KUTIP Credit in 1996), and as of
Tji,7lnnn0 hns been iinder the ouijrcioaht of the Vi,nv2 Ronads Bforrl Hou.eywpr thoe noliy- frmwe%ortI fonr the
investments in water supply and health facilities does not appear to have the same foundation of financing
resow- csfor o,erautionsc a-ni maintenwaire For thecse t.n csuhcpsetors the ciSct inah4iihz *tina -u.A11 h0ue
to be that of "Unlikely". Sector work is currently ongoing through World Bank inputs, and it is expected
th.4 th.e -policy, ..mAxu,,or for th.e -vae - -up, p ecrtor wi1 be ec- ..ifhedA h- GOKIV befor-e th.e edA of 200,)
providing for better operation and maintenance financing and operational mechanisms. Given that the
-.yof the -rn,ect,,e..ts .,nder t-A-   Credit ,vere in ro.A.ds (50O% of the  -e,At e.-uo,,nt), the -,+er.-l
.. _J   ... j   -   -  _ -   -   _ -  -   ", -  -.~J~VAL&R - * %_&-   - -t .1l, Lf _ C*
sustainability rating is "Likely".
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As this was aun etmergpenv oneration, there were no trnsntion arrangements to reglar operations developed
in the project design. For the water supply and health facilities investments, the PMU mandated the
roncihltnnte (Terhniel T Tnit&) to ronntiminllv ePnae in dinlnmne with the heunefrinrie'q as to their roles in the
operations and maintenance of the investments. While informally delivered, it was an attempt to solicit
more involvemuent of the hpn,efi iaries in the long-te-rm sitainability of the inuestments, for their own
benefit. For the roads investments, as mentioned above, the concept of financing their maintenance through
the P  ;Lf F iS a ,ry-, rroc;it;,x inetihttitornalieA annrouarh to miaranteeing the xA%hihitV of thece inueowmipn.tc
Once the contract completion certificates are signed over to the city, municipal, or district authorities, it is
then incm.bent upon t.h.ose authorities to budget fthe ma-intenanrce needs for thoce rouads through the F FAPT F
mechanisms and this is working well under the Kenya Roads Board supervision.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactor - IDA responded very quickly to a request from the Kenya Head of State, President Daniel
Arap Moi to the President of the World Bank in January 1998. By February 1998, the first mission was in
the field, and the project was appraised and negotiated in Kenya in May i998. Trhe Emergency Credit was
approved by the World Bank Board of Directors in July 1998, and became effective in October 1998. The
- 10 -



nrenaration of the El Nino Emereencv Project was lead bv a Kenvan team of technical officers who were
seconded to the Office of the President and in constant contact with the 23 (later 35) most acutely impacted
Districts: The nrioritv needs were identified with District inputs as the driving mechanism. IDA assisted
best in the preparation of the project in relation to the dialogue around the institutional arrangement options
fnr the nriroect management. Initially, the Government stronglv advocated an arrannement whereby the
appropriate line ministries would each establish their own project management units. However, during the
C.redit Negotiationqs it was eventnally a-greed that in order to facilitate the qulick implementation nf the
project over a 30 month period, a semi-autonomous unit managed by professional staff hired from the
nriv;atp epctor would mnnage thp prnijet frnm a unit within thp Offine nf thp PrpMident
Snpecal nr^ciren.mt / r   tn.rt;ina &t.nripm.nte uwpre agr_  oinn  hath the WnrIA ^r n,l &nd the
Government of Kenya to facilitate quick tum around of procurement processing and payments. Annex 10
nroa,AAaes a corpnar.son of afti. nra-..esA of-r -ra_' ,ran,at tindAr th. c,frnalinned n  -ranA,-e in.
relation to another urban roads construction project (11 civil works contracts) financed under KUTIP.
Frorrn.,advearnisr..t of cnor.,tct to nn'vr.,nnna.a.nce.. of cont.rnt, then n,,nrnS mae wras reduce byAna half umnder
*  ViL tv %,  ltIll. ..'.JAUI-L  LV   ......It,lfLt*  VA t4JI I- ,  -LSa  f - LflU'  VVUa -_   -, u  Vt   -1.1  tflUtI
the ENEP arrangements as compared to KUTIP - from just over 400 days for KUTIP to just under 200
A---..-A  UMC)      A VD.-__na--n.,a..t-A f_.am+U- -.4-+
the PMU and facilitate the process. The MOP contained the streamnlined procurement procedures with
WIch ALIMA iP AVILJ was t.AIa&rVU Lir.iplIArLerAL41 L ul . "FVJIVtL.  LAfir.anc IL CLIG aI lIGI.IAL specialOit Was a Io
hired within the PMU as per the project management design. This additional focus on financial issues
&IlUWeU UIV LUIIkOaLUUIIU UIUV IV JA1nfIoV1iL PVIeUt pc i LU to be sigifaILa.dUy I.UU.dueU 4a WeIl as VledUiLIr LU
improved contract performance. The completion of 116 civil works contracts within a 3 year time horizon
was possUibe Uy because of u1es Uh1p1UVC1UerIL on pr[u erert and pa-y111,er. IeUpUlUe Lilleb.
SctLor spcuifi 'cilica sUe   wb ere seconded frUru us Ili s iinC 1IU1UblUV  Uto riviu o prouvidU a Su-oUng
technical core team of personnel. The supervision of civil works designs, the preparation of the bidding
documentation, uhe bidding process itself, award of conu-acts, and the supervision of works oy the TUs
were all overseen from a technical perspective by these seconded staff. There was a visible commitment on
uheir part to work long hours to get the project completed.
Project design called for 6 zonal T'us to cover the difierent geograpmc areas oI the counry wnicn were
impacted by the El Nino storm events. These TUs provided for the design and supervision functions for all
civil works financed by both iDA and the AfDB. A final layer of quality control on top of the PMU/ i1Us
was a quarterly technical and financial audit undertaken by an international accounting firn. The fact that
ali the works contracts were completed by the end of the Credit period to a generally high quality standard
justifies the high degree of supervision given to the 144 contracts (IDA and AfDB contracts) managed by
the PMU. While the GOK initially resisted this extra layer of quality control, primarily because the cost of
the firm's services was financed from the Credit, the value added in terms of better assuring the quality of
works for which the financing was earmarked was clearly recognized by the PMU over the course of the
implementation of the project. The audits provided for a truly independent assessment of the PMUs
performance, documenting the professional standards within which the PMU operated, and the results and
outputs which were achieved.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory --- Over the three year implementation period, 10 supervision missions were fielded (3.3
missions per year), with 156 staff weeks of inputs, at a cost of US$128,700 - see Annex 4 for details. This
was a higher level of supervision for a $40 million dollar credit than would normally be expected or
budgeted for, demonstrating the strong commitment from the Bank. This higher commitment was also the
result of the mandate given to management by the Board to assure the quality of the investments.
- 11 -



Additional resources for the supervision of the urban roads component were disbursed against KUTIP
adding to the overall supervision input for the El Nino Emergency Program.
Because of the emergency nature of the investments, the Canadian Government granted the GOK trust
funds to sunn1ement the sunervision of the rnoiect- One full time engineer enraared thlncrh a Cqandlrn
consulting firm, was in place in Nairobi for a period of 18 months to assist the PMU with the rural and
iirhnn rnadq investmentq Miq eff.^rts fhm-ied on the renvi-w of road and bridge designc, biddinag docurments,
and bid evaluation reports, as well as field trips to assess the quality of contracts execution.
On several occasions, as a result of the IDA supervision missions, deficiencies on the part of some of the
contrators anAd cnsltaqnts were identified by th toe e   amnd the  -A ged'tior., , -.e - +-.n*oA ;r the Aide
Memoires to address the quality control problems. These were followed up by the PMU and the
resonnncwhCo r  ntry, Office .n.fF-,n_ _r,ndA  a               0-n-..-A n- i- presencon- the g nd in betv3een *1.0
supervision missions. As a result of this combination of supervision inputs, many of the contracts that
were deerrA to bon+.i1h, "at r.s       r..d sn and -l        to- -A  -n,l+-A *n +se -out.- i+-A-A  4Up
flQ,Uee..1AV  ii  V. F -tLtUIOuJ  .1an .Oa  -V %4  %4fl4  .1 OJfl ~..VLLjLFI.SA M LV   W % tj 1afiY OULhLU.U O~L VJUL Ul ULA..
contract documents. Not all contractors were responsive to professional supervision, and.as a result, a few
contracts were term;nated un.der "sigificant breach of contract" I      in the co,rcs "'--
high level of Bank supervision most probably assisted the PMU in invoking these termination actions.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
SatiSfartnru - On the uwhnle Tfl A ' nr-rfnrmnn w- use r,espnnieup tn Cy 's reqiist anr. rntol nurornI! ac
satisfactory. There was criticism raised by GOK and the press that the response was not quick enough.
Th   e issue of t- i  of tde qanic to respond nicrll, er.ough in arn er..ernc op,fonnsuch-ast.sis
discussed further in section 8 - Lessons Learned. Based on Bank criteria, ENEP was implemented very
quicndy; fA-o  a stceholdrc I beeficia.rAi pe-nrsnpti,a this wvas not quick emiou h. Th..s feedback fro... *1.
stakeholders is noted, and from the Lessons Learned it would appear that in all such future emergency
opeaion th-r   -  -A to     i u .h _--   in th,a  of. -o  ,A  v-n.l-_  .i   -n Ao----Am nnoA i 1ta
project in order to dispel unreasonable expectations.
This was a fairly straightforward civil works project which required the Bank's oversight in assuring that
LIi qLUILY Ion.JUUJ mecha.-LUsIms WeLr Li Fl  Lt ass U1L Ui% LLIL ir. .t; VI LUAe .LUIYeL1..L3..ts. 1LI, projecL
preparation and supervision by the Bank staff were conducted satisfactorily. It should be noted, however,
,1- - uLe -was atlatoer Jrdlye-e-e.e r 1_-. ---eus ..e-. of *LI SA -w. -I- a      .uuwl
UIL lr.M      t,WVWd  M40~aL ULIU IIIJ42UI UVLdy Q?AJJVI1LVJ1I;VU Ul U1, LVL1I1UI,U VI ULU SOt% WIU1.i Waa aLU1UUL4U1V
to some communications problems within the Bank.
Borrower
74 Prepa.ra.tion.
Satisfactory  The Borrower's preparation performance is assessed and rated as "Satisfactory". The
Bnrrower had Alre-ady conduted conside-rahIe nrnieet prepnartion wnrk through an emergrency respnsRF-e
unit established in the Office of the President before requesting IDA assistance. This unit had been
patahlbAMd tn asesps the PI Minn gtnrm einmnap g nji tn idpntif the nriority rehohilititinn umnrkS' Trhiring the
preparation, the various sector departments of the Borrower collaborated very closely with IDA and
,.'i.a A ol toe naeesa, b,ac'lrnd- mnfr.in.aon. There os exce!t pnn,mitn,pnt fion these offiaers
and the districts.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Ratisf ctory --- Government implementation performance is rated as "Satisfactorv" but with some
qualifications. While the Credit was approved by the World Bank Board of Directors in July 1998, and
heanme effeetive in O(ctnher I 99R imnlementation and dishbtrsements did not commence until Mav 1999-
- 12 -



This 7 month delay in an "emergency project" was due to the GOK attempts to alter the qualifications
required for the position of Project Manager following the dismissal of the first Project Manager. Delays in
the procurement of the six Technical Unit engineering design and supervision consulting firms were also
due a shift in the GOK position which happened to deviate from the structure and procedure outlined in the
MOP. By the time a new Project Manager was agreed upon (from the private sector), and the six TUs
were selected and formally engaged by GOK through contracts, it was April/May 1999. This was
extremely unfortunate for the beneficiaries and could have been avoided had all parties adhered to the terms
agreed up during Credit Negotiations. As a result of these problems, the first Project Supervision Report
(PSR) rated proiect implementation as "Unsatisfactory" and classified the project as "at risk".
In addition to the 7 month delay in proiect start-up, another management issue which was not handled in a
satisfactory manner by the GOK was the weak support given by the PSC and the OP to the PMU in
relation to the poor performance of some contractors and consultant firms. While two civil works contracts
were terninated for poor performance, the case of poor performance of one of the 6 TUs was never
nronerlv addressed by the PSC. The PMU. audit firmn and the IDA sunervision missions all identified this
one consultant firm in particular which performed very poorly, in at least three Aide Memoires the issue
was raised. but no GOK remedies were ever initiated as were allowed for within their contract.
The nverall rating of the Borrmwer is ahle to he elevated to a "S.atisfactorv"; desnite the 7 month delay.
because from May 1999 until the Credit closing on December 31, 2001, the implementation support from
rTnCK imnrnved reatly and was indeed satisfhrctnry. The Bnrrower nit in nla-2e the Prmiect Mrniagement
Unit and seconded adequate and qualified officers from the various Government Ministries - Office of the
Presidentt; Finance annd Planning; rnral GTovemrment; Roads and Public Works; Health; and Envirnment
and Natural Resources. The Project Manager was selected based upon competitive selection from over 100
Caindidat,ec sw.hn mniptil to tie- mini.nnilu _duprti:ept Tpnitinn. Th.e Pmrimpnpi.e^t Qrk-rinhit and Pinanninl
Adviser were also selected in the same competitive manner.
GOK also established the Project Steering Committee with members comprised of nine Permanent
Seretaries finm tbe respective sector ,Minnistres. Th iso assisted *n reduc, sor..e of the nrormrl
bureaucratic and lengthy procedures which enhanced the operations of the PMU. Budget allocations
wrnAa.A Ar-+nara  lh, oAnnistn A. -n-nt;nnA  C Qn;An t = "Ma-r P-M-n  A ffen;in -r lnn'ntn
and Outcome" - there were occasional problems encountered with the replenishment of the SA, and
+.k.f.'.4'... .,..4 nf 'w in .+-^tr ar.d onsn ~.  '+nli.,. A144,'.m4 Eiho.' + n'm wer  ,lnnic .o, deas r
countersignature of contracts at the Ministry of Finance, this did not significantly affect the commencement
of ~~~~~~~U             .-y of---o.-r+-As --eBrwrap :.... .... . . .. ... -.edarzut ;+  ..... fro +-he  -p.-U.vt __ 4A'ic_povde
u  liyUiL LW~ JlUVU"11.W ALAl LIULLJw~IL ajJJUVLLLU alI MMui& A111111UI Ll.J1LR uJjA1LVaW- 3a..I,JL WUIM1A FjVU V UU
timely and quality technical and financial audit reports.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Hahliu Satiefiatnrv, -- nlpgnitp the i.ntia e-hannr.p nfth.e Pmipe-t M'.Arnacpr aind A ntr kPY St9f4;n the Pr.;ect
Managernent Unit in the Office of the President, the PMU perfomiance was "Highly Satisfactory". The
PII ,A aeAnfn-fiitp ant nitalfflf] rtirnfAce;n1na1 t'fhn,4npal anti ellwynAvt t#url zrn t~4rAAA~Q*l ;,
MTJ ,h9ade _ ste and _sified prfsir   ehi&&.-F pot-              1.ft,,L          -_5e eiatd;r a.a,5
the project well to completion. The above average dedication was certainly due to the quality of staff
.-rn,+i  frn Lh. np..-af*n ecat^-r &ant  Ab..e to +l- s.. -alary ir.c_r.Lves giver. in She on-A-A 6+0P as
well. Although it was impossible for the PMU technical officers to visit all contract sites, they made great
eff.ort to visit samnpled on-.+-  'o es h..'.at + hi y were,  i--..ler..e.t  onA    - a  -...ely basis .'.oA  .uu-Ad
quality specifications. It was the role of the TUs to supervise all the works at every contract site on a
Uay-uy-uay vasis. O.e of tie i UsA perfo1rmedU pVoL'y LLILULLULLutL UalU pJUJwLt Ur. pLl.L1LaUVio UUL UdesJite
repeated attempts by the PMU to have their scope of work reduced or their contract terminated, the support
JIUIU '.J%J1% Wa3 1hUbL 1VL Ul1.h1IU1r, aLLU UiV ILILI %AJhLLUU-U LU -V,1IUI1U jJVI iLLIU ULIVIUIULY UIUL UI,
-'13 -



prniect completion in December 2001 It is a reflection of the good reniutation of the PMU nerffirmanne
that the French AFD funding elected to utilize the PMU for the management of their rural roads and water
unnlv nroiect comnonentc.
Refe-r to Annex 10 - Acreler_ted Procirem.ment P.rocessinog Anlysis - to see the mnrle-pd imnrnvpmpnt ir
tumaround times for procurement under the El Nino Emergency Project special procedures in comparison
wxith another smalar rcivil worrc intpnive proect fi.nanrcedb the Wolrd Banklr n wel The processig
times were more than 50% reduced for the ENEP contracts on average. The PMUs management of the
ci,4i! ,n,norlr rrnor.tv tsr ,avola xe!et. There svere no . cm-ni for the nro*atr suplyni ard elth 1.c.1+Iies
contracts and the contract costs were kept below the originally signed values. For the rural roads and
b..drges c,.ponent, Lhe.r was only or.e c.l-ii fle wh;ch - was -vAue at 2.8 Qof t*. cor.tr-ct v -e-  A -.
Ut  t5~O'.tfttJ'*t4t,  fl4~TV55  tAffly 'Jl,t An   IL50 TA ULfA  V 5flU*,  a' -U. /0 V.A UUt, VMJlUast Va.Ut. rnuL
for the urban roads contracts, there were 5 contracts (of the 8) which had associated claims, these averaged
V.SV /0 Vl UIlt 5vAlUOt. VGU%ta,.
7. 7 C(e.a, orn.'I Arrnwr nprlrfotn,nco.
Satisfactory--- Overall, the Borrower's performance is rated as "Satisfactory".
8. Lessons Learned
Over the course of the 2-1/2 years of implementation of the El Nino Emergency Project several valuable
lessons were learned in relation to the special arrangements agreed to in order to speed the progress of this
ERL. The PMU managed the implementation of: (i) 11 6 IDA financed civil works contracts; (ii) 2 IDA
financed goods contracts; (iii) 24 AfDF financed civil works contracts; (iv) 2 AfDF financed goods
contracts; and (v) numerous IDA financed consultancy services contracts. Many expectations were raised
as a result of the prelininary discussions between the Kenya Head of State, President Daniel Arup Moi and
the World Bank President, Mr. James Wolfensohn during their January 1998 meeting of regional heads of
state in Kampala, Uganda. It was at this meeting that President Moi requested assistance from IDA to
repair the extensive damage caused by the two months of heavy rains - termed the El Nino storm events.
At that time, the Government of Kenya was in a Low Case borrowing status with the World Bank due to
issues related to corruption and governance. In eventually approving the credit package, the Bank's Board
of Directors did so with considerable reservations and conditions attached. On an operational level, in
order to respond to the urgent nature of the assistance required, both the Government of Kenya and the
World Bank adjusted their standard practices for the implementation and financing of the emergency
project. Here are the primary lessons learned from this project implementation which should be drawn
upon to assist in the design of future operations in Kenya.
Lesson No. 1
The establishment of the PMU and the Project Steering Committee (PSC) proved to be successful
but the replication of this model for future operations should be advocated and adopted only in
the absence of public sector reforms which would allow similar PMU functions to operate within
the established ministries' organizational structures.
The establishment of the centralized PMU within the OP was extensively discussed during project
nrenaration and agreed upon during Credit Negotiations. The rationale for placing a single centralized
PMU within the OP was related to the urgent nature of the response time required and not to the
multi-sectoral dimensions of the interventions. Had an emergencv response not been reauired the
PMU might have been more appropriately "housed" in each of the sectoral ministries, within existing
dtpn2rtmentk therehv assistii nmiroect mananement canacitv huilding in each of the ministries- namely
- 14 -



the: (i) Ministry of Works and Housing (for roads); (ii) Ministry of the Environment and Natural
Resources (for water supply); and (ii) Ministry of Health. What is of importance in terms of lessons
learned here is more that the PMU was allowed to function with streamlined procurement and payment
procedures (as detailed in the MOP), and less, where it was placed within the govenmment structure.
There were clear reasons of expediency for an ERL in locating the PMU within one government entity
for ENEP. but this need not be the case in attempting to replicate the same management functionality
for future operations.
The open and competitive recniitment of the 3 project management staff from outside of public civil
ser.vice contrihuted most sipnificantly to the imnmved nrniect mAnagement and timelyv outnuts of
ENEP. Time-bound work programs; strict adherence to the conditions of the contracts; and effective
PnainePprna qimnen.inn  mtnnuntnnt firms tn nrnvide fnr the detniled &.6aionq hidi-na dnemmerntntinn nnd
award adjudication, and contract supervision have all lead to the successful completion of 114 of the
1 1 C ontracrts hbefbrethp CnrAit clonsino Aato Thpcv orp cimnlu o^.n.A manacpmnvt nro-tirpe whit-h ron
easily be replicated within any of the Govemment Ministries/Departments. The replication of the PSC
.,.as en,ovrsight er.tity sx,All not be as nac,ilx nctch1ished for 4'u,h.ra ancra^ons. LIo',Ang nine ne>rrnonn.nt
secretaries brought together at least once a month over the course of 30 months is not a practical
.an-ngerent. U--_oi,or f1.e An-n4n +h-  --A -er etrAovidea. be -1;-li.0t0A a a less exec.i -,. lI,ol
In fact, the revised GOK procurement procedures now allows for each of the Ministries to play more of
aia role ttat +  of. th+ DC in       A   ere wold apa +obe no nA -A   fur opeation to
establish anything quite as high level as was for the oversight of the ENEP PMU.
Lesson No. 2
With streamlined procurement and payment procedures, the GOK was able to reduce the
fur,.-aro-urdIU Utim fUo UIC UwarU Uon WLFUAI uy ro-ugli'y 5U70 WIlt suuuatr *.rijJFUVemIenL HI.
efficiencies for payments to contractors and consultants realized.
In order to hasten the implementation of the El Nino Emergency Project, it was agreed during project
n+arado   4 ,o4n. -- F at.co.on  . a     FayI. co+..  ,oA... o. a,1  .oal. o 0% cn,,U11111C
pI--F,-.;.n +-hat ce*..t procuer.ent ar.d fir1u,.ar.ci / --a.er.t prc.ues- -v-. 'have to Ue. 3UeO-JU;,reA
within the GOK systems in order to meet the agreed upon implementation schedules. The PMU was
g.Ven1 poWe,-1 '.o ce.wv  011 LJuL.U.rUI c.ua't.. ubelow JUS$ 300,000 WhIle lalrVeL V.UILLIasL haMU Lt
obtain the approval of the PSC before an award of contract could be made. This allowed the
proc.-+.n to prvoceed Ar a -ve.-y xeiiu mn.rwe c       a-edt 4-h ----I f   - Gul Tender
~LUVI.l~IV,LiL LU plI.U Lli 4 VVIY VApLJ1U1UVU 111Ua13Z1 WJ1l,i L'U11UJJ4LVU LU UIV, 11U11114L %.sWIU   A VI lUrVL
Board procedures which were in place at that time. Annex 10 compares the turn-around times (from
advUertlismL U of tendUer to awarld of ontUrC.t) foUr Ule I IU LNi .41U1J UUllrUdtLU tU *I1 Icontr-acL'
implemented under the IDA fnanced KUTIP which used the nornal GOK procurement procedures.
As can be seen from ue table and graph, the average ttme -wa reduced froml roughly 400 uays to just
below 200 days. This improved procurement response time does not necessarily require a PMU / PSC
institutional arrangerment to be replicated, jusT the functuonal procedures used under ENEir contract
management need to be in place. Since ENEP was prepared and implemented, the GOK procurement
procedures have been significantly revised under the Marcn 3u, 200I Exchequer and Audit (Public
Procurement) Regulations, 2001 Legal Notice No. 51. These new procurement regulations are much
closer to the EtNEP procurement procedures specified in the MOP, requiring iess speciai arrangements
to be adopted in order to hasten the procurement process. These new regulations need to be monitored
closely to see how well the turn-around times for procurement processing are improved when compared
to the previous GOK CTB procedures.
-15-



With regard to payments, similar improvements in efficiencies were realized due to a few streamlined
nrcedures agreed to during negotiations- Prohahly the mnst signifirnt step taken by CTOK to immove
the turn-around time for payment was to allow the PMU to have the Authority to Incur Expenditure
(AITh rioghts This helned greatly in en9 iring that navw-rnts were md,-e on time to the vni-nru,
consultants and contractors. While there were some problems experienced in the timely replenishment
nf thp SnPeiail Arcnont fnr thp mnot nprt the nymP.antc werP mArIP in roughly half the timp whn
compared again to the IDA financed KUTIP. In the MOP the number of steps required in order to
aiithnr'7eP ^1n mA-e navmente U.vp repii-P> fronm t,p neAm.ic nnram,l 1- lum-,f- p. , Tlk0
Ministry of Finance should now review the improvements in efficiencies in payments realized under
this, n,n"t &~nd see ,.  som.e of toe pr.ced -es-g rriht be adop'e . ,_or r.orrl f .n  o.aior.
without sacrificing the checks and oversight required to protect public funds from being misused.
Ther was z uarc_-sa  -  -nge..r. --s+.. p'ut ir. .A plc  udehs ---i to +_ iS assh+e RA4T3 Tn
A" UtIvc   UOl'W CffU41.A OJOSt4*1 FU Ll U. Fl~ ULLtLAUV MIU %. L4Ut LU Aaoa UL L  IV.& LYJ LU
monitoring the financial indicators for improved efficiency. Unfortunately, this system was installed
q4UiL LaLa, ir UI* jJIU%cL c   TU IL JIadU bwII Uir,Lsale erIIeI, *Uhe =I1uiuvraIIulIL WoUIU iiave LP=1I i1iuIr
robust. In all future IDA financed projects, an approved procurement and payment processing system
SILUUIU U, bU FJi4n p   LU *o  LLULV LLLrb C VUiIVIK)y gair,s.
Leso N. 3
T he financiia anu iechnmica quaririy auduis undertaken by a private audi wini assisieu ihe PiMLu
greatly in ensuring that the streamlined procurement and payment procedures did not sacrifice
proper oversight of the expenditure of public funds.
Tne role of the independent audit firm played a pivotal and positive role in the professional
management of ENEP. While mandated by the World Bank Board of Directors in approving the
Credit, these quarterly financiai and technicai audits were recognizea Dy LwK as an important extra
layer of project management supervision demonstrating GOK's commitment to having an efficiently
managed project. Tne audit firm was hired on a competitive basis and financed from the Credit. Tne
PMU was able to rely on the technical audit reports to support their positions of quality control. There
were very few cases where the audit firm and the PMU were at odds with each other in assuring the
quality of the contracts. The one major issue of product quality which was not satisfactorily resolved
involved the poor quality of work of one of the six zonal consultant firms - one of the T echimcal Units.
The audit firm, the PMU, and the Banl's supervision team all agreed on the problem, and for the most
part on the solution. It was GOK interference above the PMUJ level that prevented punitive actions
from being taken against the poorly performing firm.
Given that there were approximately US$ 90 million of civil works investments being implemented
under the ENEP program, an investment of roughly 1% of the value of these infrastructure investments
as an additional quality control layer seems to have been financing well spent from the perspective of
the taxpayers of Kenya and from the financiers' perspective. Kenya's poor track record of executing
such civil works programs in the past is what initiated this intervention. Until a record of better
implementation is established, it would be prudent to insist on such audits for all similar future civil
works programs. It should be noted that the quarterly financial audits resulted in the timely
preparation of the annual financial statements and of the submission of audit reports. The World Bank
Country Office did recognize and appreciate the timely manner in which the audits were presented
since this project was'almost unique in the timely delivery of its annual audit reports.
For future IDA financed projects, it would be useful to enhance the function of the audit firm to
encompass more of the monitoring and evaluation functions that should have had a more prominent
- 16 -



place within the PMU. The PMU was swamped with day-to-day design and supervision of
construction functions and consequently the M&E activities were allowed to slip. They were only
properly focused on towards the second half of the project implementation. The audit firm was better
placed in terns of function to undertake such activities on a routine basis which could have easily
coincided with their quarterly technical and financial audit activities.
Lesson No. 4
Improved public relations efforts were made by the PMU to Inform the public of the progress of
the nrniect This should he adonted for all GOK nroiects but most certainly for all future IMA
rmanced projects.
The expectations of the Government and citizens of Kenya regarding the assistance for the country
follouinc the E1 Ninnq tarm events of late 1997 were that the Wnrl w Rank wnld he able tn rernnd
and operate on more of a relief agency basis, more like UNICEF or the World Food Program are able
tn fn11l insa hm.lnar di&q§tirs. No ntnie wair intPrPctPr.A i heai:ricn. 2nhAt the vIiriniic inr- inrpmprnt
constraints that come with working with the World Bank, even if they have been "streamlined" for this
oper2ation  As a cornsequ e.nce nf these eYnep,tatorne Andi ,.en that th.rp was little pubhlic rel!ti^nn
efforts early on in the ENEP preparations to manage these expectations, the general population affected
byn the ctnrm &..dam.e was AidllngiirceA 2 ard Aicav,inte at the npce nf the prvept'g Aaelieru o,f oitpu,tg
Their disappointment and disillusionment was understandable given the lack of information being made
v.,^  ilhe  by .n  aa anar,^+A A 9  niqJi.inA.er nd   a  p   YiSO n i   *. h16   Viiv,'  wVflJZ   cor.t -fli.h.I  &ndlt  corpljJ -,gi  therii
within 30 months, is rated as much better than satisfactory, to the people lacking the water supply,
,Jealdl          roia iiA.:n, id  *-oad  nethv-tna, +iM- s liO iit_A no   zr.iei.%erg i. o rse". T.A.e* lesso n clearly ile&in
here is that from the very beginning of all future World Bank investments, a communications strategy
2J1-IUA Ul ajA-_+t A A-  ija_ t IJUIA rjiA -+  ..-ir . A  , LA-J_ -i  : 1 -. Q U 4rXi -A 4A A .A
:>sswuv LP. CavvMaov ua%&v *t usw v  VAlI% tI tWUs. Au  W;W %VaL i nVW6Ir %'IVJ49;  LLLVLLIS USL La%
objectives of the project, the intended outputs, and the progress in meeting these objectives and outputs
are not significant at aL Qerly advertisements were placedAine nationa l newspapers indicating
the contracts to be awarded in the immediate future, as well as those which were awarded during the
rLIoL J IIIULIU3n. ILUs seemed Lo bU welU l rVece.IVeU by UIV, pUUL. ic U d  hUL'dU be LUIIeU lUL IUL.Ur
operations. As problems and conflicts arise in any investment programs which may impact the outcome
of uIIh oUjecbv &Vend OuLIp'uLs, UJey should be puULIca ly disc:oUILLedU UIUIfo  IlJiMUUILL-iUU  ULUU ruiuiur
take on a reality of their own in the absence of the facts.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The draft ICR was transmitted to the Borrower for review and comment on April 15, 2002. Comments to
the draft were submitted to IDA in a May 17, 2002 letter which have been taken into consideration in the
final version of the ICR. In their May 17, 2002 letter to IDA, the Borrower has also included their own
ICR document contribution (see Annex  1).
A copy of the draft was transmitted to the African Development Bank on April 15, 2002. Comments on
tUhe A   we  suhitted to IMA on May 28, 2002 which were taken into cor.siration ;i the firal version
of the ICR. AfDB indicated in their comments that they would be fielding a Project Cornpletion Report
IL ino W   .    ma.at av-at - N   -- t.t -LUU   VW. - % ti a  IAJJ %JA UIMi  .i1 IL,U I U iL L%L.PI   UZI, LAJJ1. I JUL it,ViLiV.W aLIiU
comments.
- 17-



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
la  Ad Sditio     ,la:Informatior.
XU. txuu1iuuaii ALUJLU IUUUU
N/A
- 18-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
lnd.l atok/latrt        .il   f troje         In' ladti,SR                ActuallLatast Esimate
OLitnut IndIetnom:
l: ,;r; i; indlcaterlMatilx  .        .Projecte...d In,lut dSR   ;|,i Actulltest Estimate
1(j1 Eonormic acivity reswred in 23 impaaecimpiemrarwioun or 33 watr suppiy co ncis. Uiwrropiraa
dWbicts and the Provinoeof Nairobi thoutgh  Rehablitton of 45 water suppl systems
ano 1 sewerage sysem.
(ii) Increased accessibdiltv through   Implementaton of 23 fural roads and bridaes All Comrleted
restoravonilimprovement of roads In the  contracts.
nonurban areas.                       iRehabBltation ari reconstruction d 1.634 km
of gravel roads and numerous culverts, drfts,
and bridges.
(iii) Minimized the loss of human lIfe through lmplementation of 54 heasth fadltles  52 Fully Completed, 1 Partially Completed
|restoration of health fadliles.       contracts.                            1(32%), 1 Not Compltedd tAll -Contract
I                                      IRehabilltatlon of 112 heath facllibes.  Terrdnated.
(lv) Increased acoessibility through  lImplementation d 8 urban roads contracts. |AIl Completed
restorator/improvement of roads In urban
1aras.                                 Rehabiltatlon and reconstruction of 67 km of
|0,00,                                 Ibirumen roads In six urban centers.
Frdof poj,ect
- 19 -



Annpe 2. Proiect Conts and Financing
Priect Cost bv Comnonent (inUJSS million eqiivalent    _
| '                              | Aptpraistal  | ActualLatestp |- aPaercentage of
I                                      I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Estimatei -  Estiima'te  Anoria
Civil Wnrk   0 -rojct"Cost By:C,omponent               US$ million     US$million |
r ivil w. oriv for: 
-Roads and Bridges                                        18.90            17.99             95.2
"I-[~..                                           I      - CA             17 1 0           AC  '.
I-- WaVLr Sujppy                                     I      .J5    1          1. 10.                 1
--- Health                                                 3.80             3.44             90.4
Consultant Services                                        4.50             4.85            107.8
Audit                                                      0.30             0.86            285.8
Goods                                                      0.70             0.39             55.2
Operating Costs                                            0.30             0.78            258.7
Unallocated                                                4.00
otal Baseline Cost                                       4U.UU            35.49
Total Project Costs           |    40.00            35-49
Totai Financing Required                  4U.UU0   1       35.49   1
Note 1: The table above presents the disagregated project costs rather than baseline costs. Given the complexity of isolating
the pnysical and price contingencies from 1 16 civil works and 2 goods contracts as well as the price contingencies from 15
consultancy services contracts, it would have required a considerable amount of staff time to provide this disaggregation. It
was deemed not to be a cost effective exercise for the value of the additional information gained fmm the disaPpreeation of
baseline costs and actual contingencies.
Note 2: The Special Account still shows a balance of $ 286,042.11 as of June 17, 2002. Based on past experience, it may take
GOK a considerable length of time to refund this SA amount to the Bank. The Credit would be then be closed and all project
financal figures finalized at that time.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1 11r r ' t  '  1-  Procurement Method,
Expenditure Category         ICB                                         N.B.F.      Total Cost
y   JC            ~~~NCB         Other 2      ______        ______
ri. Work(s                      16.20           14.70          2.70           0.00          33.60
(16.20     I   (14.70)        (2 .70     I    (0.00)       (33-60)
2. Goods                         0.30           0.30           0.20           0.00          0.80
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           5.30           0.00          5.30
(0.00)         (0.00)         (5.JU)         (0.00)        (.30j)
4. Operating Costs               0.00           0.00           0.30           0.00          0.30
_______________________         (0.00)     J    (0.00)    1    (0.30)    1   (0.00)    1    (0.30)
5. Miscellaneous           |     0.00           0.00           0.00     j     0.00          0.00
I____________________           (0.00)     1    (0.00)   1     (0.00)   [    (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous           I     0.00     |     0.00     |     0.00     I     0.00          0.00
I_______________I______         (0.00)     I    (0.00)    I    (0.00)    [   (0.00)     I   (0.00)
Total                   1     16.50       i 15=00      1      50     1     000           4.000
(16.50)    J   (15.00)    1    (8.50)         (0.00)    1  (40.00)
- 20 -



__l__qA  &  L.. 1 cue    n _ u, ,,s I A--.------ 6-IAI.611  6-, C - %1661  IIutAU ;11 ; 1QIv
r-FWv,Jv.&,,vato myrW"| |  ;X,,Wge| vlow  L P%11kW111011L   kP%.U 11;V0 ;alh.%1100   k% W ,l11MlVl l W74UVU91L>ll||}, ,, 
1. Works                       13.32          14-94    f    0.35     1    0.00         2861
1                              (13.32)       (14.94)        (0.35)    .   (0-00)      (28.61)
~2. Goods                       0.32          0.05         0.02           0.00          0.39
______________                 (0.32)         (0.05)       (0.02)        (0.00)        (0.39)
'3. Services                    0.00          0.00          4.85          0.00          4.5
(0.00)        (0.00)        (4.85)        (0.00)        (4.85)
4. Operating Costs              0.00          0.00          0.78          0.00          0.78
___             ________ 1     (0.00)   1    (0.00) _      (0.78)        (0.00)   1    (0.78)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00    1     0.00          0.86    J     0.00          0.86
(0.00)        l    (0.00)   l    (0.86)   l    (0.00)   l   (0.86)
Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
_0.00_        (OOr 0    I   (0.00)        (0.00     I   (o.Orn
Total                        13.64    1    14.99         6.86     1    0.00     1   3549
II. AA  i     (1A  ) Ofl   I(Q6.8  I       A     An0    (54   -t
5. Miscellaneous are the charges for the quarterly audits.
Figures in pare'hLesis are uoi an-uunts 1o ob nnanzced oy *e1 IuA Credit. A;; cosEs inciude contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
rroject rinandrng Dy Component in U     miiiion equivaien                        _
|4jj~fl  Appraisl~A~~  I  ~   f Percentage of Appralsal
*__';.:;_.: Govt. 4   CoF..              ' |  lA Govt.  CoF..  IDA |-Govt.  COF-
Civil Works for:
|-Rural Roads/ Bridges   18.90     0.00      0.00     17.99      0.00     0.00     95.2   0.0    0.0
Water Supplies        7.50      0.00      0.00      7.18      0.00      0.00    95.7    0.0   0.0
--Health FaclOties       3.80      0.00     0.00      3.44      0.00      0.00    90.5    0.0    0.0
Consultant Services      4.)U     0.00      0.00      4.85      0.00      0.00    107.8   0.0    0.0
Audit Fees               0.30     0.00      0.00      0.86      0.00      0.00    286.7   0.0    0.0
Goods                    0.70     0.00      0.00      0.39      0.00      0.00    55.7    0.0    0.0
OperatIng Costs          0.30     0.00      0.00      0.78      0.00      0.00    260.0   0.0    0.0
Unaiocated           j   4.00    U0.00      0.00      U 0.00    0.00      0.00U    0.0  j 0.0  j 0.0
TOTAL                   40.00  |  0.00      0.00      35.49  |  0.00      0.00  | 88.7    0.0    0.0
An additional US$ 37.5 million of financing from the World Bank was reallocated from the Urban
Transport Infrastructure Project (Credit 281 1-KE) towards the El Nino Emergency Pro  for the
rehabilitation and/or reconstruction of urban roads in Nairobi, Mombasa, Voi, Malindi, Kisumu, and
Garissa. A Development Credit Agreement amendment to Credit No. 281 1-KE was signed on July 28,
1998 earmarling separate disbursement categories for El Nino emergency related civil works (US$ 32.3
million), consultancy services (US$ 5.0 million), and operating costs (US$ 0.2 million). A separate special
account was established for these purposes as well.
- 21 -



During the preparatory stages of the El Nino Emergency Project, funding from the Institutional Support
Project (Credit No. 2671 -KE) were made available to bridge the financing gap until the El Nino Emergency
Project became effective in October 1998. Expenditures of KSh 27,514,945 (USS 445,300 equivalent)
were made up until early 1999 for the purchase of vehicles, computers, office equipment, initial salaries for
the staff of the Project Management Unit (PMU), and rent for the PMU offices. There was no DCA
amendment made to accommodate for these El Nino Emergency Program expenditures nor any change in
the special account arrangements.
There was US$ 15 million equivalent in parallel financing from the African Development Bank towards the
El Nino Emergency Program. Later, in July 2000 and January 2002 a total of Euro 28 million from the
The Agence Francaise de Development becamne effective for rural roads and water supplies as well. Details
of this financing are found in Annex 9.
-22 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable for Emergency Operations
-23 -



Annex A4 'ank Inniuts
(a) Missions:
I Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists,1 FMS, etc.)      |Implementation Development
Month/Year      Count           Specialty                        Progress      Objective
IIdentification/Preparation    IIII
February 1998                  1   Country Director
I    Sector Director
I    Sector Manager
AppraisauiNegotiation
April / May 1998               1   Country Director
3    Engineers
I    Financial Management
2    Specialist
I    Operations Officers
I    Disbursement Analyst
I    Operations Analyst
I    Procurement Specialist
Lawyer
Supervisio  January 1999                   I    Sector Director                      S              S
I   Sector Manager
I   Lawyer
Operations Ofticer
February / March               I   Team Leader                          U              U
i999                           3   Engineers
2   Operations Officers
lifMy 179997                   1    IN TeilLJui                        S             S
3   Engineers
ll2  Anl rpe:ns AffirlprI
I   Operations Analyst
INvember 1999                  I   Team Leadler                                        S
3   Engineers
I2  Operations Officers
I   Operations Analyst
February /March   |I               Team Leader                           S             S
2000                           3   Engineers
I   Financial Management Specialist
2   Operations Officers
I   Disbursement Analyst
I   Uperations Analyst
May /June 2000    |                Team Leader                           S              S
2   Engineers
I   Financial Management Specialist
I       I     I-aonsOfftern11
I   Operations Analyst
l-ptehPr I/                         Tpnm T   lpeIr                       S              S
October 2000                   2   Engineers
I   Financial Management Specialist
-24 -



I   Operations Officer          j
February / March             I   Team Leader                        S             S
2001                         1   Engineer
I   Financial Management Specialist
June 2001                    1   Team Leader                         S             S
1  *Engineer
Financial Management Specialist
O psa'utriof Officer
November 2001                1   Team Leader                         S             S
I Financial Management Specialist
I   Pmrurement Snecia1iRt
I Disbursement Specialist
ICR 
No ICR Mission
(b) Staff:
K     Stage of Project Cycle  |                 Actual/Latest Estimate
|                    |    ~~~~~~~~No. Staff weeks  |US$ COO0)
[ Identification/Prepartion                36.3         |             107.3.7
Appraisal/Negotiation       I            24.3         I              23.7
Supervision                             155.6                       128.7
ICR                                       7.7                        24.6
| Total                       |           223.9         |             284.3
-25 -



Annex 5a. %a.ULMga JUo Achievement UI Oie-LVes/O-ULpU  UI ofUUCompoCneL
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OI Macro policies                      O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
LI Sector Policies                     O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Physical                             O H   * SUOM     O N  O NA
LI Financial                           O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
3 Institutional Development            O H   O SU 0 M   O N  0 NA
Ui Environmental                       O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
Social
3 Poverty Reduction              O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
1S Gender                        OH    O SU * M   O N  O NA
LI Other (Please specify)        O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
12 Private sector development          0 H   0 SU * M   0 N  0 NA
F Public sector management             0 H   O SU 0 M   0 N 0 NA
IOther (Pleasespecijy)                OH    OSUOM      ON   * NA
- 26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
Z Lending                                           OHSOS OU OHU
I Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU    O HU
1 Overall                                           O HS * S     O U   O HU
6.1 (a)
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
t-,%. A& &  0% ry0%m
i^Preparation                                     O,- HSa O  S  , O   \U OAU
2 Government implementation performance             0 HS 0 S     0 U   .0 HU
l Implementation agencyaperformance                 * H.S 0O       0 O ' 0  it
Z Overall                                           OHS OS       O   U  0 HU
-27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
I.      Memorandum of Recommendation of the President Of IDA to the Executive Directors
2. -. t          ' A t A- -+.4.
3.       Technical Annexes
'4.     1v1.U-u 0I "f , VULUrPb
5.       Civil Works Site Inspection Reports
6.       bi..1vU VT ULb woiuss n I..ACbs rbUIa
7.       Civil Works Bidding Documents
8.       Civil work dIU nvaluaton Reports
9.       Civil Works Contract Agreements
i o.    Consulwancy Services Contracts Agreements
11.     Technical Units Progress Reports
12.     Technical Units Final Reports
13.     Report on Evaluation of Actual Outputs
14.     Report on Evaluation of Quality of Structures and Facilities
15.     Report on Project Social Impact Assessment
16.     Technical and Management Audit reports
17.     Financial Audit reports
18.     IDA's letters of no objection
19.     Aide Memoires
20.      General correspondence in the project files
-28-



- 6z-
I                I_,l  l  ol __   _       L     lO.,             I
",4aaa,  Io-ai  Iaa.-o-St  la&. I  I  -ml qI  Ii  woasal   D PM..O   . o t D_ W   I
n¢r  I=  I=rrs lvs= |L  I   D        I      D       "A|DIUI I I
I 'm'  k'sl'  .1.  'P  -  mtrsl         ...I  i DadI 1
Oara   Ia-t. -o   I-  IDI W   01       mn    W'i      twwI.ll D1I _o 
6W61ILIt  6a.,oIr a6-orit  W&9.Ia  wod WaPl mw   'tattm --ml  "ZO a  ol  I I
PT4 W  ILLE LL I t L  | iT a  I0a63                  !LOD)|
ysf___  |rm-Wr ___l  |  r  | | IW | P t    nl0 1  .P I$aa  IN is |
00(00(50  o-60o-t a|.-IZt  welIrl  oo&|a-IN  YPPI W .ol'tD  W~L "'  iz{ o m  I NaDa|  1
I"IOI             I.   I     It .     Im     It _Nil         I'E
1      I7-SIdw1 IT   T 1I 1     1              1T   I         dl
oo l l  ltm  ~[  liffl 1* -a  lw o-  I Zi  pn .A   I 5- M 1t Id   I'LI' I   1
I      I  I    I     I        I     I _ _I-I_        i  i
L8I            -Iii           I                         I 
teetisl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tf I   lVlt.a 
cial |Lt"I L    toq L    - IS   1I )0-1Wl      1-D 9I  YosIfl  LIdltIn
11-,6 1|trot 6 100th" k"o S Iro  !-qM  'P  ,.| ,ft0l R'O III
9L600(09l  Itro  II-,  lo|s Itl  t1.Lt  I   1 i  mW l -91)  (699S ni  I ,t
ftORft  lalal  INu dw  ~ t4 0  4  99  v o asLtAiit  K  L-uLiOj  .1  * i
56(10l(t  1ra.ba1 I I4O4SWl   I  -"I r9  B9-o0  WI 0  Iw n W1 0  IIqPL  n. IO   U   I I
oootft(tl  ta-tools  a-tao*tc  iaaqCi  ao-~a-Li  006010991  001 64,1* I  au 'M  i-A  01 an   lu   |1
600"6   II6   low00.  l  W-"[  lo- " 0 11  1|  041  WI 0 t Oll  wool t2 Wo"a, q a   ot1|  |I
CatL S  a-   law I  1   1  I     r        T     r LI
alson AorAl  O.-  95a t-O0L Iadl.  o9aq p,ayr   --  , as9 laq~q~   1 I oum  s
ue u- po--S   p|--P  aO*D WS-t..  |-  | .--   -  |M - .  YT     T   n   .I |%f
tttW O | o90t  19-.-01t  Wl00O  |0YI  Al  R )0 01 0WOL.3  .watt  SHIL  a| IL10 l4  l  I 1
oxIoo0n  I90l-e  WIa[II  4  09999 1 |   1 1aa|L  a10P  - 11 Y ata  I1
I  l  l   l    l     l        l~   ~    ~ Ual. .11)1"
or !B010  r0l'01 I  ato-lI  z  I0-1J-L  c-oAlo  dat A pu 3  lm a3  mm10   . loo |oafaid ao.o  paa  6| |
OCF__  IIOI  N^I a-iaIa  a.  lowl  aa-asr-l  |  - |l . _.1i  %|' 9191  mX f 1I100  |0iMLMOll t
rU ~ ~ ~ ~~~tKtlf |rLOOdtad lotdPj  loA  |ODSUJL |v F!F beytl 4,D4|u   Yalu  -t - !Ann  |3w,A   4
at4ttl   90060 |o a |oot- |00l--  l' n  |  .oH  ao. y011 aWID  a'99D|  Na0I.6P0  La|  6Y 
s'ooId tl -  iav-£ s u   aa-l*mp ! -All poou nig  4  ai9 Ieam .dor  Ip jo  qlDan   soISI.q_ v o Wado  6
1tv(   i.m    o- sn -00xau          vuip
alatool,  la-otoit  aG-tao-It  jO.yO  15060.0.  |  EM|a  aao _omoaloo  awol  .10-iLOs I  taud I 
LU 'Kfo  41°-oZ |tl 90a6  01)60  tall-I  |  .11  IWla-Di 00511  oai4 WD|   do2t, P100w.D  iaY|  |'
W     i  I 2 I 2  I iII    I         I         I          I   I
*soflfuA aAIwIdwoo Jo pasodmd awtOp io snII asni/SLs j qSt,i0a a9umpaxa jqoj~9 paumsse
UD U~~~OaPdDqnwnaoLUAO tln,ney.nr mOoD caon.  t  ionn nni uDo~  .  %? e  *OLlSOltl ;l at,  8n  fl fl/00
LD J.L.61J 11104 D U50LV JUJ 11.51 4UU 1.111 ad8JLU 4JOJ4UOJ.J u  t  UiUtD.a;O<-V+-D"VI" V0  4
saoud a^~uoo aULj *sW3xuoO SaIOM ll.A1? poauW1 Vul aq liw 10,J ep zoxuoa aaw sajqui ~9uuMoll0j aq1
6uBuaU pBU.nOJ - s;nd suio* 8~U iau Iu°!4wPP



C..4.oo  |C.0oN_       |T..64. 60 |ca..o.   00,4     l     l   3S     1 ii  §1   Orgl64C..0
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I3I
_   WT  S                    _ _ _ _ C h  ___ _   _  _                i   ~     9  t _  _  _
9I|OI     |CUHW-SWPlyd|cm                                       20.Ap-A411 2040kOlj 204.21  28.648790
2  IWO2   |IB 04.9O      IG       W r I U .&  I W      I   0 I  M -1  ISF00411  31.D0Olj  31.0 21  11.782.75
I    .rroorr.  C..
3 _ W003   Ny.60 W. 0S."  10h 6   Sk 06  Lld I.           34196  2J9.1.j 4.09.01  4.0.02  713,Oo
4  _  rPw04  Nlftw0Dh 0   0.9    3S0. C0c..6r.OIo      I  4N-99  31-9M0.0r  IAp10-  14.6A90-0  21,702,120
31  1W05 I_BWd01 r "  & W d  Ol.-o  isUcn-i I_ K1      I  2S-N-,2991  25- 2Fjeo 22.F0 l I  F i3  6.93$,.63
1  1  69.                   I1                           
6   1w04  |Lai09lelWo SWT*y |Ur1h  |Ui.. Ld    1.      | 27.A.W| 19-Aplr06 10A3W I10.Aoj.0  25,81,169
71 PW07   |.- W- SWlrY   |UnI&    |UO9LM      IT-a     | 2 -I .00| 2.Moy.Ol 31.O.01| 31.De0.21  2V,338,146
, I  4900  04.900        10906    Ic-Cm  W     B..3    T  5-Co6  4*Jo.0l1  3. S 1p01  3 S.p421  65 .40442
9  1_ 009 w 04 0060064r0   W0  C.T  L. C a  164         I 694  W5 9  IS-2.0s  2  4.441  24-004 01  16,293.0
nI _ 001  1011.0  ..6.o...090604  I.104. 0. 10W..C1..  04 100o.,  ,U 400001  ! 90.11  14.4.44.  4ft0...lh  010401
Wll  IMI  IUCW644o )  JT03.6  }o., C -  I.            Nl_ __t_  /44-0 1-5.W09   3355. -1  424,00j
12  _ 9w 12  74.oF. 1Uo96   |U     W.. 1W        T-    1  3-MD0|  2-N04.0  3 Apr1 |j  3-Apr.02  25.W3,315
131  I1913     8 94.6.-   0U 0    I -.   E.0.9 . C.10    I 12-Apr.0I  IIS0.P0l  1. 6   1-Au410-   7,092.620
141 *  I9W14  O1(90ill-- 190 4   041=-Eo IcM          j I 1.Do.D0DI  17 10601  31.00.1 j  21.09.2j  42,4332,38
I, |  w is  !; . W.Sr9pIy  06t    |KV CO. L    9 IM.4.    27.SoS.99  26-Apr.00 l &Ad6 24-1 I  13.069.937
16  F 19.69  6_o41.4r_ok         1i N o.lG..d  TITo_To   I  .00  1D40-  2I 6.9 1j  2.Qj  19,67A43
17  1 PW  9ID6W.W   *     1U..o  IC   2W       61Ug   I23 I             -1 | .OO 27-A 0,2Su4176
211  IPW  19 6 4        0. |4                 I .      I5-3oo0  SX-4OI0  24 2.J0-1 2I 4 '-02  30.93,003
.9  W   0    .M      1    0          . i N.  Wa  .4. is4.90.i61  3I4.A01i  4M .0l  0.9,407  5935447
w-S I!.!009m0                                   I  7-AI~ 2~j1'31
19 | P9024  7.6.094       Ilog4   1.41.C406.Lo.0  044O  |  13-.-6 174 -|lApr-OIl4 1494001|  14.4.U7O2|  39.33M7
20   1W 2P 2  |U.6IT064WS&  (10r4T  IAS  u _4   |M.b6  T  27.APr.06  2Se4.O.6  21-94.y-1|  21.U64.02|  IX12,300
|:_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  , A 5, W.M....  I I
22  99.2 2 I 4PWD .... 6q19  Ioop..dl  |Sob. Hss0o,.oi 900  |ALL, |  23-M.7r-06  21-AIo0  27S- Wi0  23so,0  7,313,33
n   jPW    14F,                     E   Ls     ll 
1 IM2              T        ~          so T n Li . 1  IS 11-111 ISAu 2sno 6spfll- oll*Oj 
SOS
24   19PW0    MGi Gbb                IoGk-              I  220-011  21-Olj  304Nj1 3&N-002I  12.M303.912
23  1944   1W 0C  7Wol    GM       91. 1       IWO      I  12.Jr400  1.04.0  304.0  13-4002j  1251,046
21~ ~ ~  ~~~~~G Ipw#                            iiRwsKAf.O li--  K i 4.494.06 3.10.01 24-470] NmnlLnl !i7.f
271   |_W43  1b          I|  _                 IW   _ _S I  - I  _ _  l                 I_ t z.050
$"PO                                                      36k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~747 9a
gS_ToOsaV.ITS PPb   l   l   l       l     l      l      |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ uss|  7.209g7
960 I   .                -4 4--.                           l   ~ l   l'~       I        p
696
I I  I1W05A  04 A   M O r  00.1I    10.4. JK           I  2S  j 7 51P4 1  J l4k.11   14-D. r.j 1 m |  1.411.43
2  1 IPW IA  IM0I.I )lI T  I     94o.        |U       |  27$4.3011  21-0.D 111  31D.09.j  34902i  53293036
3  1 9 M.A  JK96444090   T.$l6M   6.doo0.40C   4046.      70-1  1-4.1  1.9    4240       .32,323
4 19I44B I6-i.oO.D       MT/r        . CooOooCo0 U C .6  150-0411 15-Dlj 12-09411 34J..-0  0702Z.96
3 | 190440  f6464k440.   |T  6dI/r  01 0 69 E _ 0106069  |  150CI41|  15 ..01 15 DDOl I 3154D1021  8,911.664
' I IPW4]  IK.- D--0 ICAEl                    j.61     I     15-0o0I1 IS.D.41 13.D.O1| 3nl   340
I  I    I                       I I        I        I       I     I     I  _ _ _ _   37, 039
- 30 -



il0ft0"LiOO0igI         1D"`dlZ   -1 ___t"     VI-   1 - t-- Ml &a"  '*HIOA  .00/NI W IN  S
10W11i,   1N0O  010-0o-N-I  00-80 N  10510-wLt  - 001 01511  0.130/ V  I- DNSI _ _ 01/NI  -1 ---I~O I/  LS Nd  I  s'
011`29111  1t0-I0-oft  0-WIt,   600-NoU  I00I-01(1  I 00"-51lI  IIGVIII/N/A I1/I/  5/800I`41  LOOTJI o
1iti010'N  ro-81oi-;  o0-LSI.if  10180I-LE  L00-i/ON   .010  M0/l I  1110DI/0 N/  HaNVIOi.  51100 
I        80585,0)      85/~~~~~~M N         ItlN  000  2/
oofloucl  ro-ooroc  1001(-Of  go-ar-gi  iCOq-oAt  = 28.-  ZZiiso0OII  /.yIi,  paowAT t/iN  S`
orIwu  N-N/N-It  oo'o.o-,:  00-hv/L1  00-0-ANt  NWNoso  N~~~~~~~iN/1, 011151  J/9am -J-"O5iIO  60/20 H tOS
ZWOXI  110-doli'LO  1OWd-g-LO  100-USIT  IW-Wql  v_"I"1  v D"~~~~~~~0000 II`FII"`G  /N/N
I0NttOl   to/ON-l  10/sIi  iN*N~  I/NO-I  0000sN   ODN0ODON/N1   /NO   ~ NNWiW   LOYNOJNI
110011    10-r00 6 00-o100tI  0~40.0N  100-/-lo  M"loN /l 0-1- 0010 - FI 0/ION "J.] i/i If/NN   101550 O "a  9i
I                                     LIWO
041twf1~  Wff IN f-S  I---ID I  --O-                       .LI--..-..--       -
90ItNiN   1 0-a-Dz 1 90--8.00 1 W 00-8 II.6 0s -i  I 8  I// I/0001  00 1SO  DI/SIII oNO  VN ' I iN
gw,wi  tori-li  to-sir-i,  w'q,e:t  woow~1D,-it  ] Is,US  NIlm/SIGO   OpN  otiOl  V:DORVb/801DO iI  lEd  O
iooi, 10-,,A-IN  00-/NAS  100-/-NA IC u-TIN 040  0010  DOioso  -n-Ini  lp'01  WI ///m  /0/NnNinI  Ei NJ 
I   0/I  I 0-/  I     I                   I ONLOII
1                         N/0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 V1 IIII   l o NPI//OIIIN/  "..:)
i01NtOI,  100/N-Ni  10-/sI-N  100-8.10-i  l  wI-ilo  I  I'0ll0 IIl  O  SO/S/kI 01/2/L  Ni-I/sI  .,   P`t -11  till/ NJ i i  t
in -                                      I/0/                            ._J00  O IsN/.
110-N lOOlNtC  10I0-IIHI  01 -i  0 -i00010/0J/6/ INSNOVtO Nh/I/00I Ol   01/S vj-pI/ 0 "00  0wjI  it/t Nd1  II
NOut  NI/tNt a 0/-C   jN//ON/LO  11n-d.-O  I5N   I/. I00i0//O   05/J   M/IDIO   3   110MV-I 'IN   INdi Nd I
SL9'GsrE   i.1-1-61!  i  _F4                     mw..~~~~~~~~~~~*  //SII 
qsx__           _             ::___
-NiNittLi    I  I i L i L O- i I LO0Nt  I  ai  s~N   05-   isOI/   OOI  0  3/00I AI  14 N



OZ?V                                        I III  I   I  I  IO H 
|wLe  I  l  l  l  l  l  l  I     t  XVgl~~~~~~~~~~~~ 14
EZVKrL  Lvm  I_1 ILSI- b lL  I  -- -lT o  pa  l  1 ZasH udMPA l VUNIL 
E9LUOt  I01t  90 IvOS I   I.d ' J a    4 SP  VLsuM
_._.L_.L__ I_L. I    F..1 --I  I  i
n9Xtt^L   |X-t  l;Llt  l;L-VL  l;L98Utl |  _llUP |  a   PM Ut-   VLI-mU  I
S P.M*  51 |LI1LS  I        1     l a l ou   Wu|



Additional Annex 9.Pr oject Costs for AfDF and AFD Parallel Financing
The following tables detail the parallel financing which was made available to the Government of Kenya by
the African Development Fund (AfDF) and by the The Agence Francaise de Development (ADF) to
supplement the interventions required in order to repair and rehabilitate roads and water supply
infrastructure damaged by the El Nino storm events. The AfDF loan for rural roads and water supply civil
works contracts utilized the consultant services provided for under the IDA credit Since the French
interventions were initiated considerably later than those of IDA and AfDF, they emnployed their own
consultant services but still maintained the management of their investments through the same PMU located
within the Office of the President.
For the AtDF Loan -
Loan No. F/KEN/INF-REH/99/26
Effective: September 7, 1999
Closed:   December 31, 2001
Amount:   Units of Account 11.52 million
Allocation in 
|Units of Account I
|Component                (UA) - Mlillion  |Number of Contracts    I
Rural Roads                            5.72                     11
Water Facilities                       3.71                     15
Equipment                l             0.171                   N/A|
lCommodities              |            0.131                    N/A|
1Unallocated              1            1.791                    N/AI
I Iotai UA -miiiion)      I           11.521                       I
ITotal (Equlv US$ - million)          14.971 
For the AFD Loan -
Credit Facility Agreement No. 1007 01 F
Effective: July 4, 2000
To Close: December 31, 2002
Amount:   Euros 15 million
Credit Facility Agreement No. 1016 01 F
Effective: January 17, 2002
To Close: June 30, 2003
Amount:   Euros 13 million



Allocation in                         1
Component                 Euros - Million  Number of C
Rural Roads             1           16.10                    19
Urban Roads                          3.10                     6
lWater Facilities                    4.301                    7
Consultancy Services                 2.001                    11
1Other Expenses - Audit,                 l
IAaministative Costs                  0.                     N/Al
Confingencies                        2.151                  N/At
Total (Euros - million)             28.00
___,,_______________________________________  ___________________________________ 
ITo tuI Equiv U@f - EIIIII0IIj                                  I



Additional Annex MO.E NEP Accelerated Procurement Processing Analysis.
The following table and chart compares the procurement turn around times for the ENEP civil works
contract-s copd toa si-1., cix,Z- I --tn-ra-ts, Tn A rreait t+ha TYnCtya rrrbar. Tvrncr+
... F--v ~ ~  ~   ~    ~   AL        L        . J.f  wwt.
Infrastructure Project. The comparison is the time taken from the time of advertisement of the contract
uu il the iss^.ce of toe letter of awaJ ~ ~ ~ e  SE _
1  01  01   .1     21    i1     il   ° m
U'I.LU LLV.A iooojn~ t/5 t n u r! *a tin  n  n °  E |, nn  Ii
Y.--.-.  ~I  z IY   U    U          I I    w I
Advert to Contract
Commenrment    409    197   1951   1931    541  231     57,
Numberof Contractsl  "|    81    231   271    61     471    91
* the healthfacilities show 47 contracts instead of 45 contracts because two were cancelled and retendered,
informzationfor allfour contracts are included in the data.
Comnnnrinn nf ENEP and KUTIP
Procurement Timellnes
400 -r
E 350fl
C 300'
E e     =    L 
Es
o ; 150   _    _    _   _    _    _   _    _   _    _    _   _    _
0  -so-                            -      -      - 
U   0                'a    CD
E         w cn       ag      e       _
ZY in {Y                   z u8 L 
@ U LU M          v     U       Lus ; -e  FM      1 
_    -   .    .  _)                  - 
P    'Ject and Sector
- 35 -



Additional Annex l1.Bo rrower's Contribution to ICR
EL NINO EMERGENCY PROJECT (ENEP)
CREDIT NO. CR 3120-KE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GOK/BORROWER/IMPLEMENTATING AGENCY CONTRIBUTION
A-   r(VNW.R A. nRWCTWVW
(I)   Im- gener-al oviectv of - h E1+U  Nir,o-    ------- roe:wa orstr  rirtze  ia
k\1 J AUV L..G UUJ LUVV, VLU U11% LI i'4" 1iLLLJ. LIVJVIAL W4aO LU LLULV JPIViUiLLILVU VIU2I
infrastructure and facilities that had been adversely affected by the El Nino floods in parts of
Kenya.
The specific objectives that focused on the Roads, Water and Health sectors were to:
a)    reverse life threatening situations.
b)     restore essential human services.
c)    restoration of vital economic functions and lifeline roads to cut off areas.
d)    protect economic assets at risk.
e)    establish an efficient snpedy and transparent management and impnlmentation
system to carry out the above objectives.
A\    es+MUl1;Sh1 U-_ p=V A;a*  -Ok-   p- +UA -9-+-;{X^x
I)      AVA.p        ASA.1IVALIA0II   LvL r Uhe  I1JUIP.V.IL VI k_J CLUI V L.
g)    create a significant number ofjobs during the project life.
(2)   Project Components
There were three project components (sectors):
-- Roads, Urban and Rural
-- Water Supply and Sanitation
-- Health
B. ACHTFVEMENT OF THE ORIECTTVES
(1)   In the roads sector, eight (8) Urban Roads and twenty three (23) Rural Roads contracts
were unucdarzk  amuu LUW ilULIUwing UujcLLves aioung ULiers were aciiuveU:
a)    Restoration of essential social economic services such as transportation of
agricultural inputs and produce.
b)     Restoration of motorized commuter services.
c)    Reconnection of affected rural, urban, commercial and industrial areas.
(2)   The eight (8) urban roads contracts were undertaken in six urban centers namely, Nairobi,
Mombasa, Voi. Malindi. Kisumu and Garissa: and twentv one (21) districts benefited from the
twenty three (23) rural roads-contracts.
(3)   The scope of urban roads contracts in Nairobi and Mombasa were reduced from 25.32 km
-36-



t,o 20.78 km (17.9%) and firom 33.!9 k1m to I8.26 km (A4.9%) respectively to avoid cost ov.erruns
and were completed on schedule. The relatively high percentage reduction in Mombasa was due
LU LUC 1WALUIdL 17.03 kr.il VI roIau ihad Lrunuiu4I d-,Lnage aun e wuior  ilenU d were pe,IIoic
maintenance while 7.1 km of road had little traffic volume and again minimal damage. The rural
roads contracts were managed within the budgeted provisions of the project.
(4)   Although funding was not enough to undertake all the damaged infrastructure
countrywide, basically the main aims and objectives of the projects were successfully achieved in
the roads sector.
Water Sector
(1)   Tn th,e Water sector twenty-seven contratst were u-ndeprtaken spread over twventy two (22)
districts. The following objectives among others were achieved:
a)    *a,.aLLge w ate; fac.iiie Iesto,wd andI ini wo,-'-:.-, UIde.LI
b)    Provision of potable water from the water facilities.
c)    Reduction of reiiance on poiiutea water sources.
d)    Reduced travel distance to fetch water by women and girl child.
e)    Reduction in prevalence of water bome diseases.
f)    Improvement in living environment and coverage of 45 water facilities in the
affected districts.
g)    Provision of hydrological equipment to restore the river flow measurements
instruments lost during the El Nino rains.
h)    A total of 45 no. water facilities were covered.
budget provisions. One (1) contract out of the twenty seven (27) however did not fully achieve
thie obJectives due to uuavrse natural conditions in Hadado/iBute because of the poor quality and
quantity of ground water sources.
(3)   Due to budgetary constraints only 25% of the deserving water subprojects identified by
the beneficiaries were rehabilitated.
Health Sector
(1)   In the Health Sector. we had fortv five contracts snread over twentv four (24) districts.
The contracts achieved the following objectives among others:
a)     )amacrpAg hiildgncra aniA hx.a1th f   were rpieA rA16i01tted and *n some
cases reconstructed.
b)    h    ,ENEP U1 LVenUU0u iiipiuvcuil u u nVUiUUro eiL -Und[r W-LhLch LUC IIheUU[ hUc services
are delivered.
(2)   A total of one hundred and twelve (112) health facilities were rehabilitated and restored
under the project. Most of the health contracts were small and located in remote locations and
with inadequate budgets. This strained the effective management of these contracts considerably
in terms of logistics, design, funding and supervision causing implementation delays in some
cases.
- 37 -



(3)   The overall aim and objectives in this sector were achieved and the completion of projects
has had a significant impact on the beneficiaries all over the 24 districts.
(4)   Two (2 No.) health facilities, Voi District Hospital and Nyang' ande Health Center, were
not completed due to poor Contractor performance and were terminated at 32% and 0.5%
completion respectively. It is recommended that the completion of this work be considered under
different financing.
Macro Fconomic Policies
The project did address the macro economic policies of the country with added employment
oppo,. s,ties in tfle aIi,ec'.ed #AOtn J.ts,I,n ir.prve road .  a.sa.iaapot net Ifll  zrf.d reduc ~itoniiuiA Uin  T. water
bome diseases.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
(1)   Factors Generally Subject to Govemment Control:
a)    ENEP was a pilot project for the country with stringent procurement, management
and financial rules and regulations agreed between the Govemment and the Donors. The
initial institutional differences between the Project Steering Committee and the Project
Management Unit led to unnecessary implementation delays and the replacement of the
key seconded staff led to further delays. The project had to be put on hold until further
clarifications were received fr-r. TfA - nd d iuio.-ns hldl to resole1 th. irn1 am.ntotnn
process. These caused unprecedented delays that were beyond the control of the project
(2)   Factors Subject to the Controi of Impiementing Agency:
Lack of stringent control of a few known poor performing contractors (known to some seconded
staff) led to poor/non performance.
(3)   Sector Policies:
a)    The sector policies in the roads sector were followed and the project did improve
the road network in a short time span. In the rural sector 1420 kms of roads were
ph!_hi1itAtP Ain 71 A itritcA nntA in thF lurhAn r.pntprg 7T kmc nf rIAAtc vL'PrP rp'nn trir.tptA
and rehabilitated in the eight (8) urban centers.
U)    LJe pUrojeJLL LULUIUULVU bir,1ificLaUUJy .o uiV reaizatLion oi U'v WaLte sorvt4U p01olcy oii
the provision of portable water within reach of most Kenyans.
c)    in the health sector the incidence of water bome and water related epidemics were
reduced and the focus on the rehabilitation of the health facilities achieved.
(4)   Financial Objectives:
(i)   The financial objectives of the project were to ensure that:
a)    The proceeds of each credit have been used in accordance with the
conditions of the Credit Agreements with due attention to economy and efficiency
for eligible e1 pendies
- 38 -



b)     The works, goods and services financed under the credits have been
procured in accordance with respective credit agreements.
c)    All necessary supporting documents, records and accounts are kept in
respect of all expenditures including Special Account payments and expenditures
made on the basis of Statements of Exnenditures (SOEs).
d)    The Special Accounts are maintained in accordance with the provisions of
the respective cret agreerr.ents.
e)    The accounts and financial statements are audited on a quarterly basis; are
prepared in accorduance wiAh              T-Us sL Aly sppied Iieriiai Acco-unLig
Standards (IASs) and give a true and fair view of the financial situation of the
Project as a whole.
(ii)  All the above objectives were achieved.
(5)   Management of Finances:
a)    One of the objective of the creation of the Project Management Unit was to ensure
nromnt pavment to contractors- suppliers; consultants and other service nroviders. This
was primarily achieved in most cases.
W      T ii, mra Aal t,s wire n',n ar,pnpA in aattlam nt f naximo nte Aiia tnr tha hnish lam,pl
0,    . 7VET_._.s _V JU ..a,  _A_d_*__ ***flAO[~%~tfl*% ~ U i V  Op m   W  -*-  Lv *
threshold set for direct payments and the turn around time needed for requisitioning funds
Prun uie Special Acur,ts .o uie pru t Kenya  u rng TJperu1 ng A
c)    The Project Financial and Technical Management System "Powerworks" as
prescribed by the Donor could not be fully utilized due to its limitations. Moreover the
consultants who designed the system were not locally based and as such any changes
required in the system were difficult to implement. In addition we did not have the source
code to the system.
(6)   Institutional Develonment:
a)    The PMU staff seconded to the project have acquired valuable experience in the
adiminintr2tinn nand hnnAlina nf emergneu nrnipcts nf n similar natilre in th. fiitilre
b)    The creation of the District Disaster Committee (DDCs) and the active
P4LL1%ALF 01V J UiVbr %I.1UIIUIULV=b a11U %,U1LL11ULUY 11UVILIUV1D ILL UIV ~1UJ1VL La %;1 V&ILVUai
new awareness of ownership of the projects undertaken in the affected areas.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
Project sustainability can be split into three sectors.
(1)   Implementing Agencv
This calls for a design of a project that renders itself easy/practical to maintain and implemented as
such.
I LiL Wds 4ach:VVeU WIULLII UIe VuUrUUay 1lUILaU11io dUan WiUL eQL1pU4b1b oVn esy LU rLmainaLUi
drainage structures in Urban roads where drainage is a problem.
(2)   Beneficiaries
- 39 -



The project was designed and implemented to blend with the environment and be acceptable to
the beneficiaries so that they are not hostile to it (e.g. blocking drainage, vandalizing water points
etc.) and they (beneficiaries) need to be constantly involved in proiects to maintain this essential
acceptability.
(3)   The Agencies responsible for infrastructure have the long term responsibility for
Apart from a few cases of -business as usual" negligence, we wee no problem with sustaining
these rehabilitated infrastructure. We must however hasten to observe the severe axle
overloading witnessed in the northern and eastern Corridor roads. This is road destruction and no
maintenance or even rehabilitation short of reconstruction will sustain them.
E. BANK'S PERFORMANCE
f(1 Prnippt TAPntifip2tinn 2nrA Prp,vrntia
xI o- J L                                                             di E
11WC project was idUenifidU by Jovern-IUInt ar.U dL LacpedU Uy LUI LJUIDUn. 111 proJec;L prIpC1aatLiUo
was then carried out by Government assisted by the World Bank team from both the local office
and Washington.
ENEP was an emergency project and the Bank accepted the proposals for the rehabilitation of
infrastructure worst hit by the El Nino floods that had been declared disaster zones by the
Government.
(2)   Bank's performance in Project Implementation
(a)   Once the initial start Up prnblems had hbeen overcnme, the Bankc wa verv
supportive to the extent of providing additional staff at the local office to help the PMU in
mluvulg 'L% pLJ.ec4t especi-ally JuL. uL1 VolL..I.-.us dcuL...tUJijLatinLL per.od in Le Pa
Sector.
CD)   Tne Bank through its mission in NairoDi had staff who monitored the day to day
running of the project through the PMU. Most of the issues were reviewed and resolved
in Nairobi. The Bank sent a quarterly supervision mission from Washington DC to
monitor, evaluate and review major project issues. These missions were particularly
helpful in resolving issues.
(c)   There was a slow lap during the transition of the Bank Task Management but this
was short lived and the tempo were back to speed.
F. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
(1)   Performance of PMU and DDCs
Tlne performance oI hne PMU nas been satusfactory nesiues a iew instututuonal drawbacKs min he
initial stages of project start up. The DDCs identified the subprojects from the affected districts
and prioritized the subprojects in all sectors for PMU's acceptance in line with the available
budgetary provisions.
-40 -



(2) The participation and active involvement of the DDCs especially the District Commnissioners
through the Provincial Administration and Sector Ministries in the project implementation is
noteworthy.
Performance of GOK
A 44er 4-,o in iti! iia1 A,ae,hacks, the 1-OK gavle nAvvn,r srntvlr4 to the pro,c
implementation and its successful completion.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
(1)   A total of 129 subprojects were undertaken in the three sectors with IDA and ADF
Credits as follows:
(a)   IDA Credit 3120 KE, 95 contracts, 45 in health, 23 rural roads and 27 in water
and sanitation.
(b)   IDA Credit 2811 KE. 8 contracts in Nairobi (3) Mombasa (1). Kisumu ({) and
Garissa (1) Vol (1) Malindi (1).
(c) AThF Credit, 26 coir.tracs !1 ir. rua! roads ar.d 15~ in ai,ter nar. sanitot.ion
()I UW eJ pL UUII.oU11oV was baL1b1a.acLV1y UU andal LL aUUVe  uubproiUJV6 weVr UllpiCiliViLLvU anu
completed as planned (except for the two health facilities mentioned earlier) according to the
specifications and within the oudgetary allocations.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
(1)   The future operations of the PMU are considered limited. The IDA and ADF Credits
expired on 31 December 2001 with closure of financial transactions on 30th April 2002.
Procurement for the implementation of the AFD Component of ENEP has commenced and the
A1Rfl rrpdit will tYnire on 'A !Tserbmher 2002 whilp the Anlmeirp nffinanwisl trnnvirtinne will hp
31 st March 2003.
(2)   The PMU was set up to undertake an emergency project with private sector participation
and seconded tecnnicai staif from the line ministries. in order io generate efficiency and
transparency in the project implementation, a new set of procedures and regulations were put in
place outside the laid down Government procedures. A similar set up and procedures may be
applied to undertake emergency projects in the future for quick response and delivery.
(3)   Once the current proiect is complete, PMU structure may/should be replicated in line
ministries for continued development and rehabilitation works in the respective sectors since it has
proved an effect-ive way of Project Lmplpmentatinn
1r VQQt%WQ 1  A D1NT
s:J -      ZV1 .SJEzIV a I
Tnroughout the period of implementation, we have iearned some usefui iessons and we Hist them
here below in a process sequence for the benefit of other/future Project Planning/Implementing
- 41 -



Agencies.
LessoQn 1
The Project Steering Committee
This Committee has performed its role as a policy Steering Committee. It however had some
shortcomings in that:
Not all members have been actively involved. This is expected given the level of commitment of
Permanent Secretaries.
It has in some occasions taken over the role of the PMU with the result of lost time without value
added. This could be attributed to lesson No. 2 on seconded staff.
On other occasions it did not take and/or acted contrary to critical advice given by the Project
1ViauaSSlmlin Ulluii LJVIIIuua1 U all. M111. iu UUViUUbly pUt l ui l1UJVLt 1Vi41JAgSi1IRlL uia
awkward position, exposed and with detrimental effects on the Project.
Lesson 2
Establishment and Performance of the PMU
The level of Secondment Staff varied from sector to sector and this to some extent manifested
itself in the sector performance.
It would appear that snme Seconded Staff were posted tn the PMUI on arormund nther than merit.
It has also been observed that while the seconded staff were Sector Technical Specialist some did
r.ot e.Ijoty uil luf confidence of S eix liJ nei r.isties as attes'.ed My  CIR I1 t1he li ne0I UW, rILt, 1.1111l,sI.
It is recommended that Senior Seconded and other Staff should in future be interviewed by the
PSC with ute Project Manager aiter his appointment. At this stage the roles of the Senior
Seconded and other Staff would be defined and avoid the potential of divided loyalty and conflict.
During implementation, the monitoring of the consultants' and contractors' performance by the
PMU/Donor and auditors to ensure quality, quantity and timely delivery of services of their
services has proved to be necessary.
Consequentlyv future PMIJs need to be structured with adequate technical staff to check, verify
and challenge the technical consultants on documentation an accuracy of ground conditions to
avoid .acmanaf- in nr-oJ-t scfo- and to r.n-inime n.-oot rana .
Lesson 3
DDC Involvement
The District Disaster Committees were involved in Project identification. However, with time
they realized that they would not be involved in procurement and direct management of the
contracts as they had imagined after having been involved in the identification. This led to some
-42 -



degree of loss of interest and apart from the District Commissioners who chair both the District
Disaster Commnitteej and the District Develonment Committee (both DDCs) and the Sector
Ministry Officials (who are also members of both DDCs) the other gradually became observers.
I ns apatny -A.es to be Asnso...A
Lesson 4
Consultants (rUs)
Selection
The selection and procurement of technical consultants should in future be done upon a thorough
assessment of both specialization and resource capacities.
Contracts
The contracts should have remedial measures that allow reduction and addition of work without
*1'.a employer Y.  4fermn - loss of r.gts
Lesson 5
Project identification and Scope
Once projects are identified and the scope determined, these should be documented very clearly
with all the stakeholders and particularly the DDC's and Line Ministries so that variation requests
are mininmized. This will also reduce subsequent criticism from uninformed new members of the
DDCs and beneficiaries/public.
Lesson 6
Funds A llocation
apparently lead to inadequate funds being allocated to needy projects in areas that are not densely
populated, and hence less than adequate and short lived rehabilitation.
Lesson 7
Financial Arrangements
Credit Agreement
The Credit Areem.ent was sined in SDR instead of USD. Fluct lations hetw een the SDR an.d the
USD in the course of implementation favored the SDR. Consequently the Borrower lost USD
I £I  ,, ,    1  :_  TTCT'T AA. .._1__..  '..J. 1  yr,n v   TTCOTh n 0 C . -   .___L
L.UUI UUL U1 UI; UVIrJU4IU LJOJ tVIII UUUVI JAUL 314U-Z 4UU U OL.L U.OJ1I UUL Ul UW UtigUli
USD 37.5m under Credit 281 1-KE. The Credit should have been signed in USD or else the
Donor should bear this loss while the Borrower repays the USD made available.
-43 -



Accounts
Due to Goe.-.e, ID-la.;-rs she- PMAT T co1 A-- not + opeat teScia Accou..t0 (A) zr,d r,zke
VW  E0 '..J UV Y MMMARi AXl~5L4UliUX10, ULI%. I IVI'.J %L.JIU ILIUL UjJ%A aLl. LUIl, 1)JP1L.1a1 rF1%AuUL kor iI a i1udaftv
payments in Dollars. This has been operated by the Treasury and the Central Bank. The PMU
operated their local currency Operating Accounts. Tnis resulted in:
For the losses in transfer of funds from the Dollar SA to the Local Currency Operating Account -
amounting to approximately Kshs. 25 million. The Government should consider revision or
waiving of the inhibiting regulations to avert such losses.
Lengthy procedures in requisition of funds from the Special Accounts (SA) to the Operating
AGGO11nt ThiStonkanaverage of one 2ndA2hRlf months while ounr anvmten to Cnntrwtnrs and
other service providers were to be effected within 30 days. The process should be reduced to two
VY.l.4A if?J 30 ayayy  zLrL e LU  iLLVJiJt b  LroiUied. .11,e zalMiJIaL wIoV UUILL Ube Lt inLcrease2 U1, payniv'ut
period to 60 days to match but this would be more costly as bidders would price for it.
The thresholds put by the Donor for Direct payments of US$300,000 was on the higher side and
resulted in almost all payments being made locally. With the lengthy process of transferring funds
from the Special Accounts to the Operating Account, this meant more delayed payments. The
threshold should be considered at US$50,000 in future.
Insufficient Budgetary Provision for the IDA Credits in the annual GoK Budget resulted in
inahilitv to acceRR findR in the Snecial Accnunt, delaved navments and interest ciaimR Adeniate
.1~~ ~ -_~~   -_ --~-- -Jr----- -    ------,--_ _r,____  _  ____ ____
Budget Provisions should be made for Donor funded projects.
The effects of (ii - iv) above was a loss of approximately Kshs. 20 million in delayed payments
interest Clains.
Financial and Management System
A Financial and Management System - "Powerworks" was imposed on the Government by the
Donor. This was a direct import from a project in Gambia and which did not work because:
It was not locally develoned. had no local sunnort and could not e modified.
T.he source code ,vasc the proper4~, of the developer and ans change w xould requisre the developrs1n~
to fly from Gambia and back.
It should have been locally developed and this is recommended for future projects.
Lesson 8
Borrower - Treasury
Contracts countersignature, which used to go well deteriorated far towards the closure of the
Credit in addition other bureaucracies and nrocedures which hinder speedv nroiect
implementation involved. These need either attention if Credit Agreements are to be honored or
- 44 -



be inbuilt in the Credit Agreements. On one occasion the PMU consultants stayed for six months
tWilffihouaut andi on annther the Prnoect Au,ditnrg cniilt not be napadh-th Aiip to nan..o,antprcidonpr
contracts.
Lesson 9
Local Contractor Participation
Due to the low activity in the Construction industry in the previous years many local contractors
could not meet the required criteria for participation. Even those who made it to qualify had to
struggle to complete.
Lesson 10
Small ContraoMnr Cra,dapaity lfiiilina
Tl a prOjUectof thi0 s u a--uMV, airU LulellellatlIUonI L1lU.LLIU5s, LL lb rLUL pjoubleUIv LU hlave CorL,Utual
capacity building since the requirements for qualification were beyond their reach. After
negotiations with the Donor, quaiifcation criteria were iowered. Tnis enabled some smail
contractors to qualify. However not so good performances by the same small contractors was
witnessed even on very small health contracts.
Lesson 11
Discipline in the Construction Industry
There is still a lot of discipline that needs to be injected in the Conntruction Tnductry. It mulst be
everybody's responsibility starting with the Employers/Donors applying strict procurement
proceulms andL promptljJ paymentsdil, OUIJ9V VIOLr 1 ,UL JLDIkaU1LWJL~lir..iz~ui , &V iO v  ur,iLq-nJ piumi.00unai
ethics and Contractors/service providers not being rewarded for poor performance by being
awarded more Contracts.
Lesson 12
Project Audit
Our experience is that the Proiect Auditors turned out to be an asset rather than an impediment as
auditors would be treated in a project. We were able to resolve project issues and take corrective
action through this live tvne of audit. It is our strong recmnnmendatinn that large projects need
this type of audit because the post project audits done are not useful in taking corrective action
.d-oA     i  tn not nez i,r..A               ob+ le e.z.ti-n of b -eA
mistakes/information.
Lesson 13
Claims
We have experienced claims which were either directly financial or time extension with and
without costs. The majority of them had the following as their causes and future implementers
and service providers should take remedial action.
-45 -



BLddUUUing on LreliLUiay LDeign1- L UUl, uuLtcLy.
Lack of Information on Existing Services - Service providers.
Delayed information to Contractors - This has to do with Technicai 'unit Capacity.
Delayed Payments - This has adequately been covered under lesson 7.
Lesson 14
Sustainability
Our experience on recently completed projects is that Agencies responsible for infrastructure have
not fiullu ne-ppnt,-A 1nd nractiepd the mr..o- econnomir. 1 wav nf clich-nnne hv nr&VPnftivP/rnn1tinP
maintenance rather than repair. Some degree of negligence has been observed even with simple
op- eraioUnUs C Ud1iLLnaVg L,L,nV1IancLV diu lega' eI0ocerICIr,to vi 'ev ouading ZCgLuvab.Ls.
Lesson 15
Institutional Development
The GoK needs to have contingency plans complete with institutional framework, special
implementation procedures and financial guidelines to accommodate GoK and donor funding to
undertake future ENEP type of proiects in the most efficient and effective manner.
-46 -



IBRD 29632
36°                      K E N Y A     40
,0 50  100 150 KILOMETERS      EL  kilki   EMLRSENCY         PROJECT
6   2S  50  75  100 MILES
DECLARED DISASTER DISTRICTS
SUDAN  rt             0   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
--m!- RIVERS
,,-               …                ------…DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
----PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
|777 7 |- *    ---  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
4°' 1               *            .E T H I O P I A ( 0  V
LadwriirA                                                /
TURKANA                              /   ;
~~~~K ir(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~If,  \ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   , , 
UGANDA               CI'                                    WAi BI
> s W < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAA4'jR.        .1V I
N                       i,STE R                      j
TI50  +13E'1  UA/                     0 *                        'ml
I~~~ * NRKi } ,1W 
WE      EIdoJ,jf,,\            MERU>l
K        "i Koomj >/~j lu)'Kt          r     k\          $ *. 1T t |
4-' ,\-J} yA!OhuMA'frFNI, Kfru rfTj n2yuOk   .
Mos CTH;OP;A:-.-N    u   4 soRA.                                           a '- 7 71` 
L ~~~  \ 'C~~~SIAVA  '~~NA  rRJl v  i ARK  I'~      r r n
OD C8IUhT4Y j ./      tJk MoI(rY               .oo V  '                I; CA
0U- a/               11,,                  , rrarrrrOst~t,>As" 
1!  LAZAI                             Embu -°r   x ,  .  o w5o   Ibnrrisclroenmoin 
.A~~t ITt$.~  flutXL  G~Y~4ANGA~f~,,          CARJSSA
EUMWI NGf
I7,51                             S  K= IT  ZA A
'r'-$x   -7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   I        /~ ~   K l
I/ N- 
I                     TA VITAkA IA 
tSUDN   .     IVANC.                                                   .
>TANZMUA~~~~~OCEAN                                   ICEA
ON6,6 ,1A                                    f TA \ 1  w K g   atorElhafoyrr!oyo
OCEAN                                         SASo  Ma b siUnit of The World Bocan.
KWME  0K~~~mbIe   T   boundaries, colors, denominotions
IANLAINIA~~~~~~~~~~~W LE     tr   n anotheinorn ibeD Aorte
M_.                                         an~~~~~~~~~~N  Z1 t1qastatu¶s,gny*teyrrnzr04o
ayendorsementorccpaol
CUE  ~~~~~~~3'40u                                    such boundaj ries.
JUNE Mgf









Report No.:       24018
Type:    ICR



