Report No. PID7118
Project Name                     Kenya-El Nino Emergency Project (+)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Emergency (Transport, Water & Health)
Project ID                       KEPE56595
Borrower                         Republic of Kenya
Implementing Agency
Office of the President
Harambee House, P.O. Box 30510
Nairobi, Kenya
Fax No. 254-2-210150
Date PID Prepared                September 10, 1998
Appraisal Date                   April 22, 1998
Board Date                       July 16, 1998
Background
1.      Kenya was struck in the closing months of 1997 and the beginning of 1998
by a series of severe rainstorms, unusual in two senses: the amount of rain
exceeded by an order of magnitude what has been the norm during the monsoon
season, and the timing of the storms did not coincide with any recent
patterns. There was widespread devastation in the country as drainage systems
were quickly overloaded and then swept away, along with major portions of the
rural road system and water points. The Government of Kenya (GOK) attributes
the devastation to climatic influences, popularly named El Nito, produced by
temperature changes in the surface waters of the Pacific Ocean. By far the
most severely impacted parts of the country are in the eastern regions, at
lower altitudes and closest to the Indian Ocean coastline. There whole
districts were cut off from the rest of the country as low lying land areas
became, and remained for some time, flooded and bridges and roads were totally
destroyed. Water supplies were either lost or contaminated, food production
in normally self-sufficient areas ceased, and outbreaks of water-borne
diseases overwhelmed the available health services.
2.      Local authorities were not prepared to cope with the aftermath for want
of warning and resources. In November 1997, the Government declared 17
districts (nearly one third of the total in the country), most of them in the
east, disaster areas and appealed to the international community for
humanitarian assistance. Emergency deliveries of food and medicines began
almost immediately with available local funds and transportation dedicated to
relieving the immediate consequences of the floods. By early January 1998,
the worst of the public health and food security crisis was over, with an
estimated 50 persons dead and another several thousand displaced and large
numbers of livestock dead or dying, all blamed on the flooding. The
Government turned its attention to restoring damaged infrastructure to try and
rekindle a minimum of economic activity in the affected areas. The Government
sought assistance in this effort from the International Development
Association (IDA) and other organizations as the national budget was already
under strain even before the crisis struck. The Government's estimate at that
time was that the disaster would cost about 2t of gross annual Government



expenditure (or about $50 million).
3.      Bank missions visited the flood-damaged parts of Kenya in February 1998
and again in April 1998, to assess damage and develop a program of emergency
repairs to roads, water points and public health facilities, concentrating
their energies on response to criteria for action agreed with Government:
first priority to life-threatening situations, with succeeding emphasis on
restoration of essential services (water) and repairs to roads and bridges to
permit the reprise of economic activity; last priority was accorded to saving
assets at risk (such as bridges in danger of collapse).
Project Objectives
4.      The project would support the Government's on-going efforts to mitigate
the serious effects of flooding attributed to the El Nito phenomenon. The
project aims to minimize life-threatening conditions in 23 impacted districts
of Kenya and the Province of Nairobi by restoring as much of the previously
existing potable water supply as possible, and to facilitate reprise of
economic activity through the restoration of key routes into cut off areas.
It would also try, within the means available, to save a few economic assets
in danger of total collapse (e.g. bridges). In addition, the project would
demonstrate streamlined procurement and other managerial techniques which
could be more broadly applied within the GOK administration.
Project Description
5.      The project would consist of four components: (i) rural water supply;
(ii) rural roads and bridges; (iii) rural health facilities; and (iv) urban
roads. The urban roads component will be funded out of the reallocation of
credit proceeds under the ongoing Urban Transport Infrastructure Project (Cr.
2811-KE). Both Government and IDA fully expect further funding to be
available from outside sources to cover the funding gap (approximately US$50
million in base costs). The suggested allocation of funds in the indicative
program above is itself based upon the initial submissions of rural district
disaster committees from last year, i.e. immediately after the disaster. Some
time has passed since those submissions, some of the requested repair work has
been done by Government, access to cut off areas has revealed new problems,
and subsequent rains and associated runoff have also contributed to new
problems. Therefore, this allocation can change as well. with amended
priorities largely determined by input from the impacted communities.
Environmental Aspects
6.      This is a category B project, and nearly all of the work contemplated is
expected to be highly beneficial to the already degraded local ecosystems
targeted. The PMU would prepare a short environmental assessment of each of
its sub-projects and would submit an overall environmental impact report once
a year to the Steering Committee.
Project Implementation
7.      The project would be implemented by the Project Management Unit (PMU), a
special unit located in the Office of the President. Its governance would be
assured through oversight by a Steering Committee composed of the permanent
-2 -



secretaries of the interested ministries (9 in number) and the project manager
and his two advisors. The Steering Committee would approve the annual program
of work and the PMU budget associated with it, and would approve as well
substantial amendments to that program as a result of interaction with the
local disaster committees. It would also set binding guidelines for the PMU's
day-to-day management of the program; these guidelines would be formally
handed to and accepted by the PMU in the form of a Manual of Procedures
mandated by the Steering Committee (see Technical Annex). Furthermore, the
project manager would report regularly, and in a specific and agreed format,
to the Steering Committee on his activities. He would report to the Steering
Committee all contract awards he has made and would handle on its behalf all
disputes and other problems arising from the contracting and carrying out of
the work. The Steering Committee would arrange for outside audits of the
PMU's activities and expenditures to be performed on a quarterly basis (see
Technical Annex for schedule and types of audits to be carried out). Funding
for the annual operating budget of the PMU would come out of available
funding for repairs; as the life of the project is only two years. The intent
is to keep the PMU very lean with overheads which would compare favorably with
private sector operations (total administrative outlays not more than 3t of
funds managed, net of consultant fees).
Project Costs and Financing
8.      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$40.0 million equivalent,
with foreign exchange costs totaling about 65t of total costs. The IDA credit
of US$40.0 million represents 100t of total project costs, net of taxes and
duties.  The IDA credit would finance 100t of civil works, consultant
services, goods, equipment and operating costs.
Project Sustainability
9.      In view of its emergency nature, no major sustainability issues are
anticipated for the proposed project. As to the possible recurrence of
emergency situations, the provisions of bridges, culverts, water systems, as
well as, road construction standards with heavy emphasis on adequate road
drainage will enhance GOK capabilities for crisis mitigation. Important
sector wide institutional issues and issues related to the provision of
resources for infrastructure maintenance are being addressed under the on-
going Urban Transport Infrastructure Project, the Nairobi-Mombasa Road
Rehabilitation Project and the proposed Roads 2000 Project currently under
preparation.
Poverty Category
10.     Not applicable
Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Involvement
11.     The IDA-financed portfolio in Kenya is comprised of 21 operations
(including a Structural Adjustment Credit), for total commitments of about
US$1.1 billion. IDA also supported an Emergency Drought Recovery Project
(EDRP) which closed on June 30, 1997. The uneven performance and impact of
the on-going Kenya portfolio and especially the implementation experience of
the EDRP as reflected by a recent draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR,
-3 -



currently being finalized) and emergency operations in other countries
highlight the following lessons which have guided the design of the proposed
project:
(i)     Emergency operations, by their nature, cannot be lumbered with
conditionality. They must be simple, rapidly executable, and sharply focused.
This operation is no exception.
(ii)    Emergency projects need to be formulated so that they meet priority needs
and, as with non-emergency projects, local consultation and assessment is a
necessary part of the design process to finalize priority activities. Given
the emergency nature of works required and need for an indicative program of
work as the basis for appraisal, it is important to ensure during project
implementation appropriate consultative and technical review mechanisms which
would ensure the definition of precise and prioritized work (focusing on
genuine emergency needs rather than rehabilitation/reconstruction), sound
designs and realistic costs, and technical and financial audits.
(iii)   Rapid execution of works is essential for emergency projects to have
the needed impact on short term relief, and standard IDA and Government
procedures cause delays in project execution. The generic constraints arising
from the on-going IDA-financed projects (e.g., management weaknesses,
deficient budgetary procedures and flows, cumbersome procurement processes,
poor accountability mechanisms), although being actively addressed, would take
some time to get tangible results. For example, the recent experience of EDRP
demonstrated that road construction cannot be accommodated in a short period.
Accordingly, there is a need to devise special management/implementation
arrangements which would ensure flexibility in final works supported, private
sector-orientation, timely and transparent procurement reviews/decisions and
flow of project funds. This is especially important in cases where the
interventions cover numerous sectors, as in the case of most emergency
projects. This added flexibility, in turn, needs to be held accountable
through effective reviews/audits during implementation, including close and
continuous supervision by IDA.
(iv)    Deferred maintenance and lapsed management/controls over asset use (e.g.
overloaded vehicles on the roads and control mechanisms on axle loads) lead to
much higher losses and associated costs to restore the assets to usable
conditions.
Project Benefits
12.     The major benefits of this operation would be the minimization of loss of
human life, health protection, and repair of damage to essential economic
infrastructure caused by the El Nito floods and their after effects. The
designated impacted districts are amongst the poorest in Kenya, benefiting 8.1
million of the total population.
Project Risks
13.     IDA and the Government are uncertain that the special implementation
arrangements would work as they are a major departure from normal practices
and a potential threat to vested interests in the existing system.     The
project's design features address this risk through clear roles and
responsibilities of the PSC and the Project Manager, periodic technical,
- 4 -



management and financial audits, close and continuous supervision by IDA and
application of appropriate remedies as and when needed (e.g., if there are
irregularities revealed by the independent quarterly audits that so merit, the
Bank would insist on managerial changes or request stoppage of the program
until appropriate action is taken).
14.     The infrastructural improvements may not be adequately maintained by the
relevant GOK agencies and communities. The project design gives special
attention to ensuring the effective participation of the relevant agencies and
communities which is expected to lead to increased commitment by these
agencies and communities to future maintenance. Finally, co-financing may not
materialize in time to cover the financing gap, which means that about 40- of
the level of required emergency work may not get done. While regrettable,
this risk is not likely to materialize unless the implementation arrangements
do not perform up to expectations. Both GOK and IDA would work closely to
ensure that this risk does not materialize. Also, in the event this
cofinancing does not materialize, this would not affect the completion of
works being financed by IDA.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 4, 1998.
- 5 -



Annex
The project's manual of procedures requires a quick environmental
assessment (EA) of probable impact for each selected sub-project and the
resulting mitigation plans. Given the procedures planned to assure public
scrutiny of all sub-projects, the PMU will plan for a public review of major
EAs. The results of the EAs will be summarized in an annual environmental
impact report to the Steering Committee from the PMU. It is in the nature of
the works to be performed under the project that almost all the effects will
be environmentally positive. Nevertheless, during implementation the
supervision of environmental aspects and likely mitigation measures will form
part of the work routine.
-6-



