Report No. PID11125
Project Name                     Bulgaria-Programmatic Adjustment...
Loan
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Multi-Sector
Project ID                       P067051
Borrower                         Government of Bulgaria
Implementing Agency              Council for Structural Policy
1, Dondoukov Blvd
1000 Sofia
Tel No: 359 2 940 21 43
Fax No: 359 2 980 77 07
Environmental Category           C
Date This PID Prepared           January 6, 2003
Date Initial PID Prepared        April 11, 2002
Actual Appraisal Date            November 25, 2002
Projected Board Date             February 25, 2003
Country Background
1.      Following the economic and financial crisis of 1996/97, Bulgaria has
achieved macroeconomic stability and implemented the first generation
of structural reforms. After declining by 17 percent in 1996/97, GDP
growth averaged 5.1 percent in 2000-01, with inflation contained to
single digits. There have been major structural changes in the
economy, with private sector share of GDP reaching 63 percent and the
share of private sector banks in the banking system increasing to 80
percent at end-2001.
2.      The resumption of growth has been instrumental in reducing poverty by
nearly two-thirds compared to the level in 1996/97. However, the
poverty rate in 2001 is more than double the 1995 pre-crisis level and
growth dividends have not reached all groups. Pockets of poverty and
vulnerability with strong ethnic, regional, or age dimensions dominate
the social landscape. In addition, unemployment remains relatively
high at 17.3 percent at end-2001. As troublesome is the increasing
duration of unemployment, with 62 percent of the unemployed out of work
for more than one year.
3.      The new Government which came into power in mid-2001 has articulated
two objectives: (a) sustaining economic growth and (b) reducing
poverty, both key to EU membership. This is a change from the
objectives of the program of the previous Government, whose agenda was
driven by the deep economic and financial crisis of 1996/97 and was
dominated by the following reforms: maintaining and enhancing financial
discipline, closing non-viable SOEs and banks, privatizing the non-
infrastructure SOEs, and establishing a social safety net for those
adversely affected by the reforms. The reform program of the current
Government builds on the gains of the past five years and makes a
strategic shift in emphasis towards promoting growth and reducing



poverty.
4.      The Government strategy for attaining the sustained growth and poverty
reduction objectives is two-pronged: (b) creating an investment climate
for private sector led growth; and (b) empowering the population,
especially the poor, to participate in growth. After liberalizing
prices and creating space for the private sector, the Government is now
embarking on a strategy of creating an investment climate that
encourages private investment and ensures that these investments are
translated into increased productivity and growth. In the social
sector, reforms will move to a new phase with emphasis on developing
human capital to complement investment in physical capital, at the same
addressing new challenges faced by social protection programs in the
form of continuing high long term unemployment and the changing nature
of poverty.
The Proposed Loan/Credit
5.      The proposed loan of US$150 million equivalent is a Programmatic
Adjustment Loan that will support the Government's medium term program
of policy and institutional reforms to reduce poverty, sustain economic
growth, complete the transformation to a market economy, and move the
country closer to EU accession. The CAS envisages three single tranche
programmatic adjustment loans over the period 2002-04.
Objectives
6.      The main objective of the loan is to support the Government's
comprehensive reform agenda covering five major areas: (a) sustaining
structural reforms in the enterprise sector with emphasis on the
restructuring of the energy, railway, telecommunications, and water
sectors; (b) strengthening market institutions, focusing on entry and
exit policies, regulatory costs, delivery of public services,
competition, and judicial reform; (c) deepening the financial sector,
addressing the constraints to increased lending by the banking system
and the development of financial markets; (d) improving governance,
including implementing the anti-corruption strategy, strengthening
local governments, and reforming the core public administration; and
(e) investing in human capital and strengthening social programs,
focusing on education, health, and pension reforms and social
assistance effectiveness. The financial support from the First
Programmatic Adjustment Loan would help Bulgaria meet its resource
needs and improve its creditworthiness. The resources would be made
available upon completion of the required actions to defined in the
Loan.
Lesson from Past Operations
7.      The fragmentation of adjustment operations in the past weakened the
ability of individual operations to push difficult reforms. In
addition, some policy agenda could not be covered by the adjustment
operations, which had a sectoral focus. The use of one umbrella
programmatic operation improves leverage and expands coverage, in
addition to being better suited to the comprehensive reform agenda of
the government. The experience with one tranche operations has been
more positive than multi-tranche, which in one case in the past
resulted in the cancellation of a second tranche. The programmatic
adjustment loans will be one tranche operations.
Poverty Category
8.      The proposed operation has poverty reduction as a main objective, and
includes components that will result in improved delivery of education
and health services and strengthening of social protection. The social
- 2 -



assistance programs will be expanded in terms of coverage at the same
time will be better targeted. Improvements in public administration
would also positively impact the delivery of social services.
Environmental Aspects
9.      The proposed operation has a component that would further strengthen
the design and implementation of environmental policies. This includes
the passage of an improved environmental legislation, the issuance of
regulations, and the capacity building of the enforcement institution.
The environmental policies are being harmonized with EU directives.
Benefits and Risks
10.     The main benefits are higher incomes, lower unemployment, and reduction
in the poverty rate. More specific outcomes include: (a) improved
infrastructure services; (b) improved business climate to facilitate
FDI and SME growth; (c) better intermediation of resources by the
financial system; (d) higher public administration efficiency and
reduced corruption; and (d) strengthened social assistance programs and
more efficient education and health service delivery. The main risks
are: (a) weak implementation capacity which need strengthening through
technical assistance programs; and (b) obstacles emanating from
political opposition and interest groups.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
January 10, 2003.
-3-



