Document of
THE WORLD BANK
Report No. 25374-BUL
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FOR A PROPOSED
PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
January 23, 2003



Currency Equivalent
(Exchange Rate Effective as of January 10, 2003)
Currency Unit = Bulgarian Lev (BGN)
US$ 1.00 = BGN 1.86216
Government Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weirihts and Measurements
Metric System
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ALMP     Active Labor Market Policy           GDP     Gross Domestic Product
ARCS     Administrative and Regulatory Cost   GMI     Guaranteed Minimum Income
Survey
ASAL     Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan   GEF     Global Environment Fund
BDZ      State Railway Company                IFI     International Financial Institution
BNB      Bulgarian National Bank             IMF      International Monetary Fund
BNSC     Bulgarian National Securities Commission  ISA  Insurance Supervision Agency
BoP      Balance of Payments                 IPPC     Integrated Pollution Prevention Control
BTC      Bulgarian Telecommunications Company  MPG    Millennium Development Goals
CAP      Common Agricultural Policy           MEER    Ministry of Energy and Energy Resources
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy          MES     Ministry of Education and Sciences
CBA      Currency Board Arrangement           MoH     Ministry of Health
CEE      Central and Eastern Europe           MoLSP   Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
CoM      Council of Mmisters                  NEK     National Electricity Company
CRC      Communications Regulatory Commission  NHIF   National Health Insurance Fund
DH       District Heating                     NSSI    National Social Security Institute
DSK      State Savings Bank                   OECD    Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development
DZI      State Insurance Company              PA      Privatization Agency
EBRD     European Bank for Reconstruction and  PAL    Programmatic Adjustment Loan
Development
ECA      Europe and Central Asia              PSO     Public Service Obligation
EEEA     Energy and Energy Efficiency Act     RWC     Regional Water Company
EPSAL    Environment Protection Structural    SBA     Stand By Arrangement
Adjustment Loan
EC       European Commnission                 SERC    State Energy Regulatory Commission
EU       European Union                       SISA    State Insurance Supervision Agency
FESAL    Finance and Enterprise Structural    SME     Small and Medium Enterprise
Adjustment Loan
FDI      Foreign Direct Investment            SOE     State Owned Enterprise
FRA      Fiscal Reserve Account               SPAL    Social Protection Adjustment Loan
FSAP     Financial Sector Assessment Program  USAID   United States Agency for International
Development
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director: Paul Siegelbaum
Sector Manager: Yasuo Izumi
Team Leader: Albert F. Martinez



TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROGRAM           SUMMARY ........................................................;i
A.    RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND PROSPECTS ............................................1
Background .........................................................1
Medium     Term   Prospects and Creditworthiness ......................................................... 5
Addressing Poverty .........................................................9
B.    The Reform      Program     ........................................................ 11
Objectives and Strategic Themes ........................................................            11
Pillar 1: Sustaining Structural Reforms ..........................        .............................. 14
Pillar 2: Establishing a Market-friendly Business Enviromnent ................................... 17
Pillar 3: Deepening the Financial System ........................................................   20
Pillar 4: Improving Public Sector Governance ........................................................  21
Pillar 5: Investing in Human Capital and Strengthening Social Programs ................... 22
C.    BANK GROUP STRATEGY ........................................................ 24
Country Assistance Strategy ........................................................                24
Cooperation with the IMF ........................................................                   25
Coordination with Donors ........................................................                   25
D.    THE PROPOSED LOAN ........................................................ 26
Program    Design ........................................................ 26
Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation ...........................................    ............. 27
Medium     Term   Actions and Triggers for Future PALs .................................................  30
Implementation and Monitoring ........................................................              32
Loan Administration ........................................................ 33
Benefits and Risks ........................................................                         33
TABLES, FIGURES AND BOXES
Table 1: Selected Economic Indicators .........................................................2
Figure 1: Real GDP ........................................................6
Figure 2: CPI Inflation .........................................................6
Figure 3: Fiscal Balance ........................................................6
Figure 4: Current Account Balance ........................................................6
Figure 5: Unemployment .........................................................6
Figure 6: FDI Flows .........................................................6
Figure 7: Ownership Structure of Bank Assets ........................................................  20
Box 1: Recent Poverty Trends and the Poverty Gap .          ........................................................ 0
Box 2: The Medium Term Program and the Millennium Development Goals ............................. 12
Box 3: The Quality of Public Infrastructure: What do Firms Say? ............................................... 15
Box 4: Recent Labor Market Developments ........................................................       19



ANNEXES
Annex 1.     Bulgaria at a Glance
Annex 2.     Bulgaria Social Indicators
Annex 3.      Selected Indicators Table
Annex 4.     Key Exposure Indicators
Annex 5.     Letter of Development Policy
Annex 6.     Performance Benchmarks
Annex 6-A    List of Companies Not Included in the Pnvatization Program
Annex 6-B    Large State-owned Enterprises/Banks to be Privatized or Liquidated
in PAL-2 and PAL-3
Annex 6-C    District Heating Reform
Annex 6-D    Telecommunications Liberalization Implementation Commitments
Annex 7.     An Update on Poverty
Annex 8      IMF-World Bank Relations



REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Bulgana
Amount:              US$150 million equivalent to be disbursed in Euro
Terms:               Fixed Spread Loan (FSL) in Euro with 16 years maturity including six
years grace period
Commitment Fee:      0.85% on undisbursed balances for the first four years and 0.75%
thereafter
Front end Fee:       1% on principal amount
Objectives and       The proposed PAL supports the Government's medium term program
Description:         whose main objectives are the achievement of average annual growth
rates of 4.5-5.0% dunng 2002-05, the reduction of the poverty rate by
half by 2005 compared to 2001, the reduction of the unemployment rate
from 17.5% in 2001 to 12-14% in 2005, and substantial progress
towards EU accession. The medium term program is designed around a
two pronged strategy of private sector-led growth and empowerment to
ensure wide participation in growth. The program is built on five
complementary pillars:
*  Sustaining structural reforms in the enterprise sector with emphasis
on the restructunng of the energy, railway, telecommunications,
and water sectors;
*  Establishing a market-friendly business environment, focusmg on
entry and exit policies, regulatory costs, delivery of public services,
competition, and judicial reform;
*  Deepening the financial sector, addressing the constraints to
increased lending by the banking system and the development of
financial markets;
*  Improving public sector governance, including implementing the
anti-corruption strategy, strengthening local governments, and
reforming public administration and the judiciary;
*  Investing in human capital and strengthening social programs,
focusing on education, health, and pension reforms and social
assistance effectiveness.
A Letter of Development Policy prepared by the authonties descnbes
the medium term program and is attached to this Report.
Benefits:            First, the proposed PAL assists a new government define a medium
term economic program that achieves sustained growth, poverty
reduction, and progress towards EU accession. Second, the proposed
PAL helps put in place mechanisms and institutional arrangements that
would ensure successful implementation, coordination, monitonng, and
i



evaluation of the medium term program. Third, the proposed PAL lays
the groundwork for future PALs by creating the framework and
identifying future critical actions to be supported by future operations.
Fourth, the proposed PAL complements the current and planned
investment projects by establishing the enabling policy framework,
especially in the social sector. Fifth, the program supported by the loan
complements and reinforces the IMF program.
Risks:               First, there is implementationm risk given the current weaknesses in
institutional capacity which the PALs seek to correct. To address
implementation risk, the Government activated the Council for
Structural Policy to improve coordination, is implementing institutional
strengthening programs for critical offices and agencies, and is
improving donor coordination to align donor funded technical
assistance with program priorities. In addition, PAL-2 will focus on
upgrading public administration, which will address government
capacity to design and implement reform.  Current and planned
investment projects in the health, education, energy, and water sectors,
revenue administration, cadastre, and environment complement the
PALs by providing implementation support.
Second, politica riisk remains high, with the possibility of poRicy
slippages. Coalition building in support of many of the socially
difficult reforms may run into resistance especially if unemployment
remains high and anti-corruption efforts fail to improve perception.
Implementing difficult structural reforms with accompanying improved
targeting of social programs and well designed communications
strategy mitigates the political risk. This was the case when electncity
prices were recently increased by 20 percent - the implementation of an
accompanying winter energy support program and a consultation
process prevented a political backlash. More generally, the social
protection and assistance pillar of the reform program would alleviate
the adverse impact of the difficult structural reforms while the business
environment pillar would expand opportunities for employment. In
addition, strong support by all political parties for Bulgaria's EU
accession and NATO membership is effectively anchoring the direction
of macroeconomic and structural reforms.
Third, there may be shocks coming from the external environment,
jeopardizing macroeconomic stability.  Bulgaria faces several
significant extemal risks.  A failure to carry out the envisaged
privatization program or attract sufficient greenfield FDI would put the
projected extemal financing at risk, requiring additional adjustment to
ensure that debt levels continue to decline. Moreover, Bulgaria's
external accounts are more sensitive to three key parameters: an
increase in oil prices, higher interest rates, and a prolonged slowdown
in EU economies which are the destination of over fifty percent of
Bulgarian exports and the origin of more than half the FDI inflows.
However, the achievements to date, the better than expected
performance in the last several months of 2002, and the active efforts to
restructure and reduce extemal debt enabled Bulgaria to manage
ii



external risks.  Continued  maintenance  of strict discipline in
macroeconomic management, the measures in place to respond to
potential risks, and acceleration of structural reforms substantially
mitigate these risks.
Schedule of
Disbursement:          US$150 million equivalent in Euro upon loan effectiveness
Poverty Category:      Not Applicable
Rate of Return:        Not Applicable
Project ID Number:     PE-P06705 1
Map:
This operation was prepared by the Bulgaria Country Team which mcludes: Albert Martmez, task manager
(ECSPF); Istvan Dobozi, Sudipto Sarkar, Jean-Charles Crochet, Varadarajan Atur (ECSIE); David Satola
(LEGPS); Henry Gordon, Adriana Damnianova (ECSSD); Simeon Djankov (PSAIC); Luc Laeven (OPD);
Rosalinda Quintanilla, Neil Parison, Joel Helhman (ECSPE); Hadi Abushakra (LEGMS); Sandor Sipos,
Hermann von Gersdorff, Jan Rutkowski, Arvo Kuddo, Dena Ringold, Dominic Haazen, Enis Baris, Yael
Duthilleul (ECSHD); Esperanza Lasagabaster (SASFP); Daria Goldstein, Irina Kichigina (LEGEC); Lada
Strelkova, Doncho Barbalov, Boryana Gotcheva, Galia Kondova, Stella Ilieva, Peter Pojarski, Anna
Georgieva, Blaga Djourdjin, Onik Karapchian, Maria Kalimerova (Bulgaria Country Office). Peer
reviewers were Joseph Saba (MNC02) and Dimitri Vittas (OPD). Oscar de Bruyn Kops (ECCBG), van
Roy Southworth, Nevena Alexieva, Myla Taylor Williams, Marina Burul-Sir, Antonia Koleva (ECCU5)
provided support, advice and coordination. Anne John and Manuel Santiago (ECSPF) provided office
support at Headquarters.






IBRD PROGRAM DOCUMENT
ON A PROPOSED PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO TIE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
1.     I submit for your approval this Report and Recommendation on a proposed Programmatic
Adjustment Loan (PAL) to the Republic of Bulgaria for US$150 million equivalent to support the
Medium Term Reform Program of the Government of Bulgana (GoB). This loan is the first of
three programmatic adjustment loans envisaged in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
discussed by the Board on May 9, 2002. This document and the accompanying Letter of
Development Policy (LDP) discuss the three-year program.
A. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND PROSPECTS
Background
2.     The early years of transition were marked by slow and unsustained reform efforts.'
Until 1997, Bulgaria was one of the poorest performing economies of Central and Eastem Europe
(CEE). The preceding decade was marked by massive external borrowing, stop-go stabilization
policies, and a slow pace of structural reforms. Fueled by a failure to establish market discipline,
widespread rent-seeking, and the prevalence of soft budget constraints among enterprises, banks,
and the Government budget, Bulgaria's problems culminated in a severe economic and financial
cnsis m 1996-97, resulting in a cumulative decline of GDP by about 14 percent, a sharp decline
in per capita income, and an increase in poverty. After several months of chaos involving a
hyperinflation episode, the collapse of the banking sector, and a major foreign exchange crisis,
Bulgana adopted in July 1997 a Currency Board Arrangement (CBA).
3.     Bulgaria responded aggressively to the 1996-97 crisis. Following the general elections
of April 1997 and the adoption of the CBA, Bulgana began implementing conservative fiscal
policies and accelerated implementation of structural reforms. The wide-ranging structural
program included implementation of reforms in the social, agriculture, enterprise and banking
sectors, and liberalization of prnces and trade. By December 1999 when Bulgana was invited to
start negotiations towards EU membership, its economy was largely stabilized, and growth and
per capita income began to recover. This improved performance took place in a difficult external
environment marked by turmoil in international markets, unfavorable commodity price
developments, and trade disruptions associated with the Kosovo crisis. The current account
deficit widened from 0.5 percent of GDP in 1998 to 5 percent in 1999 due to external pressures.
At the same time Bulgaria faced a legacy of high indebtedness, low levels of investment, and
rising unemployment. To address the combined effects of these challenges, Bulgaria accelerated
implementation of structural reforms, expanded its social safety net to mitigate the impact of the
transition, and maintained disciplined macroeconomic policies. After five years of sound
macroeconomic management and acceleration of structural reforms, Bulgana soon succeeded in
restoring growth, bringing down inflation, and improving public and investor confidence.
' See Bulgaria: Public Expenditure Issues and Directions for Reforn, The World Bank, 2002 and
Bulgaria. The Dual Challenge of Transition and Accession, The World Bank, 2001.
I



Table 1: Selected Economic Indicators
1996   1997   1998    1999  2000    2001  2002P
GNI per capita (Atlas method,  1,210  1,200  1,270  1,450  1,580  1,630  1,760
US$)__                                                      _ _ _ _  _
Poverty rate                  5.5'   36.0                         12.8
Unemployment rate (registered)  11.0  14.0  12.4   13.8   18.1   17.5   Th78T
Real GDP Growth (% change)    -9.4   -5.6    4.0    2.3    5.4    4.0     4.0
CPI (e.o.p., % change)      311.6   547.7    1.6    7.0   11.3    4.8     3.8
Total revenues and grants'
(% of GDP)                   32.9    37.5   39.8   40.7   41.4   40.0   40.5
Total expenditure and net    43.2    38.6   38.8   41.7   42.4   40.8    41.3
lending (% of GDP) 3
Overall Fiscal Balance'
(% of GDP)                   -10.3   -1.2    1.0   -0.9   -1.0   -0.9    -0.8
Current Account Balance
(% of GDP)                     1.7   10.1   -0.5   -5.0   -5.6   -6.1    -4.2
Extemal Debt (% of GDP)       97.0  100.4   85.5   84.3   88.9   78.3    70.3
Interest Payment (% of GDP)   19.5    8.3    4.3    3.8    4.0    3.7     2.2
Sources. National Statistical Institute, Bulgarian National Bank, Ministry of Finance, Employment Agency,
IMF, and the World Bank.
'The estimate is for 1995.
2As of November 2002.
3Consolidated general govemment. In contrast to the estimates shown in Annex 3, revenues and expenditure include
social contnbutions paid by the Govemment on behalf of government employees. For 2002 estimates are on the basis
of the annual 2002 Budget Law.
4.     The domestic financial sector has improved substantially in line with the resumption
of growth in the real sector and strengthened banking supervision. Following the closure of
17 banks, consolidation of a number of banks, and privatization of almost all state-owned banks,
mainly to foreign investors, the banking system was put back on solid ground. The recent Joint
World Bank-IMF Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) review2 concluded that
Bulgaria's banking system - which is currently the main component of the financial system - is
generally well supervised, highly capitalized, and profitable. However, the legacy of the deep
banking crisis in 1996-97 has led to a more conservative lending policy by banks; interest rate
spreads are high but declining; governance and asset and liability management capacity need
further strengthening; and the deposit base remains low. As a result, bank intermediation has
remained low compared to other CEE countries, and the non-bank financial sector has continued
to be underdeveloped. However, after four successive years of economic growth, credit
expansion, especially in retail banking, accelerated m 2001 and the first three quarters of 2002
driven by higher deposit growth, lower international interest rates on bank deposits abroad, and
competition among commercial banks.
5.     The economic recovery contributed to a reduction in poverty. Living standards have
improved and overall poverty levels have declined by two-thirds since 1997. The economic crisis
in 1997 seriously affected living standards, and poverty escalated to 36 percent of the population,
according to the household survey conducted that year.3 Since then, poverty rates have declined
significantly, to 12.8 percent in 2001 , as consumption levels have recovered from the shock of
the cnsis. While the overall magnitude of the decline m poverty rates since 1997 may have been
2 A joint Bank-Fund Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) mission visited Sofia in Novemnber
2001. The FSAP report was discussed with the authorities during the Fund Article IV rmission in May
2002.
3 Bulgarna: Poverty during the Transition, The World Bank, 1999.
4Bulgaria: Poverty Assessment, The World Bank, 2002.
2



less than two-thirds due to potential for measurement error in 1997 as a result of high inflation
rates, there has been a notable improvement in living standards since the crisis. The depth and
severity of poverty have also improved (see Box 1). These suggest that the penod of sustained
economic growth between 1997 and 2001, as well the social safety net, have had an important
impact on living standards.
6.     Private sector development has been central in accelerating growth. The acceleration
of privatization and restructuring of existing SOEs, together with the improvements in business
environment and gradual decrease in tax burden, have contributed to the expansion of the private
sector to 63 percent of GDP in 2001 compared to 53 percent in 1996. Although the private sector
has been growing at about eight percent per annum since 1997, its share of GDP remains
comparatively lower than the more advanced CEE countries. Much lower is the share of new
enterpnses which could spur growth and help the economy reach its full potential.5
7.     But growth   has not been    sufficiently  high  to  reduce  persistently  high
unemployment. Unemployment has been growing smce 1996, turning Bulgaria into the country
with the highest registered unemployment rate among the EU accession countries - 18 percent in
2000, 17.5 percent in 2001, and a slight decline in 2002. Also, Bulgaria has the highest rate of
youth and long-term unemployment. Registered job creation in the private sector has been
lagging behind labor shedding, particularly in the enterprise sector. An over-regulated labor
market,6 high payroll taxes, and the heavy burden of social contributions, together with skill
mismatches, contribute to registered high unemployment in Bulgaria. While there are no
mechanisms to measure directly employment outside the official registry, there is some indirect
evidence that to minimize the heavy official costs on the use of labor, employers and workers are
increasingly using mechanisms such as engaging in an employment relationship without labor
contracts, or reporting labor wages at the level of minimum wage.
8.     The external position has remained under pressure, although the external current
account deficit has improved in 2002 compared to 2001. In 2001, the external current account
deficit accounted for 6.1 percent of GDP dnven by strong domestic demand for imports, lower
international prices, and global slowdown, including in the EU and Turkey, Bulgaria's main trade
partners. FDI inflows of about 5.1 percent of GDP, together with the debut Euro bond issue in
late 2001, provided for the bulk of the financing of the external current account deficit in 2001.
Foreign exchange reserves remained at a comfortable level, covering about five months of
imports of goods and services. The external current account deficit is expected to improve by
close to 2 percentage points to about 4.2 percent of GDP in 2002 due to strong export growth
driven by textiles, light manufacturng, and tourism, as well as by a slowdown in imports,
especially of oil products. At the same time, external debt has declined by about 30 percentage
points since 1997, to 68 percent of GDP at end-October 2002.'
9.     Sound macroeconomic policies and continued progress on structural reforms are
addressing current account imbalances and improving development prospects. Bulgaria's
policy framework is centered on the CBA and supported by tight fiscal policy, strict incomes
5 See Transition* The First Ten Years, Analysis and Lessons for Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet
Union, The World Bank, Washmngton D.C., 2002.
6 Rutkowski, J. , "Why Is Unemployment So High in Bulgana?", Background paper for the Bulgaria
Poverty Assessment, forthcoming, The World Bank, Washington D.C., 2002.
7 External debt to GDP ratio declmned significantly due to a series of debt buybacks, debt exchanges, limited
new borrowing and slow disbursement of projects m pipeline, as well as higher GDP growth and exchange
rate adjustments.
3



policy and a broad agenda of structural reforms. Macroeconomic performance has been robust:
Bulgaria has had a primary surplus of three percent of GDP and a fiscal deficit of one percent of
GDP since 1999; the Fiscal Reserve Account (FRA) has remained at about 100 percent of next
year's gross public debt service requirements; inflation has remained at single digit levels;
mternational reserves have remained at about five months of imports; and growth has been
between 4-5 percent per year. Total public debt, external and domestic, has declined substantially
from over 100 percent in 1997 to around 70 percent of GDP in 2001 and the Government has
stated its commitment to meet the Maastricht critenon8 prior to EU accession. As of end-October
2002, total public debt to GDP stood at 60.6 percent, of which 54 percent was external and 6.6
percent was domestic debt.
10.    Provided the Government maintains fiscal discipline, sustains a strict incomes
policy, and accelerates structural reforms, the CBA provides a stable nominal anchor and
facilitates the political economy of reform.   Prudent macroeconomic policies and
implementation of structural reforms have contributed to improved economic performance in
2002. Bulgaria shows stronger fundamentals in 2002 compared to 2001: despite slow growth in
the EU and other economic partners, Bulgaria's economic growth remains solid, inflation rate
declined, and the external current account deficit narrowed in 2002 compared to 2001. However,
reaching fiscal targets in 2003 are a challenge and external risks remain. To address these risks
the Government has identified and agreed with the Fund under the Stand-By Arrangement (SBA)
several measures: (i) efforts to improve revenue collection and collection of arrears are bemg
accelerated; (ii) revenue indicative targets are being monitored on a monthly basis - significant
deviations would trigger consultations with IMF staff on offsetting measures; and (iii)
discretionary spending is limited to 88 percent of budgetary allocation for the first three quarters
of the year - equivalent to about 1 1/4 percent of GDP through September 2003 of possible fiscal
adjustment should risks materialize.9
11.    Summary of recent developments. Per capita income is increasing; the level of poverty
is declining; inflation is low; and economic growth is being sustained at 4-5 percent per year.
Macroeconomic stability has been maintained and public debt to GDP has declined and is
approaching the Maastricht criterion of 60 percent - debt reduction and fiscal adjustment have
created savings, enabling the Government to increase spending on social programs. Furthermore,
structural reforms are moving forward - the banking sector has been put on sound footing; the
private sector share in the economy is increasing; a major regulatory reform is underway, and
energy pricing reforms are improving efficiency and reducing fiscal burden. Bulgaria is also
making important progress in its EU accession program - the EC has recently assessed Bulgaria
as a functioning market economy'0 and Bulgaria has closed 23 of the 30 chapters of the acquis.
In addition, preliminary 2002 estimates indicate a marked improvement in economic
performance: growth increased to 4.4 percent year-on-year in the first three quarters of 2002
suggesting that the annual growth may be higher than the projected 4 percent; registered
unemployment while still high seems to be leveling off after several years of continuous
deterioration; twelve month inflation in December 2002 declined to 3.8 percent having reached a
peak of 9.2 percent in March 2002; the ten month external current account deficit to October
8 This is according to article 104 of the Treaty Establishing the European Community signed in Maastricht
in 1992. The convergence criterion on debt refers to the ratio of gross government debt to GDP, which
must not exceed 60 percent at the end of the preceding financial year or shall be approaching the reference
value at a satisfactory pace.
9 See IMF Staff Report for the Second Review under the Stand-By Arrangement, IMF, January 2003.
10 2002 Regular Report on Bulgaria's Progress towards Accession, Commission of the European
Communities, October 2002.
4



2002 has declined to 1.4 percent of GDP; gross intemational reserves have increased to US$4.4
billion or more than five months of imports; and financial intermediation continues to improve.
12.    Significant but manageable external risks exist. Bulgaria faces several significant
extemal risks. A failure to carry out the envisaged privatization program or attract sufficient
greenfield FDI would put the projected extemal financing at risk, requiring additional adjustment
to ensure that debt levels continue to decline. Moreover, Bulgaria's external accounts are
sensitive to three key parameters: an increase in oil prices, higher interest rates, and a prolonged
slowdown in EU economies which are the destination of over fifty percent of Bulganan exports
and the origin of more than half the FDI inflows. However, the achievements to date, the better
than expected performance in 2002, and the measures in place to address fiscal and extemal
vulnerabilities mitigate these nsks.
Medium Term Prospects and Creditworthiness
13.   The medium term macroeconomic framework centered on the Currency Board
Arrangement is expected to support a rapid and sustainable economic growth in the coming
years. The medium term outlook" envisages robust growth of about 5 percent per annum, a
gradual narrowing of the extemal current account deficit, and a reduction in debt to GDP ratios.
Growth would be driven by continuous rise in investment and improved export performance in
line with the expected recovery in external demand from EU and increased competitiveness of
Bulgarian goods on international markets. Consistent with the planned upgrades in infrastructure
sectors and contmued progress towards EU accession, investment is likely to grow at a higher
speed and reach at least 22 percent of GDP in 2005. Despite the continuing slow growth among
Bulgaria's main trade partners so far, macroeconomic performance has been good and is expected
to improve further in 2003-05 as EU economies may start their recovery and the cumulative
effect of structural reforms in Bulgana start to pay off.
14.   FDI inflows continue to be the primary source of BoP financing. Despite their
slowdown m 2001 to 5 percent of GDP, FDI inflows amounted to more than US$3 billion in
1998-2001, the bulk of which were in the service sector (57 percent) - mainly financial services,
trade and tourism. About US$1.3 billion were invested in industry in those years - mainly oil-
processing, chemical, food, metal and non-metal mineral products. With the global slowdown
negatively affecting capital flows, and some of the large pnvatization deals delayed, FDI inflows
in Bulgaria eased off further in 2002 but are likely to provide sufficient coverage of the external
current account deficit. Planned privatization in the energy sector, and completion of the deals on
some monopolies such as Bulgartabak and Bulgarian Telecom (BTC), together with additional
investments, such as those projected in the energy sector and expected inflows of greenfield
investments, are likely to help Bulgaria meet its financing needs. The returns from foreign direct
investment in the country have been growing and a further boost in investments is possible if the
remaining structural and institutional impediments are addressed, including weaknesses in
business climate, public administration, and legal and judicial systems.
" See Bulgaria 2002 Article IV Consultation and First Review Under the Stand-By Arrangement-Staff
Report, The Intemational Monetary Fund, August 2002.
5



Figures 1-6: Macroeconomic Indicators
Figure 1. Real GDP                               Figure 2. CPR Inflation
(% change)                                 (% change, annual average)
10-                      40            54 40
900 
0-
700-
-5-
-10-         <<300-
-20 1                                                30
1995   1996  1997   1998   1999  2000   2001    Vo        .
-4--GDPgrowth, 1995=1 -F}-GDPannualgrowth     -K0   1995  996   997    998   999   2000  2001
Figure 3. Fiscal Balance
(% of GDP)                             Figure 4. Current Account Balance
(% of GDP)                           ~   ~~~~~(% of GDP)
12.
4-
2                                                  8         
0                        ELDL
-4                                                 o-8F
-°2                                                                        L,-_ n t.   , 
-2  -                                              -8 J  a'W'L 
995   1996  V97    198  1999  2000   2001          1995  1996   1997   1998  1999   2000   2001
Figure 5. Registered Unemployment
Figure 6. FBD Inflows
60.                                      20                        (US$ million)
1200-
9918                                       1002
0. 16 1000                             819
E
406                                     689
30 -                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~390
400
20                           8        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20090 g  109
1995199619971998199920002001Oct-02          1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 Jan-'
~]Unemployment rate (right srale)                                                   Oct-
--Share of LT unemployed                       0 Total         *3 From pnivatlzation  2002
Sources: National Statistical Institute, Bulgarian National Bank, Ministry of Finance, Emiployment Agency
and World Bank staff estimates
6



15.   International financial markets have responded favorably to the achievements of the
reform program. At the end of 2001 and early 2002, Standard and Poor's, Fitch Ratings, and
Moody's upgraded Bulgaria's credit rating. In less than a year, Standard and Poor's and Fitch
Ratings did a second upgrade to the country rating m October 2002. Active debt management
policies in 2001 and 2002 through debt buybacks and exchanges are reducing debt levels and
improving exchange rate and interest rate risks of debt portfolio. In March 2002, the Government
of Bulgaria exchanged US$1,319 million Brady Bonds. The exchange resulted in a net present
value savings of US$94 million and released a collateral of about US$220 million. In September
2002, the Government reduced further the share of Brady Bonds in total debt by exchanging
US$866 million for global bonds, and released another US$140 million of collateral. As a result,
the external public debt stock is estimated to decline by US$108 million. The total external debt
has fallen significantly since the beginning of 2002 - by end-October 2002, total external debt
stood at 68 percent of GDP and is expected to decline further due to the sharp reduction of
external public debt.
16.   The current course of fiscal policy is basically appropriate to ensure macroeconomic
stability, growth and poverty reduction in the medium term. The main fiscal challenge,
however, is to work towards an improved allocation of expenditures'2 to achieve a balanced
budget in the medium-term, while lowering the overall tax burden - especially payroll taxes - to
boost investment and employment, and reducing extemal indebtedness. So far fiscal adjustment
has been made possible by revenue expansion rather than expenditure rationalization. Only
recently the revenues have started to decline, reflecting gradual reduction of the tax burden. To
limit revenue losses from future tax cuts, the tax administration needs to be overhauled and tax
compliance improved. A decade long neglect of investment in basic infrastructure has been
exacerbated by several years of declining capital and maintenance expenditures which have borne
the brunt of expenditure cuts. Going forward, fiscal adjustment will need to rely heavily on
expenditure rationalization which needs to precede reductions in tax burden to safeguard fiscal
sustainability. In addition, fiscal strategy will need to adjust to the decline in pnvatization
revenues, a main source of fiscal financing, as the prnvatization program is soon to be completed.
Expenditure rationalization will require implementation of deep structural reforms which will
have to be accompanied by measures protecting the poor from the adverse impact of these
reforms.
17.   Meeting the challenge of improving the allocation of public expenditure requires
creating an efficient and transparent expenditure management system with enough
flexibility to adjust quickly and efficiently to macroeconomic shocks. The central key
pressure points on the fiscal position emerge from health care, education, social protection system
(pension funds, social assistance programs, and labor market policies), and from municipalities.
The recently finalized Public Expenditure and Institutional Review for Bulgaria'3 has indicated
the need to improve allocations to address the issues of overcapacity, especially in health and
education, and improve the targeting of social protection programs, which constitute about one-
third of total public spending. Equally important are policies to improve allocations between
sectors - decreasing subsidies to the energy sector, while protecting the poor through expanded
energy benefit program and gradual increase in energy prices to bring them to full cost recovery
12 For more details see Bulgaria: Public Expenditure Issues and Directions for Reforn, The World Bank,
August 2002.
'3 Bulgaria: Public Expenditure Issues and Directions for Reform, The World Bank, August 2002.
7



in the medium term. In addition, increased efficiency in expenditure management would require
an overhaul of the intergovernmental relations. The Government approval in mid-2002 of the
Fiscal Decentralization Program for 2002-05 is a step forward in that direction. It aims at
reducing the fiscal pressures arising from arrears in municipal finances, and improving the
efficiency in service delivery. A fiscal decentralization and service study is currently being
prepared by the Bank to guide the Bank's policy dialogue with the authorities in support of the
local finance reforn, which will be a focus of a planned second PAL.
18.   Independent reviews indicate that issues of governance have improved but
important challenges remain. Accordmg to a World Bank report'4 Bulgaria is characterized as
a country with a high level of state capture and a medium level of administrative corruption. The
problem is due to both the structure and the functioning of government - in particular, the
concentration of power despite progress toward decentralization - weak legal and regulatory
framework, weak capacity to monitor corruption and enforce laws, a weak judiciary, and weak
overall accountability'5 and transparency. The areas most affected have been customs, health
services, tax administration, higher education, and the courts. In recent years, the Government
has taken a number of steps to improve governance, in recognition of the problem. The
Government has put together comprehensive strategies and action plans for: (i) state
administration modernization; (ii) judicial reform; and (iii) fighting corruption.  Two
Commissions have been set up to combat the corruption - a standing parliamentary committee
and an inter-ministry operational commission. In addition a series of measures have been
undertaken to strengthen control within the Tax Administration, Customs Agency, the Ministry of
the Interior, and the National Security Service. The framework for addressing administrative
corruption has improved with recent public administration reforms, but capacity weaknesses at all
levels of govemment - central and municipal, managerial and technical - remain formidable.
19.   With the external financing provided by the PALs, the structural reforms can be
phased in while softening the impact of adjustment, protecting the poor, and safeguarding
social cohesion. Without the PAL financing, policy dialogue, and support, the momentum for
accelerating structural reforms is unlikely to be sustained or the costs of adjustment would weigh
heavily on vulnerable segments of the population. While international reserves remain at a
comfortable level to support macroeconomic stability in the context of the CBA, Bulgaria will
continue to rely on official creditors' support to meet its external financing requirements, start
addressing a decade of neglected maintenance of physical assets needed to support private sector-
led growth, and soften the impact on vulnerable groups. The expected Bank financing under the
proposed series of PALs of US$150 million per year for three years would provide fiscal and
balance of payments support needed to implement a broad reform program.
20.    Creditworthiness Indicators. Prudent fiscal policies, implementation of structural
reforms, and an active debt management strategy have resulted in an improvement in
creditworthiness indicators (see Annex 4). Total debt outstanding and disbursed as a share of
GDP has declined from 100 percent in 1997 to around 70 percent in 2002. This share is expected
to decline to around 60 percent by 2005. Similarly, total debt service as a share of exports of
goods and services is expected to decline from around 17 to 13 percent. The share of debt service
to IBRD to total public debt service is expected to increase to around 12 percent in the next three
years. The share of Bulgaria's portfolio in IBRD's portfolio is expected to remain under 1.2
percent. In addition, spreads on Bulgaria's Brady bonds have been narrowing since the June
2001 election, reflecting prudent policies and markets' expectation of a more active debt
'4 See Anticorruption in Transition: A Contribution to the Policy Debate, The World Bank, 2000.
5 The World Bank is currently preparing a Country Financial Accountability Assessment for Bulgaria.
8



management strategy. The collapse of the CBA in Argentina and the difficulties in Turkey have
not had any significant impact on this trend. There have been no discernable contagion effects on
Bulgaria's domestic financial markets either, and financial fundamentals and indicators of
external vulnerability remain comfortable.
21.    IBRD exposure will remain manageable in the base case scenario of the CAS. IBRD
debt service is projected to rise from 1.0 to 1.3 percent of exports, and from 6 to 12 percent of
public debt service during the CAS period. The ratio of preferred creditor debt service to public
debt service has remained above 35 percent and increased sharply in 2001. It is projected to
decline to about 40 percent in 2004 before nsing again to 47 percent in 2005. These high ratios
are partly the result of debt restructuring in the mid-1990s which stretched out Bulgaria's public
debt repayments to private creditors over decades with the issuance of Brady bonds, and of
limited commercial bank lending until the strong recovery following the 1997 reforms.
Continued substantial adjustment lending as envisioned in the CAS would seriously reduce the
Bank's headroom in Bulgaria, especially for further adjustment loans beyond FY05. However,
since the three proposed PALs - designed to support a robust reform program that has a high
probability to succeed - are the cornerstone of the overall Bank's strategy, high adjustment
lending is justified, but would have to be carefully monitored. The additional triggers'6 for
processing PAL-3 identified in the CAS have been adopted to ensure that adjustment lending
would reach the proposed US$450 million level only if indicators of economic outcomes
confirmed that Bulgaria substantially improved its standing as a result of reforms under the first
two PALs, and if the downside risks of overall economic performance at that time were low.
Addressing Poverty'7
22.    Despite the improvements since 1997, poverty remains at twice the levels of 1995
and deep poverty persists among certain vulnerable groups. The nature of poverty has
evolved, as recent improvements in welfare have not been equally distributed across the
population. There are "pockets of poverty" among certain groups, particularly the unemployed,
ethnic minorties, most notably Roma, and families with more than four children. Considerable
scope remains to obtain further reduction of poverty through the development of targeted poverty
intervention (e.g. for the Roma) and improving the targeting of social assistance, particularly
social assistance to mitigate the impact of restructuring. Moreover, capacity in the Government
to monitor poverty and assess the impact of policies on vulnerable groups needs to be
strengthened, as demonstrated by the need to contract out the last household budget surveys
(HHBS) and the absence of living standard measurement survey (LSMS).
16 The following developments would trigger reconsideration of proceeding with the presentation of PAL-3
to the Board: (i) material deviation from the downward trend in the total public debt to GDP ratios as
projected in the CAS; (ii) lack of improvement in the spreads on Bulgaria's sovereign borrowing via-a-vis
countries with similar risk rating, or deterioration in its own risk rating; (iii) material deviation from the
improving trend in the fiscal balance projected in the Government's medium term program, reaching fiscal
balance by 2005; (iv) matenal slowdown in the present trend of increasing SMEs' share of total
employment; and (v) inadequate progress in reducing arrears in tax payments, social msurance
contributions, and energy bill payment as set out in the Government program.
7See Annex 7 "Poverty Update" for an extended discussion of poverty in Bulgaria, mcluding its multiple
dimensions. The recent World Bank report Bulgaria: Poverty Assessment (October 2002) also addresses
gender issues, and has a background paper "Gender Aspects of Poverty and Inequality m the Family and
the Labor Market".
9



Box 1: Recent Poverty Trends and the Poverty Gap
The 2001 poverty profile for Bulgaria shows a dramatic rebound of living standards
smce the 1997 crisis. Poverty escalated to 36 percent of the population in 1997, according to the
household survey for that year. Since then, poverty rates have declined, as consumption levels
have recovered from the crisis. Using poverty lines updated from 1997, poverty fell by nearly
two-thirds to 12.8 percent, and the depth and seventy of poverty have also improved (see table
below).a/ In order to compare trends over time, the relative poverty lines from 1997- two-thirds
of per capita income (high) and one-half per capita income (low) - were fixed in real terms.
Poverty and Inequality Trends
1995         1997           2001
Poverty Estimates          High   Low    High   Low    High   Low
Poverty Rate                5.5    2.9    36.0   20.2   12.8   7.5
Poverty Gap                 1.7    0.9    11.4    5.9    4.2   2.2
Poverty Depth               0.8    0.4     5.3    2.7    1.9   0.9
Gini Coefficient               27.1           31.4          29.6
Source: Poverty Assessment Update, The World Bank, 2002. BIHS 1995, 1997, 2001.
Notes: The "poverty rate" refers to the percent of the population that is below the poverty line; the
"poverty gap" is the average shortfall from the poverty line; and "poverty seventy" is the average squared
consumption shortfall as a percentage of the poverty line, and is more sensitive to inequality among the
poor.
Despite the improvements since 1997, the poverty rate remains at twice the levels of
1995. In addition, recent improvements in welfare have not been equally distributed across the
population. There are "pockets of poverty" among certain groups, particularly the unemployed,
ethnic minorities, most notably Roma, and families with more than four children. Poverty also
has a significant rural dimension. Urban areas have experienced a more significant drop in
poverty levels, from 34 to 6 percent, while in rural areas, poverty rates were less than halved,
from 41 percent to 24 percent.
The poverty gap has also fallen since 1997, but it remains more than double 1995 levels
at 4.2 in 2001. In 2001, the poverty gap amounted to BGN 0.2 billion, or 0.7 percent of 2001
GDP. This implies that - under conditions of perfect targeting and zero administrative costs -
eliminating poverty would cost 0.7 percent of GDP. As these assumptions are unrealistic, the
true cost is likely to be higher, perhaps as high as 2.1 percent of GDP.
a! The poverty line is set at two-thirds mean 1997 per capita consumption, adjusted to 1995 and 2001
prices. In other words, the relative poverty line from 1997 is held constant to function as an absolute
poverty line.
Source: Bulgaria Publhc Expenditure Issues and Directions for Reform, The World Bank, August 2002.
10



23.    Social protection reforms helped the poor cope with transition shocks, but
significant issues still remain for further enhancing the effectiveness of the system and its
sustainability. The previous govemment implemented reforms to provide a comprehensive
safety net for the poorest households. It strengthened and consolidated means-tested social
benefits, targeted benefits to the most vulnerable individuals and households, and reduced
duplicative benefit programs.  Institutional and administrative capacity within the social
assistance system was strengthened. Licensing requirements, contractual and funding transfer
arrangements and minimum standards for delivery of social care services by NGOs and the
pnvate sector were specified. Nonetheless, there is scope for improving the effectiveness of
existing programs by strengthening the administration of social assistance delivery, tightening the
eligibility criteria, reducing leakage, expanding coverage, and improving means-testing. PAL-3,
whose preparation work begins this fiscal year, will address these issues.
24.    While according to official data Bulgaria is on track meeting the Millennium
Development Goals (see Box 2), gaps in access to both education and health are real for
vulnerable groups. Despite the growing enrollment rates, the attendance rates especially for
vulnerable households in rural areas and among ethnic minority have declined below 1995 levels,
particularly for preschool and secondary education. The household survey data for 1997 and
2001 indicate that while enrollments in basic education have increased slightly for the country at
large, enrollment rates for poor children have fallen ten percentage points from 84 percent in
1997 to 74 percent in 2001. In addition to the high costs of education for the poor households,
there is evidence that they also face barriers to accessing health care, because of the prevalence of
formnal and informal out-of-pocket payments and gaps in health insurance coverage for uninsured
groups. As in the case with education, Roma are more likely to fall through the cracks of the
health system than other groups because of lack of necessary identification and registration
papers, and poor communication with health providers which is compounded by social exclusion.
B. The Reform Program
Objectives and Strategic Themes
25.    The new Government which came into power in mid-2001 has articulated two
objectives: (a) sustaining economic growth and (b) reducing poverty, both key to EU
membership. This is a shift from the objectives of the program of the previous Government,
whose agenda was driven by the depth of the economic and financial crisis of 1996-97, the focus
on macroeconomic stabilization, the need to accelerate the much delayed privatization program,
the establishment of a sound fiscal regime to support the CBA by cutting expenditures and
closing non-viable SOEs, and the reform of system of social protection.'8 The reform program of
the current Government builds on the gains of the past five years and makes a strategic shift m
emphasis towards promoting growth and reducing poverty focusing on increasing investment and
productivity and building human capital.  The Government has articulated the following
outcomes of its program: (a) average annual GDP growth rates of 4.5 to 5.0 percent during
2002-05; (b) reduction of the poverty rate by half by 2005 compared to the rate in 2001; and (c)
reduction of the unemployment rate to 12-14 percent in 2005 compared to 17.5 percent in 2001.
The program components that address strengthening of market institutions, modernizing public
18 Since 1997, the Bank has supported the structural reforms with a Cntical Imports Rehabilitation Loan, a
Social Protection Adjustment Loan, two Finance and Enterprise Sector Adjustmnent Loans (FESALs), two
Agriculture Structural Adjustment Loans (ASALs), and an Environmental Protection Structural Adjustment
Loan (EPSAL).



administration, fighting corruption, and reforming the judicial system are critical to the EU
accession agenda.
Box 2: The Government Medium Term Program and the Millennium Development Goals
Goal                   Recent Data  2005 Target   2015 Target
Eradicate extreme poverty
o  percent of population below $2.15 per day  7.9 (2001)  3.2     1.5
Achieve universal education
o  net enrollment rate - primary school  96 (2001-02)  97-98      100
o  net enrollment rate - middle school  84 (2001-02)  86-90       100
o  net enrollment rate - secondary school  68 (2001-02)  75-80    95
Improve maternal health
o  maternal mortality rate per 100,000 live  19.1 (2001)  18      16
births
Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other
diseases
o  Tuberculosis incidence (new cases per  48 (2001)  40           26
100,000)
o  Polio immunization rate (percent of  94.4 (2000)  98           100
children under two)
Reduce infant mortality
o  Mortality per 1000 live births       14.4 (2001)  13           9
Ensure environmental sustainability
o  GDP per unit of energy use (US$ GDP  568 (1997)   653          751
per kilogram of oil equivalent of
commercial energy use)
Sources: National Statistical Institute and World Bank
26.    The strategy for attaining the sustained growth and poverty reduction objectives
has two main themes. First, the Government intends to use private initiative as the main engine
of growth. For this reason, the government program focuses on creating an investment climate
that encourages private investment and enhances productivity. This requires redefining and
upgrading the role and capabilities of the public sector, establishing credible institutions such as
the judiciary, and putting in place a stable legal and regulatory environment. Second, the
Government is taking steps to ensure that the population is empowered to participate in future
growth. The Government is working towards fundamental reforns in the education and health
sectors, not only to improve efficiency of these large sources of public expenditures, but also to
develop human capital capable of adapting to an increasingly dynamic work environment,
especially with greater competition expected from EU countries. In addition, there is recognition
that poverty reduction policies need to be tailored to reach certain groups that have not benefited
12



from the recent increase in welfare. The Government realizes that growth alone will not lift
certain groups out of poverty.
27.    To implement its growth and poverty-reduction strategy, the Government is
building its medium term reform program on five pillars:
*  Sustaining structural reforms in the enterpnse sector with emphasis on the restructunng of
the energy, railway, telecommunications, and water sectors;
*  Establishing a market-friendly business environment, focusing on entry and exit policies,
regulatory costs, delivery of public services, competition, and judicial reform;
*  Deepening thefinancial sector, addressing the constraints to increased lending by the banking
system and the development of financial markets;
*  Improving public sector governance, including implementing the anti-corruption strategy,
strengthening local governments, and reforming public administration and the judiciary;
*  Investing in human capital and strengthening social programs, focusing on education, health,
pension reform, and social assistance effectiveness.
28.    The program pillars complement each other and support the achievement of the
Government's goals and objectives. The restructunng of the infrastructure sector improves the
business environment (Box 3), contnbutes to the sustainability of fiscal stabilization, and are
important components of public administration reform. The business environment and financial
sector pillars encourage the entry of new and the expansion of existing firms to support the
growth and employment objectives by absorbing labor released from the restructuinng of the
public sector (Box 4). Social programs protect the vulnerable groups dunng the transition penod
and contribute to the reduction of poverty while investments in human capital provide a longer
term capability to respond to the needs of a dynamuc market economy. The restructuring of the
pension, health, and education sectors - which are the main components of public expenditure
and, in the case of health and education, the major areas of overstaffing in the public sector - also
improves the overall efficiency of public administration. The governance pillar - public
administration modernization, judicial reform, and anti-corruption measures - is cntical to pnvate
sector development and progress in EU accession.
29.    The proposed PALs support the Government's EU accession agenda, which is the
major driving force for reforms in Bulgaria.   More specifically, the PAL program
complements and supports the Government's efforts in building a functioning market economy
and the capacity to cope with the competitive pressures and market forces within the EU in the
medium term. Achieving the PAL program objective of building a dynamic and competitive
economy through stable macroeconomic performance, deep structural reforms, sustainable
private sector-led growth, and improved investment climate determines the extent to which
Bulgaria could benefit from EU accession. The PAL program also complements EU accession
related efforts to strengthen and develop the ability of the public administration and judicial
system to implement and enforce the acquis communautaire. The PAL process helps the
Government in formulating the pre-accession economic program and in sequencing economic
reforms, including through analytical work based on experience from other EU accession
countnes.
30.    The effectiveness of the above program depends on the maintenance of sound
macroeconomic policies. The Government articulated its macroeconomic program in its
Memorandum of Economic Policies attached to the Letter of Intent to the IMF dated February 12,
13



2002 where the Government committed to: (a) maintain the CBA at least until accession to the
EU; and (b) implement a cautious and flexible fiscal policy, which is key to safeguarding external
viability under the CBA. The Government is aware of the importance of structural reforms to
sustained macroeconomic stabilization.
Pillar 1: Sustaining Structural Reforms
31.    The current privatization program19 focuses on infrastructure SOEs. Bulgaria has
divested more than 90 percent of assets of non-infrastructure SOEs existing as of end-1995 and
the current program calls for the completion of this phase of the privatization by end-2004.20 The
next phase of privatization has begun, involving the restructuring of the energy, railway,
telecommunications, and water sectors with the objective of improving efficiency of service
delivery through greater private sector investment within a framework of market rules and
effective enforcement.  To improve transparency, reduce corruption, and accelerate the
privatization process, the legal and institutional framework for privatization has improved with
the enactment of the new Law on Privatization and Post Privatization Control and the
restructuring of the Privatization Agency. By end-2005, the only remaining state enterprises will
be those listed in Annex 6-A. In conjunction with the business environment and public
administration reforrms, the privatization program should increase the share of the private sector
in GDP to about 70- 75 percent by 2005.
32.    The program in the energy sector aims to reduce Bulgaria's energy intensity2i and
enable the private sector to assume an increasing share of commercial risks. To achieve
these objectives, the sector is being fundamentally overhauled. First, energy prices are being
rationalized to cover costs and eliminate cross-subsidies beginning with a 20 percent electricity
price increase in the second half of 2002, with another 25 percent programmed over the next two
years.22 Second, the legal and regulatory framework under which energy services will be
provided by the private sector is being improved and the capacity of the State Energy Regulatory
Commission (SERC) is being upgraded. Third, electricity distribution and generation companies
have been spun off from the former monopoly electricity company NEK and will be privatized
over the next two years.23     Fourth, the District Heating  Strategy, which  calls for
commercialization measures in the short term and privatization in the medium term, is being
implemented. Finally, the gas sector will be opened to the private sector. The energy reforms are
expected to reduce Bulgaria 's energy intensity - measured by energy consumption to GDP - by 15
percent at end-2005 compared to the level at end-2001.
19 Environmental policies put in place as part of the Environmental Protection Structural Adjustment Loan
(EPSAL) will be enforced. The preparation of privatization plans of SOEs includes an environmental
section to define the responsibility for past and future environmental liabilities.
20 The remaining SOEs where the Govermment has majority control number 440, of which one quarter are
considered large, mainly in the utilities and manufacturing sectors. There are another 1,800 non-
infrastructure privatized enterprises where the Govermment has minority shares, which will also be
divested.
21 Bulgaria has the highest energy intensity ratio in the ECA region.
22 The social impact of the increase in electricity prices was reviewed in a PHRD funded study and
discussed in the recent Poverty Assessment and Public Expenditure and Institutional Review. The
Government has put in place an energy subsidy program and structured the electricity tariff increases in a
way that minimizes the impact on the poor.
23 The Ministry of Energy and Energy Resources (MEER) has engaged Paribas as lead privatization
adviser.
14



Box 3: The Quality of Public Infrastructure: What do Firms Say?
In a survey of enterprise owners and senior managers in Bulgaria and other transition economies, respondents were
asked about their perception of the quality of infrastructure in their country. The responses for Bulgana are startling
and informative. The figures below compare Bulgaria's performance to four CEE transition countries, which will
be in the first wave of EU accession. The results strongly support the conclusions of the Public Expenditure and
Institutional Review that inadequate public infrastructure is a key impediment to the investment climate and
investment in infrastructure is a key priority for public expenditure. The main conclusions:
*   78 percent of Bulgarian entrepreneurs surveyed perceived the road network in Bulgaria as bad or very
bad, and less than 5 percent of the respondents felt that the road network was good or very good; this can
be compared to the next worst country, Poland, where only 49 percent of the respondents felt the roads
were bad or very bad;
*   15 percent of the respondents felt that the telephone service was bad or very bad; this is almost three times
worse than the next worst country in the sample - Slovak Republic;
*   19 percent of respondents felt the electricity service was bad or very bad; again this is more than double
the next worst country;
*   18 percent of the respondents also felt the water services were bad or very bad; this is more than three
times the next worst country - Hungary.
The implications of these entrepreneurs' perceptions of the adequacy of public infrastructure for business are
obvious for foreign investment inflows, as well as domestic investment.
Quality and Efficiency of RPblic Services: Roads         Quality and Efficiency of Public
Services: Telephone
W- .   F   'Y  P'rd  Rd.                           BuaWra Czech HungaWry Poland Slovakia
* Good / very good                                     0 Good I very good
* Middle (slightly good  s lightly bad)                * Middle (slightly good / slightly bad)
~IBad I v0erY Dad                                      U Bad I very bad
Quality and Efficiency of Public Services:             Quality and Efficiency of Public
Electricity                                       Services: Water
,os                        ,0_00-                                         - 
-~~~~~~                                  m~~~~~m   .
sr  i   £1    x .,_"x    .-                         s      ,   ,   'S    ^1    4. 
0%     ,     ,     .     ,     ,                         Bulgaria  Czech  Hungary  Poland  Slovakla
Bulgaria  Czech  Hungary  Poland  Slovakia                  Republic
Republic                                    D Good /very good
OGood/very good                                     * Middle (slightlygood /slightly bad)
* Middle (slightly good I slightly bad)             @ Bad / very bad
* Bad / very bad
Source Bulgaria: Public Expenditure Issues and Directions for Reformn, The World Bank, 2002
15



33.    In the railway sector, the restructuring program aims to increase efficiency, ensure
financial sustainability, and improve staff productivity. The Railway Law passed in
November 2000 provides the legal basis for the implementation of the reform program. A new
railway operating company and a new railway infrastructure State enterprise have been created as
part of the implementation of the program. Market rules are being developed that will enable the
entry of private firms and the eventual privatization of the railway operating company, as well as
ensure fair competition for all land transport operators. The program also includes freedom to set
tariff for the railway operating company, rationalization of the railway network and services,24
introduction of public service obligation (PSO) contracts with the Government who pays for the
non-commercial services it does not want terminated, and the reduction of the railway labor force.
The desired outcomes are: (a) by end-2004, the railway labor force will have been reduced by 20
percent compared to the level at end-2001;25 and (b) subsidies (excluding loans and grants) to the
sector will have fallen from 0.5 percent of GDP in 2000 to 0.2 percent of GDP in 2005.
34.    The telecommunications markets are liberalized starting January 1, 2003 consistent
with the Government's EU accession agreement.     The Bulgarian Telecommunications
Company (BTC) is expected to be privatized in 2003 without an extension of its monopolies.
Amendments to the Telecommunications Law passed in December 2001 provides the legal
framework for market liberalization, including the establishment of a new, independent
Communications Regulatory Commission (CRC), whose capacity is being strengthened with
technical assistance. To ensure a competitive market, BTC will share its infrastructure with and
allow indirect access by other market participants. The Government has affirmed its commitment
to implement the time-bound EU accession commitments. The Government goals are to achieve
by end-2005 a degree of digitalization of transfer network of 100 percent, of exchanges 82
percent, and of subscribers capacity 46 percent. By end-2005, the number of households with
telecommunication services allowing internet access is expected to be 94 percent, and telephone
connection waiting time will not exceed one month.
35.    In the water sector, the modernization program   addresses the problems of
inefficiency and lack of investment by inviting private operators to bid for concession
contracts. The water service providers cover 98.4 percent of the population, so access is not a
major issue. The focus of current reforms is efficiency, and the strategy to achieve this objective
is to utilize private sector participation. The Water Law passed in September 2000 enables
Regional Water Companies (RWCs) to award concession contracts to private operators.
Amendments to the Water Law have been submitted to Parliament to further facilitate the
concession program. The Government is in the process of completing the drafting of the
regulations that will govern pnvate sector participation. By end-2003, the Government will have
awarded concession contracts in two RWCs to the private sector. The Government expects a
reduction in the ratio of operating costs (including depreciation) to revenues of RWCs to 80
percent by end-2005.
36.    The Government is implementing environmental reforms, supported by the Bank's
EPSAL, and will move into the next phase of reforms to meet the challenges of compliance
with the acquis.   Environmental policies are being further improved by harmonizing
environmental laws and regulations with those of the EU and strengthening the capacity of
environmental institutions and agencies to enforce environmental laws and regulations. The
24 The social impact of the termination of loss-making services on the poor will be included m the
preparation of the plan for terminating such services.
The recently approved Social Investment and Employment Promotion project will assist in mitigatmg the
impact on those affected by the restructuring of the railway sector.
16



Parliament recently passed a new Environmental Protection Act which is fully harmonized with
EU acquis and which will implement the provisions of the EU Integrated Pollution Prevention
and Control (IPPC) Directive. To maintain integrity of the natural environment, the Government
will further improve sector policies and regulations to prevent overexploitation and guarantee
sustainable resources use. A Natural Resource Management Strategy will be developed which
will ensure that land, forests and biological resources are used in environmentally sustainable
way. The current goal is to issue 225 permits under the IPPC by end-2005 and to issue permits
to all enterprises covered by the IPPC directive by end-2007.
Pillar 2: Establishing a Market-friendly Business Environment
37.    While the liquidation of loss-making SOEs and the privatization program have
increased productivity, future growth will depend on the emergence of dynamic private
sector enterprises. New sources of growth will have to come from increased investment by the
private sector in both new as well as existing enterprises. To continue attracting foreign direct
investment (FDI) and stimulate small and medium enterprise (SME) activity, the Government is
undertaking measures to improve the business environment focusing on reducing entry and
regulatory costs, improving public services to the busmess sector, maintaining stable market rules
and regulations, and ensuring a competitive environment. These initiatives complement the
reforms in the areas of public administration, judiciary, and financial system. With these reforms,
the Government hopes to attract FDI inflows averaging US$ 1.0 billion per year (of which
greenfield FDI would be at least 50 percent) during 2002-05; increase the share of SMEs26 in
value added and employment to at least 50 percent by 2005; and increase total factor
productivity by 2.5 percent annually during the period 2002-05.
38.    The Government is streamlining the regulatory regimes affecting business entry and
resulting in additional transaction costs to the private sector. The Inter-ministerial Working
Group for the Optimization of Regulatory Regimes headed by the Deputy Prime Minister and
Minister of Economy has reviewed all 361 centrally managed regulatory regimes and developed a
program for eliminating 70 and modifying 118 of these by end-2004. In addition, the company
registration process will be simplified by integrating the registration procedures that are currently
performed by several agencies. To monitor the impact of regulatory reforms, the Government has
completed a baseline Administrative and Regulatory Cost Survey (ARCS)27 in 2002, and will
perforn similar surveys annually and use the results to assess the effectiveness of its regulatory
regime simplification program. By end-2005, at least 50 percent of the current regulatory
regimes will be eliminated or modified thereby significantly reducing the regulatory compliance
costs compared to the 2002 baselinefigure as measured by the recently completed Administrative
and Regulatory Cost Survey (ARCS).
39.    The Government plans to institutionalize measures to ensure that the introduction
of future regulatory regimes is based on clear rationale, proper cost-benefit analyses, and
appropriate consultation with affected parties. To control the development of future licensing
regimes, the Government has submitted a draft Law on Administrative Regulation and
Administrative Control of Economic Activities which will codify the principles that underpin the
design of new licensing and regulatory regimes. The CoM will provide specific guidelines
regarding the design of new regulatory regimes, including the identification and measurement of
costs and benefits and the establishment of a process by which new regimes evolve from concept
to enactment which will include stakeholder consultation. The proposed law will require that
26 Defined as enterprises with 100 or less employees.
27 This initiative was completed with the support and active involvement of FIAS.
17



new regulatory regimes, whether initiated by the central or local government, can be introduced
only by legislation.
40.    En parallel, the front line government offices and agencies are undergoing reforms
to improve service delivery and cost effectiveness. Institutional development initiatives are
ongoing in Customs, the Tax Administration Office, the Real Estate Registry Office, the National
Social Security Institute (NSSI), and various regulatory agencies such as the SERC and CRC.28
For the regulatory regimes that are considered necessary, the cost of compliance will be reduced
by simplifying the administrative processes, a review of which will be initiated in three sectors -
construction, tourism, and food processing - that account for about 10 percent of GDP and are
subject to a maze of administrative requirements. The process simplification initiative will be
expanded to other sectors in the future. The Govemment will also pilot a performance standard
monitonng system in offices that deal with the construction and labor services,29 and the
monitoring system will be expanded to other offices dealing directly with the pnvate sector.
Finally, the Govemment is reviewing and prioritizing information system changes, which will
enable the integration of all corporate and government revenue information. By 2005, front line
Government offices are expected to achieve a 90 percent performance against standard during
the year. The Government plans to reform the system of administrative courts to improve
accountability and provide the public with a venue for dispute resolution in the public
administration area.
41.    The Goverrnment is curirently undertaking a review of its competition policies and
the effectveness of the Commission for the Protection of Competition in the context of EU
accession. To strengthen the Commission for the Protection of Competition, the CoM has
submitted draft amendments to the Law on the Protection of Competition, which in its current
form is already harmonized with EU requirements. The Parliament passed in 2002 the Law on
State Aid to ensure consistency of intervention policies with EU directives. In line with
commitments under the Second Agriculture Structural Adjustment Loan (ASAL-2), the
Government will abstain from establishing an agricultural commodity market stabilization
facility, except for an intervention agency which is required to implement the EU's Common
Agricultural Policy (CAP) as a condition for EU accession. The Government also commits to
maintaining stability in the agricultural trade regime.
42.    Labor marrket refoirm  aims to introduce flexibility and reduce long term
unempRoyment. The action plan for labor market reform involves: (i) deregulation of labor
relations through changes to the Labor Code; (ii) devolution of responsibility for determining the
labor relations to social partners, which entails adequate and genuine representation of employers
and employees in social dialogue; (iii) decentralization of collective bargaining by strengthening
firm level bargaining. The Labor Code will be overhauled towards reducing the procedural costs
of dismissals, encouraging flexible forms of employment and work organization, and enabling
wage flexibility. At the same time, the adequacy of the social safety net for displaced workers
will be reviewed and active labor market policies (ALIPs) that would facilitate the transition for
old to new jobs are being designed and implemented. By end-2005, with the labor market and
business environment reforms, improvements are expected in the labor participation rate, the
employment to population ratio, and the share of long term unemployed in total unemployment.
28 Sumlar initiatives are ongoing in the financial supervision agencies.
29 The offices involved are the Directorate for National Building Control at the Ministry of Regional
Development and Public Works and the Labor Inspectorate at the Mmistry of Labor and Social Policy.
KPMG has been retained to implement the pilot project.
18



Box 4: Recent Labor Market Developments
Unemployment has been high in Bulgaria for a number of years and presently is about
17 percent. The most worrisome feature of Bulgarian unemployment is its long duration.
More than half of the jobless are long-term unemployed, implying a loss of human capital,
erosion of morale, less reemployment chances and eventually large welfare cost to affected
individuals and society at large.
The pattern of low employment prevailing in Bulgana is similar to that observed in
other high unemployment transition economies.  Its distinctive features include low
employment of prime age men, relatively high employment of prime age women, and low
labor force participation of younger (below 24 years of age) and older workers (55 to 64 years
of age).
The pnma facie reason behind high unemployment in Bulgaria is high inflows into
unemployment coupled with limited outflows, meaning low chances of finding a new job.
The high inflows into unemployment, associated with a high rate of job destruction, are
caused by an accelerated enterpnse restructuring which followed the macroeconomic crisis in
1997. Intensive enterprise restructuring has also contnbuted to unemployment by giving nse
to skill and spatial mismatches, as new jobs that are being created differ in terms of skill
content and location from the old jobs that are being destroyed.
The insufficient rate of job creatlon and associated limited outflows from
unemployment reflect three major factors: a relatively poor business environment, labor
market rigidities, and low skills of some of the unemployed. The poor business environment
is reflected in a slow rate of firm growth and relatively small share of the new sector -
consisting of small pnvate firms - in employment. This points to barriers to entry and vanous
obstacles to creation of new firms. Labor market ngidities stem from the Labor Code
containing provisions which increase finng and hiring costs, limit wage adjustments, and
constrain working time flexibility. Finally, a significant portion of the unemployed has poor
and narrow skills, which fall short of those required by the employers. This problem is
particularly pronounced among Roma and Turkish minonties. Accordingly, improving
business environment, enhancing labor market flexibility, and improving access to and quality
of education are key for reducing unemployment.
The inadequate skills of the unemployed, especially of the long term unemployed, are
likely to be an important factor behind relatively limited flows from unemployment to work in
Bulgaria. Poor skills prevent a substantial fraction of the unemployed to effectively compete
for jobs, and can lead to their marginalization in the labor market. The unemployed account
for only 40 percent of new hires, while the rest is accounted for by persons who change jobs
or new entrants to the labor market. The apparent importance of skills mismatch and gap
problems points to the role of the educational and training systems in addressing the problem
of low, narrow and inadequate skills.
Source: J. Rutkowskl, "Why Is Unemployment So High in Bulgaria", draft Working Paper,
The World Bank, 2002.
19



44.    To facilitate the exit of non-viable enterprises, the Government has initiatives that
aim to accelerate the insolvency resolution process. First, the provisions in Part IV of the
Commercial Code are being amended towards simplifying the process, establishing shorter and
binding deadlines, and providing more powers to creditors.  Second, there is a program
establishing more stringent criteria for the licensing and dismissal of trustees, and strengthening
their monitoring and control by the Ministry of Justice (MoJ) and the courts. Third, institutional
reforns in the judiciary will upgrade the skills of judges and improve the efficiency of court
administration. Finally, the MoJ is prepanng a program for overhauling the Civil Procedure
Code and creating a system of specialized commercial courts which would be the recipient of
focused institution building efforts. The Government goal is to cut the time for processing
insolvency cases. The MoJ is in the process of developing indicators to track progress in
reducing processing time for insolvency cases.
Pillar 3: Deepening the Financial System
45.    While Bulgaria has achieved
significant progress in restructuring the             September 2002
banking       system,      flnancial                  Spe     er20
intermediation  remains   low   and                            Foreign
fliancial markets are   undeveloped.                            8%      Pnvate
About 85 percent of the banking assets are                               7%
now  in private ownership, mainly by                        . _ 
foreign financial institutions (Figure 7), as
a result of an aggressive privatization
program in 1999-2001. However, about
Foreign             ~~~~~~State Owned
30 percent of banking assets are deposited  Subsidianes                  15%
in foreign banks.  Non-bank financial      70%
institutions do not constitute a major
component of the financial system, and
capital markets and micro-finance are
undeveloped. The Government's objectives in this sector are to increase financial intermediation
and stimulate financial markets described below. The Government wants to see an increase in
M2/GDP from 42 percent at end-2001 to 50 percent at end-2005, closer to the percentages of
advanced transition economies.
46.    The legal and institutional framework for lending is being improved to encourage
financial intermediation. Amendments to the foreclosure provisions of the Civil Procedure
Code were recently passed by Parliament to reduce delays in enforcement of valid claims.
Amendments to the Law on Registered Pledges have been submitted to Parliament to increase
secured lending. The Accountancy Act and the Independent Financial Audit Act were recently
enacted to bring the accounting and auditing standards to international standards thus improving
the quality of financial information. There will be a reform of the taxation of the financial sector
to eliminate distortions and inconsistencies across various financial instruments and institutions.
Finally, the Anti-money Laundering Law will be strengthened in line with international standards
and good practices. These reforms are expected to result in major improvements in the lending
environment which will help increase private sector loans to GDP from 15 percent at end-2001 to
25 percent by end-2005, a ratio closer to those of advanced transition economies.
20



47.    The restructuring of the banking system is well advanced, and the Government will
sustain the implementation of the agenda for banking reform. The sale of the remaining
State shares in Central Cooperative Bank and the privatization of Biochim Bank have been
completed. The privatization process for the State Savings Bank (DSK) has begun with the
appointment of J.P. Morgan as the privatization adviser, and is expected to be completed by mid-
2003.30 The Bank Bankruptcy Law was recently enacted to improve the exit process for insolvent
and closed banks. The enactment of amendments to the Banking Law strengthens the supervision
powers of the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB) to enable BNB to identify and investigate direct
and indirect owners of banks. The private sector share of banking assets is expected to be about
98 percent by mid-2003. BNB is pursuing efforts to ensure that prudential standards are
maintained during 2002-05.
48.    The Government is taking steps to stimulate capital markets. The development of the
pension fund and insurance sectors will mobilize long term savings which can be invested in long
term financial instruments in the market. Initiatives include the privatization of the dominant
State Insurance Company (DZI),3' strengthening the governance structures of private pension
funds, and defining a higher and more stable contribution rate to the mandatory second pillar of
the pension system. To improve investor confidence, the Commercial Code is being amended
and the Law on Public Offering of Securities has been amended to address deficiencies in
minornty shareholder protection and to strengthen corporate governance provisions.  The
Mortgage Bond Law was also passed to enable the introduction of more financial instruments. To
protect investors, the supervision capacities of the Bulgarian National Securnties Commission
(BNSC), the State Insurance Supervision Agency (SISA), and the Insurance Supervision Agency
(ISA) are being upgraded. The Parliament is currently deliberating on a draft law that would
integrate the supervision of non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs) in one agency.
49.    A separate body of senior officials from all financial services supervisory agencies
has been established to ensure proper coordination and development of a system-wide
perspective in assessing and dealing with risk and vulnerability. This body - the Financial
Sector Advisory Committee - will serve as an information sharing and policy-oversight organ.
Membership of this body includes the heads of supervisory agencies, although the membership
composition will be reviewed when the legislation integrating NBFI supervision is passed.
Information will be shared among members of the committee to plan and coordinate actions to
address any major vulnerabilities within the financial sector, and to improve investor confidence
and buoyancy of the market. Through such sharng of information, it is expected that the
coordination of functions of the various supervisory agencies can be improved, especially where
supervisory functions overlap. This body will also develop an Early Warming System and a set of
indicators to be used in monitoring the vulnerability of the financial system.
Pillar 4: Improving Public Sector Governance
50.    The Government plans a comprehensive approach to public administration reform.
The Council of Ministers (CoM) recently approved the document Strategy for State
Modernization - from Accession to Integration, together with a set of draft amendments to the
existing Civil Servant Law which have been submitted to Parliament. The strategy will make
provision for improving the functioning of the Institute of Public Administration and European
Integration; the setting up of a program of functional reviews of different ministries and agencies
30 By mid-2003, only two non-private banks will remain: the Business Promotion Bank and the Municipal
Bank owned by the Sofia municipality, which together account for 2.3 percent of bank assets as of end-
September 2002.
31 The privatization of DZI was recently completed, making the insurance sector 100 percent private.
21



to align structures and staffing with program priorities; and the development of a time-bound
program for the implementation of service delivery and performance standards for ministries,
agencies, regional offices, and municipalities. By end-2005, the administrative capacity will be
substantially upgraded and ineffective and overlapping structures closed down.
51.    The Government has adopted a National Anti-Corruption Strategy which takes a
comprehensive approach to the problem of corruption. The challenge will be to translate
such an ambitious agenda into a sequence of concrete actions that will allow the Government to
achieve demonstrable progress in selected priority areas. In that context, the Government has
prepared an action plan that includes: (a) concrete steps to address issues relating to conflict of
interest, lobbying regulation, and political financing; (b) the establishment of an inter-ministerial
commission to implement the plan; (c) the creation of a full time secretariat to support the work
of the commission; and (d) the design of a monitoring system to track progress in meeting the
anti-corruption objectives. The Government has established the Inter-ministerial Committee for
Implementing the Anti-corruption Strategy and Action Plan to ensure coordination of efforts
within the Government.
52.    The Government has also adopted a program and action plan for judiciaDl reform,
including an anti-corruption strategy for the judiciary. The program has four components.
First, human capacity will be enhanced by upgradmg legal education; introducing compulsory
training; improving the magistrate selection, promotion, and demotion process; and establishing
and enforcing performance standards. Second, administrative capacity will be upgraded through
improved planning and resource allocation, better systems support, and implementation of anti-
corruption strategy. Third, alternative dispute mechanisms will be established, including the
training of arbitrators and mediators. Finally, a monitoring system will be established to track the
progress of reforms and how the judiciary is viewed by the lawyer and litigant communities as
well as by the general public. The Government would like to see major improvements by 2005 in
the efficiency of the judicial system using indicators such as by case load per judge, number of
judgments enforced, number ofpending cases, and public perception based on survey feedback.
Pillar 5: Investing in Human Capital and Strengthening Social Programs
53.    The Government has begun an education reform initiative designed to improve
resource management and quality of teaching and learning while continuing to maintain
high levels of access. The reforms will strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Education and
Science (MES); introduce new education standards and curriculum and student assessment and
evaluation system; train inspectors, school directors and teachers; develop a methodology to
support local efforts to optimize the school network; improve resource allocation in general
education through expandmg the delegated budgets system and developing a methodology to
support local efforts to optimize the school network; reform the allocation process for resources
and seats in the higher education institutions; and establish a modem student loan and stipend
program. For the general education, a plan for phased staff reduction and redeployment options
will be implemented. Reductions in employment will to the extent possible be carried out
through attrition and rationalization in urban areas takng into account the social and demographic
factors. In addition, the school network will be gradually optimized by merging schools to reduce
the admmistrative and operational costs and improve maintenance and energy efficiency of
schools. With these measures, the Government expects to raise the student-teacher ratio towards
the average level in OECD countries by end-2005, increase enrollment in primary, middle and
secondary schools to 97-98, 86-90 and 75-80 percent respectively, and upgrade the quality of
education as measured by surveys.
22



54.    The Government has begun a fundamental transformation of the health care system
to improve the relatively poor health status indicators and use the available resources more
efficiently. The focal point of the reforms is the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), which
will undertake both risk pooling and medical care purchasing functions on behalf of the
population. The parameters of a "steady state" health financing system, including the long-term
division of responsibilities and revenue sources between the Ministry of Health (MoH) and the
NHIF, are being developed. The Government plans to ensure adequate maintenance of existing
capital assets and investment in new equipment and facilities so that the quality of care does not
suffer, especially in the hospital sector. It will also develop a plan to address segments of the
population who currently have limited or no access to either medical insurance or medical care
due to socio-economic status or ethnicity. By end-2005, access is expected to improve by 25
percent compared to 2000 baseline, and administrative costs of NHIF kept to within three percent
of revenues with staffing at less than 1,800. The Government would like to see improvements in
the health indicators, including an increase in life expectancy, a reduction in incidence of
tuberculosis and other infectious diseases, and an increase in immunization coverage which has
experienced a sustained decline since 1989.
55.    The Government has also begun the reform of the pension system towards a multi-
pillar one. The new system comprises three pillars: first, the publicly managed pay-as-you-go
system; second, the mandatory supplementary defined contnbution universal32 and occupational33
pension plans; and third, the voluntary supplementary plans. The Government has prepared an
action plan which will help ensure successful implementation of the multi-pillar reform and has
the following main components. First, the contribution rate that will be allocated to the public
and private pillars will be better defined through a legislative amendment. Second, the legal
framework concerning private pension plans and their supervision will be amended to improve
governance structures and supervision capacity, introduce more flexibility in the investment
regime, and eliminate inconsistencies. Third, additional regulations will be issued to complement
legislation. Fourth, an institutional development plan has been prepared to transform State
Insurance Supervision Agency (SISA) into an effective supervisory agency. Fifth, contnbutions
to private pension plans will be transferred promptly and handled in a transparent manner. Sixth,
there will be a campaign to improve public understanding of the reform. By end-2007, private
pension fund assets are projected to reach 2 percent of GDP and the transfer offunds from NSSI
to private pension funds is expected to be no more than 5 days.
56.    The Government plans to further improve the efficiency and coverage of social
assistance programs. The two main cash benefit programs, the Guaranteed Minimum Income
(GMI) and energy benefit programs, have high incidence among the poor. In 2001 the 'extended
GMI' program - encompassing cash and in-kind benefits - channeled 68 percent of resources to
the poorest 20 percent of the population, while 53 percent of the energy benefit went to the
bottom quintile.34 The effectiveness of the GMI program will be improved by elimmating in-kind
benefits in favor of cash and strengthening the administration of social assistance delivery. The
coverage of the energy benefit program will be extended to large families, the eligibility critena
tightened to focus on poor families, and the program reviewed in the light of future tariff
increases. The child allowances program will also be improved by reducing leakage, expanding
coverage, and utilizing means-testing. A poverty monitoring unit in the MOLSP has been
32 For those born after December 31, 1959.
33 For those working under hazardous conditions.
34 See Chapter 5 of Bulgaria. Poverty Assessment, The World Bank, 2002, for an analysis of the social
programs and recommendations for further reformL
23



established to track and assess the impact of government policies and programs on poverty,
including the improvement in the efficiency and coverage of the social assistance programs.
C.   BANIK GROUP STRATEGY
Country Assistance Strategy
57.    The proposed PAL is fully consistent with the 2002-05 Bank Group Country
Assistance Strategy for Bulgaria which was reviewed by the Board of Executive Directors
on May 9, 2002. The CAS focused on three main themes: (a) promoting competitive private
sector led growth; (b) strengthening public administration and anti-corruption initiatives; and (c)
mitigating the social impact of restructuring and delivering social services more effectively.
Drawing from the lessons of the previous CAS, the 2002-05 CAS recognized the need for a
comprehensive policy reform program to support the wide range of policy and institutional
reforms that the transition to market economy market entails. The CAS strategy is for Bank
support to be provided over the CAS period through a series of programmatic adjustment loans
(PALs), which will enable the Bank to be comprehensive in its approach, at the same time
ensuring sustainability of the multi-year nature of the program.
58.    Bulgaria has satisfactorily met the CAS conditions to remain in the base case and,
more importantly, the proposed PAL assists the Government in maintaining satisfactory
progress. The macroeconomic performance improved during the year, portfolio performance
remains satisfactory, structural reforms remain on track, measures to further develop the pnvate
sector are being implemented, the multi-pillar pension reform is ongoing, an energy subsidy
program is in.place to protect the vulnerable groups affected by the substantial electricity price
increase in the second half of 2002, and a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA)
mission was conducted in December 2002.    Further progress on Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR) recommended actions is expected with the decentralization of
procurement and formation of a regional procurement unit in Sofia. The CFAA and CPAR will
serve as important inputs to PAL-2 which will focus on upgrading public sector governance. The
preparation of both PAL-2 and PAL-3 is being initiated this fiscal year which will ensure the
sustainability of the Govermment program begun under the first PAL. The identification in the
first PAL of the tnggers for future PALs further clarifies the conditions to remain in the CAS
base case.
Portfolio Quality
59.    The total Bank-assisted program in Bulgaria as of end-December 2002 comprised 29
operations for a total original commitment of US$1,600.6 million equivalent. This includes
ten adjustment loans (US$900.8 million equivalent), 17 investment projects (US$682.4 million
equivalent), and two Bank-managed Global Environmental Fund grants (US$17.4 million
equivalent). Of these 29 operations, 21 have been completed, of which two have been
restructured and partially cancelled, and eight operations are currently under implementation.
The most recent addition to the Bank's portfolio - the Social Investment and Employment
Promotion project - was approved by the Bank's Board in December 2002.
60.    The current portfolio is comprised of projects with commitments net of
cancellations totaling US$230.6 million35 and complements the reform agenda articulated
by the Government and supported by PALs. The current portfolio of projects was designed to
35 This includes the Social Investmnent and Employment Promotion project.
24



upgrade education and health services, improve child welfare, support environmental
interventions, develop modem registration and cadastre systems, modermize water and transport
sectors, and reduce unemployment.  The projects under implementation are in the early
implementation stages, with only three projects older than two years. Three projects are in an
advanced stage of preparation - Revenue Administration Reform, District Heating Rehabilitation,
and Forest Development - two of which directly support the implementation of the Government
medium term program articulated in the proposed PAL.
61.    The Bank also provides a range of analytical and advisory services as part of its
activities in Bulgaria, and these will be important inputs to the future PALs. An updated
Poverty Assessment and a Public Expenditure and Institutional Review have been completed
recently and provide the analytical base of several components of PAL-2 which focuses on public
sector governance and PAL-3 where the emphasis will be the social sector agenda. A Pension
Note scheduled in FY03 will do a cntical review of the pension reform implementation and
provide options and recommendations that will be covered by PAL-3. A Private Sector
Assessment planned for FY04 will review the effectiveness of the business environment reforms
and will suggest measures to further strengthen the reforms. Numerous grants provided under the
Bank's trust fund programs complement the Bank's lending services through financing project
preparation and advisory services.
62.    The overall performance of the Bulgaria program has been satisfactory since 1997
when a major restructuring of the portfolio took place. The transition to the new Government
in 2001 has been difficult, and there are some symptoms of potential deterioration and volatility
of the portfolio especially in the social sectors. However, these are being proactively addressed
in the process of project supervision and joint portfolio reviews. The Government is fully
committed to project implementation and is working intensively with the Bank to address the
remainng issues quickly in order to ensure that the ambitious program of reforms is implemented
in a timely and efficient manner. The Bank and the Government intend to maintain the increased
level of attention to portfolio management through general dialogue, regular project supervision,
and the joint portfolio review process.
Cooperation with the IMF
63.    The IMF Board approved in February 27, 2002 a two year SDR 240 million Stand
By Arrangement. The IMF supports the Bulganan authorities' economic program as articulated
in the Memorandum of Economic Policies dated February 12, 2002. The ability of the
Government to fulfill its commitments under the EMF program depends to a large extent on the
structural and institutional reforms to be supported by the PALs. Cooperation between the Fund
and the Bank has been strong, including the completion of the joint Bank-Fund Financial Sector
Assessment Program for Bulgaria and the joint technical assistance initiative to upgrade the MoF
debt management capacity. Annex 8 sets out in more detail the roles of the Bank and the IMF
with respect to the Government's economic program.
Coordination with Donors
64.    The Government has adopted a mechanism    for better coordination of donor
activities to ensure effective implementation of Government program priorities as
articulated in the proposed PAL. In order to make more effective use of donor resources
available for reform and development programs, the Government has started developing an
enhanced approach to external assistance by taking the lead in donor coordination. The new
process seeks to organize donor resources around the Government's major development
priorities. Four thematic areas for donor support have been identified: (i) business climate; (n)
25



living standards improvement; (iii) governance and public administration; and (iv) infrastructure
and natural resources management. Under the new donor coordination mechanism that was
adopted, relevant deputy prime ministers are responsible for these broad prionty areas. Various
working groups in each of these thematic areas are established to work at operational level. They
are aligned with government priorities and are led by deputy ministers. The Council for
Structural Policy plays the overarching policy coordination role, and the Council of Ministers'
Directorate for EU Integration and Relations with International Financial Institutions acts as
secretariat (coordination unit).
D. THE PROPOSED LOAN
Program Design
65.    The proposed PAL is the first of a series of three adjustment operations envisioned
to be implemented during the CAS period. Each PAL operation is to be presented separately
to the Board, within a common framework developed and agreed to in the first operation. As
articulated in the CAS, the first PAL would advance structural, regulatory, and institutional
reforms in the real andfinancial sectors that would move Bulgaria towards a functioning market
economy. PAL-2, in addition to sustaining the reforms under the first PAL, would focus on
public sector governance, including public administration modernization, judicial reform, and
anti-corruption initiatives. PAL-3 would focus on the long term social sector agenda, in addition
to ensuring the sustained implementation of the reform program supported by previous PALs.
The sequencing of the thematic focus was based in part on the state of preparatory work and the
absorptive capacity of the Govemment. Important pieces of Economic and Sector Work either
planned or recently completed - including a Poverty Assessment, a Public Expenditure and
Institutional Review, and a Pension Note - are important building blocks in the preparation of
PAL-2 and PAL-3.
66.    The evolution of the design of the proposed PAL was influenced by the
Government's own priorities and timetable, which were driven by both EU accession issues
and the need to deliver on campaign promises. While the first PAL was initially envisioned to
focus on busmess environment, energy and financial sector issues, the Government begun
developmg reform strategies on several fronts, including railway, telecommunications, water,
anti-corruption, judiciary, health, education, and social assistance which were initially planned to
be covered by future PALs. Rather than wait for the preparation of the future PALs to engage the
Government on these issues, the first PAL included its program design the development of
strategies and action plans in the areas of public sector governance and social sector, and
incorporated the railway, telecommunications, and water reforms whose implementation had
started. Given that the first PAL was the only adjustment operation under preparation, the PAL
was the appropriate vehicle to engage the Government on policy and structural reform issues
where the Government was making strategic decisions.
67.    The Letter of Development Folicy (Annex 5) describes the Government's medium
term program, including those components to be supported by future PALs. It also
identifies measurable program outcomes36 and emphasizes coordination and implementation. The
process of identifying measurable outcomes has impressed on the different govemment officials
the importance of coordmation given the need for inter-ministerial action to achieve many of the
outcomes. The monitoring and evaluation of outcomes will guide both the Bank and the
36 Some outcomes, such as those m the public administration and anti-corruption areas, will be identified
during the PAL-2 preparation.
26



Government in assessing the effectiveness of the different reform initiatives and institutions. The
LDP also contains the agreed triggersfor PAL-2 and PAL-3.
68.    The Government has taken several steps to ensure the successful implementation of
the program. First, it has activated the Council for Structural Policy within the Council of
Ministers which is charged with the coordination function. Second, the Government has received
institutional development plans, currently under implementation, from several critical institutions
to ensure capacity to deliver on program commitments. Third, the Govemment has reorganized
its donor coordination activities to align donor activities with program pnorities, including
technical assistance to critical institutions. Fourth, Government has taken greater efforts to
ensure the successful implementation of current and future investment projects, such as the recent
successful effort at upgrading the unsatisfactory status of the Customs project. Fifth, the
Government has improved communications with the public, including establishment of
commissions with private sector participation and more generally involving stakeholders early in
the design of government reform initiatives.
Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
69.   In addition to developing the foundation of the medium term reform program, the
Govemment in the course of preparing the proposed PAL completed several substantial and
concrete actions to begin implementation of the program. These actions, including the Board
conditions, are identified below. The maintenance of macroeconomic stability, which was
discussed in the first section of this memorandum, is a precondition for proceeding with the
proposed PAL. As discussed earlier, macroeconomic performance has been robust in 2002.
Pillar I: Sustaining Structural Reforms
*  Enactment of a new Law on Privatization and Post Privatization Control
* Privatization of Biochim and DZI [PAL-I Board Condition]
* Enactment of amendments to the Energy and Energy Efficiency Act (EEEA)
* Establishment of electricity distribution, generation and transmission companies as
separate legal entities
* Adoption by the CoM of key regulations on electricity pricing and contracting of
power by eligible consumers
* Implementation of an average price increase of 20 percentfor household electricity
prices in the second half of 2002 and approval of an indicative timetableforfuture
price increases towards their adjustment to cost-recovery levels [PAL-I Board
Condition]
* Satisfactory implementation of the district heating (DH) component of the Energy
Strategy approved by the CoM on May 11, 2002, including: introduction of two-part
tariffs for all customers (a fixed capacity charge for all customers and an energy
charge based on measured or estimated consumption); implementation of a 10
percent price adjustment in 2002, approval of an indicative schedule for raising
household tariffs to cost-recovery levels and phasing out DH company subsidies; and
allowing disconnection of entire buildings under specified conditions (Annex 6-C)
* SERC development of a strategy for issuing tenders to develop the low-pressure gas
market
* Creation of new railway operating company as a joint stock company which has
commercial objectives and autonomous decision making
27



* Creation of new railway infrastructure company as an independent public agency
required to comply with minimum economic criteria for its expenditures
* Issuance by the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MoTC) of regulations
that (i) ensure that any willing and competent railway service supplier may be
licensed; (ii) provide fair and transparent rules for track access; and (iii) keep
transaction costs low for any prospective railway service supplier
* Preparation of sound plan of action for rationalization of rail network and operations
* Implementation of Chapter 19 (telecommunications) EU accession commitments
descrnbed in Annex 6-C
* Establishment of an independent, transparent, and accountable regulator for the
telecommunications sector - the Communications Regulation Commission (CRC)
* Issuance and implementation of a privatization strategy for BTC that ensures no
extension of BTC exclusivities [PAL-I Board Condition]
* Satisfactory progress in BTC tariff rebalancing
* Submission to Parliament of draft New Telecommunications Law
* Submission of amendments to the Water Law supporting the restructuring of the
Regional Water Companies
* Enactment of a new Environment Protection Act [PAL-I Board Condition]
*  Enactment of Biodiversity Law
Pillar H: Establishing a Market-friendly Business Environment
*  Submission to Parliament of draft Law on Administrative Regulation and
Administrative Control on Economic Activities [PAL-I Board Condition]
* CoM approval of a program for eliminating and restructuring regulatory regimes
* Development by a working group of a plan for the integration of the Bulstat, tax, and
social security registration of companies
* Completion of a baseline Administrative and Regulatory Cost Survey (ARCS).
* Establishment of a Tax Council to include representatives from the private sector
* Implementation of Customs reform in three pilot locations
* Development of a plan for piloting a system of monitoring service standards in the
Directorate for National Building Control at the Ministry of Regional Development
and Public Works and the Labor Inspectorate at the Ministry of Labor and Social
Policy
* CoM decision to establish a National Revenue Agency
*  Enactment of the Law on State Aid harmonized with EU directives
* Submission to Parliament of amendments to the Law on the Protection of
Competition to strengthen the enforcement powers of the Commission for the
Protection of Competition
* Initiation of actions implementing the Social Policy Strategy and Strategic Note on
Labor Market Reform37 adopted by the CoM
*  Development of a set of indicators on labor market flexibility and ALMP impact
* Submission to Parliament of proposed amendments to Part IV (insolvency) of the
Commercial Code [PAL-I Board Condition]
* Approval by the MoJ of a plan to improve the selection and monitoring of
bankruptcy trustees
37 PAL-3, whose first mission is being planned this FY, will review implementation of the strategy and
recommend measures to further improve on the action plan.
28



Pillar HI.: Deepenint the Financial System
* Submission to Parliament of amendments to the Law on Registered Pledges
* Enactment of amendments to the foreclosure provisions of the Civil Procedure Code
* Enactment of an Accountancy Act and an Independent Financial Audit Act to adopt
intemational standards in accounting and auditing
* Submission to Parliament of a draft Law on Measures Against Terrorist Financing
* Submission to Parliament of draft amendments to the Law on Measures Against
Money Laundering
* Enactment of Bank Bankruptcy Law
* Enactment of amendments to the Banking Law providing broader powers to the BNB
to investigate and identify direct and indirect ownership of banks
* Issuance of regulations for foreign investments of private pension funds
* Adoption of an institutional development plan for the State Insurance Supervisory
Agency (SISA)
* Adoption of an institutional development plan for Insurance Supervisory Agency
(ISA)
* Enactment of the Mortgage Bond Law to enable issuance of mortgage backed
securities
* Enactment of amendments to the Law on Public Offering of Securities to strengthen
minority shareholder rights protection
* Submission to Parliament of amendments to the Commercial Code to strengthen
corporate govemance
* Enactment of amendments to the Insurance Act to harmonize with EU directives and
strengthen ISA
* Elimination of monopolies in certain segments of the insurance market
* Establishment of a forum for coordination and review of systemic vulnerabilities
Pillar IV: ImDro vig Governance
*  Approval of Strategyfor State Administration -from Accession to Integration, and
program for its implementation agreed with the Bank [PAL-I Condition]
*  Approval of a national training strategy approved by CoM
*  Completion of a Pay and Benefits Survey in the public sector
*  Development of monitoring indicators to track public administration outcomes
* Development of an anti-corruption strategy and action plan agreed with the Bank
[PAL-i Condition]
*  Establishment of the Inter-ministerial Committee for Implementing the Anti-
corruption Strategy and Action Plan
* Approval by CoM of a program and action plan for judicial reform including a
National Anti-Corruption Componentfor the Judiciary [PAL-i Condition]
*  Preparation by the Supreme Judicial Council of uniform standards of service for the
administrative staff in the judiciary
*  Submission to Parliament of amendments to the Judicial Act incorporating adoption
of uniform criteria for the selection of magistrates and the evaluation of their
performance
*  Introduction of compulsory training for magistrates
29



Pillar V: Investing in Human Capital and Strengthening Social Protection
*  Preparation of a plan for phased staff reduction and other efficiency measures m the
education system agreed with the Bank
o  Approval by CoM of a strategy for hospital restructuring, including financing plan
*  Agreement among the MoF, MoH, and the NHIF on a long term funding approach
for hospital services
*  Introduction of the second pillar of the pension reform with a two percent
contribution rate
*  Adoption of regulations to transfer contributions to private pension funds in a prompt
and transparent manner
*  Initiation of implementation of an action plan to improve and strengthen the pension
reform program
*  Introduction of targeting of child allowances
*  Adoption of an adjusted energy subsidy program in view of announced tariff
increases [PAL-I Condition]
*  Establishment of a poverty monitoring unit in the MOLSP
  Approval by CoM of amendments to the Social Assistance Act opening social
services provision for private and NGO providers
Medium Term Actions and Triggers for Future PALs
70.    The Government has identified time bound actions to sustain the reforms over the
next two to three years and agreed to a set of triggers for PAL-2 and PAL-3. As more
information becomes available from economic and sector work as well as feedback mechanisms
such as surveys, some of these actions may be modified or strengthened. Nonetheless, several
actions during the next three years critical to the success to the program have been identified and
are included in the LDP and Performance Benchmark Matrix. The triggers for future PALs are
listed below.  In addition, the continued maintenance of macroeconomic stability is a
precondition for future PALs. Furthermore, as discussed in paragraph 21, the CAS has imposed
additional triggers for processing PAL-3.
Pillar I Sustaiing Structural Reforms
By Mid-2003 (PAL-2 Trigger):
* Privatization or liquidation of large SOEs listed in Annex 6-B
o Enactment of energy legislation consistent with EU Electricity & Gas Directives
* Reduction of railway labor force by 10% compared to the level at end of 2001
*  Satisfactory implementation of environmental policies on SOEs to be privatized
By mid-2004 (PAL-3 Trigger):
*  Privatization or liquidation of large SOEs listed in Annex 6-B
e  Privatization or liquidation 80 percent of the remaining small SOEs as of September
30, 2002
*  Continued satisfactory implementation of district heating component of the Energy
Strategy approved by the CoM on May 11, 2002, including a tariff adjustment
program and private sector participation (Annex 6-C)
*  Cumulative reduction of the railway labor force by 20% compared to the level at end
of 2001
30



Pilar H: Establishing a Market-friendly Business Environment
By mid-2003 (PAL-2 Trizger):
* Elimination of 40 and modification of 50 regulatory regimes per program approved
by the CoM on June 7, 2002
* Submission to Parliament of amendments to the Labor Code agreed with Bank
By mid-2004 (PAL-3 Trigger):
* Implementation of the reform of the administrative court system towards
specialization, and of a program for upgrading skills ofjudges
Pilar mW1: Deepening the Financial System
By mid-2003 (PAL-2 Trig ger):
* Enactment of amendments to the Mandatory Social Insurance Code and the
Voluntary Pension Code strengthening pension fund govemance and SISA
supervision capacity, introducing more flexibility to the investment regime while
maintaining a prudent portfolio, and eliminating inconsistencies
Pilar IV: Improvin-' Governance
By mid-2003 (PAL-2 Tri-gyer)
*  Satisfactory progress in implementing the State administration modemization
program based on the agreed performance benchmarks and assessment of the agreed
monitoring/performance indicators
*  Development and initiation of implementation of a program for improving local
administration
*  Regulatory action establishing a legal framework favorable to a national system of
altemative dispute resolution
By mid-2004 (PAL-3 Trigger)
* Continued satisfactory progress in implementing the State administration
modemization program based on the agreed performance benchmarks and assessment
of the agreed performance indicators
* Continued satisfactory implementation of the anti-corruption action plan
* Improved supervisory, budgetary and planning capacity of the SJC based on a plan to
be agreed with the Bank
Pilar V: Investing in Human Capital and Strengtbening Social Protection
By mid-2003 (PAL-2 Trigger):
* After a review of the social assistance programs, development and implementation of
a plan agreed with the Bank to improve coverage and increase efficiency38
38 This will be performed m the course of PAL-2. The Poverty Assessment has made an analysis of the
impact and efficacy of existing programs on the poor and laid out some strategic options for improvement
(see para 56). The improvements will need to take into account the work in PAL-2 on the local
government and decentralization components of the public administration pillar. Specific outcome
indicators on social assistance program reform - such as quantitative targets on percentage of resources
going to the poorest quintile of the population - will be defined m PAL-2 and satisfactory progress in
implementing the program will be a trigger for PAL-3.
31



By mid-2004 (PAL-3 Trigger)
* Continued satisfactory progress in implementation of the action plan to improve and
strengthen the pension reform program39
o Implementation of plan agreed with the Bank to improve coverage and increase
efficiency of social assistance programs
Implementation and Monitoring
71.    To improve coordination and management of the program, the Council for
Structural Policy was activated, headed by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for
Economy and includes as members the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labor and Social
Policy, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the
Minister of Finance, four other ministers, two deputy ministers, and the Executive Directors of
the Privatization Agency and Foreign Investment Agency. The secretariat function is provided by
an eight-member team in the Directorate for EU Integration and Relations with IFIs. A full time
adviser will be hired to assist in the functioning of the Council.
72.    There are several committees that focus on specific components of the reform
program, among them: the Inter-ministerial Working Group for the Optimization of Regulatory
Regimes, the Financial Supervision Advisory Council, the Poverty Monitoring Unit at the
Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, and Labor Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) Unit
within the National Statistical Institute.
73.    To ensure implementation funding and expert support, there are existing Bank
projects in the areas of education, health, social assistance, employment promotion, cadastre, and
customs. Planned Bank projects cover distnct heating, unification of revenue collection, and
rural development.  As mentioned earlier, the Government has taken steps to improve
coordination of donor activities to ensure better alignment of donor activities with government
priorities.
74.    The Government has also developed mechanisms for participation by stakeholders
in the design and implementation of the reform program. Several forums have been
established with both private and public sector memberships to facilitate dialogue on thematic
issues, among them, the Council on Economic Growth and the Tax Council. There are regular
consultations with established private sector organizations such as the Chamber of Commerce and
Industry, the Industnal Association, and the Employers' Association.
75.    Finally, the medium term program implementation plan includes several feedback
mechanisms to enable the Government to track progress towards the desired outcomes. A
baseline Administrative and Regulatory Cost Survey (ARCS) has been completed and will be
performed annually. The living standards survey will be done on a regular basis. A joint
EBRD/WB enterprise survey has been completed recently and annual enterprise surveys on
specific issues are planned. To assess changes in public perception of the judicial system, a
survey is being designed to be implemented next year.
39 The Govermnent submitted a seven-point program for strengthening the implementation of the reform of
the pension system. The objectives of the program are to increase the contribution rate to the second pillar,
irmprove supervision and govemance of pnvate pension funds, increase the efficiency of collection and
transfer by NSSI of pension contribution to pension funds, and improve public awareness of the pension
reform. Satisfactory progress in the implementation of the program will be a PAL-3 trigger.
32



Loan Administration
76.    Borrower and Loan Amount. The proposed PAL will have a loan amount of US$150
million equivalent to be disbursed in Euro to be made to the Government of Bulgarna, represented
by the Ministry of Finance. The loan will be a single tranche fixed spread loan with a 16 year
matunty including a grace period of 6 years. The proposed PAL is the first of three planned
adjustment loans totaling $450 million based on the CAS.
77.    Disbursement. In accordance with the February 8, 1996 Operational Directive on the
Simplification of Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustment
Loans, funds disbursed under the proposed PAL will be released against satisfactory progress in
the reforms set forth in the loan. Disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases, thus
evidence will not be needed to support disbursements, nor will procurement requirements be
necessary. Upon approval of the loan and notification by Bank of loan effectiveness, the
Government will submit a withdrawal application. The Ministry of Finance will open and
maintain a Deposit Account in the Bulgarian National Bank. IBRD will deposit the proceeds of
the loan into this Deposit Account at the request of the Ministry of Finance. Pnor to that, the
Bank will withdraw from the Loan Account a front end fee amounting to 1 percent of the loan
amount. If after the loan proceeds are deposited in the BNB account, the proceeds are used for
ineligible purposes as defined in the loan agreement, IBRD will require the borrower to either: (a)
return that amount to the Deposit Account for use for eligible purposes or (b) refund the amount
directly to IBRD.
78.    Accounts, Auditing and Closing Date. The Govemment will maintain accounts and
records, or ensure that such items are maintained, showing that loan disbursements were in
accordance with provisions of the Loan Agreement.  Such accounts and records will be
maintained in a form acceptable to the Bank. The extemal auditor of BNB will conduct an annual
review of the deposit account opened by the Govemment in BNB to exclusively hold the loan
proceeds. The terms of reference of the review should be acceptable to the Bank. The review
will examine and report on the disbursements from the deposit account until such time that all the
loan proceeds have been fully utilized. Such reviews will be submitted to the Bank as soon as
they are completed. The Bank. may require a more extensive audit of such records by
independent auditors.
79.    Environmental Impact.  The environmental classification is C. The project has
addressed environmental issues in the privatization process, energy restructuring, water sector
modermization, and introduction of the Integrated Pollution Permit System.
80.    Compliance with Bank Policies. The loan complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Benefits and Risks
81.   Benefits. First, the proposed PAL assists a new govemment define a medium term
economic program that achieves sustained growth, poverty reduction, and progress towards EU
accession.  Second, the proposed PAL helps put in place mechanisms and institutional
arrangements that would ensure successful implementation, coordination, monitoring, and
evaluation of the medium term program. Third, the proposed PAL lays the groundwork for future
PALs by creating the framework and identifying future critical actions to be supported by future
operations. Fourth, the proposed PAL complements the current and planned mvestment projects
by establishing the enabling policy framework, especially in the social sector. Fifth, the program
supported by the loan complements and reinforces the IMF program.
33



82.    Risks.  First, there is implementation risk given the current weaknesses in
institutional capacity which the PALs seek to correct. To address implementation risk, the
Government under the proposed PAL activated the Council for Structural Policy, is implementing
institutional strengthening programs for critical offices and agencies, and is improving donor
coordination to align donor funded technical assistance with program priorities. In addition,
PAL-2 will focus on upgrading public administration, which will address government capacity to
design and implement reform. Current and planned investment projects in the health, education,
energy, and water sectors, revenue administration, cadastre, and environment complement the
PALs by providing implementation support.
83.    Second, the political risk remains high, with the possibility of policy slippages.
Coalition building in support of many of the socially difficult reforms may run into resistance
especially if unemployment remains high and anti-corruption efforts fail to improve perception.
Implementing difficult structural reforms with accompanying improved targeting of social
programs and well designed communications strategy mitigates the political risk. This was the
case when electricity prices were recently increased by 20 percent - the implementation of a
winter energy support program and a consultation process prevented a political backlash. More
generally, the social protection and assistance pillar of the reform program would mitigate the
adverse effects of the difficult structural reforms while the business environment pillar would
expand opportunities for employment. In addition, strong support by all political parties for
Bulgaria's EU accession and NATO membership is effectively anchoring the direction of
macroeconomic and structural reforms.
84.    Third, there may be shocks coming from the external environment, jeopardizing
macroeconomic stability. Bulgana faces several significant extemal risks. A failure to carry out
the envisaged privatization program or attract sufficient greenfield FDI would put the projected
extemal financing at nsk, requiring additional adjustment to ensure that debt levels continue to
decline. Moreover, Bulgaria's extemal accounts are more sensitive to three key parameters: an
increase in oil prices, higher interest rates, and a prolonged slowdown in EU economies which are
the destination of over fifty percent of Bulgarian exports and the origin of more than half the FDI
inflows. However, the achievements to date, the better than expected performance m the last
several months of 2002, and the active efforts to restructure and reduce extemal debt enabled
Bulgaria to manage extemal risks. Continued maintenance of strict discipline in macroeconomic
management, the measures in place to respond to potential risks, and acceleration of structural
reforms substantially mitigate these rnsks.
34



Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
Bulgaria at a glance                                                                  1903
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Central   middle-
Bulgaria      Asia   Income       Development diamond'
2001
Populabon, rrid-year (mIllons)                          8 1       475      2,164                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    1.630      1960      1.240
GNI (Altas method, USS bgllons)                        13 2       930      2,677
Average annual growth, 1995401
Populalon (%J                                          -0 6        01        10
Labor force (X)                                        -0 5        0 6       12      GNI                              Gross
per                             pnnmary
Most recent eastmate (latest year avalable, 1995-01)                                 capita                           nient
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban populabon (% of total populatlon)                  70        63        46
Ltfe expectancy at birth (years)                         72        69        69
Infant mortality (per l,000liveirths)                    14        20        33
Child rialnutnton (96 of chidren under 5)                                    11           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source  (X of population)    98        90        s0
Illiteracy (X ofpopulation age 15+)                       2         3        15
Grossprirnlaryenrolrment  (X ofschool-agepopulation)    101       102       107         -B   ulgana
Male                                                  102       103       107               Lower-rniddle-income group
Ferrale                                                99       101       107
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981      1991      2000      2001
EconomIc ratlos-
GDP (US$ bfllions)                            201      109        126       136
Gross domesic investmenVGDP                   35 5     22 6       18 3      20 4
Exports of goods and servicesGDP              35 6     43 5       55 7      55 7                     Trade
Gross domeslc savings/GDP                     36 6     26 9       12 9      12 9
Gross nabonal savlngs/GDP                              17 3       12 7      14 3
Current account balancelGDP                    0 6      -0 7      -5 6      -61      omestc    Iv.                       r
Interest payments/GDP                          0 2      0 8        4 0       3 7     Don   t
Total debt/GDP                                 3 9    107.3       88 9      783          gs
Total debt servicelexports                     0 7      5 4       13 5      17 0
Present value of debt/GDP
Present value of debVexports
Indebtedness
1981-91  199141      2000       2001   200145
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  2 2      -0 7      5 4        4 0       5 0               Bulgarla
GDP per capita                       2 4      -0 1      5 9        4 6       5 7             - Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and servmces      -114        7 2     16 6        8 5       8.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991       2000      2001      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP) 
Agriculture                                   166      154        123       121        T
Industry                                      51 9     57 8       25 8      25 2     -20
Manufacturing                                                   157       1555o 
Services                                     290       184        487       571     -20                 98    go    OD   01
Pnvate consumption                           48 7      54 1       69.2      711      40
General govemment consunmtion                 14 7     19 0       17 9      161                       GDI           GDP
lmports of goods and services                 34 5     39 2       61 1      63 2                      GD-           GO
1981-91  199141        2000      2001      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)                                                              3
Agnculture                                    -19       41       -103        05      30
Industry                                       3 0     -3 2       10 6       4.2     20.
Manufacturing
Servioes                                       4 4     -3 5        6 7       4 2     to 
Private consumprton                            15      -0 5        4 6       5 0     Om
Generl govemment consumpbon                    3 7     -6 0       11 7       2 4    -10
Gross domestc investmanet-                    -0 1      1 6       154       199                    Exports         Imports
Imports of goods and services                -12 9      a 8       18 6      13 0
Note 2001 data are prelirinary esbtrates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are rrsssing. the diamond will
be Incompiete
Reters to gross dormestic fixed investment



Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
Bulgana
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981          1991      2000      2001      In1bdon (%)
DomestSc tprices
(% change)                                                                             |ooS
Consumer prices                                                      104        715 _-
Implict GDP deflator                                      226 6       6 7       65       t0         D
485
Govenmet finance                                                                         __-.
(6 of GDP, incudes current grants)                                                        o 0
Current revenue                                            43 6      38 2      37 4              go   D7    Oa    go    oo   rn
Current budget balance                                     -1 2       3 2       3 3             -     GDP delator  -    CPI
Overall surplustdsfiact                                    -4 2       0 3       2 0
TRADE
1981          1991      2000      2001      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ mlllhons)
Total exports (fob)                                       3,737     4.825     5,107     8.rJc
Consumer goods                                                     1,439    1,715     7.0OD
Investment goods                                                    552       625     a OC*
Manufactures                                                        656       675     5     _OD
Totl imports (clf)                                        4.071     6.507     7.261     4.O        *
Food                                                                175       198     z9o   _         _
Fuel and energy                                                    1,775    1,627      ,o   _ )_                _
Capital goods                                           1,263      1.592    1,816        o
Expont price index (1995=100)                                          as85      65
Import prdce index (1995=100)                                          86       87                  D Exports     U imports
Terms df trade (1995=100)                                              99       98
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981          1991      2000      2001      Current account balanco to GDP (36)
(US$ mittlonsJ
Exports of goods and servicea               9,338         4,137     7.000     7.532     12
Imports of goods and services               9,046         4,255     7,670     8.555     10
Resource balance                             292           -118      -670    -1.023 
Net income                                   -261           -28      -321      -304     4
Net current transfers                         90             69       290      498      2       PM
Current aacount balance                       121           -77      -702     -828      -2       Ge    97   Oa
Fmnancing Items (net)                        -490            -4       975     1.272     44 
Changes hi net reserves                       369            81      -273      44
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (US$ milZions)                     616      3.460     3,579
Conversion rate (DEC, tocal'JSS)                           0 01       2.1       2 2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981          1991      2000      2001
(US$ miDlions)                                                                          Composrton of 2001 debt (USS mIll.)
Totaldebtoutstandinganddisbursed              773        11,742    11.202    10,616
IBRD                                         0            61        824      844
IDA                                          0             0          0        0                G t,210    A S44
Total debt seerve                             68            227       990     1,340 
IBRD                                         0             0         76       80                 -
IDA                                          0             0          0        0
Composibon of net resource flows                                                                                _          797
OfMlidal grants                              ,            19         74       177                  r
Oftfioal creditors                                        29         12     -179                  -
Pnvate creditors                                          30        107      352
Foreign direct investment                                 56      1,002      694
Portfolio equity                                           0          5        -9            F 5,935
World Bank program
CommRanents                                  0           267        135       88      A- 16FD                     E- Bliateral
Disbursements                                0            58         71       88      6 - IDA   D - Oter multiateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                         0             0         27       32      C - IMF                     G - Sort-n
Net flows                                    0            58         44       56
Interest payments                            0             0         49       48
Net transfers                                0            58         -5        8
Development Economics                                                                                                     1/9/03



Annex 2
Page 1 of 1
Bulgaria Social Indicators
Latest single year            Same region/income group
Europe &        Lower-
Central      middle-
1970-75      1980485     1994400              Asia       Income
POPULATION
Total populabon, mid-year (millions)              8 7          8 9          8 2            474 7       2,048 0
Growth rate (% annual average for penod)        05           02          -0 5              0 1           1 0
Urban population (% of population)               57 5         64 5         69 6             66 8          42 4
Total fertility rate (births per woman)           2 2          2 0          1 3              1 6           2 1
POVERTY
(% of populabon)
National headcount index
Urban headcount index
Rural headcount index
INCOME
GNI per capita (US$)                                         1,980        1,520            2,010         1,140
Consumer pnce index (1995=100)                                            3,448              192           149
Food pnce index (1995=100)
INCOME/CONSUMPTiON DISTRIBUTION -
Gini index                                                                 26 4
Lowest quinble (% of income or consumption)                                10 1
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption)                              36 8
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                                                         36               43            27
Education (% of GNI)                                         55           34               51            47
Social secunty and welfare (% of GDP)                                    11.7              88
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                            96           96          93                92            99
Male                                           96          96           94                93           100
Female                                         97          96           92                92            99
Access to an Improved water source
(% of population)
Total                                                                                       90            80
Urban                                                                                     95            95
Rural                                                                   98                82            69
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                                       99          96                97            87
DPT                                                           99          96                97            87
Child malnutnbon (% under 5 years)                                                                          11
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                            71           71           72               69            69
Male                                           69           68           68               64            67
Female                                         74           75          75                73            72
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)                23           15           13               21            32
Under 5 (per thousand live births)               32           25           16               26            40
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                   172          190         227               289           192
Female (per 1,000 populaton)                  106          106          106              127           133
Matemal (per 100,000 live births)                                         23
Births attended by skilled health staff (%)                                 99
This table was produced from the CMU LDB system                                                         1ol18/02
Note 0 or 0 0 means zero or less than half the unit shown Net enrollment ratios exceeding 100 indicate discrepancies
between the estimates of school-age population and reported enrollment data



Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
Bulgaria - Selected Indicators Table
Bose-case (most likely) projection
Actual            Estimate                Projection
1996   1997    1998   1999   2000    2001    2002    2003   2004   2005
Part A: Main Macro Aggregates
Annualgrowth rates (%)
GDP(mp) percapita            -8.9    -5.1    47     2.9     5.9     4.6    4.6     56      6.2    6.2
Total consumption per capita  -7.7   -9 1    4.7     9.4    6 3     5.1    4.1     5.1     5 6    5.6
GDP at market pnces          -9.4    -5 6    4 0    2.3     5 4     4 0    4.0     5.0     5.5    5 5
Total consumption            -8.2   -9.6    4.0     8.8    5 7     4.5    3.5     4 5     4 9    4.9
Private consumption        -38   -107     2.7     95     4.6     5.0     3.6    50      5.5    57
Gross domestic investment
(GDI)                        -25.9    -6 7   26.4    5.2     4 7     7 0    4.2     4 8     3.0    2 8
Gross dom. fixed investment
(GDFI)                       -21.2   -20 9   35 2    20 8   15.4    19 9     7 0    8 0     8.5    8.5
Exports (GNFS)                11.8   12.8   -4.7    -5 0   16.6     8 5     5.9    9 9     9 7    9 2
of which Goods              -5.6    9 3    -3 8   -4.5   20.4     5 8     4 6    9 4     9 6    9.2
Imports(GNFS)                -1.9    10.9   12.1     93    186     130      5.5     95     7.3    66
of which Goods             -10.8    3.4   17 1    11.2   17.9    108      4.2    9.1     6.9    7.8
Savings-investment balances, aspercentage of GDP
GrossDomestic investment      8 1     99    16 9    17 9   18 3    204     20.7   21 1    21 5   22 0
of which Government
investment                     1.6     1.0    3 7    45      3 9     3.9     3.2    3 5     3.6    4.0
Foreign savings              -1.7  -10.1     0 5    5.0    5.6     6 1     4.2     5 3    4.7     4.4
Grossnationalsavings          98    200     164    12.9    127     14.3   165     15.8    16.8   176
Govemmentsavings           -13.7    2.1    48      45     3.2     33      3.1     32     2.9    2.9
Nongovemmentsavings        234     178    11.6     8.4    9.5    11 0    13.4    12.6   13.9    14.7
Gross domestic savings        13.5   14.5   17.1    12.1   12.9    12.9    14.5    14.8   16 1    17.1
Other
GDP inflation (%)           120.8  948.5    23 7    3 7    6.7     6.5     5.4     3.3    4.0     3.6
Annual average exchange rate
(LCU/US$)                     0.18    1 68   1.76    1.84   2.12    2 19    2.09   2.00    1 99    1 98
Index real average exchange
rate(YR95=100,%)              81 6    74.2   61 2   63.3    660       ..
Terms of trade index (YR95
=100, %)                      96.3    94.8   98.6   98.6    98.5    97.9   106.6   106 6  106 6   106 7
Incremental capital-output ratio
(GDI based)                   -3 3    4 6     6.3    13.4    5.9     7 9     8 1    6 5     5 9    5 8
Import elasticity with respect
toGDP                        114.7   -601   428.3  4870    331.5   270.0   1059    181.3  126.2   142.4
M2growth(%)                 117.2  3568     119    13.0   322     26.7    154     155     17.0   17.0



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Bulgaria - Selected Indicators Table
(Continued)
Base-case (most likely) projection
Actual             Estimate                  Projection
1996    1997    1998   1999    2000     2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Part B: Government Finance Indicators
Percentage of GDP a
Total revenues, of which a     31 7    30.7    354     386     387     37.7    36.0    35.6    356     35 3
Taxrevenues                  264     26 1    298     294     299     28.8    27 3    274     27 1    268
Total expenditures, of which   42 0    32 7   34.5    39 6    39 7     38.6    36.7    36.3    35.9    35 3
Consumption                   114    13.3    158     168     160     138      139     129     12.6    124
Deficit(-)/Surplus(+)         -10.3    -2 0    09      -0.9   -1.0    -0.9     -0.7    -0 7    -0 3     0 0
Financing                      10.3     2.0   -0 9     0.9     1.0      0.9     0 7     0.7     03      0 0
Other
Total Debtb/GDPmp (%)         1167    1075    93.0    84.7    805      700     61 7    552     504     459
Total interest payments/Tax
revenues (%)                    750     303     14.6    128     135     13.0      81      87     11.5   10.9
Part C: Debt & Liquidity Indicators
Total DOD and TDS
DOD(US$millions)              9603   10414  10893   10915   11202    10616   10933   11416   12080   12829
DOD / GDPmp (%)               97 0   100.4    85.5    84 3    88 9    783     70 3     64 8   62 2    60 1
TDS(US$millions)              1254     817    1090    936     990     1340    1583    1128    1147    1390
TDS/exports(XGS),%            18.5    11 3    17.3    154     13.5    17.0    19.1     12.6    117     129
Total gross reserves (months'
imports G&S)                     1.4     4 6     5 6     5.5     5 0     4 7     5.8      5 4     5 4     5 5
Part D: External Financing Plan
(USS, millions)
Official capital grants      65.9     0 0     0 0    -2 4    24 9     -0.1    0.0      0 0     0 0     0 0
Private investment (net)      8.1   639.4   295.8   602 3   824.6   766.8   567 7    648.4   777.8  857.2
Net Long term borrowing
excl IMF                       -275.0  -133 0  114 0   355.0   234.0    60.6    105.2   525.0   670 0   724 7
Adjustments to scheduled
debt service                     0.0     0.0     0 0     0 0     0 0     0 0      0 0     0 0     0 0     0 0
All other capital flows     -606 0  -309 6   -16 7   61 9   -108 8   444 6   681 3   -115.4  -45 5    33 5
Financing Requirements (mel
IMF)                          -807.0   196 8   393 0  1016 8   974 8  1271 9   1354.2  1057 9  1402 3  1615 4
of which current account
deficit                       -163 7 -1046 3    61.4   651.7   701 6   828 2    653 5   928 9   910 4   942.4
a General Govemment operations consistent with the IMF Stand-By Arrangement and differ from GFS definitions.
b. Includes total public debt-extemal and domestic.



Annex 4
Page 1 of 1
Bulgaria - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual            Estimate             Projected
Indicator          1996  1997    1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003    2004   2005
Total debt outstanding and   9603  10414  10893  10915  11202   10616  10933  11416  12080  12829
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (USSm)a    -41     131    413    666    492     115  -233     250    460    447
Total debt service (TDS)     1254    817   1090    936    990    1340   1583   1128   1147   1390
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                   141.4  144 2  173 2  180.1  153.0   134 7  131.8  127.5  123.4  119.3
TDO/GDP                     97.0  100.4   85 5   84.3   88.9   78.3    70.3   64.8   62.2   60.1
TDS/XGS                     18 5   11.3   17.3   15.4   13.5    17.0   19.1   12.6   11.7   12.9
Concessional/TDO             1.9    1.6    1.6    2.0    3.2    3.2     0.0    0.0    0.0    0 0
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS            3.6    5.9    5.6    7.6    8.4    6.6     5.5   11.2   12.4    119
Preferred creditor DS/public  29.9  45 5  48.9   34.9   40.2   48.8    31.8   41.9   39.8   47.0
DS (%)'
IBRD DS/XGS                  0.6    0.6    0.9    11     10      1 0    0.9    1.2    1.2    1.3
IBRD TDO (USSm)            453    501     697    829    824    844    891    1028   1159   1288
Of which present value of
guarantees (US$m)
ShareofIBRDportfolio(%)     0.0     0.0    00     0.7    07     0.7     0.7    0.9    1.0    1.1
IDA TDO (US$m)d               0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0      0
IFC (US$m)
Loans
Equity and quasi-equity /c
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)
a. includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
d. The current market value of the disbursed and outstanding amount of the loan including the exchange rate adjustment
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



Annex 5
BULGARIA: PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
December 20, 2002
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Washington D.C.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1.    We appreciate this opportunity to request support from the World Bank for the
implementation of our medium term reform strategy which aims to further reduce
poverty, sustain economic growth, complete our transformation to a market economy,
and move us closer towards EU accession. We have responded to the 1996-97 economic
and financial crisis by completing the first generation of economic reforms, which
focused on macroeconomic stabilization, price liberalization, and the initial phase of
structural reforms. We are moving into a second generation of reforms, where the
emphasis is on developing well-functioning markets. This requires a massive effort of
building institutions involving the establishment or strengthening of market rules,
enforcement capacity, and supporting organizations. In this effort, we seek to redefine
and upgrade the role and capability of government. We believe the Programmatic
Adjustment Loans (PALs) provide the appropriate vehicle for Bank support in addressing
our medium term policy and institutional reform agenda.
2.    In the course of preparing the first Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL-1), we
have defined and begun implementing most of the components of our reform agenda,
taking into account sequencing issues. Subsequent PALs will enable us to review and
monitor the implementation of these components, and we will take the necessary actions
to ensure sustained implementation of policies and successful outcomes of institution
building efforts. In addition, we will develop, articulate, and implement the remaining
components of our reform agenda during the preparation of future PALs, based on the
findings of the Bank's economic and sector work such as the Public Expenditure and
Institutional Review and the Pension Note, as well as lessons from the implementation of
existing Bank operations such as the Education Modernization Adaptable Program Loan
and Health Sector Reform Project.  The programmatic approach provides us the
flexibility to make sound adjustments in our program and build on new information and
additional experience in institutional design and implementation towards the successful
achievement of our strategic objectives and program outcomes.
3.    The Government and Bank staff have worked together in developing the
components of the Government Program to be supported under the PAL series. The



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 2 of31
reform program outcomes and the critical steps to achieve these outcomes are
summarized in the accompanying Performance Benchmark Matrix. The reform program,
which is described below, contains five pillars which support our strategy: (i) sustaining
structural reforms focusing on the infrastructure sector; (ii) establishing a market-friendly
business environment; (iii) deepening the financial system; (iv) improving public sector
governance; and (v) investing in human capital and strengthening social protection.
Program implementation during the year 2002 has already resulted in the completion of
critical steps towards achieving the desired outcomes in several program components. It
is on the basis of these completed actions, in addition to the reform program itself, that
we seek your support under the first PAL operation.
4.    We have defined the desired outcomes of our program, and the monitorable
indicators to determine whether the outcomes are being achieved. The benchmarks in the
attached matrix - defined as a set of actions needed to achieve the outcomes of each
program component - reflect our current knowledge and experience of what actions are
necessary during the next two years to achieve the desired outcomes at the end of
program implementation. We have detailed in the matrix the future actions to be
completed as well as monitorable indicators to guide the work of different government
teams engaged in this process and to enable us to assess our progress towards achieving
the reform outcomes. As we accumulate learning by doing and as we digest the outputs
of analytical work and the results from feedback mechanisms, we will refine the
benchmarks to ensure the successful attainment of the outcomes. We have nonetheless
defined the specific benchmarks that are critical to the program and we have identified
these as the triggers for the future PALs.
5.    The following section provides the context within which the program was
developed. It specifies the set of reform objectives and describes the strategic themes
that guide the program design to ensure intemal coherence.
Background
6.    Following the economic and financial crisis of 1996-97, Bulgaria has achieved
macroeconomic stabfity and implemented the first generation of structural reforms.
Macroeconomic stabilization has been successfully maintained over the past four years
largely due to the Currency Board Arrangement (CBA) and a tight fiscal stance. After a
steep decline in 1996-97, output recovered and GDP growth averaged 4.7 percent in
2000-01, with inflation contained to low levels. There have been major structural
changes in the economy, with private sector share of GDP reaching 63 percent in 2001 as
a result of a major push in privatization in 1998-99.
7.    Although Bulgaria's per capita GDQP has recovered since the crisis, it is still
one of the lowest among the EU accession mcountries. We intend to raise incomes from
the current low levels, which are 31 percent of the European Union (EU) average in per
capita terms (based on purchasing power parity). We believe that sustained growth will
help us make important progress in reducing unemployment and raising living standards.



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 3 of31
The resumption of growth has been instrumental in reducing the poverty rate, by nearly
two-thirds compared to the level in 1997.
8.    We also recognize that participation in the benefits from growth over the
past four years has been uneven among the population. Economic restructuring,
which has been one of the major drivers of growth during the past four years, has been
dominated by the exit of many non-viable SOEs and by improvements in efficiency of
privatized enterprises, both resulting in labor shedding.  As a consequence, our
unemployment rate, based on data from our Employment Agency, is one of the highest in
the region at 17.3 percent at mid-2002. Moreover, we are concerned about the increasing
duration of unemployment, with about half of the unemployed out of work for more than
one year. Reducing unemployment is one of the major focus of our economic program.
9.    Despite the improvements since 1997, poverty is higher than the rate in 1995.
The nature of poverty has evolved, as recent improvements in welfare have not been
equally distributed across the population. There are "pockets of poverty" among certain
groups, particularly the unemployed, ethnic minorities - most notably Roma - and
families with more than four children. Poverty also has a significant rural dimension.
Poverty reduction policies need to be tailored to reach these groups to ensure that the
benefits of growth are targeted to reduce poverty. In designing our program, we are
cognizant of the importance of broader participation in the growth agenda, and the need
to improve the efficiency and coverage of social assistance within fiscal constraints.
10.   Building on the reforms of the past four years, our program for the medium
term aims to sustain economic growth and reduce poverty. More specifically, our
targets are to maintain an average annual growth rate of 4.5 to 5.0 percent over the period
2002-05, reduce the poverty rate by 50 percent by end-2005 compared to the level at end-
2001, and bring the unemployment rate to 12-14 percent by end-2005. Our strategy for
growth and poverty reduction revolves around two major themes:
* creating an investment climate that promotes private sector investment,
restructuring, and productivity leading to growth; and
* empowering the population, especially the poor, to participate in economic
growth.
11.   Our strategy uses private sector initiative as the main engine for aggregate
growth. The private sector is also potentially the major provider of opportunity to the
poor, especially the large number of unemployed. Our strategy during the past few years
focused on the divestment of the State's non-infrastructure assets and the enforcement of
financial discipline on the remaining SOEs, thereby creating space for the private sector.
Our current strategy is to unleash private initiative by establishing an investment climate
that will not only increase the level of investment but also improve productivity of
IThe poverty rate is defined as the percent of the population below two-thirds the mean 1997 consumption.



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 4 of 31
existing investments. Our strategy focuses on the factors that drive investment and
productivity to result in growth, with particular attention to the role of foreign direct
investments (FDI) and small and medium enterprises (SME). This requires a massive
effort of building credible market institutions, and careful definition of the role of
Government which needs to upgrade its capabilities.
12.   Empowering the population requires investment in human capital and
further strengthening of social protection. Our focus during the past few years was
designing and strengthening social protection programs at the time when price
liberalization and enterprise restructuring were having an adverse impact on the poor.
While we will continue to fine tune the effectiveness of our social protection programs -
including the implementation of an ambitious multi-pillar pension reform - we will shift
our emphasis to the heath and education agenda and proactive measures to mitigate the
adverse impact of the reforms on the poor. We recognize the importance of basic
education to participation and productivity. Our program combines structural reforms in
health, education, and pension with improvements in social assistance to address the
transition needs of the poor.
13.   To implement our growth and poverty-reduction strategy, we have built our
medium term reform program on five pillars:
o Sustaining structural reforms in the enterprise sector focusing on the
restructuring of the energy, railway, telecommunications, and water sectors;
o Establishing a market-friendly business environment, focusing on entry and
exit policies, regulatory costs, delivery of public services, competition, and
market institutions;
o Deepening the financial system, addressing the constraints to increased
lending by the banking system and the development of financial markets;
o Improving public sector governance, including implementing the anti-
corruption strategy, strengthening local governments, reforming the judiciary,
and pursuing administrative reform;
o Investing in human capital and strengthening social protection, focusing on
education, health, and pension reforms and social assistance effectiveness.
14.  Tlhe effectiveness of the above program  depends in large part on the
maintenance of macroeconomic stability, to which we are fully committed. We will
maintain the CBA at least until accession to the EU. The CBA has served Bulgaria well,
providing a stable monetary environment, contributing to low inflation, and boosting
confidence. We are fully committed to take all necessary steps to support it. We will
implement a cautious and flexible fiscal policy, which is key to safeguarding external
viability under the CBA. We aim to reach, and then maintain, a broadly balanced fiscal
stance in the medium term. The current account deficit, which reached about 6.1 percent
of GDP in 2001, has been declining. The economy is becoming more competitive, and
investment is increasingly financed by private savings. We expect the external deficit to
continue to be mostly financed by FDI, and thus reserve levels to remain comfortable,



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 5 of 31
and the debt-to-GDP ratio to decline rapidly in the medium term. At the same time,
inflation is expected to remain low, with price increases relative to our trade partners
limited to productivity catch-up and further adjustments in administered prices. The IMF
Board approved a two-year Stand By Arrangement (SBA) on February 27, 2002.
Pillar I: Sustaining Structural Reforms
Implementing the Privatization Program
15.   We will continue the momentum of structural reforms which will provide the
foundation for sustained growth. We have completed the divestiture of more than 90
percent of non-infrastructure SOEs.2 In addition, about 85 percent of the assets of the
banking system and 100 percent of the insurance sector are now in private hands, and
with the expected sale of the State Savings Bank (DSK), the banking system will be
almost fully private by the mid-2003 . We will accelerate the restructuring initiatives
already under way in the energy, telecommunications, railway, and water sectors. We
have deternined which enterprises will remain state owned, and our intention is to sell
the remainder. As we proceed with the structural reforms, we will review the social
impact of these reforms and the adequacy of the social assistance programs. We will also
ensure that the reforms are in compliance with the environmental policies.
16.   The next phase of the privatization program focuses on infrastructure SOEs.
We have begun this phase of privatization which involves the restructuring of the energy,
railway, telecommunications, and water sectors with the objective of improving
efficiency of service delivery through greater private sector investment within a
framework of market rules that ensure fair competition. To improve transparency, reduce
corruption, and accelerate the privatization process, the legal and institutional framework
for privatization has been improved with the recent enactment of the Law on
Privatization and Post Privatization Control and the reorganization of the Privatization
Agency. By end-2005, we expect that the only remaining state enterprises will be those
listed in Attachment B, reducing the size of the public sector to about 25-30 percent of
GDP.
Completed Actions
* Enactment of a new Law on Privatization and Post Privatization Control
* Privatization of Biochim and DZI [PAL-i Board Condition]
2 Pnvatization performance is measured on the basis of long term assets of non-mfrastructure SOEs as of
end-1995.
3The two remaining non-pnvate banks - the Business Promotion Bank and the Municipal Bank owned by
the Sofia municipality - account for 2.4 percent of bank assets as of mnid-2002.



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 6 of31
Medium Term Actions
PAL-2:
@ Privatization or liquidation of the large SOEs listed in Attachment C [PAL-2
Trigger]
e Privatization or liquidation of 50 percent of the remaining small SOEs as of
September 30, 2002
PAL-3:
* Privatization or liquidation of the large SOEs listed in Attachment C[PAL-3
Trigger]
e Privatization or liquidation of 80 percent of the remaining small SOEs as of
September 30, 2002 [PAL-3 Trigger]
Restructuring the Energy Sector
17.   Our program in the energy sector aims to reduce Bulgaria's energy intensity
and enable the private sector to assume an increasing share of commercial risks. To
achieve these objectives, we have taken several steps to fundamentally overhaul the
sector. First, we have begun the process of rationalizing energy prices to cover costs and
eliminate cross-subsidies by raising electricity and heating prices in the second half of
2002. Second, to improve the legal and regulatory framework, we have enacted
amendments to the Energy and Energy Efficiency Act, adopted key regulations, and
upgraded the institutional capacity of the State Energy Regulatory Commission (SERC).
Third, we have spun off from the National Electricity Company (NEK) electricity
distribution and generation companies which are in the process of being privatized.
Fourth, the District Heating Strategy, which involves commercialization measures in the
short term and privatization in the medium term, is being implemented. Finally, the gas
sector, which is currently controlled by the state owned Bulgargas, will be opened to the
private sector.  The energy reforms are expected to reduce Bulgaria's energy
consumption to GDP by 15 percent in 2005 compared to the level in 2001.
Completed Actions
* Enactment of amendments to the Energy and Energy Efficiency Act (EEEA)
*  Establishment of electricity distribution, generation and transmission
companies as separate legal entities
o Adoption by the Council of Ministers (CoM) of key regulations on electricity
pricing and contracting of power by eligible consumers
* Implementation of an average price increase of 20 percent for household
electricity prices in the second half of 2002 and approval of an indicative
timetable for their adjustment to cost-recovery levels [PAL-I Board
Condition]
*  Satisfactory implementation of the district heating (DH) component of the
Energy Strategy approved by the CoM on May 11, 2002 (see Attachment D)



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 7 of 31
* SERC development of a strategy for issuing tenders to develop the low-
pressure gas market.
Medium Term Actions
PAL-2:
* Enactment of energy legislation consistent with EU Electricity & Gas
Directives [PAL-2 Trigger]
* Implementation of electricity market opening targets and timetable
* Adoption of additional regulations to support electricity market opening
including pricing methodology for access to transmission, dispatch and other
system services
* Satisfactory implementation of the electricity tariff adjustment program
* Continued satisfactory implementation of the district heating component of
the Energy Strategy approved by the CoM on May 11, 2002 (see Attachment
D)
PAL-3:
*  Continued satisfactory implementation of the electricity tariff adjustment
program
*  Continued satisfactory implementation of district heating component of the
Energy Strategy approved by the CoM on May 11, 2002 (see Attachment D)
[PAL-3 Trigger]
* Opening of gas market in accordance with EU Directive 98/30 for internal
market of natural gas and awarding of licenses for developing the low
pressure gas market
*  Maintenance of regulatory -- framework and market structure for the
commercial development of the low pressure gas market
Restructuring the Railway Sector
18.   In the railway sector, our restructuring program aims to increase efficiency,
ensure financial sustainability, and improve staff productivity. The Railway Law
passed in November 2000 provides the legal basis for the implementation of our program
which entails the establishment of a new railway operating company and a new railway
infrastructure State enterprise. We will ensure that the new railway operating company
can operate independently and is motivated solely by commercial objectives. The new
railway infrastructure State enterprise will prioritize its expenditures on the basis of
economic criteria and eventually contract out most of its activities. Market rules will be
established that will enable the entry of private firms and the eventual privatization of the
railway operating company, and ensure fair competition between all land transport
operators. The program also includes freedom to set tariff for the railway operating
company, rationalization of the railway network and services, introduction of public
service obligation (PSO) contracts with the Government to pay for the non-commercial



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 8 of 31
services it does not want terminated, and the reduction of the labor force. By 2004, we
expect that the railway companies will reduce losses, improve the condition of the rail
network, and partially renew the rolling stock. The railway labor force will be reduced
by 20 percent compared to the end-2001 level and the railway operating company will
have achieved a financial working ratio of 105 percent (before subsidies and PSO
payments). Operating subsidies (excluding loans and grants for investment) will be
reducedfrom 0.5 percent of GDP in 2000 to 0.2 percent of GDP in 2004.
Completed Actions
*  Creation of new railway operating company as joint stock company which has
commercial objectives and autonomous decision making
*  Creation of new railway infrastructure company as an independent public
agency required to comply with minimum economic criteria for its
expenditures
*  Issuance by the Ministry of Transport and Communications of regulations that
(i) ensure that any willing and competent railway service supplier may be
licensed; (ii) provide fair and transparent rules for track access; and (iii) keep
transaction costs low for any prospective service supplier.
* Preparation of sound plan of action for rationalization of rail network and
operations
Medium Term Actions
PAL-2:
* Adoption by the railway operating and infrastructure companies of sound
medium term business plans including phased reduction of the railway
network and service optimization
e Adoption of plans for optimization of the structure and labor force of the
railway operating and infrastructure companies, including accounting
separation between the freight and passenger parts of the railway operating
company
*  Increase in the cost recovery level of intercity passenger services to at least
70%
e Adoption by the railway infrastructure company of sound systems and
procedures for planning/budgeting expenses
* Signing of a framework contract between the Government and the operating
company for non-commercial services that will be subject to PSO
e Development of preliminary plan for the termination and interim financing of
loss making services not subject to PSO.
* Termination of 342 kilometers of loss-making services.
e Reduction of railway labor force by 10% compared to the level at end of
2001 [PAL-2 Trigger]



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 9 of 31
PAL-3:
* Satisfactory implementation of an action plan for the termination and interim
financing of all loss making services that will not be subject to PSO
* Signing of contracts between the Govermment and the operating company for
all non-commercial passenger services that will be subject to PSO
* Full accounting separation between the freight and passenger parts of the
railway operating company
* Preparation of sound plan ensuring conditions for privatization or concession
of freight and passenger services
*  Railway operating company to be given full freedom to set passenger fares
and freight tariffs in accordance with sound commercial principles (except in
cases of PSO contracts)
* Track access charges to be set at full marginal social cost recovery level
effective as of January 1, 2004
* Increase in cost recovery level of intercity passenger services to at least 90%
including infrastructure charges based on full marginal social cost
* Reduction in railway labor force by 20% compared to the level at end of
2001 [PAL-3 Trigger]
Liberalizing the Telecommunications Sector
19.   In the telecommunications sector, we will completely liberalize markets by
January 1, 2003 consistent with our EU accession agreement. We expect to privatize
the Bulgarian Telecommunications Company (BTC) in 2003 without extending its
exclusive rights.  The Telecommunications Law passed in 1998 and amended in
December 2001 provides the legal framework for market liberalization, including the
establishment of a new independent regulator - the Communications Regulation
Commission (CRC).   We have submitted to Parliament new telecommunications
legislation, consistent with best practice and our EU accession agreement, to reinforce
CRC's independence, transparency, and accountability; ensure the liberalization of the
telecommunications market; and ensure effective and fair competition. Under the new
legislation, all licensing responsibility will be within the competence of CRC. We have a
program for the institutional strengthening of the CRC, including ensuring its financial
independence. To ensure a competitive market, BTC will share its infrastructure with
other market participants. We are committed to implementing the time-bound EU
accession commitments. In 2003, we will undertake as a priority an analysis of
competition in the market to assess and be a further guide toward, inter alia,
implementation of our commitments to the EU, implementation of the New
Telecommunications Law, the extent of broadband access and competition, indirect
access, and provision of universal access. This analysis will form the basis of an updated
sector policy and action plan. By the end of 2005, we will achieve a degree of
digitalization of transfer network of 100 percent, of exchanges 82 percent, and of
subscribers capacity 46 percent. The number of households with telecommunication
services allowing internet access will be 94 percent. Telephone connection waiting time
will not exceed one month.



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page lOof31
Completed Actions
o Implementation of Chapter 19 EU accession commitments described in
Attachment E
o Establishment of an independent, transparent, and accountable regulator for
the telecommunications sector - the Communications Regulation Commission
(CRC)
o  Issuance and implementation of a privatization strategy for BTC that
ensures no extension of BTC exclusivities [PAL-I Board condition]
o Satisfactory progress in BTC tariff rebalancing
o  Submission to Parliament of draft New Telecommunications Law
Medium Term Actions
PAL-2:
o Preparation of analysis of competition in the market, including effective
broadband access and competition, leased line access, carrier selection,
indirect access, and provision of universal service
o Satisfactory progress on implementing EU accession commitments described
in Attachment E
o Enactment of New Telecommunications Law
o Adoption and satisfactory implementation of CRC institutional development
plan, including its financial independence
o Adoption of primary legislation and satisfactory progress in secondary
legislation ensuring personal data protection in electronic communications
PAL-3:
o Continued satisfactory progress on implementing EU accession commitments
described in Attachment E
o Continued satisfactory implementation of CRC institutional development plan
o CoM approval of an updated sector policy and implementation action plan
Modernizing the Water Sector
20.   In the water sector, our modernization program addresses the problems of
ineffilciency, water losses, and lack of investment. We have passed amendments to the
Water Law which regulates the awarding of concession contracts to private operators for
the Regional Water Companies (RWCs). This will facilitate the proposed concession
transaction for Vama and Shumen. We have submitted to Parliament another amendment
of the Water Law which will restructure and decentralize the RWCs whereby
municipalities are expected to have full control over the assets within their territory. The
Government has also made progress in developing the framework for a water regulator to
ensure that quality services are provided at affordable prices. Further, a Water Sector



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page I Iof31
Strategy has been prepared which is expected to be soon adopted by the Goverrnment. By
end-2005, we expect reduction of the operating ratios (the ratio of operating costs
including depreciation to total revenues) of Regional Water Companies to 80 percent.
Completed Actions
* Submission to Parliament of amendments to the Water Law supporting the
restructuring and decentralization of the Regional Water Companies
Medium Term Actions
PAL-2:
* CoM approval of a Water Sector Strategy.
* Adoption of a regulatory framework for the water sector
* Issuance of water concession contracts to private companies in Vama and
Shumen.
PAL-3:
* Issuance of water concession contracts to private companies in three
additional Regional Water Companies
Managing Environmental Risks
21.   We will continue the momentum in environmental reforms to meet the
challenges of EU accession compliance to environmental acquis. We will further
increase our efforts and improve environmental protection policy by harmonizing
environmental laws and regulations with those of the EU and strengthening the capacity
of environmental institutions and agencies to enforce environmental laws and regulations.
To this end, we have adopted a new Environmental Protection Act which is fully
harmonized with EU acquis. We will implement the provisions of the EU Integrated
Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC) Directive, and extend the issuance of integrated
permits, currently implemented on a pilot basis. To be able to preserve the integrity of
the national environment we will improve our sector and regulations and will prevent
overexploitation, and guarantee sustainable utilization of resources. We will develop a
Natural Resource Management Strategy which will ensure that land, forests and
biological resources are used in environmentally sustainable way. By end-2005, we
expect to issue 225 permits under the IPPC directive and by end-2007, we will have
issued permits to all enterprises covered by the IPPC directive.
Completed Actions
* Enactment of a new Environment Protection Act [PAL-I Board condition]
* Enactment of Biodiversity Law



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 12 of 31
Medium Term Actions
PAL-2:
* Satisfactory implementation of environmental policies on SOEs to be
privatized [PAL-2 Trigger]
*  Approval by CoM   of a general plan for institutional development and
administrative strengthening related to the complete practical application of
the EU directives in the field of environment
o Development and issuance of regulation   on Environmental Impact
Assessment
* Development of a system of issuance and control of Integrated Pollution
Prevention and Control Permits (IPPC)
PAL-3:
* Continued satisfactory implementation of environmental policies on SOEs to
be privatized
o Issuance of regulation on Strategic Environment Assessment
o Development of a national strategy for sustainable management of land,
forests, and biological resources
Pillar II: Establishing a Market-friendly Business Environment
22.   While the liquidation of loss-making SOEs and the privatization program
have increased productivity, future growth will depend on the emergence of
dynamic private sector enterprises. Experience in advanced transition economies
indicates that gains from further labor shedding and other defensive restructuring
measures will taper off over time. New sources of growth will have to come from
increased investment by the private sector in both new as well as existing enterprises.
We believe that attracting FDI and developing a dynamic SME sector are the best ways
to expand private sector activity. To attract FDI and stimulate SME activity, we have
begun to undertake measures to improve the business environment focusing on reducing
entry barriers and regulatory costs, improving public services to the business sector, and
ensuring the stability of market rules and regulations. We have also begun developing
plans for comprehensive reforms that would result in improvements in the efficiency of
public administration and the judiciary. With these reforms, we hope to attract FDI at an
average annual rate of US$ 1.0 billion (of which greenfield FDI would be at least 50
percent) during 2002-05; increase the share of SMEs4 in value added and employment to
at least 50 percent by 2005; increase the private sector share of GDP to 70 percent by
2005; and increase total factor productivity by 2.5 percent annually during the period
2002-05.
4 Defined as enterpnses with 100 or less employees.



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 13 of 31
Reducing Entry Constraints and Regulatory Costs
23.   We are streamlining the regulatory regimes that increase costs of private
sector transactions. The Inter-ministerial Working Group for the Optimization of
Regulatory Regimes has reviewed 361 regulatory regimes and approved a program
eliminating 70 and modifying 118 of these regimes The company registration procedure
will also be simplified, reducing the time for company registration documents processing
by integrating the Bulstat, tax, and social security registrations.  In addition, the
performance of the regional courts in the company registration process will be improved
by integrating them in the unified information system. To monitor the impact of these
reforms, we will conduct annual surveys on regulatory regimes application costs and will
use the results for program evaluation and for further streamlining regimes if necessary.
We envisage the streamlining of regulatory regimes as an ongoing objective of public
administration reform. A public register of current operative regulatory regimes will be
introduced and maintained. By end-2005, we expect at least 50 percent of our current
regulatory regimes to be either eliminated or modified thereby significantly reducing the
regulatory costs compared to the 2002 baseline figure as measured by the recently
completed Administrative and Regulatory Cost Survey (ARCS).
24.   We are taking steps to ensure that the introduction of future regulatory
regimes is based on clear rationale, an analysis of costs and benefits, and
consultation with affected business parties. To control the future development of
regulatory regimes, we have submitted to Parliament a draft Law on Administrative
Regulation and Administrative Control on Economic Activities which would define the
principles that underpin the introduction of new regimes and guide Government actions.
The CoM will provide specific guidelines to central administrative bodies regarding the
design of proposed new regulatory regimes, including the identification and measurement
of costs and benefits and the establishment of a process by which new regimes evolve
from concept to implementation.
Completed Actions
* Submission to Parliament of a draft Law on Administrative Regulation and
Administrative Control on Economic Activities [PAL-I Board condition]
*  CoM  approval of a program for eliminating and restructuring regulatory
regimes
* Development by a working group of a plan for integrating the Bulstat, tax, and
social security registration of companies
* Completion of the baseline Administrative and Regulatory Cost Survey
(ARCS)



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 14 of 31
Medium Term Actions
PAL-2:
*  Enactment of the Law on Administrative Regulation and Administrative
Control on Economic Activities
*  Issuance by the CoM of guidelines to central administrative bodies on the
design of proposed new regulatory regimes
* Elimination of 40 and modification of 50 regulatory regimes based on
program approved by the CoM on June 7, 2002 [PAL-2 Trigger]
*  Establishment of a comprehensive public registry of regulatory regimes
*  Completion of second annual ARCS
PAL-3:
*  Elimination of additional 20 and modification of additional 58 regulatory
regimes per program approved by the CoM on June 7, 2002
*  Introduction of one stop company registration at the Bulstat offices by
integrating the Commercial Register with the Bulstat Register.
*  Completion of third annual ARCS
Improving Business Service Delivery of Government Offices
25.   In parallel to the regulatory reform efforts, the front line government offices
and agencies are undergoing reforms to improve service delivery and cost
effectiveness. Institutional development initiatives are ongoing in Customs, the Tax
Administration Office, the Real Estate Registry Office, the National Social Security
Institute, and various regulatory agencies such as the State Energy Regulatory
Commission and the Communications Regulation Commission. For the regulatory
regimes that are considered essential, the cost of compliance will be reduced by
simplifying the administrative processes, a review of which will be initiated in three
sectors - construction, tourism, and food processing - that account for about 10 percent
of GDP and are subject to a maze of administrative requirements.  The process
simplification initiative will be expanded to other sectors in the future. We will also pilot
a performance standard monitoring system in Government offices that deal with the
construction and labor services, after which we intend to expand the monitoring system to
other offices dealing directly with the private sector. Finally, we are reviewing and
prioritizing information system changes, which will enable the integration of all corporate
and government revenue information. By 2005, we expect the government offices to
achieve a 90 percent performance against standard during the year. We will reform the
system of administrative courts towards specialization and upgrade the qualifications of
judges.
Completed Actions
* Establishment of a Tax Council to include representatives from the private
sector



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 15 of 31
*  Implementation of Customs reform in three pilot locations
*  Development of a plan for piloting a system of monitoring service standards
in the Directorate for National Building Control at the Ministry of Regional
Development and Public Works and the Labor Inspectorate at the Ministry of
Labor and Social Policy
*  CoM decision to establish a National Revenue Agency
Medium Term Actions
PAL-2:
*  Adoption by the Inter-ministerial Working Group for the Optimization of
Regulatory Regimes of a program of simplification of administrative
procedures for regulatory regimes in the construction, tourism, and food
processing sectors
*  Development of measures by the respective authorities for border and in-the-
country control, on national level, which shall replicate the pilot projects at
cross border points and clearance terminals, handling a minimum 50% of all
- traffic
*  Implementation of a system of monitoring service standards in the Directorate
for National Building Control at the Ministry of Regional Development and
Public Works and the Labor Inspectorate at the Ministry of Labor and Social
Policy
* Adoption by the MoF of a program for improving VAT procedures
* Establishment of a National Revenue Agency
* Submission by MoJ of a plan for the establishment of specialized commercial
courts
* Submission by MoJ of a plan for the reform of the administrative court system
PAL-3:
*  Implementation of a program of simplification of administrative procedures
for regulatory regimes in the construction, tourism, and food processing
sectors
*  Attainment by property registry of the efficiency level of the average EU
property registry system
* Expansion of system of monitoring service standards to other Government
offices dealing with the private sector
*  Establishment of a Unified Revenue Information System (URIS) and a
Unified Corporate Information System (UCIS)
*  Implementation of VAT reforms
* Implementation of the reform of the administrative court system towards
specialization and upgrading skills ofjudges JPAL-3 Trigger]



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 16 of31
Ensuring Competition and Functioning Markers
26.   We are committed to creating a level playing field and functioning markets.
In the context of EU accession, we are currently undertaking a review of our competition
policies. To improve the effectiveness of the Commission for the Protection of
Competition (CPC), we have enacted amendments to the Law on the Protection of
Competition. We are in the process of developing a plan for the further upgrading of the
capacity of the CPC, supported by a technical assistance grant from the EU. We have
adopted the Law on State Aid consistent with EU directives.
27.   In line with commitments under ASAL II, we will abstain from establishing an
agricultural commodity market stabilization facility, except an intervention agency which
is specially required to implement the EU's Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) as a
condition for EU accession. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) will give
precise definition to these requirements, demonstrating that they are the minimum
required, and allowing a clear distinction to be drawn between CAP interventions and
non-CAP interventions. Regarding stock rotations, we will minimize their effect on
markets by making them more predictable and transparent. To improve market entry in
the private grain storage, the government will pass legislation so that only one category
of warehouses is licensed and eligible to issue warehouse receipts.
28.   In the area of agricultural finance, a level playing field will be promoted by (a)
reducing the budget allocation for short term credit by the State Fund Agriculture to zero
starting in 2003, and (b) ensuring that total 2003 short term credit extended from funds
repaid from previous years' loans will be no more than one-half the total amount of short
term credit in 2002 (i.e. BGN 12.5 million, which is one-half of the 2002 allocation of
BGN 25 million), and will reduce to zero in 2004 and thereafter. Any long-term credits
(those with a maturity of more than one year) will be allocated according to transparent
and widely publicized criteria; have well defined beneficiaries; and be minimally
distorting. Finally, we will maintain stability in the agricultural trade regime, refraining
from temporary import tariffs or exemptions, and from quantitative restrictions. Any
import duties applied will be in compliance with commitments with the EU and under
GATT.
29.   Our action plan for developing a functioning labor market aims to introduce
flexibility, reduce unemployment including the share of the long term unemployed,
and design appropriate active labor market policies.  The plan involves: (i)
deregulation of labor relations through changes to the Labor Code; (ii) devolution of
responsibility for determining the labor relations to social partners, which entails
adequate and genuine representation of employers and employees in social dialogue; (iii)
decentralization of collective bargaining by strengthening firm level bargaining. We will
begin the public dialogue in the process of overhauling the Labor Code towards reducing
the procedural costs of dismissals, encouraging flexible forms of employment and work
organization, and enabling wage flexibility. We will review the adequacy of the social
safety net for displaced workers and design active labor market policies that would



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 17 of 31
facilitate the transition for old to new jobs. There should be an enhancement of the scope
and quality of employment services, such as job search assistance and counseling, by,
inter alia, removing regulatory and bureaucratic barriers for private service provision.
We will develop a mechanism for monitoring and evaluating the impact of the labor
market reforms.
Completed Actions
* Enactment of the Law on State Aid
* Submission to Parliament of amendments to the Law on the Protection of
Competition
* Initiation of actions implementing the Social Policy Strategy and the Strategic
Note on Labor Market Reforms agreed with the Bank
* Development of a set of indicators on labor market flexibility and ALMP
impact
Medium Term Actions
PAL-2:
*  Completion of review of competition policies and their implementation and
adoption of program for improving competitive environment
* Development and initiation of action plan to upgrade the institutional capacity
of the Commission for the Protection of Competition
* Submission to Parliament of amendments to the Labor Code agreed with
Bank [PAL-2 Trigger]
* Elimination of regulatory and bureaucratic barriers to private provision of
employment services
PAL-3:
* Implementation of program for improving competitive environment
* Enactment of amendments to the Labor Code
* Privatization of grain storage facilities and increase in the share of State
Reserves inventories stored in private, licensed warehouses
* Enactment of legislation aimed at changing the status of the State Reserves to
a public institution, subject to full public disclosure
Improving the Efficiency of the Insolvency Regime
30.   To facilitate the exit of non-viable enterprises, we have initiatives that aim to
accelerate the insolvency process. First, we have submitted to Parliament proposed
amendments to Part IV of the Commercial Code which would simplify the insolvency
procedure, establish shorter and binding deadlines, and provide more powers to creditors.
Second, we plan to overhaul the Civil Procedure Code which will, among others,
streamline the cumbersome procedures that cause delay in insolvency proceedings and



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 18 of 31
disposal of assets under liquidation. Third, we have developed a program establishing
more stringent criteria for the licensing and dismissal of trustees, and strengthening their
monitoring and control by the Ministry of Justice and the courts. Finally, institutional
reforms in the judiciary, discussed in Pillar IV, will upgrade the skills of execution judges
and improve the efficiency of court administration.  We will develop a system of
monitoring the efficiency of the insolvency process and we expect a substantial reduction
in average processing time by 2005.
Completed Actions
* Submission to Parliament of proposed amendments to Pat IV of the
Commercial Code [PAL-1 Board condition]
* Approval by the MoJ of a plan to improve the selection and monitoring of
bankruptcy trustees
Medium Term Actions
PAL-2:
* Enactment of amendments to Part IV of the Commercial Code
* Preparation by MoJ of a plan to reform the Civil Procedure Code
* Implementation of plan to improve selection and monitoring of bankruptcy
trustees
PAL-3:
* Implementation of monitoring system covering insolvency reform
Pillar III: Deepening the Financial System
31.   While Bulgaria has achieved significant progress in restructuring the
banking system, financial intermediation remains low and financial markets are
undeveloped. About 85 percent of the banking assets are now in private ownership,
mainly by foreign financial institutions, as a result of an aggressive privatization program
in 1999-2001. However, about 25 percent of banking assets are deposited in foreign
banks. Non-bank financial institutions do not constitute a major component of the
financial system, and capital markets and micro-finance are undeveloped.  The
Govenrnent's objectives in this sector are to increase financial internediation and
stimulate financial markets described below. As a benchmark, we would like to see the
M2/GDP ratio increase from 42 percent in 2001 to 50 percent by 2005, although the
attainment of this ratio is dependent on progress in institutional reforms described in the
previous sections and to a certain extent on global economic conditions.
Improving the Legal Framework for Leading
32.   The legal and institutional framework for lending is being improved to
encourage financial intermediation. The foreclosure provisions of the Civil Procedure



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 19 of31
Code have been amended to help reduce delays in enforcement of valid claims. The
Accountancy Act and the Independent Financial Audit Act were recently enacted to bring
the current standards to intemational standards thus improving the quality of financial
information. There will be a reform of the taxation of the financial sector to eliminate
distortions and inconsistencies across various financial instruments and institutions.
Finally, we have submitted a draft Law on Measures Against Terrorist Financing and
draft amendments to the Law on Measures Against Money Laundering in line with
international standards and good practices. We expect that these reforms will be major
factors in increasing private sector loans to GDP from 15 percent at end-2001 to 25
percent by end-2005, a ratio closer to those of advanced transition economies.
Completed Actions
*  Submission to Parliament of draft amendments to the Law on Registered
Pledges
*  Enactment of amendments to the foreclosure provisions of the Civil
Procedure Code
*  Enactment of the Accountancy Act and the Independent Financial Audit Act
*  Submission to Parliament of a draft Law on Measures Against Terrorist
Financing
*  Submission to Parliament of draft amendments to the Law on Measures
Against Money Laundering
Medium Term Actions
PAL-2:
*  Enactment of amendments to the Law on Registered Pledges
* Enforcement of the application of international standards in accounting and
auditing
*  Development of a plan for financial sector tax reforms to address tax
distortions
*  Enactment of the Law on Measures Against Terrorist Financing
*  Enactment of amendments to the Law     on Measures Against Money
Laundering
PAL-3
* Implementation of tax reform in the financial sector
Completing Banking Reform
33.   We will sustain the implementation of the agenda for banking reform. The
privatization of Biochim and the sale of the remaining State shares in the Central
Cooperative Bank (CCB) have been completed and the privatization of the State Savings
Bank (DSK) will be completed by end-2003. We are reviewing the activities of the state-



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 20 of 31
owned Business Promotion Bank - which was established as a conduit for funds from
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) of Germnany to SMEs - to ensure that the bank
does not engage in functions that are currently being performed by the private banks.
The articles of incorporation of the Business Promotion Bank prohibit the bank from
accepting deposits from the population. We will work with the Bank in defining and
designing appropriate activities for the Business Promotion Bank. The Bank Bankruptcy
Law has been enacted to improve the exit process for insolvent and closed banks. The
supervision powers of the BNB has been been strengthened to enable BNB to identify
and investigate direct and indirect owners of banks. By end-2003, the private sector
share of banking assets is expected to be about 98 percent;5 during 2002-05, we will
ensure that the banking system meets the prudential standards; and we will take the
necessary actions to ensure that the level of non-performing loans does not deteriorate.
Completed Actions
* Enactment of Bank Bankruptcy Law
* Enactment of amendments to the Banking Law providing broader powers to
the BNB to investigate and identify direct and indirect ownership of banks
Medium Term Actions
PAL-2:
e Development and initiation of implementation of strategy and action plan for
Business Promotion Bank agreed with the Bank
* Establishment of institutional mechanism for mandatory consultation of the
BNB and other financial regulatory agencies with regard to drafts of laws and
regulations relevant to the financial sector
Developing Financial Markets and Improving Supervision Coordination
34.   We are taking measures to stimulate capital markets. The development of the
pension fund and insurance sectors would mobilize long term savings which could be
invested in long term financial instruments in the market. Other capital market initiatives
include privatizing the dominant State Insurance Company (DZI), strengthening the
governance structures of private pension funds, and legislating a higher and stable
contribution rate to the mandatory second pillar of the pension system. To improve
investor confidence, the Commercial Code is being amended and the Law on Public
Offering of Securities has been amended to address deficiencies in minority shareholder
protection and strengthen corporate governance provisions. To protect investors, we are
upgrading the supervision capacity of the Bulgarian National Securities Commission, the
State Insurance Supervision Agency, and the Insurance Supervision Agency.
5The Municipal Bank (owned by the municipality of Sofia) and the Business Promotion Bank will be the
only remaining non-private sector banks, and these two banks accounted for only 2.4% of banking assets as
of mid-2002.



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 21 of 31
35.   We have established a separate body of senior officials from all financial
services supervisory agencies to ensure proper coordination and development of a
system-wide perspective in assessing and dealing with risk and vulnerability. This
body serves as an information sharing and policy oversight organ. Information is shared
among members of the committee to plan and coordinate against any major
vulnerabilities within the financial sector, while improving investor confidence and
buoyancy of the market. Through such sharing of information, it is expected that the
coordination of functions of the various supervisory agencies can be improved, especially
where supervisory functions over-lap and where consumer protection and prudential
regulation are of prime importance. This body will develop an Early Warning System
(EWS) and a set of indicators that will be reviewed to assess the vulnerability of the
financial system.
Completed Actions
*  Issuance of regulations for foreign investments of private pension funds
*  Adoption of an institutional development plan for the State Insurance
Supervisory Agency (SISA)
*  Adoption of an institutional development plan for Insurance Supervisory
Agency (ISA)
* Enactment of the Mortgage Bond Law
* Enactment of amendments to the Law on Public Offering of Securities
*  Submission to Parliament of amendments to the Commercial Code to
strengthen corporate governance
*  Enactment of amendments to the Insurance Act to harmonize with EU
directives and strengthen ISA
*  Elimination of monopolies in certain segments of the insurance market
*  Establishment of a Financial Supervision Advisory Council for coordination
and review of systemic vulnerabilities
Medium Term Actions
PAL-2:
* Enactment of amendments to the Mandatory Social Insurance Code and the
Voluntary Pension Code strengthening pension fund governance and SISA
supervision capacity, introducing more flexibility to the investment regime
while maintaining a prudent portfolio, and eliminating inconsistencies
[PAL-2 Trigger]
* Upgrading of regulations covering private pension funds.
* Enactment of amendments to the Commercial Code to strengthen corporate
governance provisions
*  Enactment of Law on Financial Supervision Commission



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 22 of 31
o Establishment of an Early Waming System with respect to financial sector
vulnerabilities
PAL-3:
o Unification of supervision of non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs)
Pillar IV: Improving Public Sector Governance
Reforming Public Administration
36.   Our public administration initiatives to date have focused on selective
government offices and agencies whose reforms are linked to sectoral strategies and
policies. We are restructuring the public institutions in the education and health sectors,
which are the main areas of public sector overstaffing. The reforms in district heating,
water, and railway deal with the areas of public administration that receive large
budgetary subsidies. We have also given priority to the reform of government agencies
involved in revenue collection, including the establishment of the National Revenue
Agency and the strengthening of Customs Administration. As described in the section on
improving market institutions, we are now implementing initiatives to improve the
service provision of government offices, including local ones, that deal directly with the
private sector. In addition, the supervisory agencies in energy, telecommunications, and
the financial sectors are being strengthened. Finally, we are taking steps to improve the
efficiency of delivery of social assistance.
37.   We now plan to take a comprehensive approach to public administration
reform. We have approved a Strategy for State Administrative Modernization - from
Accession to Integration, together with a set of amendments to the existing Civil Servant
Law. The strategy will make provision also for improving the functioning of the Institute
of Public Administration and European Integration, the setting up of a program of
functional reviews of different ministries and agencies to align structures and staffing
with program priorities, and the development of time-bound program for the
implementation of service delivery and performance standards for ministries, agencies,
regional offices, and municipalities.  By end-2005, we expect to improve the
administrative capacity (optimize the number and capability of the civil servants) through
implementation of an overall system of human resource management and performance
appraisal and closing down ineffective and overlapping structures.
Completed Actions
 Approval of a Strategy for State Administration, and a program for its
implementation agreed with the Bank [PAL-I Board condition]
o  Approval of a national training strategy approved by Council of Ministers
o  Completion of a Pay and Benefits Survey in the public sector
o  Development of monitoring indicators



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 23 of 31
Medium Term Actions
PAL-2:
* Satisfactory  progress  in  implementing  the  state  administration
modernization program based on agreed performance benchmarks and
assessment of agreed monitoring and performance indicators [PAL-2
Trigger]
* Development and initiation of implementation of a program for improving
local administration [PAL-2 Trigger]
*  Completion and publication of a comprehensive review on the functioning of
public administration
*  Completion of functional reviews of an agreed number of ministries and
agencies
*  Implementation of a monitoring system to track reform outcomes versus target
PAL-3:
*  Continued satisfactory progress in implementing the state administration
modernization program based on agreed performance benchmarks and
assessment of agreed monitoring and performance indicators [PAL-3
Trigger]
*  Completion and publication of the second annual report on functioning of
public administration
* Roll-out of "one stop shops" based on outcomes of pilot exercises
* Completion of functional reviews of agreed number of ministries/agencies
Reducing Corruption
38.   We have adopted a National Anti-Corruption Strategy which takes a
comprehensive approach to the problem of corruption. The challenge will be to
translate such an ambitious agenda into a sequence of concrete actions that will allow the
Government to achieve demonstrable progress in selected priority areas. In that context,
we have prepared an action plan that includes: (a) concrete steps to address issues relating
to conflict of interest, lobbying regulation, and political financing; (b) the establishment
of an inter-ministerial commission to implement the plan; (c) the creation of a full time
secretariat to support the work of the commission; and (d) the design of a monitoring
system- to track progress in meeting the anti-corruption objectives. There has been
improved perception of the public regarding our anti-corruption efforts based on
indicators from international surveys. Based on feedback mechanisms to be designed, we
expect to see continued improved annual trends in public perception of our reform
efforts.



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 24 of 31
Completed Actions
e Development of an anti-corruption strategy and action plan agreed with the
Bank [PAL-i Board condition]
e Establishment of Inter-ministerial Committee for Fighting Corruption
Medium Term Actions
PAL-2:
* Satisfactory implementation of the anti-corruption action plan
PAL-3:
Continued satisfactory implementation of the anti-corruption action plan
[PAL-3 Trigger]
Reforming the Judiciary
39.   We have adopted a program and action plan for judicial reform, including a
judicial anti-corruption component. The program has four components. First, human
capacity will be enhanced by upgrading legal education; introducing compulsory training;
improving the magistrate selection, promotion, and demotion process; and establishing
and enforcing performance standards. Second, administrative capacity will be upgraded
through improved planning and resource allocation, better systems support, and
implementation of anti-corruption strategy. Third, alternative dispute mechanisms will
be established, including the training of arbitrators and mediators. Finally, a monitoring
system will be established to track the progress of reforms and the perception of the
judiciary by the lawyer and litigant communities as well as by the general public. By
end-2005, the efficiency of the judicial system measured by case load perjudge, increase
in number ofjudgments enforced, and reduction in pending cases will have improved and
the public opinion of thejudicial system based on surveys will have improved.
Completed Actions
e Approval of a program and action plan for judicial reform including a
National Anti-Corruption Component for the Judiciary [PAL-I Board
condition]
* Preparation by the SJC of uniform standards of service for the administrative
staff
*  Submission to Parliament of amendments to the Judicial Act incorporating
adoption of uniform criteria for the selection of magistrates and the evaluation
of their performance
* Introduction of compulsory training for magistrates



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 25 of 31
Medium Term Actions
PAL-2:
*  Adoption of uniform standards of services for administrative staff of the
judiciary
*  Regulatory action for the selection of magistrates
* Regulatory action for the performance appraisal, promotion and demotion of
magistrates
-~    *  Regulatory action establishing a national training system for magistrates in the
-areas of international business transactions and European law
* Preparation of a diagnostic study assessing the shortcomings of the national
legal education
* Regulatory action establishing an internal unit within the SJC to address
issues of corruption within the judiciary
* Regulatory action establishing a legal framework favorable to a national
system of alternative dispute resolution [PAL-2 Trigger]
* Implementation of a training program for arbitrators and mediators
* Preparation of a baseline study on the public perception of the judiciary
PAL-3:
* Based on the results of the diagnostic study, updating the Unified State
Requirements for legal education
* Improved supervisory, budgetary and planning capacity of the SJC [PAL-3
Trigger]
* Implementation of survey to assess effectiveness and public perception of
judicial system
* Progress in promoting the using of the national system for alternative dispute
resolution
PILLAR V: INVESTING IN HUMAN CAPITAL AND STRENGTHENING SOCIAL PROTECTION
Improving the Efficiency of the Education and Health Systems
40.   We have begun an education reform initiative designed to improve resource
management and quality of teaching and learning while continuing to maintain high
levels of access. The reforms will strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Education
and Science (MES); introduce new education standards and curriculum and student
assessment and evaluation system; train inspectors, school directors and teachers;
improve resource allocation in general education; reform the allocation process for
resources and seats in the higher education institutions; and establish a modern student
loan and stipend program. For the general education we will implement a plan for phased
staff reduction and redeployment options. Reductions in employment will to the extent
possible be carried out through attrition and rationalization in urban areas taking into
account the social and demographic factors. In addition, we will gradually optimize the



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 26 of 31
school network by merging schools to reduce the administrative and operational costs and
improve maintenance and energy efficiency of schools. With these measures, we expect
to raise the student-teacher ratio towards the average level in OECD countries by end-
2005.
41.   While the net enrollment ratios of 96 percent in primary6 schools indicate
that access is not a problem, we are concerned about the relatively low ratios ratios
in middle7 (84 percent) and secondary8 (68 percent) schools. High unemployment and
the perception that secondary education studies are irrelevant are the possible causes of
the high drop out rate. But little is known about the causes of the large decline in
attendance after primary education. We are conducting in-depth studies of the causes of
attrition and we will develop responses to these. Our goal to increase net enrollment rate
in primary school to 9 7-98 percent, in middle school to 86-90 percent, and in secondary
school to 75-80 percent by 2005.
42.   There are signs of a decline in education quality, as measured by the 1995
and 1999 TIMSS international surveys9 in which Bulgaria participated. The decline
in assessment results reflects the pressures of a severely strained education system, with
lack of investments to maintain the system - let alone improve it. Our real outlays for
education fell more precipitously than those in other accession countries during the
1990s, and the share of education expenditures in GDP is lower than OECD and first-tier
EU accession countries. We have named education a priority sector in the Budget Acts
for 2002 and we intend to implement the policy recommendations contained in the Bank's
recent Public Expenditure and Institutional Review. We expect to see improvement in
education quality as measured by future TIMSS surveys.
Completed Actions
o Preparation of a plan for phased staff reduction and other efficiency measures
in the education system agreed with the Bank
Medium Term Actions
PAL-2:
o Implementation of agreed measures to improve efficiency of education
resource use
6 Grades 1-4
7Grades 5-8
8 Grades 9-12
9The most inclusive source of intemally comparable data on what students leam is the TIMSS
intemational science and math assessment which was carried out for a nationally representative sample of
eighth grade students in 24 countries in 1995 and 39 countries in 1999. Nme EU accession countnes
participated, and while Bulgaria scored above the international average in 1995, its score declined to below
average in 1999.



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 27 of 31
PAL-3:
* Continued implementation of agreed measures to improve efficiency of
education resource use
43.   We have begun a fundamental transformation of the health care system to
improve the relatively poor health status indicators and use the available resources
more efficiently. The focal point of the reforms is the National Health Insurance Fund
(NHIF), which undertakes both risk pooling and medical care purchasing functions on
behalf of the population. We are developing the parameters of a "steady state" health
financing system, including the long-term division of responsibilities and revenue sources
between the Ministry of Health and the NHIF. We plan to ensure adequate maintenance
of existing capital assets, and investment in new equipment and facilities, so that the
quality of care does not suffer, especially in the hospital sector. We will also develop a
plan to address segments of the population who currently have limited or no access to
either medical insurance or medical care due to socio-economic status or ethnicity. By
2005, administrative costs of NHIF will be less than 3 percent of revenues and staffing
less than 1800. With the health reforms, we expect to see improvements in the health
indicators, including an increase in life expectancy, a reduction in incidence of
tuberculosis and other infectious diseases, and an increase in immunization coverage
which has experienced a sustained decline since 1989.
Completed Actions
* Approval by the CoM of a strategy for hospital restructuring, including a
financing plan
* Agreement among the MoF, MoH, and the NHIF on a long term funding
approach for hospital services
Medium Term Actions
PAL-2:
* Development of an action plan implementing the hospital restructuring
strategy
* Achievement of balanced operating budget for NHIF
* Development of long term approaches for financing capital requirements of
the health sector
PAL-3:
* Implementation of the action plan implementing the hospital restructuring
strategy
* Implementation of long term approach for financing capital requirements of
the health sector



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 28 of 31
Ensuring Successful Implementation of the Pension Reform
44.   We have also begun the reform of the pension system towards a multi-pillar
one. The new system comprises three pillars: first, the publicly managed pay-as-you-go
system; second, the mandatory supplementary defined contribution universal (for those
born after Dec. 31, 1959) and occupational (for those working under hazardous
conditions) pension plans; and third, the voluntary supplementary plans. We have
recently developed an action plan designed to help ensure successful implementation of
the multi-pillar reform and which has the following main components. First, the
contribution rate that will be allocated to the public and private pillars will be better
defined through a legislative amendment. Second, the legal framework concerning
private pension plans and their supervision will be amended to improve governance
structures and supervision capacity, introduce more flexibility in the investment regime,
and eliminate inconsistencies. Third, additional regulations will be issued to complement
legislation. Fourth, an institutional development plan has been prepared to transform
SISA into an effective supervisory agency. Fifth, contributions to private pension plans
will be transferred promptly and handled in a transparent manner. Sixth, there will be a
campaign to improve public understanding of the reform. By end-2007, we forecast that
pension fund assets will reach two percent of GDP and transfers from NSSI to the private
pension funds will take no more than five days.
Completed Actions
o Introduction of the second pillar of the pension reform with a two percent
contribution rate
o Adoption of regulations to transfer contributions to private pension funds in a
prompt and transparent manner
o Initiation of implementation of an action plan to improve and strengthen
pension reform program
Medium Term Actions
PAL-2:
o Enactment of amendments to the pension legislation to define the contribution
rate that will apply to the second pillar
o Satisfactory progress in the implementation of the pension reform action plan
PAL-3:
o  Continued satisfactory progress in the implementation of the pension
reform action plan [PAL-3 Trigger]
Improving Efficiency and Coverage of Social Assistance Programs
45.   We will further improve the efficiency and coverage of social assistance
programs. The two main cash benefit programs, the Guaranteed Minimum Income



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 29 of 31
(GMI) and energy benefit programs, have high incidence among the poor. We will
improve the effectiveness of the GMI program by limiting in-kind benefits in favor of
cash and strengthening the administration of social assistance delivery. The coverage of
the energy benefit program will be extended to large families, the eligibility criteria
tightened to focus on poor families, and the program reviewed in the light of future tariff
increases. The child allowances program will also be improved by reducing leakage,
expanding coverage, and utilizing means-testing. Improving delivery of social assistance
requires institutional strengthening of municipal social assistance services and local
governments, and legislative amendments to allow access of private and non-for-profit
providers to social services delivery. We also plan to establish a poverty monitoring unit
in the MOLSP to track and assess the impact of government policies and programs on
poverty, incomes, and living standards. With these measures, by end-2005 we expect to
reduce the poverty rate of 2001 by 50 percent and to reduce the number of people on
social assistance by 100,000.
Completed Actions
*  Introduction of targeting of child allowances
* Adoption of an adjusted energy subsidy program in view of announced tariff
increases [PAL-I Board condition]
*  Establishment of a poverty monitoring unit in the MOLSP
*  Approval by CoM of amendments to the Social Assistance Act opening social
services provision for private and NGO providers
Medium Term Actions
PAL-2:
* After a review   of the social assistance programs, development and
implementation of a plan agreed with the Bank to improve coverage and
increase efficiency [PAL-2 Trigger]
*  Development of minimum standards for social services
*  Building capacity for poverty and living standards analysis
PAL-3:
* Implementation of a plan to improve coverage and increase efficiency of
social assistance programs [PAL-3 Trigger]
* Implementation of poverty and living standards surveys
Coordination and Monitoring of Medium Term Program
46.   Recognizing the importance of implementation to the success of the program,
we have developed institutional arrangements to ensure effective coordination and
monitoring of the program. The central policy coordination function is performed by
the Council for Structural Policy established by Regulation No 58 of the Council of
Ministers and chaired by Deputy Prime Minister Nikolay Vassilev. The Council is



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 30 of 31
composed of two deputy prime ministers (the minister of labor and social policy and the
minister of regional development and public works); the ministers of finance, transport
and communication, agriculture and forestry, state administration, energy and energy
resources; the deputy ministers of economy and finance; and the executive directors of
the Privatization Agency and the Foreign Investment Agency. The Council formulates
the priorities and mechanisms for economic and social reforms, coordinates the policy
activities of line ministries and institutions, and supervises the overall implementation of
the reform program supported by the PAL. The secretariat function is provided by an
eight-member team in the Directorate for EU Integration and Relations with IFIs. The
Directorat'e team is playing a key coordination role for all activities under the PAL, both
internally among ministries and institutions involved and externally with coordination of
donor activities supporting the Government program. In addition, we have established
several working groups, among them: the Inter-ministerial Working Group for the
Optimization of Regulatory Regimes, the Financial Supervision Advisory Council, the
Poverty Monitoring Unit at the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, and Living
Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) Unit with the National Statistics Institute (NSI).
47.   We are also establishing a mechanism for better coordination of donor
activities. In order to make more effective use of donor resources available for our
reform and development programs, we have started developing an enhanced approach to
extemal assistance by taking the lead in donor coordination. The new process seeks to
organize donor resources around the Government's major development priorities. Four
thematic areas for donor support have been identified. These are (i) Business Climate;
(ii) Living Standards Improvement; (iii) Governance and Public Administration; and (iv)
Infrastructure and Natural Resources Management. Under the new donor coordination
mechanism that was adopted, relevant deputy prime ministers are responsible for these
broad priority areas. Various working groups in each of these thematic areas are
established to work at operational level. They are aligned with government priorities and
are led by deputy ministers. The Council for Structural Policy plays the overarching
policy coordination role, and the Council of Ministers' Directorate for EU Integration and
Relations with IFIs acts as secretariat (coordination unit).
48.   We have developed strategies for participation by stakeholders in the design
and implementation of our reform program. We have regular consultations with the
business associations with respect to the reforms on the business climate, which have
been institutionalized in forums such as the Council on Economic Growth and the Tax
Council which have private sector participation. The future amendments to the Labor
Code would define institutional arrangements to improve coordination and
communication among the Government, labor, and employers. We have set up a data
users group to enhance public participation in poverty monitoring, analysis and policy
development. We will ensure local participation in the governance of the school system.
We will also establish specialized Administrative Courts to ensure more efficient
processing of complaints about improper imposition or implementation of administrative
acts by the Government.



Annex 5
Letter of Development Policy
Page 31 of 31
49.   We have also developed several feedback mechanisms to enable us to track
the progress and effectiveness of our reforms. We have completed the baseline
Administrative and Regulatory Cost Survey (ARCS). Future ARCS will provide us with
quantitative measurements on the regulatory costs which we will compare to the baseline
numbers. We will perform a regular survey of living standards. We will track the impact
of our judicial reforms on the level of credibility of the judicial system through periodic
surveys of those in the legal profession, businessmen, as well as the public in general.
50.   By upgrading our coordination capacity, involving the stakeholders in
institutional design and implementation, and establishing timely feedback
mechanisms, we are confident of successfully implementing our reform program.
We have a mechanism in place to track the progress in each component of our program,
and we will make the necessary adjustments to ensure that we meet our goals. We will
continue to look to the Bank and the donor community for support in our policy making
and institution building efforts.
Sincerely yours,
ikolay Vassilev                      Milen Velt
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of         Minister of F ance
Economy
Sofia, Bulgaria
December 20. 2002






fASucx U
LDP Attachment A
Page I of 12
BULGARIA: PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PERFORMANCE BENCHMARKS
Goals                         PAL-1                          PAL-2                         PAL-3                     Desired Outcomes
PILLAR 1: SUSTAINING STRUCTURAL REFORMS
Rationalization of the role of the  *  Enactment of a new Law on  *  Privatization or liquidation  *  Privatization or liquidation  By end-2005, the only remaining
State by privatizing activities that  Privatization and Post     of the large SOEs listed in   of the large SOEs listed in  SOEs would be those listed in
can be performed by the private   Privatization Control          LDPAttachment C**             LDPAttachment C***         LDP Attachment B.
sector                         *   Privatization of Biochim  *   Pnvatization or liquidation  *  Privatization or liquidation
and DZI*                      of 50 percent of remaining     of 80 percent of the
small SOEs as of September    remaining small SOEs as
30, 2002                      of September 30, 2002***
Improvement in efficiency of   *  Enactment of amendments to  *  Enactment of energy        *  Continued satisfactory     In 2005, energy consumption to
energy services and preparing      the Energy and Energy         legislation consistent witb   imnplementation of the     GDP would reduce by 15%
energy sector for EU accession    Efficiency Act (EEEA)          EUElectricity & Gas           electricity tariff adjustment  compared to the level in 2001.
Establishment of electricity     Directives**                   program
distnbution, generation and  *  Implementation of electncity  *  Continued satisfactory
transmission compames as      market openig targets and      implementation of district
separate legal entities       timetable                      heating component of the
*   Adoption by the CoM of key  *  Adoption of additional        Energy Strategy approved
regulations on electncity     regulations to support         by the CoM on May 11,
pncing and contracting of      electncity market opening     2002 (LDP Attachment
power by eligible consumers    including pricng              D)***
*   Implementation of an          methodology for access to  *   Opening of gas market in
average price increase of 20   transmission, dispatch and    accordance with EU
percentfor household           other system services         directive 98/30 for intemal
electricity prices in the  *   Satisfactory implementation   gas market and awarding of
second half of 2002 and        of the electricity tariff     licenses for developing the
approval of an indicative     adjustment program             low pressure gas market
timetable for their        *   Continued satisfactory    *   Mamtenance of regulatory
adjustment to cost-recovery   implementation of the          framework and market
levels*                        distnct heating component     structure for the commercial
*   Satisfactory inplementation   of the Energy Strategy         development of the low
of the district heating       approved by the CoM on         pressure gas market
component of the Energy       May 11, 2002 (LDP
Strategy approved by the      Attachment D)
CoM on May 11, 2002 (LDP
Attachment D)
*   SERC development of a
strategy for issuing tenders
to develop the low-pressure
Note: This annex is the agreed medium term performance matnx and is an attachment to the Government's Letter of Development Policy.
* PAL- I Board Condition
** PAL-2 Trigger
PAL-3 Trigger



Annex 6
LDP Attachment A
Page 2 of 12
BULGARIA: PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PERFORMANCE BENCHMARKS
Goals                         PAL-1                         PAL-2                         PAL-3                    Desired Outcomes
gas market.
Improving efficiency of the   o   Creation of new railway    o  Adoption by the railway    o  Satisfactory implementation  o  By 2004, reduction of state
railway sector resulting in a     operating company as joint    operating and infrastructure  of an action plan for the     railway labor force by 20%
decrease in railway subsidies.    stock company which has       companies of sound medium     termination and intenm        cornpared to level at end-
commercial objectives and     term business plans           financing of all loss-making  2001
autonomous decision making    including phased reduction    services that will not be  o  By 2004, achievement by the
o   Creation of new railway       of the railway network and    subject to PSO                railway operating company
infrastructure company as an  service optimization.     a   Signing of contracts between  of a financial working ratio
independent public agency  o  Adoption of plans for         the Government and the        of 105% (before subsidies
required to comply with       optimization of the structure  operating company for all    and PSO payments)
minimum economic criteria     and labor force of the        non-commercial passenger   s  Decrease in operatng
for its expenditures          railway operating and         services that will be subject  subsidies (excludmg loans
o   Issuance by the Mimstry of    infrastructure companies,    to PSO                         and grants for investment)
Transport and                 including accounting       a  Full accounting separation    from 0.5% of GDP in 2000
Communications of             separation between the        between the freight and       to 0.2% of GDP in 2004
regulations that (i) ensure   freight and passenger parts   passenger parts of the
that any willmg and           of the railway operating      railway operating company.
competent railway service     company.                   e  Preparation of sound plan
supplier may be licensed; (ii)  e  Increase m the cost recovery  ensurng conditions for
provide fair and transparent  level of intercity passenger  privatization or concession
rules for track access; and   services to at least 70%.     of freight and passenger
(iii) keep transaction costs  o  Adoption by the railway    services.
low for any prospective       infrastructure company of  o  Railway operating company
service supplier.             sound systems and             to be given full freedom to
c   Preparation of sound plan of  procedures for                set passenger fares and
action for rationalization of  planning/budgeting           freight tariffs in accordance
rail network and operations   expenses.                     with sound commercial
o   Signing of a framework        principles (except in cases of
contract between the          PSO contracts).
Government and the        a   Track access charges to be
operating company for non-    set at full marginal social
commercial services that      cost recovery level effective
will be subject to PSO.       as of January 1, 2004.
o   Development of preliminary  o  Increase in cost recovery
plan for the termination and  level of intercity passenger
interim financing of loss     services to at least 90%
making services not subject   including infrastructure
to PSO                        charges based on full
Note: This annex is the agreed medium term performance matrix and is an attachment to the Government's Letter of Development Policy.
* PAL-I Board Condition
** PAL-2 Trigger
*  PAL-3 Trigger



Annex 6
LDP Attachment A
Page 3 of 12
BULGARIA: PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PERFORMANCE BENCHMARKS
Goals                         PAL-1                          PAL,2                         PAL-3                     Desired Outcomes
*   Termination of 342 km of      charges based on full
loss-making services.         marginal social cost
*   Reduction of railway labor  *  Reduction in railway labor
force by 10% compared to      force by 20% compared to
the level at end of 2001 **   the level at end of 2001 ***.
Liberalizing the teleconmium-  *  Implementation of Chapter  *   Preparation of analysis of  *  Continued satisfactory    By the end of 2005, the degree of
cations market                     19 EU accession               competition in the market,    progress on implementing   digitalization of transfer network
commitments descnbed m         including effective           EU accession commitments   will be 100%, of exchanges 82%
LDP Attachment E              broadband access and           descnbed in LDP            and of subscribers capacity 46%;
*   Establishment of an           competition, leased line       Attachment E              the number of households with
independent, transparent,     access, carrier selection,  *  Contnued satisfactory     telecommunication services
and accountable regulator     indirect access, and           imnplementation of CRC     allowing internet access will be
for the telecommunications    provision of universal        institutional development   94%; telephone connection
sector - the Commumcations    service                        plan                       waiting time will not exceed one
Regulation Commission      *   Satisfactory progress on  *   CoM approval of an updated  month.
(CRC)                         implementng EU accession       sector policy and
*   Issuance and implemen ta-     commitments described in      implementation action plan
don of a privatization        LDP Attachment E
strategy for BTC that      *  Enactment of New
ensures no extension of        Telecommunications Law
BTC exclusivities*         *  Adoption and satisfactory
*   Satisfactory progress in BTC  unplementation of CRC
tariff rebalancing            institutional development
*   Submission to Parliament of   plan, including its financial
draft New Telecom-            mdependence
munications Law            *  Adoption of primary
legislation and satisfactory
progress in secondary
legislation ensuring personal
data protection in electronic
communications
Modernizing the water sector   *   Submission to Parliament of  *  CoM approval of a Water  *  Issuance of water concession  Reduction of the operating ratios
amendments to the Water        Sector Strategy               contracts to private      (operating costs including
Law supporting the         *  Adoption of a regulatory       companmes in three         depreciation to total revenues) of
restructurng and               framework for the water       additional Regional Water  Regional Water Companies to
decentralization of the       sector                         Companies                  80%
_______________ __   Regional Water Cornpanues  *  Issuance of water concession
Note' This annex is the agreed medium term performance matnx and is an attachment to the Government's Letter of Development Policy.
* PAL- I Board Condition
** PAL-2 Trigger
PAL-3 Trigger



Annex 6
LDP Attachment A
Page 4 of 1 2
BULGARIA: PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PERFORMANCE BENCHMARKS
Goals                         PAL-1                        PAL-2                         PAL-3                    Desired Outcomes
contracts to pnvate
companies in Vama and
Shumen
Mitigatmg environrnental risks  o  Enactment of a new       o  Satisfactory implementation  o  Continued satisfactory  o   By end-2005, issuance of
Environment Protection        of environmentalpolicies     implementation of             225 mtegrated
Act*                          on StiEs to be privatized    environmental policies on     environmental permits under
o   Enactment of Biodiversity  o  Approval by CoM of a         SOEs to be privatized        the IPPC dtrective
Law                           general plan for institutional  o  Issuance of regulation on  o  By end-2007, issuance of
development and               Strategic Environment        permits to all enterprises
administrative strengthening  Assessment                   covered by the IPPC
related to the complete   o   Development of a national    directive
practical application of the  strategy for sustainable
EU directives in the field of  management of land,
environment                   forests, and biological
e   Development and issuance     resources
of regulation on
Environmental Impact
Assessment
e   Development of a system of
issuance and control of
Integrated Pollution and
Control Permits (IPPC)
PILLAR I1: ESTABLISHING A MARKET-FRIENDLY BusImEss ENVIRONMENT
Reducing entry constraints and  a  Submission to Parliament  e  Enactment of the Law on  *   Elimination of an additional  e  FDI inflows of $ 1.0 billion
regulatory costs                  of a draftLaw on             Administrative Regulation     20 and modification of        per year during 2002-05
Administrative Regulation     and Administrative Control    additional 58 regulatory  *  Increase in share of SMEs in
and Administrative Control    on Economic Activities       regimes per program           valued added and
on Economic Actifities *  e   Issuance by the CoM of       approved by the CoM on        employment to at least 50
*   CoM approval of a program    guidelines to central         June 7, 2002                  percent by 2005
for eliminating and           administrative bodies on the  e  Introduction of one stop  *  Total factor productivity
restructuring regulatory      design of proposed new       company registration at the   increase of 2.5 percent
regimes                       regulatory regimes           Bulstat offices by mtegrating  annually during 2002-05
*   Development by a working  e  Elimination of 40 and         the Commercial Register   *   By 2005, private sector share
group of a plan for           modification of 50           with the Bulstat Register.    of GDP at 70 percent
integrating the Bulstat, tax,  regulatory regimes based  e  Completion of third annual  *  By 2005, elimination or
and social security           on program approved by       ARCS                          modification of at least 50
registration of companies    the CoM on June 7, 2002**                                   percent of regulatory
Note: This annex is the agreed medium term performance matrix and is an attachment to the Government's Letter of Development Policy.
* PAL-I Board Condition
* PAL-2 Trigger
*** PAL-3 Trigger



Annex 6
LDP Attachment A
Page 5 of 12
BULGARIA: PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PERFORMANCE BENCHMARKS
Goals                        PAL-1                         PAL-2                         PAL-3                    Desired Outcomes
*   Completion of the baseline  *  Establishment of a                                        regimes existing at mid-2002
Administrative and            comprehensive public                                       resulting m significant
Regulatory Cost Survey        registry of regulatory                                     reduction of regulatory costs
(ARCS)                        regumes                                                    as measured by the annual
*   Completion of second                                       ARCS
_                         annual ARCS
Improvmg busmess service      *   Establishment of a Tax    *  Adoption by the Inter-    *   Implementation of a       By 2005, achievement of
delivery of government offices    Council to mclude            munisterial Working Group     program of simplification of  performance standards 90 percent
representatives from the      for Optimization of          administrative procedures  of the time during the year.
pnvate sector                 Regulatory Regimes of a      for regulatory regimes in the
*   Implementation of Customs    program of simplification of  construction, tourism, and
reform in three pilot         administrative procedures    food processing sectors
locations                     for regulatory regimes in the  *  Attainment by property
*   Development of a plan for    construction, tourism, and    registry of the efficiency
pilotmg a system of           food processing sectors      level of the average EU
monitonng service standards  *  Development of measures by  property registry system
in the Directorate for        the respective authonties for  *  Expansion of system of
National Building Control at  border and rn-the-country    monitoring service standards
the Mimstry of Regional       control, on national level,  to other Government offices
Development and Public        which shall replicate the    dealing with the private
Works and the Labor           pilot projects at cross border  sector
Inspectorate at the Ministry  pomts and clearance       *  Establishment of a Unified
of Labor and Social Policy   terminals, handling a         Revenue Information System
*   CoM decision to establish a  minimum 50% of all traffic    (URIS) and a Unified
National Revenue Agency   *   Implementation of a system   Corporate Information
of monitoring service         System (UCIS)
standards m the Directorate  *  Implementation of VAT
for National Building         reforms
Control at the Ministry of  *  Implementation of the
Regional Development and      reform of the administrative
Public Works and the Labor    court system towards
Inspectorate at the Ministry  specialization and
of Labor and Social Policy    upgrading skills of
*   Adoption by the MoF of a     judges***
program for improvmg VAT
procedures
*   Establishment of a National
Note. This annex is the agreed medium term performance matnx and is an attachment to the Government's Letter of Development Policy.
* PAL- I Board Condition
** PAL-2 Trigger
PAL-3 Trigger



Annex 6
LDP Attachment A
Page 6 of 12
BULGARIA: PRoGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PERFORMANCE BENCHMARKS
Goals                         PAL-1                        PAL-2                         PAL-3                    Desired Outcomes
Revenue Agency
*   Submission by MoJ of a plan
for the establishment of
specialized commercial
courts
e   Submission by MoJ of a plan
for the reform of the
administrative court system
Ensuring competition and      o   Enactment of the Law on   o  Completion of review of       Implementation of program  The labor participation rate, the
functioning markets               State Aid                    competition policies and      for improving competitive  employment to population ratio,
o   Submission of amendments     their implementation and      environment               the unemployment rate, and the
to the Law on the Protection  adoption of program for   o  Enactment of amendments to  share of long term unemployed to
of Competition               improving competitive         the Labor Code            total unemployed will be
o   Initiation of actions         enviromnent              e   Privatization of grain storage  monitored and evaluated
implementing the Social   o   Development and initiation   facilities and increase in the  periodically.
Policy Strategy and Strategic  of action plan to upgrade the  share  of State  Reserves
Note on Labor Market          institutional capacity of the  inventories stored in pnvate,
Reforms                       Commission for the           licensed warehouses
o   Development of a set of      Protection of Competition  o  Enactment of legislation
indicators on labor market  o  Submission to Parliament    aimed at changing the status
flexibility and ALMP impact   of amendments to the         of the State Reserves to a
Labor Code agreed with        public institution, subject to
Bank**                        full public disclosure
o   Elimination of regulatory
and bureaucratic barriers to
private provision of
emnployment services
Improving the efficiency of the  o  Submission to Parliament  c  Enactment of amendments to  o  Implementation of      To be developed in PAL-2
insolvency regime                 ofproposed amendments        Part IV of the Commercial     monitoring system covering
to PartIVof the               Code                         insolvency reform
Commercial Code*          o   Preparation by MoJ of a plan
e   Approval by MoJ of a plan    to reform the Civil
to improve the selection and  Procedure Code
monitoring of bankruptcy  o   Implementation of plan to
trustees                      improve selection and
/                monitoring of bankruptcy
trustees
Note: This annex is the agreed medium term performance matnx and is an attachment to the Government's Letter of Development Policy.
* PAL-1 Board Condition
t PAL-2 Trigger
000PAL-3 Trigger



Annex 6
LDP Attachment A
Page 7 of 12
BULGARIA: PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PERFORMANCE BENCHMARKS
Goals                         PAL-                           PAL-2                         PAL-3                     Desired Outcomes
PILLAR ILI: DEEPENING THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
Improving the legal framework  *   Submission to Parliament of  *  Enactment of amendrnents to  *  Implementation of tax  Increase in financial
for lendmg                         draft amendments to the Law  the Law on Registered          reform in the financial sector  intermediation to support pnvate
on Registered Pledges         Pledges                                                   sector investment, while
*   Enactment of amendments to  *  Enforcement of the                                      maintaining capital adequacy and
the foreclosure provisions of  application of international                             liquidity standards. By end-
the Civil Procedure Code       standards in accounting and                              2005, mcrease in M2 to GDP
*   Enactment of the              auditmg                                                  from 42% in 2001 to 50% and
Accountancy Act and the    *   Development of a plan for                                increase in private sector loans to
Independent Financial Audit   financial sector tax reforms                              GDP from 15% at end-2001 to
Act                           to address tax distortions                                25%, while maintammng
*   Submission to Parliament of  *  Enactment of the Law on                                prudential standards
a draft Law on Measures       Measures Against Terrorist
Against Terrorist Financing   Financing
*   Submission to Parliament of  *  Enactment of amendments to
draft amendments to the Law   the Law on Measures
on Measures Against Money     Against Money Laundering
Laundering
Completing banking reform      *   Enactment of Bank         *   Development and initiation
Bankruptcy Law                of implementation of
*   Enactment of amendments to    strategy and action plan for
the Banking Law providmg      Business Promotion Bank
broader powers to the BNB      agreed with the Bank
to investigate and identify  *  Establishment of
direct and indirect ownership  institutional mechanism for
of banks                      mandatory consultation of
the BNB and other financial
regulatory agencies with
regard to drafts of laws and
regulations relevant to the
financial sector
Developmg financial markets and  *  Issuance of regulations for  *  Enactment of amendments  *  Unification of supervision of
improvmg supervision              foreign mvestments of          to the Mandatory Social       non-bank fmancial
coordmation                       private pension finds          Insurance Code and the        institutions (NBFIs)
*   Adoption of an mstitutional    Voluntary Pension Code
development plan for the      strengthening pension fund
State Insurance Supervisory   governance and SISA
Note: Thus annex is the agreed medium term performance matrix and is an attachment to the Government's Letter of Development Policy.
* PAL-l Board Condition
* * PAL-2 Trigger
*** PAL-3 Tngger



Annex 6
LDP Attachment A
Page 8 of 12
BULGARIA: PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LoAN
PERFORMANCE BENCHMARKS
Goals                         PAL-1                         PAL-2                         PAL-3                    Desired Outcomes
Agency (SISA)                 supervision capacity,
*   Adoption of an institutional  introducing more
development plan for          flexibility to the investment
Insurance Supervisory         regime while maintaining a
Agency (ISA)                  prudent portfolio, and
*   Enactment of the Mortgage     eliminating
Bond Law                      inconsistencies"*
*   Enactment of amendments to  *  Upgrading regulations
the Law on Public Offering    covering private pension
of Securities                 funds.
*   Submission to Parliament of  *  Enactment of amendments to
amendments to the             the Commercial Code to
Commercial Code to            strengthen corporate
strengthen corporate          governance provisions
governance                 *  Enactment of Law on
*   Enactment of amendments to    Financial Supervision
the Insurance Act to           Commission
harmonize with EU          *  Establishment of an Early
directives and strengthen     Warning System with
ISA                           respect to financial sector
*   Elimination of monopolies     vulnerabilities
in certain segments of the
insurance market
*   Establishment of a Fmancial
Supervision Advisory
Council for coordination and
review of systemic
vulnerabilities
PILLAR IV: IMPROVING PUBLIC SECTOR GOVERNANCE
Improving the efficiency and  *   Approval of a Strategy for  *  Satisfactoryprogressin    *  Continued satisfactory     By end-2005, improvements in
effectiveness of public           State Administration          implementing the state        progress in implementing   the administrative capacity
administration                    Modernization, and a          administration                the state administration  (optimization of the number and
program for its               modernizadton program         modernization program      capability of civil servants)
implementtion agreed          based on agreed               based on agreed            through implementation of an
with the Bank*                performance benchmarks        performance benchmarks    overall system for human
*   Approval of a national        and assessment of agreed      and assessment of agreed  resource management and
training strategy approved    monitoring and                monitoring and             performance appraisal and
Note: This annex is the agreed medium term performance matrix and is an attachment to the Govermment's Letter of Development Policy.
* PAL-I Board Condition
** PAL-2 Trigger
*  PAL-3 Trigger



Annex 6
LDP Attachment A
Page 9 of 12
BULGARIA: PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PERFORMANCE BENCHMARKS
Goals                         PAL-1                          PAL-2                         PAL-3                     Desired Outcomes
by Council of Ministers       performance indicators'*       performance indicators  *  closing down the ineffective and
*   Completion of a Pay and   *   Development and initiation  *  Completion and publication  overlapping administrative
Benefits Survey in the public  of implementation of a        of the second annual report  structures
sector                        program for impro ving         on fimctioning of public
*   Development of momtonng       local administration **        admuiistration
indicators                 *  Completion and publication  *  Roll-out of "one stop shops"
of a comprehensive review     based on outcomes of pilot
of the functioning of public  exercises
administration             *  Completion of functional
*   Completion of functional      reviews of agreed number of
reviews of an agreed number   ministnes/agencies
of ministries and agencies
*   Implementation of a
momtonng system to track
reform outcomes versus
target
Reducing corruption            *   Development of an anti-   *   Satisfactory implementation  *  Continued satisfactory   To be developed m the course of
corruption strategy and       of the anti-corruption action  implementation of the anti-  PAL-2
action plan agreed with the   plan                           corruption action plan ***
Bank*
*   Establishment of Inter-
ministenal Committee for
Implementing the Anti-
Corruption Strategy and
Action Plan
Improving the efficiency,      *  Approval of a program      *   Adoption of uniform        *  Based on the results of the  *  The outcomes to be
effectiveness, and credibility of  and action plan for judicial  standards of services for     diagnostic study, updatng      monitored will include: case
the judicial system                reform including a            administrative staff of the   the Umfied State               load per judge, number of
NationalAnti-Corruption       judiciary                      Requirements for legal        judgments enforced, number
Component for the          *  Regulatory action for the      education                     of pendmg cases, and
Judiciary*                    selection of magistrates   *   Improved supervisory,         Improvement m the pubhc
*   Preparation by SJC of     *   Regulatory action              budgetary andplanning         perception of the judicial
uniform standards of service   establishing criteria for the  capacity of the SJC***        system based on survey
for the administrative staff  performance appraisal,     *   Implementation of survey to   results. These outcomes will
*   Submussion to Parliament of   promotion and demotion of      assess effectives and public  be quantified in the course of
amendments to the Judicial     magistrates                   perception of the judicial     PAL-2
Act mcorporatmg adoption   *   Regulatory action             system
Note This annex is the agreed medium term performance matrix and is an attachment to the Government's Letter of Development Policy.
* PAL- I Board Condition
** PAL-2 Tngger
"t PAL-3 Trigger



AnDex 6
LDP Attachment A
Page 10 of 12
BULGARIA: 1PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PERFORMANCE BENCHMARKS
Goals                         PAL-1                        PAL-2                         PAL-3                    Desired Outcomes
of uniform criteria for the   establishing a national   o  Progress in promoting the
selection of magistrates and  traming system for           using of the national system
the evaluation of their       magistrates in the areas of  for alternative dispute
performance                  international business        resolution
Introduction of compulsory    transactions and European
traimng for magistrates      law
o   Preparation of a diagnostic
study assessing the
shortcomings of the national
legal education
o   Regulatory action
establishing an internal unit
within the SJC to address
issues of corruption within
the judiciary
*   Regulatory acton
establishing a legal
framework favorable to a
national system of
alternatve dispute
resolution"**
*   Implementation of a training
program for arbitrators and
mediators
*   Preparation of a baseline
study on the public
perception of the judiciary  .
PILLAR V: INVESTING IN HUMAN CAPITAL AND STRENGTHENING SOCIAL PROTECTION
Improving the efficiency and  *   Preparation of a plan for  *  Implementation of agreed  *  Continued implementation  *   By 2005, improvement in
financial sustainability of the   phased staff reduction and   measures to improve           of agreed measures to         student-teacher ratio to
educational and health systems    other efficiency measures in  efficiency of education      improve efficiency of         OECD levels
the education system agreed  resource use                  education resource use     *  By 2005, increase in net
with Bank                 *   Development of an action  *  Implementation of the action  enrollment rate in primary
*   Approval by the CoM of a     plan implementing the         plan for the hospital         school to 97-98%, in middle
strategy for hospital         hospital restructuring       restructuring strategy        schools to 86-90% and in
restructuring, including      strategy                  *   Implementation of long term  secondary schools to 75-
_    financing plan            *   Achievement of balanced      approach for financing the    80%
Note: This annex is the agreed medium term performnance matrix and is an attachment to the Government's Letter of Development Policy.
* PAL-I Board Condition
** PAL-2 Trigger
*  PAL-3 Trigger



Annex 6
LDP Attachment A
Page 11 of 12
BULGARIA: PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PERFORMANCE BENCHMARKS
Goals                         PAL-1                          PAL-2                         PAL-3                     Desired Outcomes
Agreement among the MoF,       operating budget for NHIF     capital requirements of the  *  Improvement m the quality
MoH, and the NHIF on a     *  Development of long term       health sector                 indicators based on surveys
long term funding approach    approaches for financing the                                  such as TIMSS
for hospital services         capital requirements of the                               *  By 2005, NHIF administra-
health sector                                                tive costs kept at less than
3% of revenues and staffing
at less then 1800
*   Increase mn life expectancy
by 2005
*   Decrease in incidence of
tuberculosis per 100,000
from 45.5 in 1999 to 40 in
2005
*   Increase in proportion of
chlldren under 2 immunized
against DPT from 68 percent
in 2000 to 85 percent in
2005
Ensuring successful implemen-  *  Introduction of the second  *  Enactment of amendments to  *  Continued satisfactory    *   By end-2007, increase in
tation of the pension reform       pillar of the pension reform  the pension legislation to    progress in implementation     mandatory contribution to
with a two percent            define the contribution rate   of the action plan to         the second pillar to 5 percent
contribution rate             that will apply to the second  improve and strengthen     *   By end-2005, pension assets
*   Adoption of regulations to    pillar                        the pension reform             managed by private finds
transfer contributions to  *  Satisfactory progress in the   program***                    would reach 2% of GDP
pension funds in a prompt     implementation of action                                  *   By 2005, transfers from
and transparent manner        plan descnbed to improve                                     NSSI to private pension
*   Initiation of implementation  and strengthen the pension                                   funds would take no more
of an action plan to improve  reform program                                                than 5 days.
and strengthen the pension
reform program
Improvmg efficiency and        *  Introduction of targetmg of  *  After a review of the social  *  Implementation of a plan  *  By end-2005, reduce poverty
coverage of social assistance     child allowances               assistance programs,          to improve coverage and        rate of 2001 by 50 percent.
programs                       *   Adoption of an adjusted       development and               increase efficiency of social  *  By end-2005, reduce the
energy subsidy program in     implementation of a plan       assistance progra ms"f*       number of people on social
view of announced tariff      to improve coverage and    *   Implementation of poverty     assistance by 100,000
increases*                    increase efficiency**          and living standards surveys
*   Establishment of a poverty  *  Development of minimmum
Note. This annex is the agreed medium term performance matrix and is an attachment to the Government's Letter of Development Policy
* PAL-I Board Condition
* * PAL-2 Trigger
PAL-3 Trigger



Annex 6
LDP Attachment A
Page 12 of 12
BULGARIA: PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PERFORMANCE BENCHMARKS
Goals                          PAL-1                          PAL-2                          PAL-3                    Desired Outcomes
monitoring unit in MOLSP       standards for social services
*   Approval by CoM of             Building capacity for
amendments to the Social       poverty and living standards
Assistance Act opening         analysis
social services provision for
private and NGO providers.
Note: This annex is the agreed medium term performance matrix and is an attachment to the Government's Letter of Development Policy.
* PAL-I Board Condition
** PAL-2 Trigger
t** DAT -1 T_



Annex 6-A
LDP Attachment B
Page 1 of 2
List of Companies Not Included in the Privatization Program
4    Bourgas Airport EAD - Bourgas
LIST OF COMPANIES WITH MORE THAN 50 PER CENT OF STATE PARTICIPATION IN THE                       5    Goma Onahovitsa EAD - Goma Onahovitsa
EQUITY OT DETACHED PARTS THEREOF                                                                 6    Plovdiv Airport EAD - Plovdiv
7    Stara Zagora Airport EOOD - Stara Zagora
I        Ministry of Regional and Urban Development                                               8   Rousse Airport EOOD - Rousse
9    Port Complex Rousse EAD - Rousse
I    Water Supply and Sewerage EOOD - Blagoevgrad                                                 10  Port Complex Lom EAD - Lom
2    Water Supply and Sewerage EAD - Bougras                                                     I   Port of Vidin EOOD - Vidin
3    Water Supply and Sewerage OOD - Vama                                                         12  Port of Vama EAD - Vama
4    Water Supply and Sewerage Yovkovtsi OOD - Veliko Tamovo                                      13  Port of Bourgas EAD - Bourgas
5    Water Supply and Sewerage EOOD - Vidin                                                       14  Lesport EAD - Vama
6    Water Supply and Sewerage OOD - Vratsa                                                      1   Bulganan Posts EAD - Sofia
7    Water Supply and Sewerage OOD - Gabrovo
8    Water Supply and Sewerage EOOD - Dobnch                                                     III       Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
9    Water Supply and Sewerage OOD - Karali
10   Water Supply and Sewerage OOD - Kyustendil                                                   I   Imgation Systems EAD - Sofia
11. Water Supply and Sewerage OOD - Lovech                                                       2    Agrolesproekt EOOD - Sofia
12   Water Supply and Sewerage OOD - Montana                                                     3    St. Ivan Rilski EAD - Sofia
13   Water Supply and Sewerage EOD - Pazardjik                                                   4.   Hidromeloiracii - Sevlievo EAD - Sevlievo
14. Water Supply and Sewerage OOD - Pemik                                                        5    Agrogeometer-Sofia EAD - Sofia
15. Water Supply and Sewerage EOD - Pleven                                                       6    Vodproekt EAD - Sofia
16  Water Supply and Sewerage EOOD - Plovdiv                                                     7    Kabijuk EAD - Shumen
17   Water Supply and Sewerage OOD - Ispenh                                                      8.   Khan Asparuh KZ EAD - Yasenovets
18. Water Supply Dounav EOOD - Razgrad                                                           9    Stefan Karadja EOOD - Balchik
19  Water Supply and Sewerage OOD - Rousse                                                       10. Vrana EAD - Sofia
20 Water Supply and Sewerage OOD - Silistra
21   Water Supply and Sewerage OOD - Sliven                                                      IV        Ministry of Defence
22. Water Supply and Sewerage EOOD - Smolyan
23. Water Supply and Sewerage EOOD - Stara Zagora                                                 I   Terem EAD - Sofia
24   Water Supply and Sewerage OOD - Targovisbte                                                 2.   Military Publishing House EOOD - Sofia
25   Water Supply and Sewerage OOD Dimitrovgrad                                                   3   Supply and Commerce MF EOOD - Sofia
26. Water Supply and Sewerage EOOD - Haskovo                                                      4   Tnarnistroymnvest EOOD - Sofia
27   Water Supply and Sewerage OOD - Shoumen                                                      5   PRONO EOOD - Sofia
28 Water Supply and Sewerage OOD - Yambol
29. Water Supply and Sewerage EOOD - Sofia                                                       V         Ministry of Education and Science
30. Geoprotection EOOD - Vama
31   Geoprotection EOOD - Pemik                                                                   I   Student Canteens and Boarding Houses EAD - Sofia - social functions
32   Geoprotection Pleven EOOD - Pleven                                                           2   Education and Science EAD - Sofia - social functions
33   National regional development Center EAD - Sofia                                             3   Akademika 2000 - Sofia - social functions
34   Research Construction Institute - NISI - Sofia                                              4    Allians EOOD
35   Technoexportstroy EAD - Sofia                                                                5   Unique Appliances and Systems EOOD
36 Metal Structures Holding EAD - Sofia
37  Industnal Construction Holding EAD - Sofia                                                    VI       Ministry of Culture
38 Installations - Sofia
1.  Submanne Archaeology Center EOOD - Sozopol
11       Ministry of Transport and Communications
VIl      Ministry of Health
I    Bulganan State Railways EAD - Sofia, which, according t the Transition and Final Provisions of the
Act on Railway Transport, shall be terminated without liquidation on January 1, 2002, and its  I   Specialized Rehabilitation Hospitals - National Complex EAD - Sofia
successors will be the Railway Infrastructure National Company and a sole-propnetor company that  2  Balneological Center - Kamena EAD - Velingrad
shall be established by the Council of ministers by January I, 2002 and shall perform the activity
related to railway transport of passengers and cargo
2    Sofia Airport EAD - Sofia                                                                    V        Ministry of Energy and Energy Resources
3    Varna Airport EAD - Vama



Annex 6-A
LDP Attachment B
Page 2 of 2
List of Companies Not Included in the Privatization Program
I   Kozloduy nuclear power station EAD - Kozloduy
2    Bulgargas EAD - Sofia
3    Ecoingenenng EOOD - Sofia
IX       Ministry of Economy
I   L B Bulgancum EAD Sofia
2    Bulgarian Rose State Laboratory EOOD - Sofia
3    Eco Elshitsa EOOD - village of Elshitsa
4    Eco Medet EOOD - village of Panagyurski Kolonil
5    lntemational Economics Staff Training Center EOOD - Sofia
6.   Bulganan Agency for Export Insurance AD - Sofia
X        Ministry of Finance
I. Tax Free Zone Bourgas AD - Bourgas
2. Tax Free Zone Vidin AD - Vidin
3    Tax Free Zone Rousse AD - Rousse
4. Tax Free Zone Plovdiv AD - Plovdiv
5    Tax Free Zone Svilengrad AD - Svilengrad
6.   Transit Commercial Zone AD - Vama
7    Information Service AD - Sofia
8.   Formpnnt AD- Sofia
9    Promotion Bank AD - Sofia
10. Bulgarian Stock Exchange AD - Sofia
I Central Depository AD - Sofia
12 Bank Consolidation Company AD - Sofia
Xl State Agency for Youth and Sport
I   National Sports Base EAD - Sofia
2    Olympika EAD - Sofia



Annex 6-B
LDP Attachment C
Large State-Owned Enterprises/Banks to be Privatized or Liquidated
in PAL-2 and PAL-3
PAL-2
1. Bulgartabac
2. DSK (State Savings Bank)
3. Bulgarian River Fleet, Rousse
4. Bulgarian Commercial Fleet, Varna
5. Balkancar Holding
6. Twenty out of 35 small Hydro Power Plants
PAL-3
1. The seven electricity distribution companies
2. Five district heating companies



Annex 6-C
LDP Attachment D
BULGARIA: PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN
District Heating Sector Reform
Completed actions
0  Satisfactory implementation of the district heating (DH) component of the Energy Strategy
approved by the CoM on May 11, 2002, including: introduction of two-part tariffs for all
customers (a fixed capacity charge for all customers and an energy charge based on measured
or estimated consumption); implementation of a 10 percent price adjustment in 2002;
approval of an indicative schedule for raising household tariffs to cost-recovery levels and
phasing out DH company subsidies; and allowing disconnection of entire buildings under
specified conditions.
IPAL-2
o  Continued satisfactory implementation of the district heating component of the Energy
Strategy approved by the CoM on May 11, 2002 including: implementing tariff and subsidy
adjustments; adjustment of the winter energy subsidy program to account for the increase in
tariffs; strengthening the management of supply companies; stimulating the formation of
Housing Associations in multi-family dwellings (or other mechanisms to enforce the rights
and obligations of suppliers and customers); regulation of heat accounting companies;
installation of heat allocators and thermostatic valves by domestic consumers, and securing
the financing for potentially viable DH companies to improve supply (and consumption)
efficiency covering at least 50% of Bulgaria's customer base.
1PAlL-3
o Continued satisfactory implementation of the district heating component of the Energy
Strategy approved by the CoM on May 11, 2002 including: implementation of district
heating tariff adjustment program and privatization of at least five district heating companies
[PAL-3 Trigger]



Annex 6-D
LDP Attachment E
BULGARIA: PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TELECOMMUNICATIONS LIBERALIZATION IMPLEMENTATION COMMITMENTS
Completed Actions
* CRC Established
PAL-2
* Adoption of New Telecommunications Law and satisfactory progress in adoption of
secondary legislation under Telecommunications Law
* New BTC License issued pursuant to new telecommunications law and including
network rollout obligations reflected in plan submitted to the Bank during appraisal
* BTC Reference Interconnection Offer Submitted to CRC
PAL-3
BTC will:
* provide cost-oriented prices for voice services
* provide separate accounting and cost-oriented prices for interconnection
* implement requirements for leased lines - minimal set, separate accounting, cost
orientation



Annex 7
Page 1 of 5
An Update on Poverty'
1.     The recent poverty profile for 2001 shows a notable decline in poverty since the last
survey which was conducted in 1997. For the analysis, relative poverty lines from 1997 - two-
thirds mean per capita consumption (high) and one-half mean per capita consumption (low) -
were held constant and adjusted to 2001 price levels to document trends.2 The results indicate
that poverty in Bulgaria has fallen by nearly two-thirds since 1997, but persists at levels more
than double the pre-crisis rates (12.8% vs. 5.5% in 1995) (Table 1). In addition, in 2001, the poor
have become less poor compared to 1997, in terms of depth, or severity of poverty (meaning how
far below the poverty line, poor people are). Inequality for 2001, as measured by the Gini
coefficient, is down from 1997, but higher than it was in 1995 (29.6 versus 31.4 and 27.1
respectively).
Table 1: Poverty and Inequality Trends
1995              1997             2001
Poverty estimates             High     Low     High     Low      High    Low
Headcount ratio              5.5      2.9     36.0     20.2     12.8     7.5
Gap                          1.7      0.9     11.4      5.9     4.2      2.2
Severity                     0.8      0.4      5.5      2.7     1.9      0.9
Avg. per capita monthly           117.2             62.6             99.0
consumption (June 1997 BGN)
Gini coefficient                  27.1              31.4             29.6
Sources: Bulgaria Integrated Household Surveys 95, 97, 01
Note: Poverty rates are based upon per capita consumption. The "high" poverty line (equivalent to
$2.76/day) is set at two-thirds mean consumption in 1997, the "low" line (equivalent to
$2.07/day) is set at one-half mean consumption.
2.     Absolute poverty in Bulgaria in 2001 is comparable with neighboring countries, although
it exceeds levels in the high-performing countries of Central and Eastern Europe (Table 2). Using
the absolute poverty line of $2.15 (ppp) per day for purposes of international comparison, poverty
in Bulgaria was 7.9 percent, slightly higher than that of Romania and Latvia in 1998. This
remained significantly higher than poverty in the more advanced EU Accession countries such as
Hungary and Poland (1.3 and 1.2 percent respectively at the above mentioned poverty line). The
Bank is working with the Govermment on poverty analyses, monitoring and evaluation. For the
purposes of the Poverty Assessment Update, the Bank is using the high poverty line, equal to
$2.76 per day adjusted for ppp.
Table 2: Poverty Rates in Selected Countries of Central and Eastern Europe
Country         Survey Year         at $2.15 ppp/day   at $4.30 ppp/day
Bulgaria            1995                 3.1               18.2
Bulgaria            2001                  7.9              31.9
Romania             1998                 6.8               44.5
Latvia              1998                 6.6              34.8
Ukrame              1999                  3                29.4
Hungary             1997                 1.3               15.4
Poland              1998                 1.2               18.4
Source: Makmng Transition Work for Everyone, The World Bank, 2000.
'For more details see Bulgaria: Poverty Assessment, The World Bank, 2002. The assessment is based
upon the Bulgaria Integrated Household Survey which was implemented in Spring 2001.
2 As a result, the relative poverty lines for 1997 function as 'absolute' poverty lines in 2001.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 5
3.     Despite the rising unemployment associated with the restructuring of the economy,
poverty has fallen since the 1997 crisis: growth-oriented structural reforms combined with
enhanced safety nets and sharper targeting appear to have helped the poor. The decline in
measured poverty rates has taken place within a context of increasing unemployment, suggesting
a large role for social protection income, informal employment and remittances in mitigating the
impact of the labor shedding in the formal sector. As expected, poverty is highest among
unemployed and economically inactive individuals. The share of households whose head is
unemployed grew from 7 percent in 1997 to 15 percent in 2001, and individuals in households
whose head is unemployed make up almost 40 percent of the poor.
4.        In the context of increasing unemployment, the impact of social protection transfers
on poverty was sizable. Bulgarian households on average derive 12 percent of their income from
social protection benefits and this share jumps up to more than one third among the poor.
Pensions play the largest role in protecting consumption. In the absence of social protection
benefits, poverty would be 18 percentage points higher. This is largely the result of pension
income - other benefits, including unemployment and social assistance, reduce poverty by two
percentage points.
5.        Improvements in welfare since the 1997 crisis have not been distributed evenly
across the population. Preliminary analysis of the poverty profile indicates that poverty rates,
which measure the proportion of people below the poverty line, have declined less for some
groups than others. For example, urban areas experienced a more significant drop in poverty
levels, from 33.5 to 5.9%, while in rural areas, poverty rates were less than halved (from 41.2 to
23.7 percent). Similarly, poverty rates for other high risk groups, including individuals with low
education levels and the Roma and Turkish minorties have fallen less than for the population as a
whole. This suggests the existence of important 'pockets' of poverty which have not benefited as
much as the rest of the country from recent economic improvements.
6.     Poverty in Bulgaria still has a significant ethnic dimension. In particular, the Roma
minority is over-represented among the poor. The 2001 data indicate that Roma are ten times
more likely to be poor than ethnic Bulgarians. Although Roma represent only 8.8 percent of the
individuals in the sample, they constitute nearly half of the total poor. The Turkish minority also
has consistently higher poverty rates than the total population. In the 2001 survey, poverty rates
for Turks are four times higher than those for ethnic Bulgarians.
7.     Poverty is most severe among younger people.  Although children 10 and below
represent only 10 percent of the population, they make up almost 20 percent of the poor. Severe
poverty is widespread among both children and teenagers who bear almost 40 percent of the
poverty share and one out of every two children under the age of 5 in rural areas lives in poverty.
8.    Poverty is not gender neutral. The preliminary profile provides a mixed picture on the
relationship between gender and poverty. According to the 2001 survey, there are no significant
differences in the poverty rates of individuals in male and female-headed households. However,
the national figures conceal significant urban-rural differences: poverty rates are higher among
female-headed households in urban areas, as compared to male-headed households, while they
areilower in rural areas. Particularly in urban areas other than Sofia, poverty rates among female-
headed households are double those for male-headed households (10.0 vs. 5.4%).
Complementary analysis confirmed that consumption in households headed by single women was
lower than for other two-person and other single-headed households.



Annex 7
Page 3 of 5
9.     Ongoing research indicates that several categories of women are among the most
vulnerable social groups in Bulgaria. Especially vulnerable are women with young children,
women with very low levels of education, especially Roma women, and women living in remote
rural communities. They are marginalized and practically excluded from formal market
structures.
10.    The good news is that female access to education has improved. Net enrollment in
basic education, which in Bulgaria is slightly higher for girls than boys, increased from 92.31 in
1997 to 93.89 percent in 2001.  The gender gap in secondary education has narrowed
significantly. Female net enrollment rose sharply from 67 percent in 1997 to 76 percent in 2001,
close to the male net enrollment rate of 78 percent.
11.   Education matters. Consistent with previous studies, results from the 2001 survey
highlight a close inverse relationship between poverty and educational attamment. Education
provides the most effective insurance against poverty. Poverty rates for individuals with
university or higher education are significantly less, at 3 percent, than those with basic or
secondary education, 46 and 26 percent respectively. Poverty rates are also highest among
younger, less educated individuals: almost two-thirds of those between 18-21 with primary
education or less are poor.
12.    There is some evidence of declining educational attainment, particularly among the
poor and ethnic minorities. Precisely because education is an effective tool to lift people out of
poverty, developments concerning access to education for poor children over the last 4 years are
worrisome. The household survey data for 1997 and 2001 indicate that while enrollments in
basic education have increased slightly for the country at large, enrollment rates for poor children
have fallen ten percentage points from 84 percent in 1997 to 74 percent in 2001. In some Roma
neighborhoods, there are reports of children not attending school. The Turkish minonty may also
be affected. For example in Kurdjali, a region with a high percentage of ethnic Turks, enrollment
rates of 76 percent are substantially lower than the national average of 95.1 percent.3 The trend in
secondary education is even worse, with a nation-wide decline of about 26 percentage points in
the net enrollment of the poor from 60 percent in 1997 to 34 percent in 2001.
13.   Existing evidence suggests that social exclusion, economic hardship - including
increasing formal and informal costs of education to households -- unemployment, low quality of
schools in poor areas and low demand for education among certain groups are causing an
increasing number of children to drop out of schools. These factors also contribute to increase in
the number of street children (the exact number is unknown, but is thought to be between 3,000
and 5,000), as well as those who end up in institutions (estimated at some 35,000).
14.   Health indicators have shown little improvement and have sometimes deteriorated over
the transition period. Life expectancy at birth, which increased in the 1980s has fallen slightly
through the last decade to 72 in 1997. The incidence of new cases of tuberculosis increased
steadily throughout the decade from 25.9 new cases per 100,000 people in 1990 to 49.9 in 1998.
The incidence of hepatitis in Bulgaria, which stands at 95 cases per 100,000 people in 1998,
while at similar levels to Eastern European countries, remains four to five times higher than that
in Central European transition economies. And immunization coverage4, which was virtually
universal at the beginning of the transition, had fallen to 95 percent by 2000.
3 Based on administrative data.
4As measured by the proportion of children under 2 inununized against DPT.



Annex 7
Page 4 of 5
15.   An active dialogue on poverty issues is ongoing with the objective of mainstreaming
poverty reduction into the overall Government economic and social policies. In 2000-01, the
previous govemment and its development partners engaged in an active dialogue on poverty
reduction. In January 2000 the Bank hosted a high level poverty retreat on "Mainstreaming
Social Development and Poverty Reduction" under the leadership of the Pnme Minister. The
retreat was attended by much of the cabinet, and key donors mcluding the EMF, EU and UNDP.
At the retreat, the government expressed its commitment to building capacity for on-going
poverty monitoring, and requested Bank assistance for developing this capacity and updating the
analysis of the 1999 poverty assessment. An update of the poverty profile was prepared in 2001
last summer. Its preliminary results were presented to the Council of Mmisters in December
2001, and are at the center of the proposed strategy.
16.   Poverty monitoring needs to be strengthened. Despite the increased level of activity
related to poverty, actual monitorng capacity in Bulgaria remains weak. The Bank supported the
implementation of a third Bulgarian Integrated Household Survey (BIHS) in April-June 2001 to
update measures of living standards and poverty. Previous rounds of the survey were conducted
in 1995 and 1997, and formed the basis for the 1999 poverty assessment. These surveys are a
valuable instrument for analyzing poverty and living standards, and it will be important for the
govermment to establish its own capacity for poverty monitoring within the govemment.
17.   The National Statistical Institute (NSI) conducts monthly Household Budget Surveys
(HBS). While the HBS is currently the only source of updated information on household income
and expenditures in the country, and is widely used for poverty estimates, it suffers from a
number of methodological flaws. Because the main objective of the HBS is not to measure
poverty and inequality, the information it collects is incomplete and insufficient for constructing a
full consumption-based welfare aggregate, among other deficiencies. Over the last five years, the
HBS proved ineffective in monitoring poverty developments.
18.   In order to ensure long-term capacity to monitor poverty within Bulgaria, the Bank and
the government are collaborating to institutionalize poverty monitoring capacity through the
implementation of regular Living Standards Measurement Surveys (LSMS) and improvements to
the HBS methodology. An IDF Grant for Poverty Monitorng, Evaluation and Policy Design
(FY02) to support these activities was extended to the Government in December 2001. A central
focus of the grant is be to create capacity within the NSI, MOLSP and other relevant government
bodies for data collection, poverty analysis and ex ante assessment of government programs and
their effects on income distribution, assets and living standards.
19.   Steps have been taken to reduce poverty, integrate ethnic minorities into mainstream
Bulgarian society, and address the large range of problems poor and vulnerable children face.
In 1999 the Government signed a Framework Program for the Integration of Roma in the
Bulgarian society and established a National Council on Ethnic and Demographic Issues
(NCEDI). The Bank is providing support to the implementation of this program through an IDF
Grant for Ethnic Minority Integration which builds the capacity of NCEDI and its regional offices
for policy development, monitoring and evaluation; work at community and grass-root level and
interaction with the society at large. The Government implemented a Regional Initiatives Fund
(RIF) project with assistance from the Bank, UNDP, and USAID which pioneered community-
driven development in the poorest municipalities and temporary job creation labor market
programs. A large share of the beneficiaries of these programs were representatives of ethnic
minorities. A Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF) Grant for Child Development in
Disadvantaged Communities is implemented to enhance the access of children from ethnic
minority communities to the mainstream educational system and to promote early childhood



Annex 7
Page 5 of 5
development in these communities. Another JSDF Grant for Social Capital Building in
Disadvantaged Communities facilitates community mobilization and building of trust at
community level. Despite this progress, a significant agenda remains to improve integration of
minorities within society.
20.   In November 2000, the Government announced an important Strategy on Child Welfare.
Its implementation, which targets govemment institutions, ethnic minorities, parents as well as
the children themselves has gained support from the EC, the UK, the Govemment of Japan and
the World Bank. Its goal is to improve the welfare of street children (60 to 80 percent of which
are Roma) and institutionalized children, through de-institutionalization, protection of children's
rights by developing new institutions and policies, social integration of children in high-risk
communities, prevention of child abandonment, promotion of altemative family and community-
based altematives to institutional care and decentralization of services to help vulnerable children
grow into responsible citizens. A key feature of the strategy is the extensive involvement of the
communities in the different programs including attracting ethnic community staff in the social
services provision programs. The Govemment has given its full support to the strategy. It has
also developed a New Social Policy Strategy which addresses the needs of all categories of
people at risk. The Bank will be supporting its implementation through the Social Investment
Employment Promotion (SIEP) Project.



Annex 8
Page I of 9
Bulgaria: IMF-World Bank Relations
A. Partnership in Bulgaria's Development Strategy
1.    The Government's economic program has been underpinned by a conservative fiscal
and incomes policies and significant acceleration of structural reforms. So far Bulgaria has
made substantial progress towards long-term macroeconomic stability-an important step
along the way to its ultimate goals of improving living standards and accession to the EU.
The wide-ranging reforms in the Government's agenda hinge on the continuing challenge of
macroeconomic stability in the context of the Currency Board Arrangement (CBA),
sustaining structural reforms and establishing a business environment conducive to growth,
together with improved governance, financial system deepening, and investment in human
capital and physical infrastructure.
2.    The IMF has been leading in supporting Bulgaria's medium-term  program in
maintaining macroeconomic stability. Building on the achievements of the three-year
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) arrangement with Bulgaria, in February 2002 the IMF Board
approved a two-year Stand-By Arrangement (SBA). The SBA, with a reduced scope and
detail of structural conditionality compared to the EFF, focuses on medium-term fiscal
challenges and structural reforms with significant macroeconomic, notably fiscal,
implications.
3.    The World Bank has been leading the policy dialogue in structural and institutional
reforms aiming at (i) promoting competitive private sector-led growth; (ii) strengthening
market institutions and improving governance; and (iii) mitigating the social impact of
restructuring and delivering social services more effectively. In May 2002, the Board of the
Directors discussed the new Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which outlined the roadmap
for the Bank's country support for the period 2002-2004. In addition to the ongoing Bank's
lending operations in areas such as education, health, child welfare, water, trade and transport,
environment, registration and cadastre, the new CAS includes a three-year programmatic
adjustment lending (PAL) program. Moreover, the Bank continues to undertake substantive
country diagnostics providing a solid base for policy dialogue and design and implementation
of its lending operations in Bulgaria.
B. IMF-World Bank Collaboration in Specific Areas
4.    There are a number of areas where the IMF leads and its analyses serve as inputs into
the World Bank policy formulation and advice, including policies to maintain macroeconomic
stability, fiscal policies, income policies and external sector policies. There are other areas in
which the Bank and the Fund share responsibility and are coordinating closely their policy
advice to the Bulgarian authorities, such as the financial sector, public expenditure
management and budgeting, and tax administration. In some areas, the Bank has taken the
lead but its analysis, country diagnostic work, and policy recommendations served as inputs
into the Fund's policy advice on the fiscal front such as education, health care, pensions,
social protection, energy, and railways. In areas such as private sector development,



Annex 8
Page 2 of 9
strengthening market institutions (including entry and exit policies, regulatory reform to
enhance the business climate, judicial reform, labor market reform), and improving
governance the Bank has the lead and there is no conditionality under the Fund program. In
addition to having had consultations early in the process on formulating and adjusting each
institutions' program with Bulgaria, the Bank and Fund staff teams interact extensively during
the review of the progress achieved in the country and coordinate closely their policy advice
to the Bulgarian authorities.
B.1. Areas where the IMF leads and its analyses serve as inputs into the World Bank
policy formulation and advice.
5.    To achieve the objectives of its economic program, the Bulgarian authorities are fully
committed to maintain sound and flexible macroeconomic policies centered on a CBA and to
implement an ambitious reform agenda. In particular, the authorities have reduced the fiscal
deficit to below one percent of GDP and aim to eliminate the deficit by 2005, conduct fiscal
policy flexibly in the face of shocks, and maintain a high level of fiscal reserve assets. Given
the constraints of the CBA, the authorities see labor market policies as another key component
of the broad policy strategy. A strict incomes policy for the state enterprise sector is enforced
and measures aimed at facilitating the adjustment of labor markets are being implemented.
The structural and institutional reforms, which constitute the third pillar of the policy strategy,
are focused on creating a fully functioning market economy that is competitive and can
flexibly adjust to shocks.
6.    In the context of the 24-month Stand-By Arrangement approved on February 27,
2002, the IMF is taking the lead in assisting Bulgaria in safeguarding macroeconomic stability
and promoting structural reforms in areas that are macro-critical and fall within the Fund's
core expertise. To safeguard the CBA and ensure that it can continue to serve as the
macroeconomic policy anchor, the IMF sets ceilings on the size of the overall deficit of the
general government and floors on the balance of the fiscal reserve account (FRA), and
ceilings on the net outflows from the FRA. To prevent threats to the currency board and
macroeconomic stability that could arise from a loss in competitiveness or excessive extemal
financing requirements, Fund conditionality also includes ceilings on the wage bill of those
state enterprises that have the largest losses and arrears, are monopolies, and receive
subsidies, and on the contracting and guaranteeing of public sector external debt.
B.2.  Areas of shared responsibility.
7.    Financial Sector. Recently staff of the two institutions carried out a joint IMF-World
Bank Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) for Bulgaria, providing a shared
perspective on the development agenda of the country and on the prioritization and
sequencing of reforms in the financial sector. Key findings of the FSAP are conditionalities
on financial sector policies under both the SBA and the PAL programs. The IMF has
emphasized aspects related to the banking sector-mainly on policies under the mandate of
the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB) and supervisory agencies-while the World Bank is
focusing on policies that affect market performance and development of the financial sector
such as improving the legal and institutional framework for lending, restructuring of the



Annex 8
Page 3 of 9
banking sector, strengthening creditor rights, corporate insolvency and governance, and non-
banking financial sector issues.
8.    Since 1997, in the context of two Finance and Enterprise Adjustment Loans
(FESALs), the Bank has supported the Government in restructuring of the financial sector.
Privatization of commercial banks have been major components of the FESALs, while the
Fund had provided support for the institution building efforts of the BNB, its Banking
Supervision Department in particular. In the financial sector, the Bank has focused on
banking, insurance, pension funds, and capital markets while the Fund has continued its focus
on the BNB, banking supervision, and the payments system.
9.    Revenue Administration. The IMF and the World Bank have been carrying out a
joint effort since 1996 to assist Bulgaria in reforms aimed at the establishment of an efficient
revenue collection agency.  Diagnostics consistently pointed to revenue collection
deficiencies-including weak management, problematic audit and enforcement of
collection-which in turn facilitate low compliance. Supporting reform efforts, the World
Bank implemented a project to modernize the Social Security Institute, including its revenue
collection activities. The IMF has provided a long-term advisor to the Ministry of Finance,
and focused advisory services through consulting assignments. Joint World Bank-IMF efforts
resulted in a proposal for "Implementing a Modern Revenue Collection Agency" in March
2000, which is now moving forward. The World Bank, with technical assistance of the IMF,
is in an advanced stage of preparing an institutional development project to support the
establishment of the national revenue agency (NRA). This Agency would seek to maximize
the level of taxpayer voluntary compliance, promote effectiveness and efficiency, establish a
professional workforce and approach to collection, and help reduce the scope for corruption.
10.   Public Expenditure Management. The Bank has taken the lead in the dialogue on
the efficiency and effectiveness of public expenditures and the recently completed Public
Expenditure and Institutional Review (PEIR)l outlines policy directions, which are going to
be further supported by the PAL program. The PEIR notes that notwithstanding progress to
date, important challenges remain in: (i) improving management and accountability in the use
of public resources; (ii) restructuring and rationalizing intersectoral public expenditure-
particularly energy and railways, economic services, defense and security, and general
services; (iii) reallocation of intrasectoral priorities-especially in health, education, social
protection; and (iv) higher investment requirements in many sectors-infrastructure,
environment, education and health-some of which are priorities for EU accession, and some
of which should involve the private sector. The PEIR notes that Bulgaria's main fiscal
challenges include working towards an improved allocation of expenditures, while gradually
reducing the overall level of expenditures over the medium term in tandem with Bulgaria's
fiscal targets of easing the overall tax burden, especially payroll taxes.
11.   The IMF has provided long-term technical assistance on budgeting and expenditure
management. The Government has already initiated a number of public expenditure
management reforms. New budget procedures were introduced in early 2002 and have been
I     The PEIR is entitled Bulgaria. Public Expenditure Issues and Directions for Reform, August 2002, The
World Bank, (Report No. 23979-BUL)



Annex 8
Page 4 of 9
implemented for the preparation of the 2003 budget. The Government is moving towards
preparing of sectoral medium-term budget frameworks (MTBFs) with a view to strengthen
budget-policy links. Despite this important progress, the PEIR notes that there is a need to
continue and broaden the reform effort, especially in accounting and auditing-internal audit
needs to be made operational across all first-level budget units; capital expenditure proposals
should be prepared under hard budget constraints and as integral part of the MTBFs; and the
financial management at the local level should be strengthened.
B.3.  Areas where the World Bank leads and its analyses serve as inputs into the IMF
policy formulation and advice.
12.   Energy sector. While the Government has made important progress in energy sector
reforms, the sector still remains largely government owned or controlled and energy
consumption is still highly inefficient and heavily subsidized. In mid-2002, the Government
approved an energy strategy that envisaged bringing household electricity prices to full cost
recovery by 2004. Implementation of the price adjustment schedule has started and is central
to the modernization of the sector together with the need to modernize the regulatory
framework and initiate privatization of the downstream electricity distribution system. Costly
investment in capacity should not be undertaken unless regulatory reforms are more advanced
and private investors can assume a larger share of the market risk.
13.   The Bank has played the lead role in assisting the Government in the design of the
reform programn in the sector, and more importantly its implementation. Although an Energy
Project was completed at end-2000, the Bank is continuing its dialogue on the developmental
objectives of the sector meant to increase the energy efficiency. In early 2002, the Bank
completed the Energy and Environment Review aimed at evaluation of alternative
strategies-balancing the need for economic development and environmental protection-and
providing policy recommendations.  The Fund and the Bank's teams have worked
collaboratively in close consultations with the Govenrnent, and the SBA includes a
performance criterion focusing on announcement of a schedule for bringing electricity prices
to full cost recovery level, and two benchmarks-one on implementation of the new
regulatory pricing regime, and the other on preparing a new Energy Act to harmonize
Bulgaria's legislation with EU Directives. The Government is still working towards
achieving the latter benchmark-on harmonization of legislation.
14.   Railways. The Bank has been the Government's main external partner in the
transformation of the railway sector, particularly through the Railway Rehabilitation Project,
which was completed in June 2002. This transformation is only half way achieved by now,
however. Some essential measures have been implemented, especially the divestiture of all
railway ancillary activities, a major reduction in staffing, and the institutional separation of
the national company into two new infrastructure and rail services enterprises together with
the opening of rail services to private operators. Yet, other key steps still need to be taken for
the railway sector to become financially self-sustainable and reduce its support requirements
from the State, which have been around 0.8% of GDP in recent years and could increase if the
present situation does not improve. These steps include tariff reform, reduction of loss
making services to only those that can be socially justified and supported by State contracts,
further reduction of staff, and improved corporate governance. They were refined in the



Annex 8
Page 5 of 9
context of the recent PEIR and are being supported by the Bank through the PALs. Detailed
assistance with the design of these reforms will be further provided through transport sector
work in the near future.
15.   Education. The reform efforts in the education sector aim at improving expenditure
management in view of the declining population, especially in school age, and at enhancing
quality and access to education.  The main priority in the education sector, including
universities, is to reallocate expenditures from surplus capacity in teaching staff and
underused facilities toward modernization and upgrading of curricula, textbooks, teaching
materials, schools, and other quality-enhancing education inputs. The Bank is supporting the
Government program in education through the Education Modernization Project loan, the
PALs, and through the analytical work done for the Poverty Assessment and the PEIR.
16.   Health care. Key reform priorities in the health sector include addressing the
concurrent problems of surplus capacity issues in health facilities, the serious deterioration in
the quality of facilities and health services, and the inadequate modernization of equipment.
At the same time, the Government needs to ensure the financial integrity of the National
Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), which is the central point of the reforms in the sector. For a
long time the Bank has been supporting the restructuring of the health sector through the
Health Sector Restructuring Project, which was closed in December 2001. The follow-up
Health Sector Reform project approved in late 2000 is under implementation and focuses on
the administrative and information systems of the NHIF, supports the ambulatory care sector,
and the hospital sector.
17.   Social protection programs. Social protection programs-pensions, labor market
programs, social assistance, and short-term and family benefits-have a wide coverage among
the population (over 80 percent of Bulgarians receive at least one type of social protection
benefit.) On pensions, one reform priority is to improve compliance with, and coverage of,
the public pillar, and define a clear rule for indexing pensions. On labor market programs,
there is a need to monitor them closely to improve their effectiveness and long-term impact in
helping the disadvantaged groups, such as the long term unemployed, low skilled youth,
ethnic minorities and so on. Similarly, the recent changes on the unemployment insurance
fund need to be monitored closely in terms of its expected increases in registry and
contributions, its costs and effectiveness. Subject to progress in key reforms, consideration
should be given to reduce the tax burden related to labor market policies in order to curtail
labor costs. Some social assistance and benefit programs have become more pro-poor since
the mid-1990s and are playing a major role in alleviating poverty. However, given the
plethora of these programs and the complexity of program design in many cases, a constant
challenge of the social protection system as a whole is to examine opportunities for
consolidation and engage in systematic monitoring of the programs, their costs and
effectiveness.
18.   The Bank has been the main partner of the Government in its efforts to reduce poverty
and meet its social development objectives. The main findings of the Poverty Assessment and
2     However, such fiscal adjustment requires lowering public expenditures to GDP before implementing
tax reductions.



Annex 8
Page 6 of 9
the PEIR contribute significantly to the enhanced policy dialogue with the Government on its
policy options to improve living standards in the country, and the effectiveness and adequacy
of social protection programs. The Bank is assisting these important reforms in the social
protection system through providing grants amounting to US$ 2.2 million. These grants focus
on poverty monitoring and evaluation, integration of ethnic minorities, child development and
building social capital in disadvantaged communities. A Bank-financed Child Welfare
Reform project helps address the needs of children in public care and other categories of
children at risk, while a Bank-financed Social Investment and Employment Promotion (SIEP)
project which supports community and employment creation and strengthening of active labor
market programs (ALMPs) has recently been approved and will begin to be implemented.
Although not subject to structural performance criteria or benchmarks, the IMF has also been
monitoring the sustainability of the pension system and progress in the labor market reforms
in terms of their relevance for the Fund's program objectives.
B.4. Areas where the World Bank leads and there is no direct IMF involvement.
19.   Private Sector Development. Bulgaria has completed the divestiture of about 95
percent (based on value of assets) of its non-infrastructure state-owned enterprises (SOEs)
since 1995. However, job creation has not kept pace with labor shedding due to the
liquidation of non-viable enterprises and the restructuring of viable ones, contributing to the
persistence of the unemployment level. To encourage the entry of new firms and the
expansion of existing ones, the business climate will have to be improved through reducing
barriers to entry and compliance cost of the regulatory regime, developing a competitive
environment, eliminating the constraints to bank lending, and establishing an efficient exit
mechanism for non-viable enterprises. These initiatives require major changes in the basic
legislation that govern commercial activity - notably the Commercial Code, the Civil
Procedure Code, and the Labor Code-and the passage of legislation on how the State will
regulate economic activity to ensure stability and predictability of regulatory regimes. The
quality of public institutions dealing with the private sector - including regulators and service
providers-will have to improve. Finally, judicial reform will have to be implemented,
including the establishment of specialized commercial courts and the restructuring of the
system of administrative courts.
20.   In the context of two FESALs, the Bank has supported the Government in
restructuring the non-infrastructure enterprise sector. Privatization of SOEs has been major
component of the FESALs. With the first PAL, the Bank has led the dialogue on reforms
covering the regulatory regimes, the insolvency process, labor markets, and competition.
C.    The World Bank Group Strategy and Lending Operations
21.   The Country Assistance Strategy. The Bank's Board discussed a new Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Bulgaria on May 9, 2002. The overarching objectives of the
CAS for FY03-05 are: (i) reducing poverty and raising living standards, and (ii) supporting
the country's move towards EU accession. In achieving these objectives the Bank will focus
its assistance on the following main CAS themes: (i) promotion of competitive private sector
led growth, (ii) strengthening public administration reforms and anti-corruption initiatives,
and (iii) mitigating the social impact of restructuring and delivering social services more



Annex 8
Page 7 of 9
effectively. The strategy also envisages an important role for the International Finance
Corporation (IFC), especially through support for privatization and restructuring of state-
owned enterprises and new investments in private companies.
22.   Programmatic Adjustment Lending. Up to three Programmatic Adjustment Loans
(PALs) would support the Government's policy framework that underpins the Bank's overall
assistance program in FY03-05. The policy framework supported by the PALs would, over
time, (a) foster completion of privatization and restructuring in energy and infrastructure; (b)
improve the environment for private sector led growth; (c) help deepen the financial sector;
(d) lead to reduced poverty, improved human capital development, and better delivery of
social services; and (e) support public administration reform and anti-corruption programs.
23.   The Base-Case Lending Program. To maintain a robust base-case lending program,
the Bank will ensure satisfactory progress towards a set of triggers that provide the basic
conditionality for the Bank's assistance program. Besides a supportive macroeconomic
framework and portfolio implementation, satisfactory progress will be necessary towards
specific goals in key areas of reform, including privatization of large SOEs and banks,
establishing separate generation, transmission and distribution companies in electricity, and
adoption of a rational tariff system for power and district heating; terminating loss-making
railway services outside areas of public service obligations; reducing red-tape for company
registration and building permits; consolidating the revenue information systems; completing
functional reviews for civil servants in two ministries and improving insolvency provisions in
the Commercial Law and the Civil Procedure Code. Fiduciary responsibilities will be
strengthened by completing the financial accountability assessment and implementing an
action plan for public procurement. Some additional triggers will condition processing of the
third PAL, currently scheduled for Board in FY05.
24.   Bank Assistance Program in Bulgaria.    The total Bank-assisted program in
Bulgaria to date comprises 29 operations for a total original commitment of US$1,600.6
million equivalent. This includes ten adjustment loans (US$900.8 million equivalent), 17
investment projects (US$682.4 million equivalent), and two Bank-managed Global
Environmental Fund (GEF) grants for US$17.4 million equivalent. Of these 29 operations, 21
have been completed, two of which have been restructured and partially cancelled during
implementation, and 8 operations are currently under implementation.
25.   The current portfolio is comprised of projects with commitments net of cancellations
totaling US$230.6 million (Table 1) and complements the reform agenda articulated by the
Government and supported by PAL-1. The current portfolio of projects was designed to
upgrade the education and health services, improve child welfare, support environmental
interventions, develop modem registration and cadastre systems, and modernize water and
transport sectors. The projects under implementation are in the early implementation stages,
with only three projects older than two years. The last loan approved by the Bank's Board
was the Social Investment and Employment Promotion project (US$50 million equivalent;
December 2002). In addition, a Wetlands Restoration and Pollution Reduction project (GEF
grant of $7.5 million) was approved in June 2002. Three projects are in an advanced stage of
preparation-Revenue Administration Reform, Forest Development and District Heating



Annex 8
Page 8 of 9
Rehabilitation-all of which support the implementation of the Government medium term
program articulated in PAL-1.
Table 1. Bulgaria: World Bank Operations (net of cancellations)
Operation                Amount           Board Date
1.   Environment and Privatization Support Adjustment  US$ 50 million  2000
Loan
2.   Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast  US$ 7.4 million  2000
Europe
3.   Health Sector Reform                      US$ 63.3 million  2000
4.   Education Modernization                   US$ 14.4 million  2000
5.   Child Welfare Reform                      US$ 8 million    2001
6.   Registration and Cadastre                 US$ 30 million   2001
7.   Wetlands Restoration and Pollution Reduction  US$ 7.5 million  2002
(GEF Grant)
8.   Social Investment and Employment Promotion  US$ 50 million  2002
26.   Technical Assistance. Numerous grants provided under the Bank's trust fund
programs complement the Bank's lending services through financing project preparation and
advisory services in a number of areas, including poverty monitoring and alleviation, reform
of the social protection system, energy sector reforms, enterprise divestiture, improving
market institutions, governance, health and education sector reforms, and some technical
aspects of EU accession.
27.   Economic and Sector Work. The most recent Country Economic Memorandum
(CEM) is entitled Bulgaria: The Dual Challenge of Transition and EUAccession, April 2001
(Report No. 22109-BUL). Other recently completed core diagnostic work includes a Public
Expenditure and Institutional Review entitled Bulgaria: Public Expenditure Issues and
Directions for Reform, August 2002, (Report No. 23979-BUL); a Joint World Bank-IMF
Financial Sector Assessment Program; a Poverty Assessment 2002 is being finalized. Going
forward, the Bank plans additional country diagnostic work to support its policy dialogue and
operations in the CAS period of FY03-05. These include studies on municipal finances,
pension funds, the energy sector, gender and ethnicity issues, private sector development, a
country financial accountability assessment-planned for 2003) and a CEM update is to focus
on policies for growth.
28.   IFC's Activities in Bulgaria. IFC's activities in Bulgaria grew significantly with the
improved business environment in the country after 1997. As of January 2003, IFC has on its
books 16 projects for a total amount of US$188 million (US$170 million for IFC's own
account). Of those, 13 projects were approved from 1998-on, including bank privatizations
and restructurings, as well as credit lines and technical assistance to SMEs.



Annex 8
Page 9 of 9
29.   Financial Sector: In the banking sector IFC is focused on: (i) supporting the
mortgage finance market; (ii) reviewing the possibilities for providing funding and guarantee
products to enable banks to better meet the demand for long-term local currency loans; and
(iii) establishing a credit bureau to improve risk analysis. In the non-bank financial sector,
IFC is focused on further broadening capital markets by increasing volume, sophistication,
and liquidity of alternative financial instruments such as mortgage and local corporate bonds.
30.   General manufacturing: IFC continues to support the rehabilitation/modernization of
post-privatized companies in sectors where Bulgaria has a comparative advantage and/or that
are export-oriented such as wood, clothing, shipbuilding, metal processing, tourism, and
agribusiness. To-date IFC has invested in a number of key manufacturing projects, such as
Devnya Cement (modernization of a cement production plant), EPIQ Electronic Assembly
(modernization and expansion of an electronic assembly facility), Kronospan I & II (wood
panel and board production), and Sofia Med (revamping of a copper processing facility). To
provide consumers with a wide variety of home improvement/repair products, as well as
specialized services at affordable prices, IFC has financed a retail business, comprising five
stores in Bulgaria and Macedonia.
31.   Infrastructure.    IEFC  is   ready   to  provide   advice/financing  for
restructuring/privatization of the strategic sectors. In telecom, IFC will explore possibilities to
finance BTC's digitalization program upon completion of the sale. In order to identify
specific investment opportunities in ICT, IFC has been looking at system integrators, value
added resellers and outsourcing companies (call-centers, remote help desks, contracted
software development, etc.). IFC may also consider regional initiatives, especially in the areas
of access and software development and integration. In Water, IFC has been actively
tracking progress in tendering for the Varna and Shumen municipal water concessions and
plans to evaluate potential investments such as in district heating. In Power, IFC will support
post privatization investments in both distribution, where sales should begin this year, and in
generation, which may follow shortly afterwards. EFC is working closely with an investor
developing co-generation to sell heat to the Sofia Municipality and power to the grid. This
approach is in line with the WB's strategy for the sector and there may be the potential to
extend it to other cities. In Ports/Airports, following a request from the Ministry of Transport
and Communications, IFC has prepared and sent a proposal for a concession transaction for
two major seaports. In Posts, IFC is probing potential investors interested in co-financing a
postal service privatization deal, once the restructuring of Bulgarian Posts has been
completed.
32.   Oil and gas: IFC is following the prospects for a major cross-country transit oil
pipeline project (Bourgas, Bulgaria - Alexandropoulos, Greece) where it could help attract
private investors and put together a financing package for the required investments. Also,
IFC has mobilized financing for Galata, a small offshore Black Sea gas project (US$75
million) that will supply natural gas to the local market.
Questions may be referred to Ms. R. Quintanilla (473-7673), Ms. Myla Taylor Williams (437-
6997), or Ms. Stella Ilieva (359-2-9697-251).






MAP SECTION






\:     ~~~~~23°                                                    26°                 27°     r, W        22          /z,
T. 04.de2                           BULGARIA                                  R 0  M A N                  I        2
a SELECTED CMES            MAJN ROADS                                            0
_'\     -0 <9 PROVINCE (OBLAST) CAALS            LROADS                                    Ss 
_440  _ .                      ;=7e 69 NATIONALCAPITAL ........................... PKUV1NCENON L AL  PONANCE -OBLAST) BOUNDARIES
/  Vidin         ®   NATIONAI -        ' -   NTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES                            *.   *        rT  C \  \   k
'_ S X S i f /  -  S     \        BSJ              g        a       ( - WA be  /
FED. REP.  *'.D3it 
YGSAIA      \.   Blacko|
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(                             '  04  Bok7, bodn          \.  .'  U  .  '  7 aoabolnd<a
so                 YO Rn_  ed   or  |      A-?on <   (
t > - -  >- <  ;0}  ahos                                                   nch %'s b -|k\S<xt>  <v0
R  3''         t       |                    4              REE    E    2:         <           l      C A:
8                                                                                                                o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r









IVAG!MG
i Ietjpol,INO.:   25374  BUL
Type:    PAD



