Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16320
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GEORGIA
REHABILITATION CREDIT
(CR 2697 - GE)
March 3, 1997
Country Operations Division II
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of end December 1996)
Currency Unit   =   Lari
US$1   =   1.27 Laris
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS  - Country Assistance Strategy
EU  - European Union
GDP  - Gross Domestic Product
IBC  - Institution Building Credit
IDA  - International Development Association
ICR  - Implementation Completion Report
IMF  - International Monetary Fund
LDP  - Letter of Development Policy
SAC  - Structural Development Credit
STF  - Systemic Transformation Facility
GEORGIA'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GEORGIA
REHABILITATION CREDIT (CR 2697 - GE)
CONTENTS
PREFACE .......                  ......................................................................i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ............................................................................. ii
PERFORMANCE JUDGEMENT AND  ANALYSIS ..............................................................................1
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..............................................................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ..............................................................................2
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ......................... 3 .......3
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ..............................................................................6
E. WORLD  BANK  PERFORMANCE ..............................................................................6
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..............................................................................7
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ...............................                              ;                                                       7
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS ................................7
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ................................8
STATISTICAL TABLES ................................9
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ...............................                                                                              10
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ...............................                                                                          12
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ...............................                                                                                   13
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL (US$ THOUSANDS) ................... 13
TABLE 5: STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICY MEASURES AGREED UPON UNDER THE REHABILITATION CREDIT14
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .............................................................................                  18
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ............................................................................. 1 8
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS .............................................................................                                        19
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING .............................................................................                                    19
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .............................................................................                          20
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS GEORGIA REHABILITATION CREDIT .......................................................... 20
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ....................................................................... 22
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .............................................................................                        22
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .............................................................................                            23
Appendices:
A. Borrower's contribution to the ICR
B. Map
Vice-President:  Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Director:  Basil G. Kavalsky, EC4
Division Chief:  Wafik Grais, EC4C2
Responsible Staff:  Michelle Riboud, Sr. Country Economist, EC4C2
Judy O'Connor, Projects Adviser, EC4
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Georgia
Rehabilitation Credit 26970-GE
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rehabilitation Credit in Georgia,
for which a credit 26970-GE in the amount of US$75 million equivalent was approved on March 31,
1995 and made effective on April 5, 1995.
The credit was closed on the original closing date of June 30, 1996. The loan was fully disbursed
by January 8, 1996. There was cofinancing for the project for 8 million Dutch guilders from the
Government of the Netherlands.
The Task Manager for the credit was Michelle Riboud, Senior Country Economist for EC4C2.
The ICR was prepared by Gary McMahon, Consultant, for the Country Operations Division IV of the
Europe and Central Asia Region, and reviewed by Wafik Grais, Country Operations Division Chief, and
Judy O'Connor, Principal Operations, Country Department IV.
This ICR was prepared as a desk task in the second half of 1996. It is based on material in the
project file, including Report P-6796-GE for the Structural Adjustment Credit to the Republic of
Georgia. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by reviewing the draft report and
commenting on the project's implementation performance.






ii
Evaluation Summary
Rehabilitation Credit
26970-GE
Georgia
Introduction
1.    The Rehabilitation Credit of US$75 million equivalent was the third operation undertaken by the
World Bank in Georgia. It followed quickly after the Institution Building Credit ($US1O million) and
the Municipal Infrastructure Rehabilitation Credit (US$18 million). Preparation of the Credit begun in
mid-1994 when Georgia emerged from two years of civil conflict during which the Government's
authority had eroded and the economy collapsed. Georgia's output decline was one of the sharpest
observed in the former Soviet Union (70 percent between 1990 and 1994). Tax revenues collapsed to 2-
3 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) and budget deficits mounted, leading to hyperinflation and a
sharp depreciation of the currency. In addition, the Government had let its external debt grow to
unsustainable levels and increased its reliance on humanitarian aid. In early 1994, with some restoration
of political stability and law and order, the Government focused on rebuilding the economy, expressing
its commitment to maintain macroeconomic stability and promote output recovery. Against this
background, the Rehabilitation Credit was prepared. It was intended to provide budgetary support and to
finance critically needed imports while the Government introduced a comprehensive reform program.
2.    The Credit was prepared in close cooperation with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and
was preceded by Georgia's purchase of US$39 million from the IMF under the Systemic Transformation
Facility (STF). The structural reform program supported by the Rehabilitation Credit was designed to
complement the stabilization program supported by the STF. The Rehabilitation Credit was followed by
a Transport Rehabilitation Credit (US$12 million), Structural Adjustment Credit (US$60 million),
Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit (US$4.8 million), and Health Sector Credit (US$14
million). In parallel, economic and sector work was under taken on macroeconomic stabilization and
growth , public sector management, agriculture, energy, municipal services, and transport. A public
expenditure review and limited country assistance strategy (CAS) have also been completed. A full CAS
is scheduled for fiscal 1997.
Project Objectives
3.    The main objective of the Credit was to support Georgia's economic reform program which set
out to restore macroeconomic stability, promote growth, and improve living standards. Other objectives
were to: (a) provide budgetary support to maintain the level of basic public expenditures (in particular
for wages and the social safety net); (b) provide foreign exchange to finance critical imports; (c) improve
the functioning of the foreign exchange market; and (d) provide a framework for financial assistance
from other donor agencies.
4.    The objectives of the Credit were ambitious and broad. They required strong Government
commitment, political support, and assistance from the Bank and the international community. The
Letter of Development Policy (LDP) describing the Government's program listed several
implementation goals, which were used in evaluating success of the Credit.



iii
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The reform program and the credit were highly successful. The overall policy objective was
achieved. Stabilization proceeded quickly. Inflation fell from 7,000 percent in 1994 to 65 percent in
1995, the exchange rate stabilized, and currency substitution was reversed after a successful currency
reform. The first signs of economic recovery came in 1995 when real GDP rose 2.4 percent-following
four years of continuous sharp decline. And although poverty rem;:ined widespread, living standards
improved with the end of the civil war and the resumption of growth. Almost all the detailed reforms of
the Government's program were undertaken, and some of the targets were surpassed. Disbursement was
as expected. Furthermore, the support of the Bank and the IMF, successfully attracted other funds
through the Consultative Group process. Total grant flows were approximately US$170 million in 1994,
US$189 million in 1995, and US$140 million in 1996.
6.    The positive results of the Credit are expected to be sustainable. The reform process developed
deeper roots, as evidenced by the parliamentary and presidential elections in November 1995, which
showed a strong consensus in favor of reform. Growth soared to 10.5 percent in 1996, and there was
further progress on stabilization and structural reforms.
7.    There are just a few qualifications to this positive pictures. Fiscal adjustment has been
concentrated disproportionately on the expenditure side, and the tax reform remains very low so
sustainability is not yet insured. Despite greater resources directed toward basic social services and
better targeting of benefits, stringent fiscal constraints kept the level of benefits-and therefore of social
protection-extremely low. While a large impact could not be expected in only one year, the danger
remains that the reforms will be undermined if the social cost of the transition are not adequately
mitigated. Another problem area is the delay in adoption of the land reform law and privatization of
remaining land. Given the Government's weak finances, fiscal adjustment and social protection could
not have been fully addressed through a one year program, but the Government is making progress.
Land issues were resolved through the subsequent operations, the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC).
8.    The project's success is attributable to a number of factors, in particular the strong commitment
of the Government, and the open and extensive policy dialogue established with the Bank. The
Institution Building Credit (IBC) also played an important role in helping the Government to implement
key reforms, notably those related to privatization, the financial sector, and tax administration. In
addition, grant support from the Government of the Netherlands facilitated implementation of the
program. Another important factor was "clean slate" effect brought about by a number of historic
circumstances-the end of two civil wars, and regional conflicts, the breakdown of old Soviet bloc
trading patterns, and other elements of the transition. The Government of Georgia, with the help of Bank
and IMF staff, moved quickly to implement a strong program before blocking coalitions of vested
interest could be formed.
9.    In sum, the Credit and the associated programs have achieved as much or more than could be
realistically expected in such a short time. Most of the main economic targets were reached or
surpassed. The performance of the Government of Georgia and the Bank were highly satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   The Credit has achieved its main objectives, and the elections in November 1995 strengthened a
reform-minded governing party. There is thus good reason to believe that these significant achievements
will last, provided they are reinforced by future reforms.



iv
11.    But two dangers could threaten the medium-term outcome. First, even with a strong recovery in
output, people may still find that living standards improve too slowly and may demand changes. It is
thus essential that the Government strengthen its capacity to provide basic social services. Although
private sector will play a large role, if not dominant, role in health and education, many people will
remain dependent on the state for basic levels of these services. Reform of pensions and civil service
wages is also needed since these are at levels that are not likely to be sustainable in the long run.
Second, with the recovery of growth, the sense of urgency of reforms will begin to ebb. People will be
less willing to bear the necessary short-term cost, and pressures will reappear to introduce subsidies and
protectionist policies.
12.    The follow-up actions to the Rehabilitation Credit have already begun in the form of four credits
to support structural adjustment, rehabilitation, and reform of the transport and, health sectors and to
provide technical assistance. The Structural Adjustment Credit in particular, is based on the outcome of
these project. Its main goals are to consolidate previous achievements and to deepen the structural
reform process.
13.    Several lessons of these Rehabilitation Credit are relevant to other countries:
* Strong Government commitment and an active and open policy dialogue are essential for success.
Good coordination of Bank and IMF programs is also extremely important.
e  Providing adequate and timely institutional support for the implementation of reforms boosts the
probability of success for economics in transition. This support was given during project preparation
and through the Institution Building Credit. The availability of technical assistance accelerated key
reforms, particularly in privatization.
*  Desperate situations often afford the greatest possibilities for change. It is important to move
quickly and boldly when such opportunities arise, before change-blocking coalitions can form. In
1994 Georgia was suffering from hyperinflation and had the second lowest per capita income among
the countries of the FSU. When the civil war ended, the government, with help from the Bank and
IMF, quickly began its reform effort. Because coalitions of vested interests against change were
very weak, it was possible in a short period to implement a package of reforms that was much
stronger than that in most other countries of the FSU.
*  In areas that are politically sensitive, such as land reform in Georgia, it is important not to
underestimate the political difficulties and to begin broad discussions early on with all parties
involved, particularly the ultimate decisionmakers. If members of Parliament had been brought into
the discussions at an earlier stage, the land reform law might have passed more quickly.
*  The interdependency of social and economic policies must be recognized. Solutions to social
problems cannot be postponed until after economic problems are resolved. In Georgia substantial
attention was given to social concerns very early on in the reform process, and reforms of the health
sector and of social assistance programs were introduced quickly.






Implementation Completion Report
Rehabilitation Credit
(Credit No. 26970)
Republic of Georgia
PERFORMANCE JUDGEMENT AND ANALYSIS
1.    At the time of its independence in April 1991, Georgia was considered one of the former Soviet
republics with the best potential. It had a well educated labor force, a long tradition of entrepreneurship,
a significant underground economy, notable private sector activity in agriculture, bright prospects for
tourism, relatively little of the obsolete heavy industry characteristic of the Former Soviet Union, and a
good location so that it could serve as a transport hub. But the civil wars of 1992 and 1993 meant that
the restructuring process had to start with few resources, a highly damaged infrastructure, and eroded
Government authority and ability to conduct sound economic policy.
2.    When negotiations began in 1994 for this US$75 million Rehabilitation Credit, Georgia was in
the midst of one of the worst economic crisis any country has ever suffered. From independence to mid-
1994, gross domestic product (GDP) fell by approximately 70-75 percent. Annual inflation was 8,400
percent in 1993, and monthly inflation was 60 percent on average in the first nine months of 1994. In
1993 the fiscal deficit was 26 percent of GDP, and the current account deficit was 25 percent of GDP
before official transfers and 14 percent after. The large fiscal deficit and the subsequent hyperinflation
arose because tax revenues collapsed to 2 - 3 percent in this period. The large current account deficits
and the resulting accumulation of external debt stemmed from the inability to pay for energy imports.
Real wages declined 90 percent from 1991 to 1993. Real expenditure on health and education fell
approximately 90 percent between 1991 and 1994, and expenditures on pensions and family allowances
did not exceed 1 percent of GDP.
3.    The Rehabilitation Credit was the third of three operations to be undertaken by the World Bank
in Georgia. It followed quickly after the Institution Building Credit (US$10 million) and the Municipal
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Credit (US$18 million). It was preceded by Georgia's purchase of US$39
million from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) under the Systemic Transformation Facility (STF).
The structural reform program that the Rehabilitation Credit supported was designed to complement the
stabilization program supported by the STF. In fact, the project funds were used within the overall
budget envelope supported by the STF.
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.    The main objective of the Credit was to support the economic reform program of the
Government of Georgia, which set out to restore macroeconomic stability, promote the resumption of
growth, and improve living standards. The reform program had three components. The first was
designed to reduce and redefine the role of the public sector by accelerating privatization, imposing hard
budget constraints on enterprises and restructuring the Government sector. The second component was



2
designed to develop and increase the efficiency of markets through policies governing price regulation,
competition, trade, and finance. The third component aimed at maintaining a minimum safety net
through improved targeting. Other objectives of the Credit were to: (a) provide budgetary support,
especially for wages and the social safety net; (b) provide foreign exchange for critical imports; (c)
improve the functioning of the foreign exchange market; and (d) provide a framework for financial
assistance from other donor agencies.
5.    On the surface the objectives of the project and the policies it supported were broad and subject
to the criticism that evaluation of the project's success would be difficult if not impossible given that
many other factors likely to influence the outcome in Georgia. But, the project contains many specific
recommendations and obligations that were intended to further the policy goals of the Government and
ultimately improve the country's macroeconomics situation. Accordingly, the project evaluation will
focus as much on these intermediate goals and targets as on the main objectives of stabilization, growth,
and improved living standards. These broad objectives may seem overly ambitious in a project expected
to last about one year. But, given the depth to which Georgia's economy had fallen, the end of the civil
war and the experience of other countries following a hyperinflation, they were not unrealistic. On the
other hand, some of the changes may have arisen simply because the civil war, ended.
6.    The Bank did not (and still does not) have a full Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Georgia;
development of a full CAS is scheduled for 1997. Nevertheless, there have been numerous missions and
a limited CAS was discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on March 30, 1995. This project
clearly supports the ongoing dialogue between the Bank and the Government of Georgia.
7.    The project was risky for a number of reasons, which are identified in the project report. The
resumption of civil war was the greatest risk-and would likely have completely derailed the project.
But it would have been even riskier to wait longer, given the extreme deterioration in living conditions.
A second risk was quick implementation capacity. The Institution Building Credit was thus designed to
support implementation of key reforms, in particular those affecting privatization, the financial sector
and tax administration. It was acknowledged that without other external assistance the Credit would
have been insufficient to meet Georgia's short-term demands. Therefore, the Bank helped to mobilize
other resources through the Consultative Group process. Finally, the most critically, there was a need to
build political consensus and ease the social tensions arising from the war and the difficult living
conditions. Accordingly, the project emphasized restructuring the social sector to mitigate the worst
effects of the economic decline. The mobilization of other resources was also seen as important in this
regard.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.    The reform program and the Credit have been highly successful. Subject to some qualifications
(explained below), they could be considered outstanding. First, the overall policy objective was
achieved. Stabilization proceeded at a rapid pace. Monthly inflation fell from an average of 64 percent
during the first 9 months of 1994 to about 4 percent in 1995. The exchange rate stabilized and the
successful introduction of a new currency in September 1995 led to a significant growth of international
reserves. The first signs of economic recovery became visible in 1995 when real GDP increased by 2.4
percent, following four years of continuous and sharp decline. Although poverty remained pervasive,
living conditions improved with the end of the civil war and the resumption of economic growth.



3
9.    As discussed in the next section, almost all of the detailed reforms of the Government's program
were implemented, and some of the targets were surpassed. The major achievements have been rapid
progress in small-scale privatization, enforcement of hard budget constraints, substantial downsizing of
the Government sector, removal of subsidies, reduction of export restrictions and elimination of the state
order system, improvements in foreign exchange and financial markets, and improved targeting of social
benefits. Good coordination and complementarity between Bank and the IMF programs helped achieve
these results; the two programs included mutually reinforcing elements.
10.   The positive results of the credit are expected to be sustainable. the reform process developed
deeper roots, as evidenced by the Parliamentary and Presidential elections in November 1995, which
showed a strong consensus in favor of reform. Growth soared to 10.5 percent in 1996 and progress on
stabilization and structural reform continued.
11.   Some qualifications must be made, however. first, the fiscal deficit has been resolved
disproportionately on the expenditure side, and the tax effort remains very low. Sustainability is still far
from assured. Second, the adoption of the land reform law and privatization of remaining land were
delayed because of strong opposition within the Parliament. The fiscal deficit could not possibly be
addressed through a one-year program, and the Government is making efforts to reduce it. Land reform
and privatization were resolved through the subsequent operation, the Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC).
12.   To mitigate the social costs of adjustment, the Government increased cash transfers for the
poorest groups by redirecting resources saved through the elimination of generalized subsidies and by
improving targeting. It also radically reformed the health sector, limiting public financing to a basic
package of services. Nevertheless, because of fiscal constraints, social assistance packages are still very
low and per capita spending and provision of an adequate social safety net will require an improved tax
effort-and require additional time.
13.   The efforts of the Bank and the IMF have been essential in mobilizing other donors through the
Consultative Group process. Total grant flows were approximately US$170 million and US$189 million
The figure for 1996 is US$140 million. The largest donors have been the United States, the European
Union (EU), and Germany. Significant assistance was also provided by the Netherlands, Japan, France,
Italy, and Greece.
14.   In sum, the Credit and the associated programs have achieved as much or more than could be
realistically expected in such a short time. Most of the main economic targets were reached or
surpassed, although the tax effort remained weak in 1995. It would have been useful to include more
precise targets in the main objectives although the program reached most of its implementation goals
(see below), which could be considered intermediate targets.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
15.   Fulfilling the main objectives of the credit was dependent on successful implementation of a
large number of policy measures. Many of these policy measures were taken before the Credit was
presented to the Board and others were part of the Government's reform program described in the Letter
of Development Policy (LDP). The key reforms covered by the program were price and trade
liberalization, phasing out of the state order system, restructuring of the Government sector, privatization



4
and private sector development, and improved tcrgeting of social benefits. In the areas of price,
monetary, fiscal and wage policies, the program focused on macroeconomic stabilization and was
designed in collaboration with the IMF. Overall policy performance under the Rehabilitation Credit has
been impressive: the scope of reforms was wide, yet most of the reforms contemplated at the time of the
project's design have been implemented.
16.   Privatization. Privatization of small, medium-size, and large enterprises progressed rapidly in
1995. As of December 1995, 6,432 small-scale enterprises (90 percent of the total) were privatized, up
from 1,657 in October 1994. Privatization of medium-size and large enterprises began with
corporatization. By the end of 1995, 840 (840 percent) of the target number of medium-size and large
enterprises had been converted into joint-stock companies. Transfer of their ownership began in mid-
1995, mainly through a buyout option offering 51 percent of shares to employers and employees, and a
mass privatization program offering at least 35 percent of shares to the public through voucher auctions.
Investment funds were licensed to buy vouchers and bid in the auctions. The Government also
developed a demonopolization and privatization plan for the Bread Corporation.
17.   Downsizing Government. The Government initiated a policy of labor retrenchment and in 1995,
reduced the number of budgetary positions by 40 percent-well above the target of 25 percent. The
largest reduction (more than 130 positions) occurred in the health sector as part of a radical reform aimed
at transferring much of the provision and financing of health care to the private sector. Staff were also
cut from the education sector.
18.   Removing Price Distortions and Consumer Subsidies. The Government adjusted the prices of
goods and services that remained regulated, mainly energy (gas and electricity), public transportation,
and rationed bread to reflect full import and distributions costs to eliminate subsidies. Price increases-
most of them introduced in September 1994-have been huge, especially for consumers. The increase
ranged from 5 times higher (gas for heating) to 13,000 times higher (gas for cooking). The price of
bread, the main staple, was 1,500 times higher. Subsequent price adjustments were made throughout the
year. The sharp price increase of bread led to a rapid expansion of the private sector, which was not
subject to price controls.
19.   Developing a Legal Framework. The Government has also progressed in establishing a legal
framework for private sector development. In 1994 it adopted simple registration procedures for new
businesses. It also enacted a company law in 1994, followed by a foreign investment law and a
commnercial banking law in 1995. Draft antimonopoly and bankruptcy laws were prepared, as well as a
law permitting private ownership of agricultural land.
20.   Liberalizing International Trade. The Government began to eliminate export restrictions and
maintained a relatively free import regime. In December 1994 it abolished the 8 percent export tax, and
in February 1995 it reduced the number of goods subject to export licensing and quotas (from 27 to 9).
In June it eliminated the state order system, under which companies had to provide part of their output to
the Government. The Government also improved the effectiveness of the foreign exchange market by
abolishing all distinctions between cash and noncash and eliminating the surrender requirement-thus no
longer implicitly taxing foreign earnings.
21.   Strengthening the Financial. The National Bank of Georgia has issued new prudential banking
regulations and gradually strengthened its supervisory function. Licenses were withdrawn from banks
that did not comply with prudential standards. A diagnostic review of the five state banks was completed



5
in June 1995 guaranteeing the independence of the National Bank in formulating monetary and exchange
rate policies. A commercial banking law, including provisions for liquidation, was adopted in early
1996.
22.   Improving Social Protection. The Government took several measures to improve the targeting of
social benefits: it removed 125,000 pensioners from the pensions rolls, eliminated special pension
supplements and childbirth and funeral benefits and targeted child allowances to families with at least
two children. With the resources saved through these measures and through some reallocation of public
expenditures (made possible by the elimination of generalized subsidies) the Government was able to
modestly increase pensions, unemployment benefits, and other social benefits for neediest. In parallel, to
partially compensate for commodity price increases, it increased the wages of workers in the budgetary
sector, tilting the wage structure in favor of the lowest paid.
23.    Despite a record that is impressive overall, a few criticisms can be made. One deficiency has
been the lack of significant progress in tax collection. The reduction in the fiscal deficit from 16.5
percent of GDP in 1994 to about 6 percent in 1995 was attributable entirely to cuts in expenditures and a
small increase in foreign grants. The increase in tax revenues remained less than I percent of GDP.
Thus the fiscal adjustment is still far from sustainable, and the Government cannot delay addressing this
issue. The IMF program, as well as the follow-up Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC), have emphasized
increasing the tax effort through improved tax administration and the removal of most tax exemptions.
24.    A second deficiency was Parliament's postponement until after the elections of discussion of a
law on land reform. This postponement meant that further distribution of land to private farmers would
be delayed. At the time there was strong opposition to private land ownership within Parliament. But
the new elections were expected to change the composition of Parliament in favor of the proposed law.
The SAC paid particular attention to the problem of land reform, and Parliament finally adopted a law on
land ownership in March 1996 that specified the right to buy, sell, lease, and inherit land.
25.    A third piece of unfinished business concerns the changes in social policies. Although the
Government's efforts in the area were substantial, resource constraints were such that the level of social
protection remained extremely low. No rapid change could reasonably be expected over a one-year
period, and this issue remains on the Government's agenda.
26.    Overall, however, the excellent implementation record suggests, there does not seem to have
been any significant unforeseen factors affecting the project. The weak institutional capacity of the
Government was partially compensated for by the Institution Building Credit, which preceded this
Credit. While it is possible that not enough effort was devoted to tax administration, there were bound to
be some weak points, given the magnitude of the task facing the Government. The working relationship
between the Bank and the Government of Georgia appears to have been very good. Many of the
recommendations coming out of the mid-term supervision report were acted on immediately. There is no
doubt about the good intentions of the Government with respect to major reforms. Even reforms delayed
for political reasons were acted on in a reasonable amount of time or in the context of the SAC reforms
that were deemed inadequate (such as the foreign investment law) were revisited.



6
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
27.    The reform program initiated by the Government of Georgia in 1994 is clearly on track. The
reforms to be supported by the follow-up operation, the SAC, will complement those already achieved by
early 1996. In fact, if the SAC reforms are successfully implemented, Georgia will be one of the few
countries in history that has accomplished so much in a three-year period. In essence, the combination of
the transition, civil war and collapse of old trading patterns created a blank slate, a condition that the
Government has take full advantage of.
28.    Other than the resumption of hostilities, there are only two significant dangers to the reforms.
First, living standards improve too slowly, the long-term benefits of the reforms may not be appreciated,
and popular support may wand and people may demand change. It is also essential that the Government
fill in the social services portion of its blank slate, which it can do only if the tax effort increases. While
the private sector is going to play a large, perhaps dominant, role in health and education, people will be
dependent on the state for the provision of basic levels of these services. Pensions and civil service
wages are also at levels that are not likely to be sustainable in the long run. Second, people, with the
recovery of growth, the sense of the urgency of reform will fade. People will be less willing to bear the
necessary short-term costs, and pressures to introduce subsidies and protectionist policies will reappear.
29.    The Government seems aware of these dangers and is actively pursuing its policy to strengthen
the social safety net and to make further progress on stabilization and structural reform. From the
beginning, the Government has recognized that social concerns must receive special attention. The high
growth rate of 10.5 percent achieved in 1996 should make the reform process more palatable to the
people.
E. WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE
30.    The Rehabilitation Credit was the third International Development Association (IDA) Bank
credit to Georgia, closely following the Institution Building Credit and the Municipal Infrastructure
Rehabilitation Credit. After the civil conflict ended in early 1994, an open policy dialogue between the
Government of Georgia and the World Bank was quickly established. The reform program began in
September 1994, and Bank support followed shortly thereafter. The project was appraised during an
October 1994 mission, negotiated in February 1995, and submitted to the Board of Executive Directors
in March 1995. The quick responses of both the Bank and the IMF were critical to the program's
success, give the Government's extremely weak fiscal and current account situation at the time. Bank
staff recognized the risks involved in the operation and helped the Government to identify the technical
assistance required for the reform program. In retrospect, it seems clear that both the financial and
technical support from the Bank were timely and effective.
31.    The credit also provided an adequate framework for financial assistance from other donor
agencies. Funds were mobilized through the Consultative Group process, including humanitarian
assistance from the United States and the European Union. With the assistance of the IMF, Georgia also
developed a strategy to normalize relations with its creditors. In general, there is little doubt that with
the support of the Bank and the IMF, Georgia would have received substantially less bilateral funding.
32.    At the time of project preparation (in 1994), the reform program covered by the Rehabilitation
Credit may have seemed overly ambitious, given the economic situation and the weak institutional



7
capacity in Georgia. But, its successful implementation shows that it was feasible. The only criticism to
be made is that the importance of political factors and of the difficulties in passing reforms in agriculture
were underestimated.
33.   During implementation, discussions with the Government were extensive, and actual supervision
costs exceeded the amount of resources strictly allocated to the Credit. Reviews of technical assistance
needs (to be supported by the Institutional Building Credit) offered another opportunity to supervise
implementation of reforms. The Bank also engaged in a dialogue with other donors on the design of
additional technical assistance programs to support the Government's program.
34.   In sum, the performance of the Bank with respect to the Georgia Rehabilitation Credit was
satisfactory. Even with hindsight it would be difficult to devise a program that would have been much
more successful given Georgia's precarious situation and the time period available.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
35.   Georgia emerged from an extremely debilitating civil war with much of its infrastructure
damaged, weak governmental authority and ability to conduct critical functions, and its old trading
patterns little but a memory. The Government immediately set to the task of reform. It would be
difficult to overestimate accomplishments to date. There was almost no backsliding and little hesitation.
Most of its macroeconomic targets and implementation goals were met or surpassed. Though progress
was slow on tax collection and land reform, these problems are now being tackled head on. Where there
have been deficiencies, the results of the mid-term supervision mission and the negotiations on the SAC
have demonstrated that the Government is quick to seek new or better solutions.
36.   In sum, the performance of the Government of Georgia with respect to the Rehabilitation Credit
has been highly satisfactory, if not outstanding.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
37.   The outcome of the project is rated as highly satisfactory. Implementation was highly
successful, macroeconomic balances are greatly improved, and the extent of structural reform has been
greater than anyone could have reasonably expected a two years ago. Adherence to a strong reform
program, which the Rehabilitation Credit aimed to support, enabled Georgia to halt a sharp decline in
output and living standards. The credit made a significant contribution to economic reform and the
transition to a market economy. Additional achievements in 1996, both in growth and stabilization,
reinforce the expectation that the outcome will be sustainable.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
38.   The follow-up to the Rehabilitation Credit has already begun in the form of the SAC, a similar
operation that the builds on the outcome and success of this project. The main goals of this second
policy-based operation are to consolidate achievements and to deepen the structural reform process. It
will also continue to provide budgetary and balance of payments support. In addition, three other credits



8
have now been approved: Transport Rehabilitation Project (US$12 million), Health Project (US$14
million), and Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Project (US4.8 million).
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
39.    This Rehabilitation Credit offers some important lessons for future Rehabilitation and Structural
Adjustment Credits:
* Strong Government commitment and an active and open policy dialogue are essential for success.
Good coordination of Bank and IMF programs is also extremely important.
*  Providing adequate and timely institutional support for the implementation of reforms boosts the
probability of success for economies in transition. This support was given during the project preparation
and through the Institution Building Credit. The availability of resources for technical assistance
accelerated key reforms, particularly in privatization.
*  Desperate situations often afford the greatest possibilities for change. It is important to move
quickly and boldly when such opportunities arise, before change-blocking coalitions can form. In 1994
Georgia was suffering from hyperinflation and had the second lowest per capita income the countries of
the FSU. When the civil war ended, the Government, with help from the Bank and the IMF, quickly
began its reform effort. Because coalitions of vested interests against change were very weak, it was
possible in a short period to introduce and implement a package of reforms that was much stronger than
that in most other countries of the FSU.
*  In areas that are part politically sensitive, such as land reform in Georgia, it is important not to
underestimate the political difficulties and to begin broad discussions early on with all parties involved,
particularly the ultimate decisionmakers. If members of Parliament had been brought into the
discussions at an earlier stage, the land reform law might have passed more quickly.
* In Georgia substantial attention was given to social concerns very early on in the reform process.
The interdependency of social and economic policies must be recognized. Solutions to social problems
(access to basic social services and social benefits) cannot be postponed until economic problems are
resolved.



Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



10
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives          SubsItia           Par tia                         Not8PP1icabk
Macro Policies                         3                                                    0
Sector Policies                      0                                  0                  0
Financial Objectives                 F                                                       ] 2 E
Institutional Development                             [   j
Physical Objectives                  [                 0                0 
Poverty Reduction                    0                                  0                   0
Gender Issues                          J               El               E                  L
Other Social Objectives                                El                0                  0
Environmental Objectives              El                ]               El
Public Sector Management              E                                  0                  0
Private Sector Development                            12                El                 E
Other (specify)                      [                I                  1                 0
(Continued)



B. ProjectSustainability               LUikey                    Unlikely                   Uncrtain
(1)                        (1')                       (1)
ElE
C. Bank Performance                   satisfactory              Satisfactory                Deficie
(/)                      (v')                        (V)
Identification                        o                                                    O
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal                                                     [x                          E]
Supervision                                                                               II]
HiFY
D. Borrower Performance               satisfactor               Satisfactorv                Deficien
Preparation                          [g                        I]
Implementation
Covenant Compliance                   E]
Operation (if applicable)                                       a
HigWly                                              Luhly
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfto         Satisfactory    Unsatisfacory      unsatisfactory
(/)     (/)              (/)                (/)El  1:



12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title               Purpose              Year of approval            Status
Preceding operations
1. Institution Building Credit    Technical Assistance        FY95           Under implementation
2. Municipal infranstrcture  Specific Investment              FY95            Under implementation
Rehabilitation
Following operations
1. Transport Rehabilitation  Specific Investment              FY96           Under implementation
2. Structural Adjustment     Balance of payments              FY96            Under implementation
Credit                       assistance
3. Structural Adjustment     Technical assistance             FY96            Under implementation
Technical Assistance Credit    support to the SAC
4. Health                    Specific Investment              FY96            Under implementation



13
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned             Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Sununary)              9/94                    9/94
Preparation                                                                    6 months
Appraisal                                                2/95                    2/95
Post Appraisal                                           N/A                     N/A
Negotiations                                             2/95                    2/95
Letter of Development Policy/MERP                        2/95                    2/95
Board Presentation                                       3/95                    3/95
Signing                                                  3/95                    3/95
Effectiveness                                            4/95                    4/95
First Tranche Release                                    N/A                     N/A
Midterm review                                           N/A                     N/A
Second (and third) tranche release                       N/A                     N/A
Project Completion                                       6/96                    6/96
Loan Closing                                             6/96                    6/96
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY95
Appraisal estimate                75
Actual                           77.4
Actual as % of estimate          103.2
Date of final disbursement      1/8/96



Table 5
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICY MEASURES AGREED UPON UNDER THE REHABILITATION CREDIT
MESU$S AENPOR TSO6  |~M    jORA0EENAT:  SI£E                                       NCEMRH10)                    COMEN
.,,.,,.,,,,,.,..............lf,gllE,  . , . . .  ...... ... ,, , t ......... 0i,,  . . ...   ........00                        .. ..
I. MACROECONOMIC STABILIZATION
STF approved in December 1994.               All end-June 1995 quantitative performance criteria agreed upon with  Stabilization laid the
SBA approved in June 1995.                   the IMF met by significant margins.                            ground work for the
introduction of a new
Average monthly inflation fell from an average of 64% in the first    national currency, the lar,
three quarters of 1994 to 3% in the first 9 months of 1995.   on September 25, 1995.
Exchange rate of the coupon appreciated from 5 million per US$ in
September 1994 to nearly 1.3 million at end 1994 and stabilized
since then.
A .   Flscal   Policy__                         _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _  _ _ _
Reuto of susde thog shr pric_e               Implementation of all measures led to budget deficit reduced from  Reduction in budget deficit
increases for bread, gas and electricity, as of  nearly 50% of GDP during the first half of 1994 to 8.5% of GDP in  achieved mainly through  
September 1994; monetization of wheat grants;    the first half of 1995. Deficit at about 6% of GDP for the whole of   sharp cuts in expenditures,
increase in tax rates and improvements in tax  1995.                                                        tax revenues remained at
administration; increases in social benefits and                                                            4.6% of GDP in 1995.
government wages; improvements in expenditure
control.
B.  M onetary    Policy                      _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _
Restrictions on conversion of deposits lifted in  Compliance rate for reserve requirements increased from 50% in
September 1994.                              September 1994 to 83% in June 1995.
Reserve requirements on foreign currency
deposits raised to same level as domestic
currency deposits; enforcements tightened since
September 1994.
Automatic access to overdraft facilities from the
NBG eliminated as of October 1994.



Table 5
Page 2 of 4
MURE TAKEN PRIOR TO BOAD                             PROGRAM iMPLEMENTATION SINCE MARCH 1995   J_co
...   :'''' ''.''-- " ..   ....                                                                                                           .''.:':''''':''': ...    ......  .   '''".'.,,.  .............    .:...
II. REFORMS OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR
A. Transfer of Ownership rights to the Private
Sector
Privatization of Small-Scale Enterprises:          6,432 enterprises privatized by December 1995.                        Targets achieved.
Procedures simplified.
2,500 enterprises privatized (target exceeded).
Privatization of medium and large scale            840 enterprises corporatized by December 1995.                        Agreed measures
enterrises:                                        Mass Privatization Program launched in June 1995.                     implemented and targets
737 enterprises corporatized; guidelines issued    20 auctions held from end June until December 1995.                   achieved.
for completion of mass privatization program;
lists of voucher recipients completed;
list of enterprises to be sold at first three auctions
established;
selection of 15 enterprises for case-by case                                                                                                                    LA
privatization.
Privatization of housing:                          Preparation of legal framework for definition of ownership rights     Not yet approved by
Privatization of housing practically complete.     relative to communal space and facilities.                            Parliament.
Privatization of Land:
About 630,000 ha. of land distributed to private   Preparation and submission to Parliament of a draft land law:          Approval of law by
farmers;                                           (a) providing land in private use to farmers as their own property;   Parliament delayed until
Number of collective and state farms reduced       (b) giving rights to sell, buy, lease and inherit.                    after elections.
from 1,433 to 609 between 1989 and 1994.           [still includes restrictive features]                                 Distribution of remaining
land not yet started.
B. Imposition of hard-budget constraints to
SOEs
Imposition of hard budget constraints to SOEs:     Enforced throughout 1995
Subsidies and transfers to enterprises ceased as of
September 1994.
Identification of largest loss-making state-owned
enterprises.



Table 5
Page 3 of 4
MEARES TAKEN PRIOR TO BOARD                                              A |PROGRAM M MNT.ONSINCEMARCH.1995 5
C. Restructuring of the Government Sector
Strengthening of tax and customs administration (on-going).    Reduction in staff
Reduction of employees of the budgetary sector by 40% since   requirements exceeded
January.                                                       agreed target (25%).
Implementation of health reform underway.
Preparation of Education sector reform underway.
m. REFORMS AIMED AT IMPROVING EFFICIENCY OF MARKETS
A. Promoting Competition and Private Sector
Prices of gas increased to reflect import and  Price of rationed bread raised to 300,000 coupons per kg. in June  New bread price increase
distribution costs; price of electricity increased  1995.                                                    February 1996 and price
600 times for consumers, 10 times for         Price of gas readjusted in function of costs.                  fully liberalized in June.
enterprises.
Price of rationed bread increased from 700
coupons per kilo to 200,000 coupons per kg. in
September 1994, raised again to 280,000 coupons                                                                                                 a'
in December 1994.                                                                                            Cross-subsidization
reintroduced through
Subway fares raised 50 times in September.    Subsidies for subway eliminated in April 1995.                 changes in electricity
tariffs in July 1995.
Law on entrepreneurship adopted in November   Foreign Investment Law adopted in June 1995.
1994.
Anti-monopoly law submitted to Parliament.
Implementation underway.
Demonopolization/Privatization Plan of the Bread Corporation
adopted in July 1995.



Table 5
Page 4 of 4
MEASURES TAKEN PRIOR TO BOARD                   PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION SINCE MARCH 1995   |   COMMENTS
PRESENTATION
B. Fostering Export Growth
Totality of surrender requirement channeled to  Elimination of state order system in June 1995.
NBG. Frequency of foreign exchange auctions
raised to twice a week.                       Surrender requirement eliminated in December 1995.
Restrictions on convertibility of deposits into cash
lifted. Import tax raised to 12%; 8% export tax    Further reduction in number of products subject to prohibitions and
eliminated.                                   licensing requirements.
Reduction of quotas under state order system.
Reduction of number of products subject to
prohibitions and licensing requirements.
C. Strengthening the Financial Sector
Directed credits from NBG and access to       Revised prudential regulations issued.
overdraft facilities eliminated as of October 1994.  Development of interbank short-term credit facility.
Restrictions on use of accounts eliminated.   Diagnostic review of the 5 state banks completed in June 1995.
Privatization of state banks underway.
Licenses withdrawn from banks not complying with prudential
standards.
NBG Law approved by Parliament in June 1995.
IV. REFORMS OF THE SOCIAL SAFETY NET
Generalized subsidies for bread, electricity, gas    Increase (in real terms) in wages of budgetary sector, pensions and
and transportation replaced by targeted cash  other social benefits.
compensations.
Pensions denied to working pensioners.        Child allowances targeted to families with at least two children.
Pension supplements eliminated and adoption of
flat-rate benefits.
Childbirth and death benefits eliminated.



18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated                        Actual
1. Key operating indicators in SAR
11. Modified indicators (if applicable)               - NOT APPLICABLE -
Iff. Other indicators (if applicable)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                                    Purpose as defined at      Status    Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
- NOT APPLICABLE -



19
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                   (US$ million)
Item                                 Local   Foreign    Total        Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs                  costs    costs
1. Import                            0.0      78.0      78.0          0.0      78.0      78.0
Total                                         78.0      78.0          0.0      78.0      78.0
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                   (US$ million)
Item                                 Local   Foreign    Total        Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs                  costs    costs
1. IBRD/IDA                              0.0    75.0       75.0          0.0     75.0       75.0
2. Cofinancing institutions*             0.0     3.0        3.0          0.0       3.0       3.0
3. Other external sources                0.0     0.0        0.0          0.0      00.0      00.0
4. Domestic contribution                 0.0     0.0        0.0          0.0      00.0      00.0
Total                                    0.0    78.0       78.0          0.0    78.00       78.0
*NLG SM - Dutch Grant (USD equivalent approximately 3.0)



20
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
- NOT APPLICABLE -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Georgia
Rehabilitation Credit
Covenant Present   Original    Revised           Description of Covenant            Comments
Agreement    Section     Type    Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
CA      3.01 (a)        9        C         ---                 Consultation and exchange of views
CA      3.01 (b)        9        C         ---                 Progress reports
CA       3.02           3        C                     ---     Procurement schedule
CA       3.03 (a)       1        C         ---         ---     Maintain records and accounts
CA      3.03 (b)        1        C         ---         ---     Audit and furnish records and
accounts
Covenant types:                                                                            Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                                                                       C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from                                         CD = complied with after
beneficiaries                                    8. = Indigenous people                 delay
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds         9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CP = complied with partially
4. = Counterpart funding                            10. = Project implementation not covered   NC = not complied with
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing   by categories 1-9
agency                                           11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary
6. = Environmental covenants                          or other resource allocation
7. = Involuntary resettlement                       12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
regulatory/institutional action
13. = Other



21
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title        Describe and comment on lack of compliance
- NOT APPLICABLE -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                  Revised                    Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks     US$        Weeks        US$            Weeks       US$
Preparation to appraisal      10.0    46.6        47.9           166.3         69.6        242.4
Appraisal                      0.0     0.0         2.1            13.3          2.1          6.1
Negotiations through Board     0.0     0.0         7.6            13.8          8.6         16.3
approval
Supervision                   20.0    79.3        26.6           108.4         29.5        168.1
Completion                    10.0    31.2         4.4            10.8          4.4         10.8
Total



22
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Ratimg        Types of
Stage of project cycle       Month/   No. of   Days in   Specialization'   Implem.       Developm.   Problems 3
Year   Persons      Field                     status      objectives
Completion                    06/96
Preappraisal through Board   09/94 -      9         15     A, E. F, 0
approval                      03/95
Preparation                   09/94
Supervision                   05/95      4          5      E, 0                1            1             M
07/95      5         10      A, E, F,O          1             1             M
10/95      7         4       E, F, O            1             1            M
Completion                    06/96
Total
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  - Key to Performance Ratings:      3 - Key to Types of Problems:
A = Agriculturalist          I = Minor problems                           P = Financial
E = Economist               2 = Moderate problems                         T = Technical
F = Financial Analyst       3 = Major problems                            M = Management
0 = Other
* Other includes country officer, operations analyst, sector specialist,
procurement and disbursement specialists. Many of the specialists
visited the country in combination with other missions.



Appendix A
Page I of 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GEORGIA
REHABILITATION CREDIT 2697-GE
GOVERNMENT SUMMARY
IDA approved the Rehabilitation Credit in March 1995 to Government of
Georgia. The credit was to assist Georgia on starting structural reform program. The
Georgian Government made key reforms in these areas: price and trade liberalization;
phasing out of the state order system; restructuring of Government sector; privatization
and private sector development; improved social benefits for Georgia's neediest citizens.
Despite civil conflicts and a deteriorating macroeconomic situation, Georgia
managed to introduce important structural reforms (liberalization of most prices, open
import regime, unified exchange rate, some privatization and incipient land reform).
Implementation of the reform program was strong in:
Fostering Ownership Change - Privatization of small, medium-size and large enterprises
was strong in 1995. At December 1995, 90 percent of the universe had been privatized.
Privatization of medium-size and large enterprises began with their corporatization.
Transfer of ownership started in mid-1995 through many variants, mostly through a
buyout and mass privatization program through voucher auctions. Investment funds were
licensed to buy vouchers and bid in the auctions. The Government also developed a
demonopolization and privatization plan for the Bread Corporation.
Downsizing Government - The Government initiated policy of labor retrenchment and in
1995 reduced budgetary positions by 40 percent. Largest reduction was in the health
sector due to transfer of provision and financing of health care to private sector.
Removing Price Distortions and Consumer Subsidies - The Government readjusted
prices of goods and services which were regulated, namely those of energy, public
transportation, and rationed bread. Subsequent price adjustments occurred over the year
1995. For bread, the sharp price increase led to a rapid expansion of the private sector not
subject to price control.
Developing a Legal Framework - In 1994 the Government adopted simple registration
procedures for new business; it also enacted a company law in 1994, a foreign investment
law in 1995, and a commercial banking law. A law permitting private ownership of
agricultural land, and draft anti-monopoly and bankruptcy laws were prepared.
Liberalizing International Trade - The Government began to eliminate export
restrictions while still maintaining a relatively free import regime. In December 1994, it



Appendix A
Page 2 of 2
abolished the 8 percent export tax and in February 1995, it reduced the number of goods
under export licensing and quotas. In June, it eliminated the state order system by which
companies had to provide part of their output to the Government. Government also
improved the effectiveness of the foreign exchange market by abolishment of
distinctions between cash and non-cash and elimination of surrender requirement.
Strengthening the Financial Sector - The National Bank of Georgia issued new
prudential regulations and strengthened its supervisory roles, and Parliament adopted a
law in late June 1995 guaranteeing independence of the National Bank in formulating and
implementing monetary and exchange rate policies.
Improving the targeting of social benefits. The Government took several measures to
improve the targeting of social benefits. From saved resources some reallocation of
public expenditures, the Government was able to slightly increase pensions,
unemployment benefits and other social benefits for the neediest Georgian citizens.
During the whole project, the Government has had very close and good cooperation with
World Bank staff through visiting missions and communications. The World Bank has
assisted Georgia authorities in carrying out this project successfully.



IBRD 26918
40"                      C                        42"         ,Z, ,                        ,        .          53                                    ' _
GEORGIA
v)   -'7   n                         ~~~~~~~~RU  SS  I AN  F E D  E R A  T I  O N                                      -  ULT ur URBAN "REA
0  SELECTED CM1ES
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - Di .s.Pcas BCN4IS 
- --  AUTONOOUS REPtUC (ASSRI COUNDATES
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                NAIOA C tA  A,/
o  s    on           Dw _aozvcRK      T U R K E V                        <[;arA_                                 %                   <<              E;-
I\JRlY    ./>~t/'2I             o6y 02'  .golP-    71*15     3   3    60  25 OJLOMEE2RS   {ARMENIA.                   
)  654.6045 '6.'.' j'   ULA6\ C   REP EY IEAN~   40"oesa\                                             4                         4'r.
RNERS~~~~~~~~~J 29






I



IMAGING
Report No.:         16320
Type:      ICR



