Report No. PIC1781
Project Name                        Georgia-Rehabilitation Credit
Region                              Europe and Central Asia
Sector                              Economy-wide
Project ID                          GEPA8410
Principal Responsible Entity        Deputy Prime Minister for Economic
Reforms
Date PID Prepared                   March 21, 1995
Appraisal Date                      February 1, 1995
Projected Board Date                March 30, 1995
Country Background
I.   Since independence, Georgia has experienced a severe economic
decline arising from the disruption in payments and trade within the
FSU, large terms of trade shocks, economic recession in the region, and
aggravated by two years of civil conflicts and increasingly loose
financial policies. Production has been declining in all sectors of the
economy. Overall, output is reported to have decreased by at least 75
percent since 1989, and although the development of the informal sector
- a long-standing feature of the Georgian economy - may have moderated
the decline, the economic contraction appears to be one of the sharpest
among FSU countries.
II. The economic decline has been accompanied by an acceleration of the
inflationary process (with a monthly inflation rate reaching 60t on
average during the first months of 1994), and substantial currency
substitution. The fiscal performance also weakened considerably after
1992 due largely to shortfalls in revenues. In 1993, tax collection
collapsed to about 3t of GDP and public expenditures for wages, social
programs and investment were drastically reduced.
III. With the continuous deterioration of the economic situation aver
the last five years, the living standards of the majority of the
population have declined sharply. Real wages have declined by about 90
percent over the course of the last two years. Families now spend on
average about 80 percent of their reported income on food and must rely
to a large extent on informal activities, sales of personal effects and
assets, or remittance from abroad to cover their basic expenditures. In
addition, rationing of electricity, lack of heating during the winter,
and cuts in public transportation are imposing considerable hardship on
the population. The Government's capacity to guarantee an adequate
safety net has also declined sharply.
IV. In spite of these many difficulties, some progress was achieved in
implementing structural reforms. Most prices were liberalized in 1992;
the import regime was open and privatization (mostly of housing and
land) was more advanced than in many other FSU countries.
The Country's Adjustment Program



V.   Toward the end of 1993, the intensity of civil conflicts abated and
the Government achieved greater political control. These positive
developments opened the way for the design of an economic program that
would correct the deep macro-economic imbalances and attempt to rebuild
the economy. The Government - geared by a group of reformers -
expressed its commitment to restore macroeconomic stability and foster
the resumption of growth. To that end, a comprehensive program of
macroeconomic stability and structural reforms has been designed with
the assistance of the IMF and the World Bank. To demonstrate its
commitment to reversing economic trends and to accelerating the
transition to a market economy, the Government has over the last few
months, taken a series of decisive and courageous measures. These
include a sharp reduction in subsidies for bread and transportation, the
adjustment of energy prices to cost recovery levels, the tightening of
monetary and credit policies, and several decrees to speed up
privatization. On December 15, 1994, the Board of Directors of the IMF
approved a first purchase of SDR 27.75 million (approximately US$39
million) under the Systemic Transformation Facility (STF).
VI. The Government's program focuses on four interconnected and
mutually reinforcing elements. First, macroeconomic stabilization is to
be achieved through a drastic fiscal adjustment and tight monetary
policies. Second, reforms of the public sector will be undertaken to
reduce and redefine the role of the Government in the economy. The aim
is to ensure the sustainability of the stabilization program, the
strengthening of the institutions of public management, and a growing
reliance on private sector activity through an acceleration of the
privatization process. It is also to reallocate scarce public resources
toward basic social services. Third, the development and a more
efficient functioning of markets will be fostered by finalizing the
liberalization of domestic prices as well as of the foreign exchange and
trade regimes; by promoting competition and creating a favorable
environment for private sector development; and by strengthening the
financial sector. Finally, a minimum social safety net, compatible with
the limited available resources, will be maintained by ensuring a
minimum level of cash transfers to the poorest groups of the population.
The Proposed Credit
Objectives
VII. The main objective of the credit is to support the Government's
economic reform program aimed at restoring macroeconomic stability and
at promoting the resumption of growth and improvement in living
standards. The other objectives are to: (i) provide budgetary support
to maintain the level of basic public expenditures, in particular for
wages and the social safety net; (ii) provide foreign exchange for the
purchase of critical imports; (iii) improve the functioning of the
foreign exchange market; and (iv) provide a framework for financial
assistance from other donor agencies.
Description
VIII.     The reform program to be supported by the credit comprises
three sets of policies: (a) those aimed at reducing and redefining the
- 2-



role of the public sector in the economy; (b) those that foster the
development and increased efficiency of markets; and (c) those that
maintain a minimum social safety net through improved targeting of
benefits. Among the key reforms are price and trade liberalization;
phasing out of the state order system; restructuring of the Government
sector; privatization and private sector development; and improved
targeting of social benefits.
Financing
IX. The amount of the credit would be SDR 51.0 million (US$75 million
equivalent) provided under standard IDA terms (35 years of maturity,
including ten years grace period). The proceeds of the proposed credit
would be disbursed in one tranche upon effectiveness. US$15 million (20
percent of the credit) could provide retroactive financing for eligible
imports procured in the four months preceding the date of loan signing.
Implementation Arrangements
X.   The Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Reforms will oversee,
coordinate, and monitor implementation of the policy reform program.
Proceeds of the credit will be disbursed monthly upon evidence
acceptable to the Bank that imports of eligible goods have taken place.
The Credit funds will be disbursed into a Ministry of Finance (MOF)
foreign exchange account with the NBG specially set up for this purpose.
The NBG will withdraw the foreign exchange as and when needed to meet
market demand and will reimburse the MOF at that time with the
equivalent local currency at the market exchange rate.
Poverty Category
XI. The credit is poverty focused. The proposed credit would support:
(i) public sector reforms that reallocate public expenditures to ensure
access to basic health and education services by the poor; and (ii)
increases in cash transfers to the poorest groups (pensioners, children,
unemployed, refugees and low-paid government employees) by redirecting
resources saved through the elimination of generalized subsidies and
improved targeting. Other reforms aim at further targeting of benefits
and restructuring of the pension system to generate additional resources
for protecting the poorest.
Environmental Aspects
XII. As an adjustment operation, this project has been assigned to
Category U (unrated) for the purposes of Operational Directive 4.01,
which does not require an environmental assessment.
Project Benefits
XIII.      Implementation of the proposed reforms will help to restore
macroeconomic stability and to reverse the decline in economic activity,
thus promoting employment in the private sector and improved living
standards. This objective will also be served through the availability
of foreign exchange for obtaining critical imports.
- 3 -



Project Risks
XIV. The proposed project faces four risks. The first risk relates to
possible slippage in implementation of reforms resulting from lack of
continuous political support or from social tensions due to difficult
living conditions following the sharp price realignment. The lack of
adequate and timely external assistance of the magnitude required could
also lead to growing social tensions, by forcing a much stronger
domestic adjustment that would be socially hard to sustain. This risk
will be mitigated by the Bank's financial support and by its efforts to
mobilize external donor support and humanitarian aid. The second risk
is that Georgia may be unable to reach agreements with its main
creditors, Russia and Turkmenistan, leading to further disruption in
energy supplies. This risk is being addressed by policies aimed at
achieving full cost recovery in the energy sector, and by bilateral
negotiations underway to regularize previous arrears. The risk of weak
implementation capacity will be addressed through continuous technical
support, in particular through the Institutional Building Credit.
Finally, there is the risk that civil conflicts could resurface.
However, it is expected that negotiations underway will lead to a
lasting resolution of conflicts.
Task Manager:
Michelle Riboud, EC4C2
(202) 473-8743 (tel)
(202) 477-3378 (fax)
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



