Report No. 680b-BD                                                           E,LE  CP YDV
Appraisal of an
Agricultural and Rural Training Project
in Bangladesh
February 18, 1976
Education Projects Division
East Asia and Pacific Region
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



/I
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTSX-
Currency Unit      =  Bangladesh Taka (Tk)
US$1               =  Tk 13.0
Tk I               =  US$0.077
Tk 1,000           =  US$76.92
Tk 1,000,000       =  US$76,923
MEASURES
I m              =  3.28 ft
1 m2             =  10.76 sq ft
1 km2            =  0.39 sq mi
1 hectare        =  2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
/1   The taka is officially valued at 29.9844 to the pound sterling,  The
pound now floats relative to the US Dollar and, as a consequence, the
Taka-US Dollar rate is subject to change. The exchange rate used in
preparing the data for this report is Tk 13.0 to US$1, the rate pre-
vailing at the time of preparing the report.



BANGLADESH                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF AN AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page Nos.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................. ...........e..*e i - iii
Is  INTRODUCTION ............., 1
II.   RURAL INSTITUTIONS      ................                        2
Socio-Economic Background                                  2
Rural Institutions         ....                            3
The Agriculture Extension Service ........           3
Bangladesh Academy of Rural Development
at Comilla                                         4
The Integrated Rural Development Program .           5
Agricultural Credit Services                         5
III.   THE RURAL TRAINING SYSTEM                                       6
General                                                    6
Agricultural Extension Training                            6
BAU                                                   6
AETIs                                                7
Farmer Training          ..........                  7
Credit and Cooperative Training                            8
BA RD                     se***99eeo*****             8
Cooperative College  ..........                      8
Zonal Cooperative Training Institutes                8
Model Farmer Training 8..............                 8
IV.   PLANS AND PROGRAMS FOR RURAL TRAINING ............es            9
Plans                                                      9
Constraints                                               10
A Rural Training Strategy                                 10
National Committee on Rural Training                      11
Agriculture Extension Program                             12
A Training Program for Credit and Cooperatives.           13
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Bangladesh
in July, 1974, composed of Messrs. R. Johanson (mission leader), O.P. Gautam
(agricultural educator), Ms. K. Marshall (economist), Messrs. K. Shedden
(architect), J. Hansson (agricultural extension specialist - consultant),
and W. Ward (agriculture information specialist - consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
V.   THE  PROJECT   .......................,  ....................    14
Project Content .................. **W... .....*           14
Project Components........                                 15
Farmer and Field Level Trials .          ........          17
Technical Assistance ...........18
VI.   PROJECT COST, FINANCIAL PLAN AND IMPLEMENTATION                  20
Project Costs                 ....... ..........           20
Financing ....    .... ..........21
Implementation                                             23
Procurement          ........  ..  ....24
Disbursement   .........................                   25
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..........................            25
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REAClED ..................        ............        27
APPENDICES
1.   Agricultural Extension and Thana Training
2.   The Rural Training System
3.   Staff Requirements for Rural Institutions
4.   Field and Farmer Level - Studies and Trial Phase
5.   Technical Assistance
ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Rural Training Requirements 1974-80 - Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives
3. Ministry of Agriculture: Projected Requirements for Field Staff,
1974-82
4. Existing Training Programs for Rural Development
5. Budgetary Provision for Rural Training - 1973/74 - 1974/75



- 3 -
6. Public Expenditure on Education and Training
7. First Five Year Plan: Provision for Rural Training
8. Bangladesh Agricultural University: Intake, Enrollment, Output
by Faculty 1966/67 to 1979/80
9. Agricultural Training Institutes - Output of Diploma Holders,
1975-1985
10. Agricultural Training Institutes - Output of In-Service Training
Courses
11.  Summary of Estimated Project Costs by Components
12. Estimated Project Costs by Categories of Expenditure
13. Contingency Allowance
14. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
1. Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture (9082)
2. Organization Chart: Rural Development and Cooperatives (9080)
3.  Structure of the Education and Training System (9081)
4. Implementation Schedule
MAP
Map of Bangladesh (showing Project Institutions)






GLOSSARY
Academy        Bangladesh Academy for Rural Development
AETI           Agriculture Extension Training Institute
AIS            Agriculture Information Service
Aman           Crop season for rice production, accounting for 60%
of annual rice acreage and production (April-Nov.)
ARPP           Accelerated Rice Production Program
ATI            Agriculture Training Institute
BAISSC 1/      Bangladesh Agricultural Inputs, Supplies and
Services Corporation
BAU            Bangladesh Agricultural University at Mymensingh
BKB            Bangladesh Krishi Bank (Bangladesh Agricultural
Development Bank)
BRRI           Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
CARE           Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere
CERI           Central Extension Resources Institute
C.O. (Devel-
opment)      Circle Officer, Development - general administrative
officer at thana level
FFYP           First Five Year Plan (1973-78)
IRDP           Integrated Rural Development Program
JEA            Jute Extension Agent
MOA            Ministry of Agriculture
NCRT           National Committee on Rural Training
ODM            Overseas Development Ministry (UK)
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
RDTI           Rural Development Training Institute
SIDA           Swedish International Development Authority
TAO            Thana Agriculture Officer
TCCA           Thana Central Cooperative Association
TEO            Thana Extension Officer
Thana          Administrative unit below District (average 180,000
population)
TIP            Thana Irrigation Program
TTDC           Thana Training and Development Center
UAA            Union Agricultural Assistant
Union          Administrative unit below the thana (average 18,000-20,000
population)
VEA            Village Extension Agent
Zonal
Institute     Zonal Cooperative Training Institute
1/ BAISSC was renamed Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC)
in January 1976.






BANGLADESH
BASIC DATA/
Area                                                           141,131 km2
Total Population (mid-1973)                                     75 million (Est)
Annual Growth Rate                                          3% (Est)
Rural Population as % of total                             90% (Est)
Engaged in Agriculture as % of total                       75% (Est)
Enrollment Ratios (1973, including overage students)
Primary Schools (% age group 6 - 10)                       56%
Lower Secondary Schools (Z age group 11 - 13)              17%
Higher Secondary Schools (% age group 14 - 15)              6%
Adult Literacy Rate                                             23% (Est)
Expenditures on Education and Training
Percent of Central Government Expenditure (1969/70)        20.2%
Percent of GDP (1969-70)                                    1.2 (Est)
Expenditure for Rural Training:
% of Central Government Expenditure         less than 1.0
Administrative Units (Number)
Divisions                                                   4
Districts                                                  19
Sub-divisions                                              62
Thanas                                                    413
Unions                                         (approx)4,500
Villages                                    (approx)  65,000
/1   See Annex 1 for Comparative Education Indicators.






BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF AN AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL TRAINING PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an agricultural and rural training project
for Bangladesh for which an IDA credit of US$12.0 million equivalent is
proposed. Education and training are presently receiving assistance under
Credit 407-BD of 1973, which reactivated two former projects in East Pakistan,
under which the government is completing the Bangladesh Agricultural University
(BAU) at Mymensingh, and fourteen technical training institutes. Project
implementation has been delayed by difficulties over a contract for profes-
sional services, now resolved, shortages of building materials, and shortage
of counterpart funds.
ii.       Increased agricultural production is vitally important to the
well-being of the 75 million people of Bangladesh, 90% of whom live in rural
areas. This increased production depends on an adequate supply of inputs,
including seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, credit, and technical advice on how
to use them. While a complex system of rural institutions in Bangladesh
attempts to provide these services, it functions poorly. The agricultural
extension service has been ineffective because of obsolete programs divorced
from the latest research, inadequate materials from the information service,
poor conditions of service for staff and an ineffective field level organiza-
tion.   The Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP) is overextended and
understaffed, as are agricultural credit services, which also suffer from
low repayment rates and poor management. The ineffectiveness of these rural
services can be attributed to inadequate funding, poor organization and to
untrained or poorly trained staff. The proposed project addresses the need
for better training of rural staff.
iii.      Rural training is provided at the following main institutions:
the Agricultural University, the Comilla Academy for Rural Development,
Agriculture Extension Training Institutes (AETIs) and Thana Training and
Development Centers (TTDCs). These institutions have made valuable contri-
butions in the past, but are inadequate to meet present and future rural
development requirements. Furthermore, rural training institutions have
grown haphazardly and with frequent overlapping activities and under-utili-
zation of facilities; better coordination is required among them. Middle-
level (technician) training has been seriously neglected. Many institu-
tions suffer from physical damage, dislocation and loss of staff due to
the war, and from poor teaching and inadequate funding of training pro-
grams.
iv.       The First Five Year Plan (FFYP, 1973-1978) provides measures to
overcome many of the present weaknesses in the rural training system, in-
cluding expansion and improvement of training institutions. However, rapid
inflation and revenue constraints have led the government to reevaluate the
plan and reduce many of its proposals. Within these limits it is possible
to identify a strategy for improving the rural training system. The strat-



- ii -
egy, agreed by the government, conisists of three parts: a National Commit-
tee on Rural Training (NCRT) has been established within the Ministry of
Planning to integrate rural traini.ng policies and prepare a comprehensive
plan for strengthening the rural t:raining system; studies would prepare for
fundamental changes in the organization of agricultural extension and the
pattern of farmer training; and immediate steps would be taken to meet ob-
vious needs for better programs, information and training.
v.        Within the context of this overall strategy, the proposed project
aims at increasing agricultural production by bringing farmers more effective
extension, cooperative and credit services. This long term objective would
be attained in two phases. The initial phase would stress improvements in
coordination and training at the national level. A second phase, to be
planned during the first phase, would provide for better organization of
services and training to farmers at the local level. The proposed project
includes:
(a) construction, furnishing and equipping new and expanded
training institutions:
Student
Institutions    Places
-    Graduate In-service Unit (BAU)             1            60
-    Agricultural Training Institutes           7        1,240
-    Field Extension Facilities in 15
thanas                                  -            -
-    Regional Academy - Bogra                   1           80
-    Thana Training Units                      15          450
(b) financing of in-service training for present extension
personnel; and
(c) techaiical assistance for the National Committee on Rural
Training.
vi.       Under the project, a Graduate In-Service Training Unit would be
constructed at the Bangladesh Agricultural University (BAU) to improve the
training of professional agriculturalists and link the university better
with field problems. Seven Agricultural Training Institutes (ATIs) would
be assisted by expanding four existing AETIs, and transferring three AETIs
to new locations. The AETIs would be upgraded to ATIs to signify their
broadened role in supplying trained middle level agricultural workers for
a variety of agencies. In-service training of existing extension workers
in high yielding rice varieties would be financed to make an immediate impact
on rice production. A Regional Rural Development Academy, patterned after
the Comilla Academy, would be constructed at Bogra to conduct research on
local development problems and train staff of IRDP. A second phase project
would be planned under the proposed project by studying the field organiza-
tion of the extension service and establishing experimental thana training



- iii -
units and extension centers in 15 thanas. The project would include technical
assistance to complement that provided by other international and bilateral
agencies.
vii.      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$16.5 million,
corresponding to US$16.2 million net of duties and taxes, with a foreign
exchange component of US$8.2 million equivalent or 50% of the total proj-
ect cost. The proposed IDA Credit would finance 74% of total project costs,
net of duties and taxes, including 100% of the foreign exchange component
and 48% of local currency costs.
viii.     A National Committee on Rural Training, comprising representatives
of all concerned ministries and agencies has been established under the Min-
istry of Planning to coordinate, review and assess the progress of rural
training programs. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established
within the Ministry of Agriculture would be responsible for the administra-
tion and financial control of project implementation and liaison with IDA.
The proposed project would be implemented in about five and a half years
after the date of effectiveness.
ix.       Contracts would be grouped to form attractive bid packages.  Con-
tracts for civil works exceeding US$500,000, for building materials exceed-
ing US$50,000 and for equipment and furniture exceeding US$25,000 would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with IDA guidelines. Contracts below these respective amounts would be
awarded without prior IDA approvaal following competitive bidding adver-
tised locally in accordance with government procurement practices accept-
able to IDA. Under international competitive bidding local contractors
and local manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 7.5% on
civil works, and of 15% on the c.i.f. cost of equipment and furniture, re-
spectively, over competing foreign bidders. Small equipment and furniture
contracts (less than US$10,000) could be procured through local shopping
subject to a combined total of US$250,000.
x.        The proceeds of the proposed IDA Credit would finance 100% of the
foreign cost of imported building materials, furniture, equipment and tech-
nical assistance, or 70% of these categories if locally obtained; 60% of
civil works contracts; and 60% of expenditures on in-service training.
xi.       The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
Credit of US$12.0 million to the Government of Bangladesh on standard
IDA terms.






BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF AN AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL TRAINING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The shortage of trained manpower is an important impediment to
rural development in Bangladesh. An urgent requirement is to extend to
the estimated eight million small-scale farmers modern agricultural tech-
niques that would permit them to increase agricultural production. This
process would be facilitated by a competent, technically qualified staff
in the field services of government agencies involved in rural develop-
ment and effective communications systems in rural areas. The strength-
ening of training programs, both non-formal programs directed at farmers
and specific skill training for staff of rural institutions, is a priority
recognized by the government of Bangladesh.
1.02      This report presents the findings of a mission which visited
Bangladesh during July 1974, to appraise an agricultural and rural train-
ing project. The project was prepared by the Government with assistance
from an FAO/IBRD (Cooperative Program) identification/preparation mission
in March 1974. The project request proposed a comprehensive approach to
the problem of rural training and included financing of facilities for
farmer training and extension, and development of several types of insti-
tutions for training the intermediate level personnel of rural development
programs. During appraisal, and in agreement with the Government, the pro-
posed project was modified to (a) defer any major expansion of field level
facilities pending further study and trial, (b) secure some of the re-
quired technical assistance from other agencies, (c) add immediate in-
service training for existing extension staff, and (d) exclude expansion
for the Rural Development Training Institute and a proposed Livestock
Assistants Institute. After appraisal the Government secured financing
from other sources for two items in the proposed project: the Central
Extension Resource Institute (Government of Japan), equipment and technical
assistance for the Agriculture Information Service (UNDP/FAO). Construction
of the Zonal Cooperative Training Institutes and technical assistance for
the Zonals and the Cooperative College is currently under consideration by
SIDA, and consequently has also been deleted from the project. As a result,
the project would now cost an estimated total US$16.5 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange component of US$8.2 million.
1.03      The proposed agricultural and rural training project would be
the second education and training project in Bangladesh assisted by the
World Bank Group. The first, Credit 407-BD of June 7, 1973, reactivated
two former projects in East Pakistan under Credits Nos. 49-PAK (March 25,
1964) and 87-PAK (June 17, 1966), and is assisting the Government in com-
pleting the development of (i) the Bangladesh Agricultural University at
Mymensingh, and (ii) the construction or equipping of fourteen technical
training institutes. Project implementation has been delayed due to diffi-
culties in renegotiating pre-war contracts for professional services and



2-
shortages of building materials. Most contracts have now been signed and
the general scarcity of building materials has eased. The project has
experienced substantial cost overruns caused by price inflation; reduc-
tions in project scope are currently under consideration.
1.04      The proposed agricultural and rural training project would support
a proposed Rural Development Project which is expected to be ready for pre-
sentation to the Executive Directors this year.
II. RURAL INSTITUTIONS
Socio-Economic Background
2.01      Bangladesh is among the poorest (per capita income about US$85)
and most densely populated (1,400 persons/sq mi) countries in the world.
Tne population of 75 million, increasing at about 3% p.a., is crowded into
an intensively cultivated deltaic plain, subject to severe flooding and
drought. Some 90% of the population is rural and about 80% are illiterate.
Economic development is difficult, for natural resources are limited and
environmental conditions complex and often treacherous. The new nation
has faced a continuous struggle to contend with a series of disasters
and to prevent its people from becoming still poorer.
2.02      The economy of Bangladesh ;s dominated by agriculture.  About
30% of the rural labor force is directly engaged in agricultural activities,
predominently rice and jute cultivation.  In recent years agricultural out-
put has contributed between 55% and 58% of the GDP and exports of raw jute
and jute goods contributed between 75% and 87% of total foreign exchange
earnings. However, growth of the agricultural sector has not kept pace with
the population growth. In 1972-73 the government had to import 2.8 million
tons of food grain at a cost of US$360 million to feed its people. A top
priority for development in Bangladesh is to grow enough food to feed the
expanding population and to develop an agricultural base to support diver-
sified economic growth.
2.03      Bangladesh is a nation of an estimated eight million small farmers;
their average land holdings are under three acres. Agriculture is intensive,
with almost all suitable land under cultivation, but overall yields could be
improved markedly by adopting the new technologies which have been developed
in Bangladesh and elsewhere. The most important of these technologies are
high yielding rice varieties developed at the International Rice Research
Institute in the 1960s. Use of one variety, IR-20, grew from 167,000 acres
(less than 2% of the transplanted ama:a 1/ area) in 1970/71 to an estimated
0.5 million acres in 1973/74 (5% of tie transplanted aman area).  Further
expansion of these new technologies requires more inputs, e.g., seeds and
fertilizer, and technical advice on how to use them.
1/   See glossary.



-3-
Rural Institutions -/
2.04      A complex system of rural institutions provides services to farmers.
At present, however, most rural development programs function poorly. Farmers
complain that they must see a different official for every problem, that they
cannot get needed advice and assistance and that vital inputs are scarce or
unavailable. These problems can be attributed in part to dislocation result-
ing from the war and the transition to independence, world-wide shortage
and price escalation of fertilizers, aggravated by a series of natural di-
sasters and poor harvests. However, a fundamental problem is the multitude
of institutions, government agencies, autonomous bodies and private interests
which are involved in rural development services. Eleven ministries includ-
ing about 40 directorates have responsibilities for bringing services to
farmers and their efforts in general have been poorly coordinated, both at
the central and field levels. At the thana 2/ level, between 12 and 20
officers, most with subordinate staff, represent these agencies. There
is an urgent need for a clearer definition of responsibilities and for in-
tegrating of services which are now fragmented, overlapping and even com-
petitive. Recent expansion of rural programs has stretched thinly availa-
ble staff capabilities. Upgrading of staff competence through training is
now urgently required.
2.05      The Agriculture Extension Service, under the Directorate of Agri-
culLure (Extension and NIaaagement), is the basic vehicle for providing tech-
nical advice to farmers. It functions at the division, district, subdivi-
sion, thana and union levels and employs about 4,200 Union Agricultural
Assistants (UAAs) as field extension workers. They are supervised by 413
Thana Agriculture Officers (TAOs) (Chart 9082). The present field services
are largely ineffective. Extension programs tend to be obsolete and diffuse,
seldom focusing on a specific attainable objective, such as introducing a
particular crop or practice in a defined zone. The technical advice given
by extension workers is often five years behind practical research findings.
Few extension staff have received adequate training; many were transferred
from other departments with minimal consideration of aptitude or adequate
pre-assignment training.
2.06      Terms of service for extension workers are poor, including low
salaries, lack of opportunities for advancement and lack of housing. 3/
The organization of the extension service is weak. UAAs must cover an
average of 10 sq mi and 2,000 farm families without transport or adequate
supervision. In addition, field staff have been burdened with extraneous
responsibilities, as collection of census data. Many UAAs spend less than
1/   See also Appendix I.
2/   See glossary.
3/   Many UAAs are obliged to live with the more prosperous farmers and
devote inordinate attention to their problems.



-4-
half their time on agricultural work. An effective and professional exten-
sion service to support rural development programs would require better ex-
tension programs, communication materials, staff training and a reorganized
field service.
2.07      Parallel with the extension service, a set of specialized jute
extension assistants (JEA) has been developed since 1971 within the Min-
istry of Agriculture (Chart 9082). These JEAs are farmers who, after
being trained at TTDCs (para 3.10,), are now full-time government employees.
The creation of this separate service results in farmers having to consult
at least two extension agents (few farmers grow only jute). There are
1,400 JEAs and a service of 2,250 is planned. The possible advantages
of integrating the JEAs into the general extension service should be
considered. Furthermore, a separate wing of the Directorate of Agricul-
tural Extension is the plant protection service, which functions at district
and thana levels. Part of the 1,400 workers it employs deals with exten-
sion. As plant protection is highly seasonal, the possibility of gradually
merging these workers into the general extension service should also be
considered.
2.08      Bangladesh Academy of Rural Development at Comilla.  Established
in 1959, the Comilla Academy pioneered many programs which have influenced
the government's policies for rural development. The Comilla approach is
based on the use of the thana as the focus of development activities.
Thana-level programs introduced at Comilla, and subsequently extended to
other parts of Bangladesh, include:
-    Thana Training and Development Centers (TTDCs), which have
been constructed in approximately 250 out of 413 Thanas,
and accommodate officers of the key departments at thana
level;
-    the development of a two-tier cooperative structure as a
vehicle for integrated rLral development; village cooperative
societies are federated in a Thana Central Cooperative Asso-
ciation (TCCA);
-    the Thana Irrigation Program (TIP), based on cooperative
pump groups;
-    the Rural Works Program, introduced from Comilla as a
vehicle for involving local communities in development
programs and for making use of underemployed, often
landless, rural labor; and
-    farmer training at the TTDC for TIP and the TCCA.



2.09      Two important aspects of the Comilla experiment and the programs
derived from it are the essential role of farmer training and the vital
importance of developing institutions to stimulate rural development. The
work of the Academy has been widely acclaimed and has contributed to evolving
new approaches to rural development in Bangladesh. The Comilla program ex-
perienced impressive initial results, but discipline in the cooperatives
gradually deteriorated and repayments suffered. Because of the extensive
activities of the Academy in the Comilla region it is no longer possible
to conduct many types of research there. In retrospect, the greatest bene-
ficiaries have generally been the wealthier farmers, who tend to dominate
new as well as old institutions, and currently only about 25% of rural
families are being reached through cooperatives. The initially successful
non-formal education programs introduced at Comilla have shown some deterior-
ation. Nevertheless, the Comilla concept is viable and it demonstrates the
need to experiment further with rural institutions and to try innovative
programs for rural development.
2.10      The Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP) (Chart 9080):
The IRDP is an effort to extend some of the programs and concepts devel-
oped at Comilla on a nation-wide scale. Established in 1970, the IRDP
has now established TCCAs in 152 thanas where its primary activity is
the organization of Comilla-style cooperatives at village and thana
level. The objective of the program is to use the cooperative insti-
tutions as a mechanism for coordinating and integrating services to
farmers, including credit, inputs, marketing and rural works activities.
2.11      The IRDP program is ambitious and, at present, over-extended and
under-staffed. At thana level, there would be advantages to coordinating
IRDP activities with those of other rural development programs, in partic-
ular, those of the Directorate of Agricultural Extension with which there
is now some confusion over roles.
2.12      Agricultural Credit Services.  While institutional agricultural
credit is available to farmers through the cooperative system, from the
Bangladesh Krishi Bank, and from the commercial banking system, it is
estimated that 85% of rural credit comes from non-institutional sources.
The government has emphasized the provision of credit through cooperatives
in its rural development prcgrams. Basic responsibility for couperatives
resides with the Cooperative Directorate, which is part of the Ministry of
Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives. A distinction is
made between "traditional" cooperatives, of which there are approximately
24,000, and "newt cooperatives, based on the Comilla model. The system
of agricultural credit has functioned poorly and, apart from the initial
successes at Comilla repayment has been low and operations inefficient.
One factor contributing to this situation is the lack of trained staff.
Agricultural credit employs field staff in three categories: the Coop-
erative Department has approximately 2,200 staff, the TCCAs about 2,000,
and the Cooperative Banks about 1,000 in 1974.  Of these, roughly hlalf
have received no basic training, and arrangements for in-service training
are inadequate. The most serious problem is intermediate level staff.



-- 6 -
III.  THE RURAL TRAINING SYSTEM
General
3.01      The main rural training institutions of Bangladesh, including the
Agricultural University, the Comilla Academy of Rural Development, Agri-
cultural Extension Training Institutes, and Thana Training Development
Centers, have made valuable contributions in the past but are not adequate
to meet present and future rural development requirements. Rural training
institutions have grown haphazardly. Small, single-purpose training institu-
tions have proliferated, administered by the agencies or programs concerned,
with frequent overlapping activities and under-utilization of facilities
(Annex 4). Bangladesh urgently needs to establish effective coordinating
mechanisms for rural training which would enable the government to rational-
ize the rural training system through a comprehensive and coordinated approach.
3.02      Overall training requirements for the rural sector have not been
adequately assessed, resulting in a serious neglect of middle level (tech-
nician) training. At the university-degree level, enrollments in agricul-
ture constitute 10% of total enrollments. At intermediate or diploma level
(Chart 9081), however, students in rural subjects (e.g, agriculture, credit
and cooperatives) account for less than one percent of total enrollments.
This imbalance must be corrected if rural institutions are to be staffed
with properly trained middle level personnel.
3.03      Existing training institutions do not function well.  Many still
suffer from physical damage, dislocation, and loss of staff resulting from
the war and the transition to independence. Teaching is overly theoretical
in most institutions and many have become increasingly isolated from the
practical requirements for rural development. Teachers are generally poorly
trained and underpaid. Existing institutions and programs do not usually
receive adequate funds to operate efficiently. Total allocations for rural
training 2/ constituted only about 1% of all recurrent expenditures voted
for 1974-75. In strengthening the rural training system, high priority
should be accorded to improvements in existing institutions.
Agricultural Extension Training
3.04      Bangladesh Agricultural University, Mymensingh (BAU).  Established
in 1961 and administered by the Ministry of Education, the University pres-
ently employs about 250 teaching staff, the majority (60%) foreign trained.
The present enrollment of about 2,800 is distributed among six faculties:
1/   See also Appendix 2.
2/   Estimates of budgetary provisions for rural training are given in
Annexes 5, 6 and 7.



- 7 -
agriculture (28%), veterinary science (24%), animal husbandry (20%), agri-
cultural economics (8%), agricultural engineering (12%) and fisheries (8%)
(Annex 8). Each faculty offers a bachelors and a masters degree program.
The proposed regular doctoral program has not yet started. The annual out-
put of first level graduates has increased rapidly from 230 in 1971 to 610
in 1974, mainly due to tripling of graduates from veterinary science and
animal husbandry. The present enrollment of post-graduates is about 200
and annual output about 50. Most graduates have readily found employment,
mainly as staff for the government's rural institutions, in research work
or in the tea and sugarcane plantations. However, the relevance of BAU's
teaching has been increasingly questioned by government authorities and
other employers. The First Five Year Plan (FFYP) explicitly criticized
BAU for its theoretical, out-of-date teaching and its isolation from prac-
tical problems of rural development. This isolation stems partly from
inappropriate training, and lack of involvement with research and follow-up
training of graduates.  A draft development plan has been prepared for BAU,
but it does not address these basic issues.  The Bank Group has been attempt-
ing under Credit 407-BD (para 1.03) to involve the University more in research
and extension and is continuing the dialogue with BAU on a revised develop-
ment plan.
3.05      The principal institutions for training middle level agricultural
workers are the Agriculture Extension Training Institutes (AETI). Eight
AETIs currently have a capacity of about 900 students and an annual output
of about 400 in a two-year diploma course. The pattern of training was
recently changed from two years of full time training to three years, in-
cluding five-month training at the AETI followed by seven months supervised
field work at the thana level each year. The current enrollment is only
220. This arrangement is viewed as a temporary expedient, and the govern-
ment has decided to return to the two-year diploma course. About a third
of the graduates find employment as technicians in agencies other than the
agriculture extension service, such as BAISSC, IRDP, and research institu-
tions. The AETIs are small, enrollments range from 80 to 150 students, with
correspondingly uneconomical use of teaching staff and facilities. Most
buildings and teaching facilities are inadequate and only half the institu-
tions have sufficient farmland for practical teaching. The present curricula
require a third of the time for practical studies but, due in part to lack
of farmilan, teaching remains mostly theoretical.  Taachers are underpaid
and poorly trained. Arrangements for in-service training of extension staff
have been haphazard and inadequate. To fulfill their important role in sup-
plying middle-level agricultural manpower, the present AETIs must be broad-
ened in scope and strengthened in quality.
3.06      Little farmer training now takes place in Bangladesh because of
the ineffectiveness of the two existing farmer training programs. The ex-
tension service, one approach to farmer training, has broad infrastructure
but lacks adequate programs and a delivery system (para 2.05). The other
approach to farmer training in Bangladesh has focused on training group
leaders, such as model farmers and village cooperative managers (also
farmers), at Thana Training and Development Centers (TTDCs), originally
developed at Comilla (paras 3.10 and 3.11).



Credit and Cooperative Training
3.07      The Bangladesh Academy of Rural Development at Comilla (para 2.08)
has undertaken the training of personnel at all levels but is regarded in
Bangladesh as an institution of higher learning. The Academy has 38 teach-
ing and research staff and a capacity for 130 trainees at any one time. Its
two principal problems are recent loss of experienced staff and lack of
clearly defined training functions. Because of its leadership in the field
of rural development, the Academy is called upon to give many courses which
could more efficiently be given elsewhere. The Academy now conducts:
(a)  pre-service and in-service training for IRDP field
officers (project officer, deputy project officer
and accountant);
(b)  pre-service courses for TCCA staff (e.g., inspectors
and assistant inspectors);
(c)  training for TCCA managing personnel; and
(d)  short (one-week) orientation for thana-level officers
from other ministries.
The Academy should allocate much of its l'wer level training to other
regional institutions, thereby economizing on training costs and freeing
facilities for higher priority training.
3.08      The Cooperative College, located on the campus of the Comilla
Academy, has a capacity for training about 70 field inspectors of the
Cooperative Directorate, by which it: is administered. At present, the
College works under considerable pressure to reduce the substantial back-
log of untrained staff. Like the Academy, the College needs to delegate
some of its training responsibility to lower level institutions. There is
also a need for staff development and for revision of curricula and train-
ing programs.
3.09      Zonal Cooperative Training Institutes.  Eight Zonal Institutes
currently operate under the direct administrat±ve control and academic
guidance of the Cooperative College (para 3.08). The Zonal Institutes,
with a total capacity for 425 trainees, generally give short orientation
courses (one to three weeks) to members of cooperative societies and vil-
lage accountants of TCCAs. The training potential of Zonal Institutes is
only partly utilized, primarily because of inadequate physical facilities,
low caliber of teachers, unstimulating curricula and lack of adequate train-
ing allowances for trainees. The Zonal Institutes need to be strengthened
to take over training given at higher levels (paras 3.07 and 3.08).
3.10      Model Farmer Training at TTDCs.  At present about 250 TTDCs have
been completed, consisting mainly of a collection of offices for various
thana level officers, some staff housing, a pump workshop and a large hall



- 9 -
for group meetings. Training is conducted at TTDCs by bringing in model
farmers and managers of village primary societies weekly in groups of about
50 for about three hours of training by different thana officers on agri-
culture, cooperatives and related subjects. Under the IRDP and TIP pro-
grams, trainees are paid a stipend of about three takas per visit. The
model farmers then return to their villages to transmit newly gained
knowledge to neighboring farmers at weekly meetings of village coopera-
tive societies.
3.11      Insofar as the program works successfully, it represents an
inexpensive way of communicating new agricultural technology to farmers.
Unfortunately, the success of model farmer training has declined in re-
cent years as the result of multiple weaknesses. New teaching programs
have not been developed and the same farmers have often received repetitive
lectures over a period of several years. Although benefitting themselves,
model farmers often have been unwilling or unable to assist their neighbors
in improving their farming practices.
3.12      Model farmer training needs to be revitalized by the development
of new teaching programs, better training for trainers, the development of
more effective teaching materials, the provision of adequate training aids,
the introduction of more specific training closely related to the cropping
seasons. In addition, experiments should be undertaken to determine the
effectiveness of training units adjacent to district headquarters with
facilities for residential training to allow longer training periods, and
programs for coordination of services of the TCCAs and the agricultural
extension staff.
IV.  PLANS AND PROGRAMS FOR RURAL TRAINING
Plans
4.01      The First Five-Year Plan (FFYP, 1973-78) places a high priority
on the development of agriculture and the rural sector. The short-term
objectives of the Plan are to achieve self-sufficiency in the production
of foodgrains, in part through the extension of high-yieldine rice varieties
in rain-fed cultivation areas, and to create employment opportunities for
the rural unemployed and under-employed.
4.02      The FFYP outlines an ambitious program for rural development,
which would entail significant expansion of most rural institutions. In
particular, the extension service would be expanded to a total field service
of 16,000 workers, including the addition of 7,500 Village Extension Agents
(VEAs) during the plan period. The IRDP program would also be expanded
rapidly under the FFYP to operate in 250 thanas through 39,000 primary
societies in 1978, compared with 152 thanas and about 14,000 societies
in 1974.



- 10 -
4.03      The FFYP also includes measures to provide educational support
to rural development. The Plan recognizes the need for better coordination
of rural training programs and proposes the establishment within the Plan-
ning Commission of two coordinating committees for cooperatives and agri-
culture 1/ to determine training policy and manpower requirements in the
rural sector.  At the higher level the Plan provides for completing the ex-
pansion of BAU at Mymensingh (parai 3.04), the establishment of two new
Regional Academies of Rural Development and the strengthening of the
Cooperative College. Intermediate level training is emphasized in plans
to rehabilitate existing AETIs (para 3.05), establish eight new AETIs
with a capacity of 150 students each, and strengthen Zonal Cooperative
Training Institutes. At the farmer training level, the FFYP includes
financing for completion of TTDCs and costs for training model farmers
and managers through IRDP and TIP. Appendix 3 outlines staff training
requirements for rural institutions.
Constraints
4.04      Financial, administrative and manpower constraints limit the
government's capacity to achieve the ambitious objectives established in
the Plan. The last two annual budgets, responding to rapid inflation and
revenue constraints, have made a slow start in implementing these programs.
These financial problems have led the Government to re-evaluate and cut
many plans and programs. Administrative weaknesses, particularly in de-
livery of inputs and coordination of different programs, make the achieve-
ment of planned targets less probable. The quantitative targets for staff
expansion seem particularly unfeasible. In the short term, the expansion
of the extension service and IRDP must be determined by the capacity of
the training institutions to produce qualified personnel. In sum, the
limiting factors for the foreseeabLe future are not manpower needs but the
degree to which the Government can afford to train and employ new staff.
A Rural Training Strategy
4.05      The long term objective of a rural training strategy would be
to contribute to the development of agriculture by bringing farmers more
effective extension, cooperative and credit services. The strategy, as
agreed oy the government, consists of three parts: First, Bangladesh would
establish an effective coordinating mechanism for rural training. The
objective of this mechanism, in the! form of a National Committee on Rural
Training, would be to rationalize the rural training system through a com-
prehensive and coordinated approach. Second, ways to reorganize and strengthen
field-level training (i.e., thana level training and agricultural extension)
would be investigated and tried. Third, steps would be taken to meet obvious
immediate needs for better programs, information and training.
1/ Cooperative Development Board and Agricultural Training and Manpower
Committee.



- 11 -
National Committee on Rural Training
4.06      The Government has already established an interministerial National
Committee on Rural Training to assist the integration of rural training pol-
icies. The task of such a Committee would be to supervise, review and coor-
dinate the ongoing Rural Training Program and adopt a more rational division
of responsibility among existing training institutions (paras 3.07-3.09).
In particular, it would need to find ways to coordinate the agriculture ex-
tension approach and model farmer approach to farmer training (para 3.10).
In carrying out its functions the Committee would need to examine the perform-
ance of the existing rural training system, including both formal and non-
formal training, in relation to requirements. Based on this assessment and
analysis, the objective would be to establish a comprehensive and integrated
long term plan for strengthening the rural training system, improve its ef-
fectiveness and enhance its contributions to rural development. The NCRT
would review the progress of the Project and resolve any major policy issues
by coordinating the views of the various ministries and agencies involved in
the Project.
4.07      The Committee is composed of high level officers from the Ministries
of Agriculture, Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives, Edu-
cation, Livestock and Fisheries, and the BAU. To pursue its appraisal and
planning functions, the Committee needs to establish a competent secretariat
and carry out the recruitment and coordination of the technical assistance
needs, and analytical services.
4.08      Among the priority tasks of the Committee would be to:
(a) review the role of BAU in research and extension and its
relationship with other agriculture faculties and assist
in preparing an institutional development program for
strengthening its teaching programs (para. 3.04) and in-
tegrating its teaching and research programs with the ex-
tension service;
(b) prepare and recommend programs for improving the operation
and effectiveness of the extension service at the field
level (paras 2.05-2.07);
(c) appraise the thana level training programs (paras 3.11-
3.12); and
(d) review the training programs of the Rural Development
Academies at Comilla and Bogra, the Cooperative College,
and the zonal cooperative training institutes with a
view to reallocating credit and cooperative training
at different levels to these institutes consistent with
available facilities and regional needs (paras. 3.07-3.10).
Pending the outcome of these studies, which should result in a comprehen-
sive rural training plan within two years, it is possible to identify an



- 12 -
immediate program to improve agriculture extension, and training for credit
and cooperatives.
Agriculture Extension Program
4.09      A feasible agriculture extension program to reach 11 million
farm families in 1990, within projected constraints, would involve a
gradual increase to a field service of about 10,000 by 1990 (one extension
worker per 1,100 farm families). An extension service of this order of
magnitude would require an increase in recurrent costs to about Tk 58
million in constant prices, compared with about Tk 25 million at present
and Tk 93 million required for a service of 16,000 field workers (para
4.02). M4ore important than expansion of numbers would be the improvement
of: (a) extension programs based on recent research results, (b) communi-
cation materials through the Agriculture Information Service (AIS), (c)
in-service and pre-service staff training, and (d) reorganization of the
field service.
4.10      Within this context a central extension institute needs to be
created to perform five vital functions, namely to:
(a) translate research findinags of other agencies
into extension programs;
(b)  develop curricula for ATIs and other middle
level rural training institutions;
(c) develop publications, aucdio-visual aids and other
training materials for the extension service and
middle-level training institutions;
(d) provide in-service training for teaching staff
of ATIs; and
(e) evaluate the effectiveness of agricultural
extension programs.
The Government of Japan is financing the construction and equipping of this
institute and some initial technical assistance. The institute would cost
about Takas 1.1 million in annual operating expenses when completed in 1977/78.
4.11      Another essential element in the program to improve agriculture
extension would be an expansion of the production capacity of the Agriculture
Information Service (AIS) and of its role in supplying training niaterials for
rural development activities outside the Ministry of Agriculture. Improved
agriculture extension would also reqjuire more intensive and better staff
training for practicing extension workers and for new recruits to the ser-
vice. This would entail development: of new training programs, and rehabili-
tation of existing, or construction of new, middle level agriculture training
institutions to produce about 750 technicians a year. UNDP/FAO is providing



- 13 -
equipment for the AIS and technical assistance for AETIs and management of
the extension service.
4.12      To ensure effective utilization of training, the present extension
service would also need to be reorganized. Such reorganization would involve
the following measures:
(a) integration where possible of the various specialized
extension services into a multipurpose service conducted
by broadly trained multipurpose workers;
(b) a rationalization of administrative hierarchy,
including exclusion of unnecessary tiers, such as
Sub-Divisional Agriculture Officers, and clear
demarcation of roles of each level;
(c) better work planning in terms of revised job
description for TEOs/VEAs, annual, monthly and
daily work plans, elimination of irrelevant tasks,
and establishment of an incentive system;
(d) a requirement that for new hiring only qualified and
properly trained staff be assigned to extension work; and
(e) greater coordination of model farmer training with exten-
sion services.
A Training Program for Credit and Cooperatives
4.13      Given the need to consolidate past achievements, a target of
about 30,000 IRDP primary societies by the early 1980s would seem more
realistic than the FFYP target of 39,000 by 1978. (paras 4.01 and 4.02). The
ultimate objective of the government is to make these primary societies
independent and self-supporting units. Successful cooperative development
depends, in addition to coordination with input supply agencies, on the
training of ministry staff and of cooperative officers. To support its
credit and cooperative program, the government would need to:
(a) extend the Comilla approach by establishing a new
regional academy to conduct research on: (i) adaptation
of innovations introduced at Comilla (e.g., model farmer
training) to other regions and (ii) development of
new social institutions to nelp solve pressing local
problems and to train staff for IRDP;
(b) strengthen and expand the Cooperative College and Zonal
Cooperative Training Institutes (para 3.09) to train
practicing cooperative officers and new field staff;
and



- 14 -
(c) explore ways to revitalize model farmer training at TTDCs
by development of new teaching programs more closely re-
lated to the cropping seasons, by better training for
trainers and by provision of residential facilities.
The Swedish International Developirent Authority (SIDA) is considering a
proposal from the Government of Bangladesh to strengthen and expand the
Cooperative College and Zonal Cooperative Training Institutes.
4.14      The proposed project would assist all aspects of the above programs,
except the Central Extension Research Institute (CERI), currently assisted by the
Government of Japan, the AIS, which is being assisted by UNDP/FAO and the
Cooperative College and Zonal Cooperative Training Institutes which SIDA
is considering assisting (para 1.02).
V. THE PROJECT
5.01      The proposed project aims at increasing agricultural production
by bringing farmers more effective extension, cooperative and credit ser-
vices. This long term objective would be attained in two phases. The
initial phase would stress improvements in coordinration and training at
the national level. A second phase, to be planned during the first phase,
would provide for better organization of services and training for farmers
at the field level.
Project Content
:.02      The proposed project would include:
(a) construction, furnishing and equipping new and expanded
training institutions:
Addi-              Annual
Type of                                       tional/1          Enrollment/
Institution                     Number          Places           Participants
Expansion        New
Agricultural Extension Training
Graduate In-service Unit (BA1J) 1           -              60        480
Agricultural Training
Institutes (ATI)               7        480             760      1,720
Field Extension Service         15          -               _          _
Credit and Cooperative Training
Regional Academy - Bogra         1          -              80         640
Thana Training Units (TTU)    15            -             450      2,700
/1   Total number of student places to be added under the project.



- 15 -
(b) in-service training for present extension per-
sonnel; and
(c) technical assistance for the project through the
National Committee on Rural Training.
5.03      The government gave assurances during negotiations concerning the
basic project strategy and financial implications as mentioned below:
(i) only qualified and properly trained staff, i.e., not
lower than an agricultural diploma holder, would be
assigned to extension work after July 1, 1977;
(ii)  the National Committee on Rural Training would be
established with a full-time executive secretary and
supporting staff in the Ministry of Planning, would
prepare a plan for development of rural training
institutions, and would consult with IDA on this
plan before June 30, 1977;
(iii) the government would review its system of selection
and compensation of teaching staff at rural training
institutions and furnish the Association, for comment,
staff development plans for all project components
within one year of effectiveness; and
(iv)  the government would consult with the Association
prior to introducing major curriculum changes in
project-supported institutions until the Closing Date
of the Credit.
Project Components
5.04      A Graduate Level In-Service Training Unit would be established
under the project at BAU, with a dual objective: (i) to provide periodic
in-service training to graduate officers engaged in rural development and
teachers at extension institutions, and (ii) to orient the research and
teaching of the University more directly to practical Droblems of rural
development (para 3.04).  A modest investment, mainly in hostel facilities,
would enable 60 participants simultaneously, or about 480 annually, to use
the teaching resources of the University to upgrade their knowledge in a
wide variety of disciplines, such as agronomy, animal husbandry and fish-
eries. The Department of Agricultural Extension of the University would be
responsible for daily administration of the Unit. The annual training pro-
gram would be approved by the National Committee on Rural Training (para
5.03). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that staff of the
Iinistry of Agriculture would help prepare and participate in the in-ser-
vice training programs.
5.05      The expansion of four existing AETIs and the construction of
three new Agriculture Training Institutes (ATIs) is included in the proj-
ect to develop multipurpose training institutions, improve the quality of



- 16 -
agricultural training and increase the output of agricultural tec1nicians
(para 3.05). The ATIs would be the basic intermediate level agricultural
training institutions, offering a diploma course in agriculture and providing
in-service training for middle-level agricultural field staff. The project
would assist the government in broadening the scope of the AETIs, wlhich
would be upgraded to ATIs, by adding new subjects to the curriculum (e.g.,
irrigation techniques). Basic training in animal science, fisheries, and
credit and marketing would also be given to enable graduates to assist in the
work of other rural institutions i.n addition to the extension service.  The
quality of training would be improved by: (i) strengthening training of
teaching staff through the ongoinE, UNDP/FA0 project 1/, (ii) increased
emphasis on practical farming practice and field demonstration (50% of the
timetable compared with less than a third at present), (iii) production and
supply of teaching materials and aids, and (iv) improved physical facilities
and equipment. The output of agricultural diploma holders would be increased
from a capacity of about 400 a year at present to 770 a year (Annex 9) by:
(a) expanding four existing Agriculture Extension
Training Institutes (AETIs) averaging 125 places
each to 240 places each; and
(b) transferring three AETIs with inadequate sites
and premises to new locations with 240 places
each (See Map).
The larger student capacity would realize savings in operating costs per
student. The government intends tc give preference to rural students with
agricultural backgrounds to ensure their familiarity with rural life. The
ATIs would also provide in-service training for extension staff. All seven
ATIs would offer two months in-service training to extension workers, per-
mitting each institute to train 120 staff a year in addition to the diploma
course (Annex 10). Depending on progress in developing the above seven ATIs
and employment prospects for graduates, the establishment of three additional
ATIs at new locations could be considered for future investment.
5.06      During negotiations the government provided assurances that each
ATI would have at least 35 acres of usable farmland prior to beginning con-
struction at each site.
5.07      In-Service Training.  Since the institutional benefits of the
project would begin to be realized only in 1979/80, the proposed project
would also finance immediate in-service training for practicing extension
workers in four phases over a four-year period. During the first two years
of project implementation about 4,000 UAAs and TAOs (more than 85% of the
total present staff) would be given an intensive three-week course on high-
yielding variety rice using primarily field demonstrations developed by
1/  ;%Dout 900 teaching staff would be reqjuired for the se:ven ATls, inclu.ding
new recru'tment of 30 teachers.  All would receive training at the pro-
posed Central Extension Resources Institute and thlroug}h the ongoing
CNDP/FAO project.



- 1 7 -
the UNDP/FAO specialists working in Bangladesh. The Association would
finance part of the training costs, which would include allowances for
travel, subsistence and training equipment. This in-service training
would be related specifically to the government's program on rain-fed
rice. A second course on jute extension would be given in the third and
fourth years of the project. With a view to ensure effective use of train-
ing after trainees return to their jobs, the government agreed during nego-
tiations that the Directorate of Agricultural Extension would prepare before
the conclusion of each course detailed work plans for each participant and
would assess the effects of training on the performance of participants
within six months of the conclusion of the course.
5.08      The project would also assist in establishing a second Regional
Acatemy of Rural Development at Bogra. Patterned after the Bangladesh
Academy of Rural Development (BARD) at Comilla, the Bogra Academy would be
a semi-autonomous organization under the Ministry of Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives controlled by a Board of Governors. The Acad-
emy would have two purposes. First, it would conduct research on (a) adap-
tation of innovations introduced at Comilla (e.g., model farmer training) to
the Bogra region (para 2.08) and (b) development of new social institutions to
help solve pressing local problems. Second, the Bogra Academy would under-
take training (pre-service and in-service) of senior officers engaged in
rural development (e.g., IRDP Project Officers), thereby easing the train-
ing load at Comilla (para 3.07). The Bogra Academy initially would have a
capacity for 30 trainees and is expected to train about 643 sta'f of rural
institutions anually. An expansion of this capacity could be considered for
a second phase Bank-Group investment. The development plan for the Bogra
Academy envisages a modest start in rented buildings in 1975 with principal
emphasis given to research on local development problems. This research would
then provide material for training programs, which would begin within two
years. The fourteen teaching and research staff members would be recruited
from among recent university graduates and persons with previous experience,
but not presently employed, at Comilla.
5.09      During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Association
would be given the opportunity to comment on the annual research and train-
ing programs of the Bogra Academy of Rural Development until project comple-
tion.
Farmer and Field Level Trials (Appendix 4)
5.10      The project would assist studies and the construction of experi-
mental facilities aimed at revitalizing thana level training and field ex-
tension services (paras 2.05 and 3.06). This trial phase would involve
three components. First, an in-depth evaluation would be made of the
extension service by the government with UNDP/FAO assistance (terms and
conditions of service, effectiveness of field extension practices) and
current thana training programs. Second, experimental facilities would
be built to try out new modes of training and extension. Low-cost housing,
transport and materials and better supervision would be provided to exten-
sion workers in about 15 thanas according to three types of grouping: sub-
stations for five agents, three agents and dispersed houses for individual



- 18 -
agents. In addition, about 15 Thana Training Units (TTUs), consisting of a
low-cost dormitory for about 30 trainees adjacent to the TTDC, would be
constructed to enable more intensive training to be given to model farmers
and other key persons at the thana level. Third, the project would contribute
the development of a national plan of action for improving the field extension
service and thana level training and the preparation of proposals for future
investment. Appendix 4 describes this trial phase in greater detail. Before
negotiations the government (i) selected thana and village locations to be
included in the trial phase in accordance with mutually agreed criteria, and
(ii) prepared proposals on thana training programs to be held at TTUs. During
negotiations the Government gave assurances that within three years of the
date of credit signing it would send to the Association for comment a com-
prehensive plan for improvement oi- the extension services and thana level
training.
Technical Assistance (Appendix 5)
5.11      Bangladesh has received substantial external assistance for rural
training. The on-going UNDP/FAO project is helping the government strengthen
the AIS and agricultural extension, primarily through teacher training at
AETIs. UNDP/ILO is assisting the government in preparing staff training
programs for irrigation pump drivers and mechanics. USAID, SIDA, ODM and
the Ford Foundation are assisting the government in developing farmer train-
ing programs through IRDP, the Cooperative Directorate and the Bangladesh
Academy of Rural Development. In particular SIDA is considering a proposal
from the Government of Bangladesh for providing expert assistance to the
Cooperative College and Zonal Cooperative Training Institutes. Consultations
have taken place between the Government of Japan and IDA concerning the
proposed central extension institute (para 4.10). Such consultations are
expected to continue during project implementation to ensure a coordinated
approach to training.
5.12      About 19 man-years of expert services required for the ATIs is ex-
pected to be financed by the UNDP and the Japanese Government. During nego-
tiations the Government provided assurances that such technical assistance
would be obtained and the Association would be given an opportunity to com-
ment on the terms of reference of the consultants and experts. Agreement in
principle has been reached veLween the govetlimenL and the other .wo donor
agencies for the provision of the above technical assistance.
5.13      The project would include financing for technical assistance to
support investigations to be carried out by the National Committee on Rural
Training (paras 4.06-4.08), including:
(a)  two man-years of intermittent expert assistance
for planning rural training systems (para 4.06);
(b)  eight man-years of expert assistance for preparing
an institutional development plan and for strength-
ening the teaching, research and extension programs
at the Bangladesh Agricultural University (para 3.04);



- 19 -
(c) up to three man-years of expert assistance for
coordinating the trial study (para 5.10);
(d) up to four man-years of expert assistance for
monitoring and evaluation of project activities
(para 5.10);
(e) four man-years of expert assistance to the Bogra
Academy of Rural Development in designing research
programs, especially on rural institutions (para 5.08);
(f) ten man-years of fellowships to strengthen the teach-
ing, research and extension training capacity of BAU
(para 3.04); and
(g) ten man-years of fellowships for staff of the ATIs in
the fields of curriculum development and specialized
agricultural and communications subjects connected
with extension services (para 5.05).
During negotiations, the Government agreed that: (a) the qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of the consultants and experts, and (b)
the fellowship program would be acceptable to the Association.



- 20 -
VI. PROJECT COST, FINANCIAL PLAN AND IMPLEMENTATION
Project Cost
6.01      The estimated costs and foreign exchange component of the items
in the proposed project are given in Annexes 11 and 12 and are summarized
below:
Takas                 U.S. Dollars
(millions)               (millions)
Local  Fo_ertn  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Agriculture Extension
Graduate In-Service
Unit                   1.46    1.49    2.95    0.11    0.12    0.23
7 Agriculture Training
Institutes (ATIs)    38.22   39.92   78.14    2.94    3.07    6.01
In-Service Extension
Training               2.73    3.37    3.10    0.21    0.03    0.24
Field Extension
Facilities             6.42    6.35   12.77    0.49    0.49    0.98
Credit & Cooperative Trg.
Regional Academy Bogra  4.33    4.41    8.74    0.33    0.34    0.67
Thana Training Units    4.71    4.46    9.17    0.37    0.34    0.71
Suporting Services
Technical Assistance    4.54   11.68   16.22    0.35    0.89    1.24
62.41   68.68  131.09    4.80    5.28   10.08
Contingencies
Physical                 6.24    6.87   13.11    0.48    0.53    1.01
Price Increase          39.12   31.15   70.27    3.01    2.40    5.41
TOTAL PROJECT COST       107.77  106.70  214.47    8.29    8.21   16.50
6.02      Customs Duties and Taxes.  Of the estimated civil works costs of
US$5.64 million equivalent, about US$0.35 million equivalent, not to be
financed out of the Credit, would represent customs duties and taxes.
Instructional equipment is normally exempt from taxes and duties and cost
estimates represent c.i.f. prices wi.th an allowance for transport within
Bangladesh.



- 21 -
o.03      The estimated construction costs for the proposed project have been
derived from Mlarch 1975 building costs in Bangladesh and from experience with
other IDA-financed projects in Bangladesh. Building costs per sq ft of gross
floor area are estimated at an average of US$14.00 equivalent. These unit
costs take account of the heavier structures required in many areas to with-
stand cyclones. In all cases, however, structures would be built to austere
specifications, using low-cost construction methods, because of acute bud-
getary constraints prevailing in Bangladesh. Site development costs are
estimated at 11% of construction costs. A local cost adjustment ranging
from -5% to +20% has been added for construction outside the Dacca area.
Space requirements are based on detailed schedules of accommodation. Use
factors vary between 80% and 90% for classrooms and practical rooms on
the basis of 36 hours of instruction per week.
6.04      Project costs include a physical contingency for unforeseen
factors equal to 10% of the base cost estimate.   A provision of US$5.41
million equivalent for price increases has been included. This price con-
tingency was estimated on the basis of expected annual price increases for
local and foreign components on a declining basis between 1975 and 1979,
as follows: 20 to 15% for civil works and 12 to 8% for furniture and
equipment (Annex 13).
6.05      The foreign exchange component totals US$8.21 million equivalent
(including contingencies) and represents 50% of the total project cost.
It aias been calculated on the basis of (i) 12% for professional services,
(ii) 25% for site development and 50% for construction, (iii) 60% for
furniture, (iv) 90% for equipment, and (v) 70% for technical assistance
component.
6.06      Unit capital costs per place for academic and communal facilities
excluding contingencies) are US$2,150 for the Regional Academy, Bogra, and
US$1,750 for the Agriculture Training Institutes. These costs are within
the ranges of costs of previous Bank projects, despite recent rapid cost
escalation, because of the expected use of low cost materials and simple
structures.
Financing
6.07      Financial Plan.  The total project cost of US$16.5 million would
be financed as follows: (a) the IDA Credit would meet the foreign cost of
imported building materials, furniture, equipment and expert assistance;
70% of the costs of furniture, equipment local and building materials and
professional services; and 60% of the costs of civil works, and in-service
training; (b) the Government of Bangladesh would finance the remaining
project costs. Altogether, the IDA assistance would be equivalent to
100% of the estimated foreign exchange cost and 48% of the local currency
costs net of taxes and duties.



- 22 -
(US$ Millions)
Government                         % IDA
of Bangladesh   IDA    Total   Financin&
1.  Civil Works (excl. materials)            0.87         1.31    2.18        60%
2. Building Materials
(a) Imported                            0.35 /2      3.18    3.53       90%
(b) Local                               0.33         0.78    1.11       70%
3.  Furniture and equipment
(a) Imported                            0.00         0.88    0.88      100%
(b) Local                               0.14         0.33    0.47       70%
4. Technical Assistance/-
(a) Foreign Consultants and
Fellowships                         0.12         1.10    1.22       90%
(b) Local Consultants                   0.13         0.32    0.45       70%
3.  In-Service Training                       0.10        0.14    0.24        60%
6.  Contingencies                             2.46         3.96    6.42        -
Total                                   4.50        12.00   16.50        73%
Less:  duties and taxes                 0.35          -       0.35
Net Total                               4.15        12.00   16.15        74%
/1   Including professional architectural services, fellowships and expert
assistance.
/2   Mostly taxes and duties.
In view of the low foreign exchange reserves of Bangladesh and difficulties
ia financing local currency from budgetary resources, the financial plan is
satisfactory. Other agencias are providing a substar.tial amount of the
technical assistance required for the project (para 5.13).
6.08      At full operating capacity the project would require an estimated
Takas 8 million in incremental annual operating costs, corresponding to
about 6,% of the projected cost of rural training by all ministries in 1982.
This increase represents an attainable level because all project items are
accorded priority by the government. The government has approved relevant
PEP forms 1/ necessary for project execution.
1/   A PEP form is an instrument by which the government approves capital
expenditures and creation of new staff positions.



- 23 -
Implementation
6.09      Administration.  A National Committee on Rural Training (paras 4.06
and 5.03), established under the Ministry of Planning, would have over-all
responsibility for implementing the project. It would coordinate the rural
training activities of the Ministries and agencies involved in the Project
and would review national policies and establish by June 30, 1977 a long-
term plan for development of agricultural and rural training programs and
institutions in consultation with the Association, All ministries and agen-
cies directly concerned would be represented on the Committee. In addition
to general supervision, the Committee would be responsible for executing the
technical assistance included in the project. It would periodically review
the progress of the project and resolve issues whitch require the coordination
of the various ministries and agencies involved in the Project.
6.10      A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established within
the Ministry of Agriculture to coordinate all educational and construction
activities financed under the project and to communicate with IDA. The PIU
would work with the Ministries and Departments concerned in the planning
and implementation of all sub-projects. The PIU would include a director,
architect (who may be replaced later on by an engineer, after completion of the
design phase), education and procurement officers, all on a full-time basis,
and an accountant and appropriate supporting staff. During negotiations the
government provided assurances that, (a) terms of reference for the PIU and
its professional staff would be acceptable to the Association; (h) appointment
of the director would be subject to prior IDA approval; and (c) appointment
of all other principal project officers would be made after consultation
with the Association. The establishment of the PIU and designation of the
director have been accomplished. Appointment of the project architect and
consultant architect would be a condition of effectiveness; appointments of
the educator, procurement officer and the accountant would be made within
three months of the date of effectiveness. The educator would also assist
the NCRT.
6.11      The field level trials would be implemented by IRDP (Thana Train-
ing Units) and the Directorate of Agriculture Extension (field extension
facilities) under the direction of the National Committee on Rural Training.
6.12      Professional Services.  The PIU would retain consuiltant architects
to execute design work, plan construction, prepare contract documents and
supervise civil works. The Public Works Department (PWD) normally under-
takes these responsibilities directly. During negotiations the government
confirmed that private firms would be used exclusively in order to expedite
initiation of civil works activities and provided assurances that consult-
ant architects acceptable to the Association would be employed on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Association. The signing of a contract
with the consultant architects would be a condition of effectiveness.
6.13      Sites.  The sites for institutions in the project have been
tentatively identified and in most cases the government already owns the
land required. Sites were selected to ensure adequate farmland and an



- 24 -
even distribution of institutions throughout the country. The selection
of thanas for the thana training units and field extension facilities
trials followed several criteria, including coverage of the same thanas
as in the proposed rural development project and strong potential for
agricultural development. Sites would be provided by the government
without cost to the project. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
title to each ATI site would be acquired and transferred to the appropriate
government department within six months of credit signing and all remaining
sites within eighteen months.
t.14      Construction.  The proposed civil works are within the implementa-
tion capacity of the Bangladesh bu:ilding industry. During negotiations the
government confirmed that the PIU would be given the right to procure im-
ported construction materials directly and supply them to contractors.
6.15      Phasing of Implementation.  The project would be implemented over
a five and a half year period. Physical facilities would be completed in
four years (Chart 4).
Procurement
6.16      Contracts would be grouped to the maximum extent practicable to
form attractive bid packages. The following contracts would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA
guidelines:
(a) civil works exceeding US$500,000;
(b) building materials exceeding US$50,000; and
(c) equipment and furniture exceeding US$25,000.
Respective contracts below these amounts would be awarded without prior IDA
approval following competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
government procurement practices acceptable to IDA. Local contractors and
local manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 7.5% on civil
works, and of 15% on the c.i.f. cost of furniture and equipment, respec-
tively over competing foreign bidders. Bangladesh does not participate in
any arrangement which gives import duty preference to certain foreign sup-
pliers.
6.17      It is expected that construction of small trial field extension
facilities and thana training units would be undertaken by CARE, Bangladesh
from project funds; CARE has local experience in low-cost construction, in-
cluding jute-reinforced plastic structures. Small equipment and furniture
contracts (less than US$10,000) could be procured through local shopping
subject to a combined total of US$250,000.



- 25 -
o.18      In order to ensure that local currency financing will be available
promptly, a condition of effectiveness would be the establishment and funding
of a revolving fund to be operated by the PIU director. The fund would be
used to cover local currency expenditure for project payments to consultants
or suppliers and to pay for in-service training during the implementation
period. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the revolving
fund would be replenished in a timely manner to maintain balances of
Tk 500,000 plus local currency expenditures expected in the following two
months.
Disbursements (Annex 14)
6.19      The proceeds of the proposed IDA Credit would finance:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported building
materials, furniture and equipment (including
vehicles, and equipment for the PIU), or 70% of
the cost of these items if procured locally;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for fellowships and
consultants services; or 70% of total expenditures
on local consultants;
(c) 60% of total expenditures for civil works; and
(d) 60% of total expenditures for per diem of expendi-
ture, travel allowances, and instructional materials
for in-service training.
Disbursement requests would be supported by full documentation except for
in-service training which would be disbursed against a statement of expendi-
ture signed by the Project Director. The documentation for these statements
would be retained by the PIU and be available for review by IDA during proj-
ect supervision missions.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      Development of the agricultural sector and increased food pro-
duction are urgent priorities for Bangladesh. Increased agricultural
production depends largely on assisting the nation's eight million small
farm families to receive essential inputs and adopt new technologies. The
proposed project is the first phase of a program to increase agricultural
production by strengthening three key government rural services: extension,
cooperatives and credit. The proposed project would be a principal instru-
ment for providing the government with trained staff to carry out priority
rural programs. Specifically, the project would:



- 26 -
-    economize on resources through coordination of rural
training policies;
-    increase the coverage of trained extension workers
from one officer per 2,000 families at present to 1:1,100
by 1990, and make these workers more effective (para 5.05);
a more intensive coverage cannot be envisaged at this time
because of financial constraints; and
-    provide immediate intensive in-service training in
HYV rice technology to 4,000 extension officers which
should enable an estimated 200,000 farmers of all types
to be assisted in increasing rice yields by 1977
(para 5.07).
7.02      The proposed project incorporates the recommendations in the
'"roject Performance Audit of the First Bangladesh Education Project". 1/
Specifically:
-    the project includes technical assistance to overcome
weaknesses of basic curricula at the Bangladesh
Agricultural University at Mymensingh and to orient
training more closely to operational aspects of
agricultural development (para 5.04);
-    attention has been given to ensure that recruitment
procedures for rural training institutions will
actively contribute to fulfillment of their practical
vocation (para 5.05);
-    the project encourages flexibility and variety in the
experimentation and adoption of alternative ways of
achieving better farmer training (para 5.10);
-    finally, the project includes technical assistance for
establishing project monitoring systems to measure the
effectiveness with which project objectives are being
pursued and to suggest necessary adjustments (para 5.13(d)).
7.03      The studies and trials included in proposed project would also
prepare the way for future investment aimed at directly improving field
level operations of the extension service and thana level training (para 5.10).
These studies and trials are crucial. Without a viable plan for improvement
of field services and for revitalization of thana-level training, the benefits
of the first phase of institution building can be realized only in part.
1/   Report No. 389, April 5, 1974.



- 27 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with the government on
the following points:
(a)  extension staff qualifications; maintaining of the
National Committee on Rural Training and preparation
of a development plan for rural training institutions;
and review of staff selection, compensation and devel-
opment plans (para. 5.03);
(b)  Ministry of Agriculture participation in preparation
of in-service training programs at BAU (para. 5.04);
curriculum changes and requirements for farmland at
ATIs (para. 5.06); and work plans for in-service trainees
and assessment of training (para. 5.07);
(c)  review of annual research and training programs at BARD
(para. 5.11); preparation of plans on the extension
service and thana training (para. 5.10); and arrangements
for technical assistance (paras. 5.12 and 5.13); and
(d)  staffing of the PIU (para. 6.10); appointments of con-
sultant architects (para. 6.12); acquisition of sites
(para. 6.13); and establishment of revolving Taka fund
(para. 6.18).
8.02      In addition to the usual conditions, completion of the following
activities would be conditions of effectiveness of the Credit:
(a)  appointment of project director and architect (para.
6.10);
(b)  signing of a contract with the consultant architects
(para. 6.12); and
(c)  establishment of a revolving Taka fund (para. 6.18).
8.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
Credit of US$12.0 million equivalent to the Government of Bangladesh for
a term of 50 years including a ten year grace period.






APPENDIX 1
Page 1
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND THANA TRAINING
I.   ORGANIZATION OF AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION SERVICES
A.   General Extension Service
1.        The organization of the Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and
lanagement) commonly known as Directorate of Agricultural Extension, is
shown in Chart 9082. Rural administration is based on the following ter-
ritorial subdivisions and staff:
Central Government                                  Staff
Division (4)
District (19)               -  District Agricultural Officer (DAO)
Sub-division (62)           -  Subdivisional Agricultural Officer (SDAO)
Thana, approx. (415)        -  Thana Extension Officer (TEO), and 1/
Thana Agricultural Officer (TAO)
Union, approx. (4,200)      -  Union Agricultural Assistant (UAA) or
Village, approx. (65,000)        Village Extension Agent (VEA) 2/
The SDAO positiorn is to be discontinued and the need for extension staff at
division level is questionable.
2.        District.  Most DAOs hold B.Sc. or M.Sc degrees but their contact
with farmers is limited to occasional lectures at Thana Training and Devel-
opment Centers (TTDCs). The DAO is provided with a four-wheel drive vehicle
and accommodation. A Deputy Commissioner is in charge of district adminis-
tration.
3.        Subdivision.  The SDAO is generally a university graduate and some
function as assistant DAOs. The SDAO supervises the work of TAOs. The SDAO
draws the monthly salaries of the thana and sub-thana level agricultural
staff from the Treasury and distributes it to the thana offices, from where
it is collected by the UAAs.
4.        Thana.  There are now 56 TEOs and plans call for one TEO position
(to be filled with an agricultural university graduate) in each thana, which
1/   During the First Five Year Plan the following staffing changes in the ex-
tension office will take place: (a) Village Extension Agents (VEAs),
will replace UAAs, and (b) Thana Agriculture Officers (TAOs) will be
supplemented by Thana Extension Officers (TEOs) who will be university
graduates.
2/   There are not sufficient VEAs to provide for one in each village.



APPENDIX 1
Page 2
will considerably strengthen the organization. The agricultural expertise
in the remaining thanas is represented by a TAO who has usually been re-
cruited from among the UAA cadre cmd whose educational background and expe-
rience is insufficient for this key extension position.
5.        The average TAO is in charge of 10 UAAs, in an area of 342 km2
and with a population of 182,000 in 200 villages. Occasionally he is pro-
vided accommodation at the 'ITDC but not with a means of transport and his
travel allocation is insufficient.  For example, the TAO in the Mymensingh
Kotwali Thana can spend only Tk 2fC annually on travel.  Guidance and super-
vision are therefore difficult anc TAOs usually spend most of their time in
the office, preparing various reports. An important part of the TAO's duties
is participation in TTDC instruction but his influence over the curriculum,
developed by the Project Officer cf the Integrated Rural Development Pro-
gram (IRDP), is generally minimal.
6.        About 100 thanas have assistant TAO positions.  The assistant TAO
has the same background and, until July 1974, had been in the same salary
category as the TAO. In the past there was no promotion prospects at
all for TAOs. With the creation of TEO positions, there will be some oppor-
tunities for TAOs to be promoted.
7.        Union.  In a sample survey of UAAs 1/ the majority (58%) were matri-
culates with some in-service training, 30% were of lower educational standard
and 12% above matriculate standard.. The sample is likely to be representa-
tive.  There are, at present, 4,153 UAAs.  This means a ratio of 1 UEA/5,000
acres or 1 UEA/2,000 farm families. The UAA has no means of transport, and
he receives no travel allowance for travel within five miles of his area of
posting. He must find his own housing, frequently difficult in rural
Bangladesh, and many UAAs have unsatisfactory housing arrangements. The
sample survey found that 51% of the UAAs were married but living alone,
their families being left behind in their home areas for lack of accommoda-
tion. About 7% were bachelors, 202% lived with their families in the union
but away from their home areas, ancl 22% attended office from their home
farms. A considerable number (33%) had to find their lodging with farmers.
Few UAAs have an office of their own, or facilities for entertaining visiting
farmers.
8.        The UAA is expected to be the jack-of-all-trades at the sub-thana
level. Although, formally, he reports to the TAO. he is frequently requested
by other thana level officers to assist them with various time-consuming
tasks. His job description is vague: he "motivates" the farmers and "assists"
them, he "plans", "organizes" and "coordinates". His job seems to be reduced
i/   Golam Rasul:  "Relationship of Cercain Personal and Psychological
Characteristics of the Union Assistants with their Job Performance".
Thesis for M.Sc. (Extension Education), Bangladesh Agricultural
University, Mymensingh, March 1974.



APPENDIX 1
Page 3
to talking, except for the UAA who lives with an influential farmer. The
latter group tends to be more involved in practical farming, but for the ben-
efit of the landlord; however, this can hardly be called extension work. Most
of his time in the field is spent on assistance to block farmers and model
farmers of the Accelerated Rice Production Program (ARPP), and to co-opera-
tive societies' model farmers. Activities outside these groups are appar-
ently very limited. The number of farmers reached is, by all standards, low.
9.        As of July 1, 1974 the UAAs were given a starting salary of Tk 220
per month. in addition to fringe benefits amounting to Tk 55 in the country-
side, Tk 80 at thana headquarters. This considerably improves the situation
but does not solve the problem of finding accommodation. The practice of
paying a higher housing allowance to people living in towns is unfortunate
in view of the hardships experienced in villages.
B.   Jute Extension Services
10.       Since 1971, and parallel with the general extension service, a set
of specialized extension workers has developed for jute production. Origi-
nated from the progressive jute farmer concept, this is one example of the
confusion between the Comilla concept and regular extension service, and has
resulted in farmers trained under the Intensive Jute Production Scheme at
TTDCs now being employed as full-time government extension workers.
11.       The Assistant Directors of Agriculture (Jute Production) are in
charge of zones, which only partly coincide with administrative districts,
and in which jute growers are organized into blocks of 200 acres of jute.
The blocks receive intensive extension services and input supply.
12.       Jute Extension Officers (JEOs) rank as SDAOs (Jute Production),
although they are only AETI diploma holders. One subdivision may have
several SDAOs (JP), each in charge of only 10 blocks. There are a total
of 132 SDAOs (JP), as compared to 84 SDAO's for general extension in the
whole country.
13,       At field level there are 1,428 Jute Extension Assistants (JEAs),
each in charge of one jute block. In theory, the educational status of the
JEA is Intermediate of Science (matriculation and two years of science) but
many are matriculates with some experience from the Intensive Jute Produc-
tion Scheme. JEO and JEA salaries are equivalent to those of their counter-
parts in the general extension service.
14.       Since the creation of the Jute Ministry thie organizational
headquarters of the jute extension service is nebulous. The provision of
jute seed is currently the responsibility of the jute extension service,
and this is part of its justification as a separate service. Consideration
should be given as to whether there is a case for a separate jute seed
supply system, and whether the regular seed supply channels would be better
equipped to handle this task. In addition, the advantages and disadvantages
of having a separate e-xtension service for jute should be considered.



APPENDIX 1
Page 4
C.   Plant Protection Service
15.       The plant protection service is a separate wing of the Directorate
of Agriculture (Extension and Management). Plant protection officers and
assistants work at both the district and thana levels. A stock of sprayers
and pesticides is kept at the thana office and distributed as needed. Sprayer
mechanics repair and overhaul the sprayers and mukaddams (plant protection
workers) distribute sprayers and pesticides to farmers, instruct them in
pesticide application and, to some extent, do the actual field work. Their
task is strictly limited to plant protection work, although they are employed
on a year-round basis. The total establishment is 1,400 mukaddams, of which
400 are assigned to the ARPP. The mukaddams are placed in Grade IX, starting
salary Tk 145 per month.
16.       Until recently pesticides and plant protection equipment have
been provided to farmers without charge. The Government has now decided to
sell them at subsidized prices. This change of policy will do away with the
need for a large Plant Protection Organization as at present. The supply
of plant protection equipment could be handed over to a commercial organiza-
tion, such as BAISSC. The Plant Protection Organization will continue to
provide subject matter expertise and organize aerial spraying as required
to combat epidemic outbreaks of plant pests. It will establish mobile district
pest scouting teams. The teams will monitor plant pests and disease build-
ings so that the general extension services can advise farmers to take con-
trol measures at the beginning of a pest outbreak. It will also provide
thana graduate plant protection offices to advise the general extension
staff on pest control measures.
D.   Related Services
17.       In addition to the staff mentioned above, several people at thana
level have duties related to those of the extension service. Most relevant
in this context are:
-    The Circle Officer (Development) in the Directorate of
Local Government, who is in charge of thana staff, and
supervises TTDC training to a varying extent.
-    The Project Officer (IRDP), who is responsible for the
day-to-day operation of the TTDC and the organization
of IRDP co-operatives. His influence over TTDC activities
varies from practically nil to a complete monopoly.
-    The Registrar of Co-operatives (Ministry of Local Govern-
ment, Rural Development and Cooperation, who supervises
the management and auditing of co-operatives.



APPENDIX 1
Page 5
-    The Fertilizer Inspector (BAISSC) who supervises the
procurement, distribution, storage, and sale of fer-
tilizers.
-    The Seed Development Inspector (BAISSC), who supervises
the procurement, distribution, storage and sale of seeds.
-    The Irrigation Officer (BAISSC), who organizes pump groups,
distribution, operation, collection and maintenance of
low-lift pumps and collection of pump rents.
-    The Sectional Officer Tubewells (BAISSC), who plans and
organizes co-operative tubewell schemes (the physical
execution is made by contractors) and collects rents.
-    The Livestock Officer (Ministry of Forestry, Fisheries
and Livestock), who is in charge of veterinary services
and supervises the Livestock Assistants. He does some
extension work on feed production, feeding and management.
-    The Fisheries Officer (Ministry of Forestry), Fisheries
and Livestock, who instructs farmers on technical aspects
of fishery.
In addition, many thanas have Soil Fertility Assistants who are part of the
research organization (Ministry of Agriculture: Directorate of Research and
Education) and report to the District Soil Fertility Officer; they conduct
soil fertility trials on farmers' fields. Although their work is very
closely related to extension activities, there is no formal link to the
thana agricultural office.
II. THANA TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT CENTERS - IRDP
A.  Facilities and Training
18.       In some 250 thanas (or 60% of all thanas), Thana Training and De-
velopment Centers (TTDC) provide offices and accomodation for thana level
staff, and a hall for farmer training, in accordance with the Comilla model.
Some thanas also have a workshop adjacent to the TTDC for irrigation pumps.
The TTDC usually includes a tract of land which may be utilized for farmlag,
but it is frequently too small for training purposes. However, the office
and residential facilities are usually insufficient for the needs of the 15
to 20 thana staff and most staff complaints concern the absence of accommo-
dation. On the other hand, the training hall is sometimes used only as a
godown for fertilizer, seeds, tubes and various tools. Training material
frequently consists of no more than a blackboard and many TTDC8 have no
chairs or benches for the trainees. TTDC utilization in terms of days per
week, varies between 0 and 25%.



APPENDIX 1
Page 6
19.       Training at the TTDC consists largely of lectures.  TTDC instruc-
tors are thana level officers (mostly the agricultural, irrigation, plant
protection, and IRDP project officers). Sometimes district level officers,
research staff and, occasionally, outside instructors are engaged as lec-
turers. Frequently, the lectures become somewhat standardized and of little
value to the participants. There is no curriculum or annual training plan.
Field demonstrations are minimal because:
-    Suitable land is not available;
-    Growth stage demonstration fields are not laid
out and demonstration material is therefore only
available during limited periods;
-    Farmer group sizes of up to 150 to 200 preclude
effective instruction, demonstration or personal
contact with the lecturer (such groups are not
unusual and are called in to expedite training); and
-    The instructors' lack of practical training in
demonstration methodology and experience in field
demonstrations.
20.       Those receiving TTDC training are model farmers, co-operative
societies' chairmen, TIP pump groups and in some thanas also pump oper-
ators and tubewell attendants. But this is essentially a privileged elite.
Depending on their group, they are paid a daily stipend of between Tk 3 and
8 for their attendance. As TTDCs provide no housing facilities for train-
ees farmers walk to the thana headquarters from their homes, normally once
a week, attend classes of three hours' duration during which three speeches
are delivered, collect their stipend, and walk back home on the same day.
B.  Merits and Problems
21.       The TTDC approach for farmer training has merits in densely
populated countries like Bangladesh, where the center is located within
two to three hours' walking distance from most farms. Even though the
technical standard of the thana staff may be low, the pooled competence
of a large number of thana specialists should ensure a significantly
higher standard of training than the UAA can provide. The investment
cost for high quality demonstration and training material could be kept
on a reasonable level, although so far very little material has been used.
Development of relevant curricula for TTDCs is badly needed, and USAID has
initiated some studies through its Curriculum Development Cell, which is
still at an early stage of development. Particularly at the motivation
stage, the TTDC seems to be an effective vehicle for making the farmers
aware of possible improvements, and although a proper evaluation is diffi-
cult, it seems likely that TTDC training had a major share in the recent
breakthrough of high-yielding varieties.



APPENDIX 1
Page 7
22.       However, in addition to the problems mentioned above, the TTDC
approach has weaknesses in its concept and execution.
-    It has been proposed that qualified research
workers and other staff be involved in the TTDC
training. Implementation of such a proposal is
unworkable on a large scale, since such staff
is in short supply.
-    The system is expensive.  In the Laksam thana
Comilla district, an ARPP model farmer group was
trained in three phases of three days each. The
group size was 142 farmers during all nine days
(a remarkable fact in itself), and at Tk 4 per
farmer and day, a total of Tk 568 per day was
handed out. This amount would go far to support
a team of regular extension workers to service
more reasonable sized groups.
23.       A major problem is the role of IRDP vs. that of the Directorate
of Agriculture (Extension and Management) and the reason for it is the
government's failure to define the roles of TTDC training and regular
extension, both of which perform more or less the same functions. The
duplication of activities may be justified as long as the extension service
remains poorly trained and ineffective. As the effectiveness of the ex-
tension service is improved, greater coordination between extension and TTDC
activities should be instituted.
24.       To justify the existence and expansion of TTDC activities, IRDP
maintains that the ultimate link for conveyance of information on innova-
tions to farmers should be a village extension worker selected by, respon-
sible to, and paid by the village co-operative, and trained continuously
at the TTDC. This idea seems to make sense when the innovations to be
introduced are uncomplicated and within easy reach of all farmers. But,
at a later stage, TTDC training will be insufficient to keep the village
level worker ahead of his fellow-farmers. He will then require substan-
tial formal retraining, which the co-operatives are not likely to be will-
ing to finance. At that stage, there is a serious risk that unqualified
extension workers will continue to be recruited and add to the burden of
the Directorate, as in the present case with the JEAs.
C.   The Future
25.       The government plans to establish TTDCs in the remaining thanas
and expand the centers already established to contain a pump workshop and
TCCA storage facilities. All these facilities are needed, with some reser-
vations as to the assembly hall. Provided that the construction is made
considerably less solid and expensive than in the existing centers, an
assembly hall with a capacity of 100 persons is justified at the thana



APPENDIX 1
Page 8
level for various kinds of meetings including training. It must be visual-
ized that TTDC training will have a key role to play for a considerable
period of time to come.
III. GOVERNENT PLANS
26.       The First Five Year Plan (1973-78) gives little Impression that
the confusion as to the roles of various agencies in the development effort
will be resolved. It agrees to a number of serious weaknesses in the ex-
tension service and states that it will not be possible to remedy them
within the plan period because the teraining capacity is inadequate and in
need of rehabilitation. It stresses the need for skilful extension but the
ways and means recommended to achievre the objective are not spelled out. No
great expectations are placed on the VEAs to be created, as no distinction
is made between model farmers and VEAs when training needs are discussed.
A.   Expansion
27.       The Plan envisages 7,500 VEAs to be deployed by 1977/78 (in addi-
tion to the existing UAAs, for the moment 4,150) but does not indicate how
they will be produced. In fact, provided that the VEAs to be recruited
are to have completed AETI/ATI training, the number that could be added
during the Plan period can hardly exceed 1,000. Consequently, an indica-
tion that the formal requirement of completed AETI/ATI training will probably
be waived is given in a statement that progressive jute farmers and UAAs will
be retrained as VEAs, or phased out. At present, there is a provision for
2,250 jute extension assistants, of which 1,428 have been hired.
B.  Coverage
28.       A difference in coverage is envisaged between the area of concen-
tration (rice and jute) and the rest of the country. Outside the area of
concentration, the UAAs will be retained and cover a wider area. The target
number of VEAs is largely a matter of opinion. The Government suggests a
ratio of one VEA per 1,000 cropped acres in area of concentration and one
per 2,000 cropped acres outside this area. The latter figure, recalculated
in terms of farm families per VEA means approximately one VEA per 730 fami-
lies. Even this ratio is too ambitious and in view of available resources,
one VEA per 1,000 farm families would seem a more realistic long-term target.
29.       In an extension system relying on model farmers, a ratio of one
extension agent to ten model farmers is desirable, and this would mean one
model farmer per 100 farm families, which seems reasonable. Assuming some
11 million farm families at the end of the next decade, the target number
of VEAs will be 11,000 by 1990. This is perhaps too ambitious a target in
view of the capacity of the training institutions. A somewhat slower expan-
sion rate is preferable to an indiscriminate posting of badly trained people.



APPENDIX 1
Page 9
C.   Co-ordination
30.       Posting agricultural graduates as TEOs to replace TAOs seems
justified, although the present quality of graduates needs upgrading. They
will obviously have to be given a thorough briefing on extension methodology
and practical aspects of farming before posting, to be followed by an ade-
quate in-service training.
31.       Having the TEO coordinate the agricultural development team at
thana level seems logical and would be a great step forward. Irrespective
of who is charged with the task, there must be clearly defined lines of
command to resolve the present confusion.
32.       The fate of the present TAOs once TEOs have been appointed seems
somewhat unclear. The proposal to retrain some of them and post them as
TEOs is commendable, provided that only competent people are selected. It
is inconsistent with the government's policy to discharge civil servants
without good cause, and they would have to be posted somewhere in the or-
ganization. After retraining, they should be posted as assistants to the
TEO, whose increased workload will justify their continued services.
D.   VEA Training
33.       Based on present capacity for supervising extension staff, adher-
ing to the original "sandwich" plan for VEA training may lead to failure.
The revised plan, i.e. five months' theoretical training at ATIs and seven
months' practice, may not be feasible for the same reason. Practical train-
ing without proper supervision has little value, but even as the quality of
the theoretical training must be considerably improved, the quality of the
practical training to be introduced must be a major concern. Some of it
will have to be taken care of by special instructors at the ATIs, and
whatever training will be given outside ATIs will have to be well super-
vised.
IV. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR IMPROVEMENT OF FARMER TRAINING
34.       The present field service of the extension organization is in-
effective. The following steps should be considered for improvement:
A.   Organization
(a) An exclusion of redundant tiers would speed the flow of instruc-
tions and information from the Directorate to the field and vice versa. The
abolition of the SDAOs has already been decided, and the need for staff at
the divisional level should be reconsidered.
(b) Proper training and appointment of TEOs as soon as possible. The
TAO should remain in his position but should be subject to the TEO.



APPENDIX 1
Page 10
(c) Clarification of the responsibility for all extension services
at thana level including TTDC activities.
(d) Possible discontinuation of the Jute Extension Service and other
agricultural extension schemes as; separate entities and their integration with
the Agricultural extension service. This could be done as soon as the
necessary administrative capacity is at hand, i.e. upon appointment of TEOs.
The provision of jute seed could be handled by BAISSC (Appendix 1, para 14).
(e) A closer co-ordination of the Plant Protection Service with the
extension service. The TEO should be the administrative supervisor of the
Plant Protection Assistant and a corresponding reorganization should apply
on the district level. The plant protection wing of the ministry should
serve as an advisory body on technical matters and organize aerial spraying
program only. Consideration should be given to phasing out and integrating
gradually the plant protection field service with the extension service.
B.   Staff Training
(a) Implementation of proposed reorganization and strengthening of
AETIs and pre-service training program.
(b) Implementation of intensive in-service training program. In view
of numerous deficiencies in the present pre-service training, upgrading of
existing staff should receive high priority.
(c) Intensive recurrent in-service training program conducted by re-
search institutes and in-service training institutes when created. The
program should be sequential and aim at a gradual transformation of the
extension service into a multi-purpose extension service.
(d) Recruitment must be limited to people with adequate qualifications.
The present emphasis on quantity must yield to a quality-oriented approach.
C.   Work Planning
(a) The roles of the TTDC vs. village extension should be sorted out.
The UAA/VEA supported by thana level subject matter specialists could take
care of all agricultural extension work within their areas as far as their
competence is sufficient. Where more qualified instructors or training/
demonstration aids not available all the village level are required, the
TTDC could be utilized. Thus, the roles of the TTDC and village extension
should be regarded as complementary, not competitive.
(b) Realistic job descriptions to serve as guidelines for the employee
should be prepared for all positions and handed over to the employee upon
recruitment. A job description can serve as a useful tool in supervision
and evaluation of staff performance! and obviate confusion as to the demarca-
tion of duties.



APPENDIX 1
Page 11
D.    Guidance and Supervision
(a) The present emphasis on supervision can be changed to a more de-
velopment-oriented guidance as the quality of the staff improves. The need
for supervision is inversely proportional to the quality of the staff.
(b) Supervision should be effected through personal contacts, not
through reports. Report writing should be reduced to facts in urgent need
of documentation.
E.   External Factors
(a) Tasks irrelevant to agricultural extension such as food procure-
ment should be discontinued. If not, scarce manpower will continue to be
inefficiently utilized. The possibilities of involving the local population
in some activities merit further consideration.
(b) Facilities should be created for staff dealing with extension,
credit and input supply and related services to work as a team, each with
well defined tasks, at the village level as well as on higher levels.
Again, detailed job descriptions and a supervision and evaluation based
on the job description would be useful tools.
F.   Extension Methods and Aids
(a) The model farmer system should be retained. Gradually, the UAA/
VEA should take an increased part in the training of model farmers,
(b) Each UAA/VEA should attend to about 10 model farmers who should
be intensively trained in the field.
(c) Great care must be taken that the model farmers receive no undue
favors. A rotational system should be applied so that they are exchanged
every two to three years.
(d) At least one field day per model farmer should be conducted every
year by the UAA/VEA, assisted by the model farmer.
(e) Every extension agent should have access to:
-    An innovation package, i.e. recommendations, including book-
lets, pamphlets, and posters, on a combination of improved husbandry and
inputs, adapted to various zones of the country. The package should be
supplied by the concerned research institute (later, by the Central Exten-
sion Resources Institute).
-    Tools and implements for demonstrations and maintenance of
demonstration fields.



APPENDIX I
Page 12
-    Seeds, fertilizers, pesticides (alternatively a package of
inputs for a standard size demonstration field to be supplied by the con-
cerned research institute), and plant protection equipment.
-    Stationery training aids and a minimum of office equipment.
G. Incentive
(a) An increased salary level is not a sufficient incentive for ex-
tension workers to improve their performance. Additional factors are:
-    Promotion prospects:  Within the proposed structure the fol-
lowing promotion opportunities should be kept open:
UAA/VEA to TAO
TAO to TEO
TEO to DAO
-    Incentive pay: As has been indicated earlier, no simple
objective evaluation system for extension work is available. The evalua-
tion needed to establish a basis for an incentive pay system would have to
be based largely on subjective criteria. The matter is important and merits
further consideration.
-    Status:  A complex concept with many elements; salary is one,
acceptance as a skilled farmer (training) another important element. Provi-
sion of a bicycle would contribute, and so would an office and an improved
housing situation, permitting the IJAA/VEA to live with his family.
H. Thana Level Training
(a) The TTDC should intensify its efforts to motivate farmers and to
provide specialized training not feasible at sub-thana level. The respective
roles of the Project Officer, IRDP and the TEO (or, where none appointed, the
TAO) must be defined so that the responsibility for most agricultural exten-
sion activities in future will rest with the TEO.
(b) As soon as facilities are available for a meaningful in-service
training, all thana officers to be involved in TTDC training should receive
in-service training on methods of instruction.
(c)  Thana Training Units (TTUs) should be created in 15 thanas
adjacent to the district headquarters, and residential training embarked
upon as outlined. Groups to be trained and curricula would, to a certain
extent, have to be differentiated as per local needs.
(d)  Curriculum development for TTDC/TTU must be expedited so that
these institutions can purposefully utilize available resources and man-
power. Adequate training aids must be provided to enable TTDC/TTU to
give meaningful, practical training.



APPENDIX 1
Page 13
I.   Sub-thana Level Extension Service
(a) All agricultural extension that could feasibly be conducted at
sub-thana level should be located there. The nearness of the extension
worker to the farmer is more important than an expedient supervision.
(b) Agricultural development must be addressed through a package of
services. Detailed job descriptions clearly demarcating the roles of the
respective staff, followed up through supervision and evaluation, should be
an effective means to improve the situation; so would an incentive pay
system based on the performance of the team, not of the individual.



APPENDIX 2
Page 1
THE RURAL TRAINING SYSTEM
Professional Level Training Institutions
1.        The Bangladesh Agricultural University (BAU) was established in
1961 at Mymensingh with the Veterinary and Animal Husbandry College as its
nucleus. Initially conceived as an autonomous institution, BAU now comes
under the financial control of the Ministry of Education. The University
employs about 250 teaching staff, the majority (66%) foreign trained and
about a third with Ph.D. degrees. It offers bachelor and masters degree
programs and enrolls about 2,800 students, with an annual intake of about
525, in six faculties--agriculture (28%), veterinary science (24%), animal
husbandry (20%), agricultural economics and rural sociology (8%), agricul-
tural engineering and technology (12%) and fisheries (8%). There has been
a sharp increase in the annual output of graduates from 231 in 1971, to 614
in 1974, mainly due to the tripling of the graduates from veterinary science
and animal husbandry. The annual output of post-graduates from all faculties
is about 50.
2.        So far BAU graduates have readily found employment, mainly in
government departments, research/education establishments, BADC and tea/
sugarcane corporations. However, the relevance and quality of teaching at
BAU has been increasingly criticized, both by the ministries concerned with
agricultural development and by other employers.  The FFYP is also critical
of the out-of-date theoretical teaching unrelated to practical problems of
agricultural and rural development. Initially envisaged as a service-oriented
institution on the land grant college model, BAU has remained largely a teach-
ing institution. Due primarily to the lack of financial support from the
Government, BAU has remained isolated, resulting from the lack of involve-
ment of staff and students in the research and extension programs, (b) lacked
sustained leadership in recent years and (c) lacked clear definition of its
role in research and extension.
3.        BAU has received considerable external assistance from USAID and
IDA over the past ten years for the! development of physical facilities
(classrooms, laboratories, library, hostels and staff quarters), staff and
an instructional farm of 1,000 acres. In addition to the items covered
under ongoing IDA Credit 407-BD, BAU's development plan (1973-78) includes,
inter alia, (a) a 40% increase in the enrollment (without apparent relation
to manpower needs), (b) a new faculty of forestry (unrelated to the For-
esters' Training Institute, Chittagong) and (c) the establishment of an
Institute of Agricultural Extension and Agricultural Education. There is
need for a more pragmatic approach in BAU's future planning, including full
utilization of existing facilities and manpower.
4.        Bangladesh Agricultural College, Dacca, the oldest agricultural
institution in Bangladesh, is under the administrative control of the Min-
istry of Agriculture but, for academic matters, is affiliated with the



APPENDIX 2
Page 2
Agricultural University, Mymensingh. It currently prepares students for
the bachelor and masters degree programs in agriculture. With an annual
intake of about 150, the annual enrollment is about 500 in degree and
about 45 in postgraduate classes. There are 40 teachers on the staff,
including six professors. Students are admitted both after matriculation
(10 grade) and High School Certificate (12 grade) for a five and four-year
course, respectively. The College has suffered from a number of handicaps:
-    inadequate financial support.  Laboratories and
workshops lack equipment and chemicals and library
additions of journals and books are nominal;
-    the College is surrounded by an urban area and the
College farm, except for 35 acres left between
buildings, has all been taken away for the new
capital;
-    no livestock are maintained for teaching purposes;
-    the College has no tractor or tiller, only three
pairs of bullocks.
As a result, the quality of teaching has decreased and research is nominal.
An enrollment increase of about 40% is proposed, and the government has re-
cently decided to make the College a faculty of the Dacca University.
S.        Bangladesh Academy of Rural Development:  The Academy was estab-
lished in 1952, to train officers and senior staff of the Village AID Pro-
gram. The Ford Foundation and experts from Michigan State University assisted
in planning the Academy which was to emphasize research and the application
of social science to administrative problems and methods of rural develop-
ment. The basic concept was to bring about rural modernization by effecting
changes in the most important institutions in which the people organize their
activities, including:
-    the establishment of a new cooperative system;
-    the reorganization of local government to prepare
it for the needs of development; and
-    the creation of training institutions to meet
educational needs.
Administrative authority is vested in the Board of Governors and the Direc-
tor of the Academy. The Board is appointed by the Government from high-
ranking Ministry officers. There are now 38 teaching and research posi-
tions at the Academy.
6.        The following types of courses are now conducted at the Academy:



APPENDIX 2
Page 3
(a)  Pre-Service Training for IRDP Officers:  BARD is responsible
for the basic training of IRDP field staff, primarily of the
three officers who direct the IRDP program in IRDP thanas:
The Thana Project Officer (TPO) the Deputy Project Officer
(DPO) and the accountant. These TPO and DPO should receive
six months pre-service training at BARD; the accountant
three months. Because of time pressure and the shortage
of field staff, the basic course for TPO's and DPO's has
been reduced to four months.
(b) In-service Training for IRDP Officers: BARD organizes
in-service training for TPO's and DPO's and accountants
on a variety of specialized subjects, such as banking.
(c) Training of Thana Central Cooperative Association (TCCA)
Staff:  BARD assists in training TCCA officers; a four-
month course is designed for TCCA officers, who now number
about 1,000; specialized, shorter-term courses are also
offered.
(d) Training of TCCA Managing Personnel: Management training
at BARD for short periods (seven days); BARD also assists
in organizing such courses at the district level.
(e) Training of Thana Officers: BARD proposes to organize
short courses/seminars for groups of thana officers for
all ministries, for a period of three days, with 120
officers per group.
(f) Training of elected Local Government officers and staff:
BARD is responsible for organizing training at BARD itself,
at its institutes and at the local level, for the staff and
officers of elected bodies at the thana and union levels.
(g) Training of Managers of V:Lllage Societies and Model
Farmers: BARD has a general responsibility for over-
seeing the training organized for village society
managers and model farmers at the TTDC.
(h) Special courses for foreign participants (UN-AID-FAO, etc.).
Two kinds of research are undertaken, mostly in the experimental area:
Survey Research - economic and sociological surveys, and Action Research
through Pilot Projects.
Middle-Level Training
7.        The Agricultural Extension Training Institutes (AETIs).  Inter-
mediate level staff of the Directorate of Agriculture are trained at eight
Agricultural Extension Training Institutes (Gauripur, Sherpur, Tajhat,



APPENDIX 2
Page 4
Gaibandha, Natore, Daulatpur, Tejgaon and Sylhet). Altogether AETIs enroll
about 900 students after Grade 10 for a two-year pre-service training course
and produce about 400 diploma-holders a year. With an average enrollment of
125, AETIs are uneconomic institutions. Building facilities vary widely from
institution to institution: AETIs at Gauripur and Natore are housed in di-
lapidated buildings wholly unsuitable and inadequate. The AETI at Tejaon is
engulfed in the urban area of Dacca and has no farm land for practical work
or expansion. The AETI, Tajhat, requires extensive alterations/additions.
The AETI, Sylhet, was damaged in the war of 1971 and is under repair. AETI
buildings at Sherpur, Gaibandha and Daulatpur require repairs and expansion.
AETIs are crowded and none has adequate equipment or books. Two AETIs,
Tejagon and Gauripur, have farms below one ha each; four others have less
than six ha each and only two, Daulatpur and Gaibandha, have 14 ha each.
The AETI teaching staff consists of a principal, six graduate instructors
and five diploma-level instructors. The majority of the staff are poorly
trained and underpaid. With effect from April 1974, the two-year curriculum
was changed to three years, with five months of institutional teaching and
seven months of practical field extension work each year. Earlier the
courses on animal husbandry and fisheries had been dropped and only one-
third of the curriculum was devoted to practical training (684 periods) com-
pared to 1,260 periods for theory.
8.        The Cooperative College and the Zonal Cooperative Training
Institutes. The Cooperative Directorate runs one Cooperative College at
Comilla and eight zonal training institutes. The college has a training
capacity of 72 and the eight institutes have total capacity of 425. The
institutes work under the administrative control of the college which draws
up their annual training program, revises the syllabus and updates teach-
ers' guide-notes in consultation with them. The college conducts two basic
courses, one for inspectors of the Cooperative Directorate for six months
and another for assistant inspectors for four months, in addition to a num-
ber of special and refresher courses for employees and office bearers of
various cooperative societies. The zonal institutes provide only short
orientation courses. During the last three years the following courses
were held:
Cooperative College:
Year           Planned                   Actual           Percentage of
(No. of trainees)         (No. of trainees)   (3) to (4)
(1)            (2)                      (3)                  (4)
1970-71        462                        419                  91
1971-72        537                        440                  82
1972-73        584                        615             (exceeded program)
Zonal Training Institutes:
1970-71      4,697                      2,506                  53
1971-72      4,729                      2,082                  44
1972-73      5,029                      2,564                  51



APPENDIX 2
Page 5
9.        The number of trainees at the college varies from year to year,
depending on the periods of courses arranged for the year. The training
capacity in the college is more cr less fully utilized. For 1973-74 the
college received requests for the training of about 4,600 persons of which
1,207 were staff of Cooperative Directorate, IRDP, and TCCA's; the remaining
were office-holders and members of cooperative societies. However, it could
include only about 520 persons in its program. The zonal training insti-
tutes, on the other hand, remain largely underutilized. The reasons for
such underutilization are:
-    Inability of some societies to depute their paid
employees due to lack of financial resources;
-    Reluctance of many societies/organizations to send
their members due to inadequate training and residential
facilities; and,
-    inadequacy of subsistence allowances paid to trainees.
10.       Besides the principal and vice-principal, the college has a teach-
ing staff of seven. Staff members, with two exceptions, are seconded from
the Cooperative Directorate. Two posts are earmarked for direct recruits,
who handle banking, accounts and rural economics subjects. Average weekly
teaching hours per teacher is about ten. Each zonal institute has one prin-
cipal and three teachers, all of whom are deputed from the Directorate. The
principal has the rank of Assistant Registrar and teachers that of Inspector.
Posting of officers to the teaching institutions is made by the Directorate
in a routine manner. A selection system based on aptitude and capability
is necessary and if suitable candidates are not available in the Directorate,
posts should be filled by outside recruitment. The present pay of teachers
is inadequate.
11.       The Rural Development Training Institute (RDTI), was established
near Sylhet in 1963, replacing the National Development Training Institute.
Its principle function was to train local government staff and circle offi-
cers (Development). In March 1974, RDTI was merged with the adjacent Tech-
nical Training Pilot Project (established to train technical personnel for
the Rural Works Program). The campus of the two institutions, which was
damaged during the war, was divided between RDTI and a newly created AETI.
RDTI is administered by IRDP and has begun to organize training programs
for TCCA and IRDP staff and for Rural Works Program personnel. IRDP pro-
poses to develop RDTI so that it will eventually be a Regional Academy of
Rural Development, with sections devoted respectively to technical training,
rural development training (IRDP and TCCA staff and local government staff),
and research and evaluation.
12.       BAISSC Staff Training Institute, Madhupur (Mymensingh).  This Insti-
tute is located on a 500-acre Seed Production Farm of BAISSC at Madhupur, 28
miles from Mymensingh. Started in 1970, it has offered a variety of courses
(4-90 days duration) for BAISSC staff, officers and subordinates, in (a) ad-
ministration and financial management and (b) technical subjects--seed



APPENDIX 2
Page 6
technology, fertilizers, irrigation agronomy, pump repairs and maintenance
and horticulture. At present, out of 12 teaching staff provided, only the
principal and one instructor are in position, and all other posts are vacant.
The Institute has good accommodation, but there is little equipment and no
transport. Very limited training has been held at the Institute since inde-
pendence.



APPENDIX 3
Page 1
STAFF TRAINING REQUIREMENTS FOR RURAL INSTITUTIONS
Background
1.        Manpower planning has not been developed in Bangladesh, and to date
no comprehensive or systematic surveys of manpower requirements have been
undertaken.1/ Data on the actual situation are poor and projections
of manpower requirements suffer from the lack of an overall context for
planning of future development. The government plans to undertake a study
of manpower needs and a Division of the Planning Commission is exploring the
possibility of instituting a system for collection of data and comprehensive
planning.
2.        There is a critical shortage of technically trained manpower to
carry out the rural development programmes envisaged for the short-term
(the First Five Year Plan) and beyond. The major constraint is training -
both the output of formal training institutions and programs, and the
"non-formal" training of the farmers and skilled workers who are essential
to the success of any development scheme. The requirements for trained
manpower when approached in a formal, numerical sense, are substantial,
and an effort to amalgamate the stated training needs and plans for staff
expansion and training for rural institutions gives results that are far
beyond the capacity of the economy to undertake at this time. The problem
is therefore to relate the demandS for skilled manpower to the capacity of
existing institutions of training, and to an expansion that is within the
means of the country, both financially and administratively. The limiting
factors are the capacity of the current system to expand and adapt its
programs to contemporary needs and the capacity of the economy to pay the
costs of training, and to absorb staff. Projections of training requirements
must recognize these constraints and must focus not on immediate needs or
numerous unrelated crash programs but on the long-term needs of supplying
on a continuing basis the trained personnel required for rural development.
Staff Requirements and Training Needs of Rural Institutions
3.        The projections of staff requirements and training needs of the
key government departments and agencies with responsibilities in the field
of rural development are summarized below. These include plans for re-
cruitment of additional staff, for special training programs and for in-
service training.
1/   The UNDP recently agreed to finance through ILO the preparation of a
plan for a survey of the needs for, and the development of, industrial
manpower in Bangladesh.



APPENDIX 3
Page 2
4.        Ministry of Agriculture:  The Ministry of Agriculture projects
large increases in its field staff during the next five years. This ex-
pansion is associated with four related programs; (a) the scheme to extend
the extension service to village level, with 7,500 Village Extension Agents
by 1977-78, and 16,000 by 1985; (b) upgrading of Thana Agricultural Offi-
cers to the position of Thana Extension Officer; TEOs would be graduates to
ensure higher technical competence, and therefore approximately 400 addi-
tional agricultural graduates will be required by 1977-78; (c) a reorgani-
zation and expansion of plant protection services at field level; specialized
training, primarily at field level would be given to UAAs or to the 1,000
existing crop sprayer operators; and (d) a program to strengthen extension
work for specific crops, notably jute. The FFYP envisages the appointment
of additional jute staff at the thana and district level, who would receive
training at the Jute Research Institute.
5.        Though a significant demand for graduate personnel is anticipated,
particularly for the Ministry's field services, the projected expansion of
the Agricultural University should provide an adequate number of graduates
to build up the staff gradually. At the senior level, there is, however,
an urgent need for in-service training, on a continuing basis, to ensure
that staff be kept up-to-date with the latest research techniques. There
is also a need for training graduate level staff in specialized fields
related to specific crops and campaigns. This training should be under-
taken by or in collaboration with agricultural research organizations in
Bangladesh or abroad.
6.        The most serious shortages of trained manpower for the next decade
are at the intermediate level, where a considerable expansion of field per-
sonnel is projected and where there is an urgent need to upgrade and retrain
large numbers of staff who are already in the field. The AETIs must be re-
organized, strengthened and expanded so that they can provide basic training
for intermediate level staff involved in all fields of agricultural develop-
ment, and so that they can offer continuous in-service training to middle-
level staff once they are in the field. In the long-term, the need for new
diploma-level technicians for the extension service can be estimated at about
800-1000 a year, which would provide for a gradual build-up of the extension
service to a level of 8300 by 1985 (Annex 9), and for replacements to the
service at a rate of about 5% a year.
7.        IRDP:  IRDP will need to recruit a large number of additional
staff, at headquarters but above all in the field in order to implement the
program envisaged in the FFYP. A major training program for present and
future IRDP personnel will also be essential. In addition, IRDP has as-
sumed responsibility for training the staff of the TCCAS, the managers of
village cooperative societies and model farmers. Between 1974-75 and 1977-
78, IRDP projections indicate that headquarters staff will increase by ap-
proximately 40 senior level positions (assistant director and above); the
greatest increase, however, is in field staff, where an additional nine
project directors and 17 deputy project officers will be required at district



APPENDIX 3
Page 3
level, and, at the thana level, 115 thana project officers, 113 Deputy Proj-
ect Officers and 100 accountants. The qualification for Thana Project Offi-
cer and above is a masters degree; DPO's and accountants are graduates. Staff
expansion will depend on the rate at which the IRDP is extended to new thanas.
However, there is already a serious backlog in training key personnel; new
officers receive pre-service training at the BARD, but the length of the
course has been reduced from six to four months because of pressure on the
Academy, which is burdened with a large number of other training programs.
8.        Under the IRDP program, 300 TCCA inspectors, 2,300 assistant
inspectors and 2,200 village accountants would require training (Annex 2).
These are recruited by the TCCAs, and are TCCA employees; there are about
three inspectors per thana and an assistant inspector for 10 primary socie-
ties. Most are matriculates and few have received any formal training. Some
courses have been held at the Academy. In future, training for TCCA staff
will be undertaken primarily in the Zonal Cooperative Training Institutes.
9.        Agricultural Credit Setrvices:  The rapid expansion of IRDP Coop-
eratives and the expected increa;se in the business of cooperative banks
and Bangladesh Krishi Bank will require a corresponding increase in staff
of the Cooperative Directorate and of the banks. Future training needs
and the proposed institutions where training is to be held are summarized
in Annex 2. Though training requirements ate great, the size of training
programs will be limited due to difficulties in releasing staff and finan-
cial constraints.
10.       There is no satisfactory arrangement at present for training
cooperative bank staff. Training is required at two levels, field officers
and managerial staff. Preliminary steps have been taken to set up a banking
training institution, the Bangladesh Institute of Bank Management (BIBM) under
the auspices of the Bangladesh Bank. Though primarily intended for training
middle and senior level personnel of commercial banks, it would also offer
training facilities to industrial and agricultural credit institutions.
The cooperative banks should be able to take advantage of this institution
to train their senior staff. As regards their field officers, arrangements
would be made under the project for their training at the Zonal Cooperative
Training Institutions.
11.       The Bangladesh Krishi Bank (BKB) is expanding its branch network
and staff. There are at present 498 untrained officers at middle level and
the Bank anticipates an increase of 750 staff positions at this level to
man its branch network. There is therefore a large short-term requirement
for training over the next five years. Although the Bank's training needs
are large, staff are often not available for training in the Bank's own
Training Institute, which is almost inactive and lacks facilities. The
flow of trainees is unlikely to increase significantly in the near future,
however, since the Bank is severely understaffed, and cannot release staff
for training for long periods in large numbers. It will take some time
before the Bank can bear the cost of a full-scale training program. In
the interim, middle level staff will be trained at the Zonal Cooperative



APPENDIX 3
Page 4
Institutes and senior staff at the Bangladesh Institute of Bank Management
while the Bank's training unit will conduct short orientation and refresher
courses for staff. Eventually the Training Institute of the BKB will have
to be strengthened.
12.       The Ministry of Forests, Fisheries and Livestock:  The Ministry
of Forests, Fisheries and Livestock was created shortly after independence
and the field staff of all three sectors of the Ministry is still rela-
tively limited. The Directorates all plan to build up their field staff
during the next five years, in conjunction with new programs for develop-
ment. The Ministry has as yet a very limited capacity for training its own
staff. The Fisheries Directorate projects its requirements for additional
staff during the Five-Year Plan period at 300 technical graduates (down to
the level of Thana Fisheries Officer), 265 diploma or certificate holders,
and 1,000 skilled personnel. The Forestry Department also anticipates a
significant staff expansion and plans to establish a new training institute
for its senior staff (who are now trained abroad) and specialized training
programs for forest workers. The training and manpower requirement of the
Forestry Directorate are somewhat specialized and, though the need for
training is substantial, it must be considered as a separate category in
the national system of rural development training.
13.       The Livestock Department is expanding its field operations rapidly,
and the projections indicate that they will require for the next ten years
50 new veterinarians a year, 40-45 animal husbandry graduates a year and
370 to 400 livestock assistants a year. The output of the Agricultural
University will be adequate to meet the requirements for higher level per-
sonnel; the most serious problem is for the intermediate level staff, the
livestock assistants who will work at field level. There is only one insti-
tute at present, which trains 50 assistants a year; the Ministry therefore
intends to expand this institute and establish two new Livestock Assistants
Institutes which would provide basic pre-service training for its livestock
field personnel.
14.       BAISSC:  The BAISSC is a major employer of skilled technical per-
sonnel at all levels in many fields of rural development, including general
agriculture, technical personnel, mechanics and engineers, agronomists, and
even veterinarians (on state farms). BAISSC projects a significant increase
in its total staff in the period up to 1977/78; BAISSC manpower requirements
by scheme up to 1977-78 are summarized below:



APPENDIX 3
Page 5
Scheme
Category      Fertilizer  Low-lift  Deep   Shallow  Seed        Seed     Agricultur-  Total
of staff                   pUMpS      Tube-  Tube-    Distri-  Pro-       al Estates
wel    well     bution   duction
High               -         10        30       1         6          1                   48
Middle Level   500          580       820     200       440        50        100      2690
Lower Level      70       14400    1600()     400       250        30         70     31220
BAISSC anticipates a significant expansion of its thana level operations for
fertilizer and seed distribution. Staff at this level have in the past been
recruited in large part from graduates of the AETIs and, though no precise
figure is available, BAISSC will probably require in the coming decade be-
tween 100 and 150 new diploma level staff a year.
15.       The largest training requirement in numerical terms during the
next five years is for training of mechanics, low-lift pump drivers and
tubewell operators. An UNDP/ILO project is currently under way which would
extend the network of zonal and thana workshops, which are used for training
operating and maintenance personnel: there are currently nine zonal and 104
thana workshops in operation, and 15 zonal workshops and 89 thana workshops
are under construction. However, there is a need for additional facilities
in many thanas for intensive training of mechanics, pump operators, and other
personnel for the small-scale irrigation programs.
16.       In-service training for BAISSC staff will be undertaken by the
Staff Training Institute at Madhupur, which will be expanded to permit it
to organize intensive courses for seed inspectors. Selected BAISSC staff at
senior levels should also receive specialized training at the Agricultural
Research Organizations. A scheme is under preparation to establish a new
Staff Training Institute but the role of this Institute has not been clari-
fied.
17.       Directorate of Local Government:  The Circle Officers (Develop-
ment) have in the past played a key role at the thana level; and, though
their role has been somewhat limited since liberation, they will continue
to exercise an important coordinating function among different government
services in future. The post of C.O. was created in 1962, and initially
matriculates were recruited for these positions in all thanas. Subse-
quently, higher qualifications were required; most C.O.s (Development) are
graduates and new recruits have a master's degree. The C.O. (Development)
is an official of the Directorate of Local Government, of the Ministry of
Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives; in the administrative
hierarchy he reports to the Deputy Commissioner at the district level.
Training has been inadequate and possibilities for promotion are few, since
the highest post a C.O. (Development) can aspire to is Deputy Commissioner.



APPENDIX 3
Page 6
Training for Circle Officers is now given at the Academy and the Local Gov-
ernment Institute. Since many C.O.s lack any training, and a large group
are close to retirement age, there will be a substantial need for pre-serv-
ice training in the next decade. Circle Officers must also receive in-serv-
ice training during their tenure; they will also attend training courses
organized for thana officers at the Academy.
18.       A Rural Works Supervisor and Deputy Supervisor are posted at each
thana (with an Assistant Supervisor also in some areas) for planning and
technical supervision of on-going rural works projects. When the program
was established, a large number of supervisors and deputy supervisors were
recruited; few had technical training or experience in engineering or civil
works. A Technical Training Pilot Project was therefore established at
Sylhet to give basic training and in-service training to field staff of
the Rural Works Program and a special course was organized. Supervisors
and deputy supervisors come to the TTPP for a six months course, then re-
turn to the-field for six months. This constituted the basic course. An
advanced course was also planned, which would entail three additional years
of training, with alternating six-month periods of training and six months
in the field. On completion of the full four years cycle (one year basic
+ three years advanced), the trainees would receive a diploma in. engineer-
ing. The course was organized in cooperation with the Directorate of Tech-
nical Education. The TTPP has now been merged with the RDTI and has begun
to function. Its activities had been curtailed by serious damage to facil-
ities sustained during the war.
19.       Local Government:  When representative local government is fully
revitalized, the training of staff of local government at all levels and
of elected members will place a heavy burden on the Ministry of Local Gov-
ernment, Rural Development and Cooperatives. The Ministry hopes to organize
some orientation and basic courses. This training should be concentrated at
the thana and district level, with courses at the national and regional ins-
titutions reserved for specialized programs and courses that cannot be or-
ganized at the local level.
20.       The following table, based on reduced rates of expansion to com-
pensate for financial constraints, reflects rural training requirements for
selected ministries in order to train untrained staff, fill existing vacan-
cies and allow for modest expansion (Annexes 2 and 3):



APPENDIX 3
Page 7
Rural Training Requirements
1974                   1974-80
Total
Total    Staff         Staff      Training  12
Category                  Staff  Untrained    Expansion  Requirement-
(1)l     (2)           (3)          (4)
Graduate Level
Agriculture (TEO/TAO)           400      0-            400          400
Local Government                400      250           150          400
IRDP                            330       50           350          400
Cooperative Directorate         690      100           100          200
Intermediate Level
Agriculture (UAA/VEA)         4,200      °/          1,400        5,600
IRDP                            140      0             140          140
TCCA                          1,880    1,300         4,600        5,900
Cooperative Directorate       1,500      700           400        1,100
Other Banks                   19000    1,000           800        1,800
/1   All have received training but require retraining.
/2   Training requirements = pre-assignment training for new staff
and in-service training for untrained staff, i.e., Col. (4) =
Cols. (2) + (3).
Source: Annexes 2 and 3.



APPENDIX 4
Page 1
FIELD AND FARMER LEVEL - STUDIES AND TRIAL PHASE
1.        The project would include two studies and trial developments which
would assist the government in preparing for a future project to strengthen
training programs at thana level and reorganize and improve field extension
services. The two studies would be treated separately, with primary respon-
sibility for their administration residing respectively with the Secretary
for Rural Development and Cooperatives and the Director of Agriculture
(Extension and Management). The National Committee on Rural Training es-
tablished in the Ministry of Planning would oversee the two studies, to
assure coordination between them, and to ensure that all concerned ministries
and agencies participate adequately in the program.
2.        Thana Training Units:  The objective of this study would be to
evaluate current thana level training programs, to try out on a pilot basis
new types of training facilities and programs and to prepare proposals for
a future project to assist the government in improving and broadening the
scope of general farmer training and skill training for rural development
programs at thana level. The details of the thana training study remain
to be worked out, but the program is likely to include the following:
(a) Studies and evaluation of existing training including:
farmer training offered by IRDP and the TIP program at
TTDCs, training of plant protection workers, cooperative
personnel, and pump and tubewell operators and mechanics.
The studies would provide information on what training
is now conducted, with numbers of trainees, length of
sessions, etc., and would evaluate its effectiveness.
(b) Trial Phase, involving the construction of additional
facilities at TTDCs in 15 thanas; the provision of a
simple hostel for 30 trainees should permit the govern-
ment to develop more intensive, longer term training
programs at thana level. The trial would also include
experimental training programs - for example, intensive
courses in rain-fed rice production for model farmers -
and seminars at thana level for research and ministry
personnel.
(c) Project Preparation: Detailed preparatory work to
assemble documentation for a project proposal.
3.        Field Extension Services:  The objective of this study would be
to study and evaluate current extension services at field level, to try
out different patterns of field organization and physical facilities, to
develop a plan for improving extension, and to prepare a future project
that would reorganize and strengthen field extension services. The studies
and trial phase would include the following elements:



APPENDIX 4
Page 2
(a) Studies:
(i) Data collection, assembling information on UAAs
and TAOs: age, size of union, length of services,
etc. and collection of data on union seed stores,
with a view to possible conversion to other uses;
by local consultants;
(ii) Survey - a sample survey on the effectiveness of
extension workers; in selected thanas, the study
would evaluate the work of extension workers and
supervisors, to determine how many farmers they
reach, what they teach, how much support they
receive, etc. The study would also assess other
extension activities, including cooperative work,
inputs, livestock and fisheries, etc., by local
consultants, with some external assistance;
(iii) Study of Terms of Service of the Extension Service -
including salaries, relative grades, opportunities
for promotion, etc.;
(b)  Trial Phase:  Developments in 15 thanas, in order to try out
different types of facilities and different modes of orga-
nization and supervision:
-    in five thanas - fifteen dispersed VEA
houses per thana. Whenever possible union
seed stores would be remodelled for use as
housing.
-    in five thanas - three substations per thana
consisting of four VEA houses, one senior VEA
house and one meeting room (aiming at one VEA
or UAA per 2,000 acres).
-    in five thanas - five substations per thana
consisting of two VEA houses, one senior VEA
house and one meeting room.
Two construction methods would be tried out, to evaluate
costs and the acceptability of low cost construction
techniques (including a combination of cement and clay
or jute plastic). In all thanas where trial developments
are undertaken, extension workers and supervisors would
be provided with transport and extension materials and,
to the maximum extent feasible, intensive in-service
training. It would also be desirable to try out schemes
of incentive pay, and to give some extension workers



APPENDIX 4
Page 3
additional specialized training in particular crops
where there are intensive development schemes. Given
the experience of CARE, Bangladesh in low-cost con-
struction techniques, and its capacity to act quickly,
CARE could serve as an effective agency for construction
of these houses and meeting halls.
(c) Strategy for Improving Field Extension Services: The
results of preliminary studies would be evaluated in two
years, and the government would prepare a plan for
strengthening field extension services. This plan
would address the problems of training, terms of service
(salaries and opportunities for promotion in particular)
field organization and supervision and the need for hous-
ing, transport, and materials. The plan would also indi-
cate the type of project that should be undertaken and
initiate its preparation.
(d) Project Preparation: This should include:
-    Identification of thanas for development;
-    Mapping of these thanas;
-    Recommendations on facilities, equipment
and transport to be provided; and
-    Procedures recommended for implementation.



APPENDIX 5
Page 1
TECHNICAI. ASSISTANCE
External Assistance to the Government of Bangladesh for Rural Training
1.        UNDP has an ongoing project (with FAO) to develop agricultural
extension; the focus of the project is teacher training for the AETIs, but
the objectives of the project encompass the entire agricultural extension
system. The technical assistance included in the UNDP project and in a
proposed second stage would provide essential support to the proposed IDA
project. UNDP/ILO is implementing a project for training lower-level
personnel involved in irrigation.
2.        USAID has provided considerable support for the IRDP and its
training program. USAID has supported the Comilla Academy and programs
based on that experience, notably the construction of TTDCs and the rural
works programs, and it is likely to continue to support a variety of rural
development programs, particularly those associated with the development of
institutions. USAID has also provided assistance for agricultural research,
including the development of the agricultural research complex at Joydebpur,
and is involved in the rural information field.
3.        Other bilateral donors:  The governments of the United Kingdom
(ODM), Sweden (SIDA) and Japan have provided assistance for rural training
institutions and programs. ODM and SIDA are involved primarily in the
cooperative field, while Japan has assisted agricultural extension work.
4.        Other Agencies:  Non-profit and voluntary agencies have been very
active in Bangladesh, and many have assisted the Government in the field of
rural training. In particular, the Ford Foundation has provided consider-
able support for the Comilla Academy, the International Voluntary Service
(IVS) has provided some assistance in the cooperative field, and CARE has
assisted IRDP and the Cooperative Department with low-cost construction re-
search and development and some technical assistance.
Technical Assistance
5.   A.   For ATIs:
(a) Specialists. Nine foreign specialists would be required
for a total of about 19 man-years (about 228 man-months).
The duration of their stay would vary from three months to
four years. A schedule covering the period 1976 to 1979
is attached (page 3). This technical assistance will be
met out of the provisions of the ongoing UNDP/FAO project for
strengthening the agricultural extension service and the
proposed assistance from the Government of Japan for the
Central Extension Resource Institute. The second phase
UNDP project currently pcovides for about 32 man-years of



APPENDIX 5
Page 2
specialist services. Technical assistance is a crucial input
for improving ATIs;
(b) Fellowships. Ten man-years of fellowships would be
provided under the IDA project for the ATIs in addition
to the five man-years of fellowships provided in the
UNDP/FAO (second phase) project in the fields of curriculum
development and specialized agricultural and communica-
tions subjects connected with extension services.
B.   Bogra Academy of Rural Development
Four man-years of expert services in "research design" and "rural
institutions" would be provided under the project.
C.   Bangladesh Agricultural University
About eight man-years of expert services and 10 man-years of fel-
lowships would be provided under IDA financing for strengthening the teaching,
research and extension training programs of BAU, including the establishment
of a high level committee of agricultural scientists to identify the role and
help prepare an institutional development plan of BAU.
D.   Coordination, Evaluation and Trial Studies
(a) two man-years of intermittent expert assistance
would be provided under the project to the National
Committee on Rural Training for planning rural
training systems.
(b) up to four man-years of expert assistance would
be provided under the project for monitoring and
evaluation of project activities, and
(c) up to three man-years of expert services would be
provided for coordinating the trial study to help
plan, conduct and coordinate the trial study on
evaluation of agricultural extension services and
thana level training programs and, on the basis of
such evaluation, to help formulate a comprehensive
plan for the improvement of extension services and
thana level training.
E.  Cooperative College and Zonal Cooperative Training Institutes
SIDA is considering a proposal from the government to provide
expert assistance in curricula development and teacher training.



TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR RURAL TRAINING-
(Indicative Schedule)
INSTITUTION                           Specialist2/                                                                      Duration          Possible
INSTITUTION  Specia1ist~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~! ~Duration                                                       Dorior
Consultant                   1976   ___ 1977           1978          197 9          (mm)            Agencies
A.  AGRICULTURAL                    1.  Curriculum                 x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x    x  x  x  x  x           48              UNDP
TRAINING INSTITUTES                 Development
Specialist
2.  Agronomy                  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x              48         UNDP and
Specialist                                                                                       Japanese Gov't.
3.  Farm                             x  xx   x                                            36         Japanese Gov't.
Implements
Specialist
4.  Extension                 x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x              48             UNDP
Methods
Specialist
5.  Audio-visual              x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x                    42             UNDP
Specialist
6.  Credit and                              x  x                                           6         Provided under
Cooperative                                                                                      BARD-BOGRA
Specialist
TOTAL                    12 12 15 15 18 18 15 15 151 15115 15 15 15 15 15           228
I                                                                   _                           -1   1  _  _  _  _    i,   I  I  s  - I  I   I              .1.
1/  To be provided by other external agencies.
2/  Short term (3 to 6 months each) experts for the ATIs in (a) Plant Protection, (b) Horticulture, and                                                         0lI
(c) Animal Science would be expected to be provided out of the "Unidentified" category of consultants
in the UNDP Project.



rECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR RURAL TRAINING
(Indicative Schedule)
Estimated
Consultants                                                      Duration       Cost
INSTITUTION           Specialists/Fellowships    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980        (mm)         (US$)                       Remarks
A. NATICNAL COM-           Rural                     x x x x x x x x                                24         120,000
MITTEE ON &RAL         Training
TRAINING                Planning
B. PROJECT                 Monitoring &                       x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x      48          200,000      One up to 24 HMs and four up to
EVALUATION              Evaluation                                                                                       6 MMs each.
C. TRIAL PHASE        1.   Coordinator               x x x x x x x x x x                            30         100,000      Up to 30 months.
2.   Consultants               x   x   x      x   x   x                       6           48,000      Up to 6, one-month visits.
D. BANGLADESH         1.   High Level                ( x x x
AGRICULTURAL            Consultant                (x x x                                         24         120,000      Three-member team to advise on role
UNIVERSITY              Committee                 (  x x                                                                 and development of BAU.
2.   Subject                       x x x x x x x x x x x x                 )                         (For strengthening technical
Matter                                                                ) 72          240,000    (competence of BAU for graduate
Specialists                   x x x x x   x x K x x  x                )                         (level education  applied research
(and extension training.
3.   Fellowships for           x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x   )120             80,000
Professional Staff        x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x K x x x x   )
E. AGRICULTURAL            Fellowships               x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x   )K K
TRAINING                for Teaching                                                           )120          80,000                                     X 0
INSTITUTES              Staff                     x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x   )
F. BOGRA ACADEMY      1.   Research Design           K x x x x x x x                                24         120,000
2.   Rural Institutions                         x  x K  x| K K K              24         120,000
TOTAL                  27  14  13  12  10  9   8 866 5 5 5 5                    1,228,000
1/ To be provided by IDA through project credit.
August 1975



CG"PAPAYXVW EDUCATION  INOICAYDRS                                                  ANNEX  t
........................ !.......
'( DEMEn           3    1079  I
...................
3                                                                 1           1
I GNP/ I 2 GNP    it  TOTALIS    OF  PUMLTC  I                      I                       OPRI. SAV.Pal.    I                   I          forc   I           I
ICAPITAI DEVOTEPIPUBLIC  I EDUCATION                    ILITEN-  IPOX. iCOMPLE.  eSTU-  sSC".TEACH9P01MQQESS-m BEC. tSTU-  i                                    I
I    AT    t TO rou.1    EXP.  I prellovENT             $ACV        sENVOLLaTTON            tbENTS*SALARV  lNslON RATF  rEMOOLLIDENTSI"TCHERI
Pop, ::A    fl: (PUSLtC IDEVOTED:EXP  AL1LDCATfh:,,QAT1  INATtO  s*ATk FOORPER    INELATInN  oPPON PRI.iIIATIM  sPER     Ew*nLLI
CEO   ERP.            TO              Ttli              OF       NET                              Tn cwp/ sTO  SFC.    I NFT   sTEACH- RATT1,71
YRI COOO) t  (USS31 ONLY)   i fDU. oFOr. SIEC. Hl.,iADULTS)o  (2)   rC1fCLff%l1LvP                                i CAPYTA   2   (t)            I(2)   $ER         I(11
I    .    I      I    I           I      .     :                  I     I     I         I             I        I              I              I         t     .   t
I (I) It   (2) 1   (3)    1 (41    1                  (s)         1 (6)    1(7)   I    (A)            1  (9) 1    (16)    t (11)             1(12)   1(131 2114)
.....................................................................................................................................
ADVANCED
73    7, SC 2,410C           4.3        0.9       479   250   2091    09            98          93          ?6          2.0          09          51         19        A.40
CANADA              72   ?1.8   4.440             1.7      19.4        to     39      t9      98         89          901        24          2.0           99          (42       IT        q.n 'I
GERMANY F.RFP.72   61.6   3,390                   4.2      14.2        ...   74** 26          99         91          99          33        ...            99          et        2?       17.norv
JAPAN               71 106.9C 2,320C              4.3      ?0,7        39     36      12      99         99D         goe         215C       2.(1          99C         94r)      ?4C      28.nf)')
NETHERLANDS    72   13,3   P.840                  R.S      10,tc       32     as      I*      99         9s          99          29          3.0          97          73        24       fi.no
4EW TEALAND         73    2.9c 21560C             9.?      ...         39     ?4    29        99         99          99          Rb        ...            99          67        19       24.mn
4ORMAY              72      3.9   3,340           7.0      1S.2        So     23      13      99         99          9p          Po          I.Q          09          76        141      Ij.mp
SWEDEN              ?3    R.IC 4,466C             4.9      16,0        16.   14       t3      99         94          99          17        ...            90          AS        I0       3m.mn
U.K.                ?O    SS.8C ?.600C            r,.R     1.3.9       ...    ...    ...    97           9A          ...         28                                   sm         IA      ...
U.S.A.              72 208.9   S,S90              6.0      IS.4               73** 27         99         99          99          ?S 1)                                9%        lot$   ?.Q. 4
EURnPE
GREECE              71    8.9c  11466C           .?.?      11.1        Say   29Y   14Y    82A            95Y         ...         32Y       ...            ?OA         NOW       aiv      1I.M(
TRELANI)            T?      3.0   1154n           -i..l    139n       43Y   41Y   14    98             97          99A        3S         ...            OSA         7s        ig        7.mn&
PORTUGAL            Y?    9.7         73M         ...      ....        ...                                                                                            bsyy                 I olov
spkTN               71   34.3c  lliooc            P.01   IS.?A    40y                                   99:,A,                                                        PQA                  6:AAA
AFRTCA
73   I4.?C    43"C           9.0h                 43,  3?        16.    ?SA         67          Ft 11       4 3         k            37          1 AN      26         3.Kn
IIDTSWANA           ??      0.6,  tbp             ...                                         ...        6ODY        ...         35ny      ...            ...          pny      IRDY    n.Arly
%URU4DT             72      3.6         60        ...                                                    27xev                   36by      ...            ...          ?WRY   IIAV
CAMEROON            70    60C         ?00C        I.[)                                                   74.                    SIny       ...            ...          A        ?ICY    n.oocy
C.A.R.              70      1.6c      lbnc        4.ftN   PO.0         Sb     t9      ...    ...         64cy        25          brIcy     ...            la           SCY    27"V    A.,17V
CHAD                70    S.Ac          soc       4.3      14.3        ?7     23       n        7        29YRY       ...         bbRY      ...                         ?YRY   30          f,.Pljqv
C04GO(m)            73      1.3c      3onc        6.p      26.4        4spy 3say ISRY   sot            13OX          ...         63        ...            ...         29        ultv      1.44ry
04-4("EV            73    2.9C        I I AC      15.3     32.0        47    23       in       11        32NA        70A        S"Fk       PS"            43A          ypt      34H       n.,j4rv
ETHYnPYA            73   2S.9c          RM        3.1    p(I'D         42     ag      to       .7        tic         42          so         1             63           11       3"        n.:,n
GASON               73      n.SC    A46C          9.0      ?(,b        PS       9     is        -      164NNY        ?-SC        46C        s             IRA         ?nc       21C       i.anry
GHANA               71    9.1c        3rinc       4.7    PA.an*   38g   150   P30              ...       56xcy    6?             3acy      ...            14          ity       16cy    0.1414Y
IVIRY COAST    72    S.4              146         6.3      ?4.7        2711Y  338Y 13Y          9A       SP          S7A        46         ...            ...         in        ?S        I.PRAY
FYYA               73   12.lf-    176C           6.4    ;,7.0         43     11    ti        40       losk          .,.        4f)         A             la          12        21        1.634Y
LEBOTHn             73    0.9c          9AC       4.7      P2.0        4SC   ISC   24C        40,        6s          ...        45           ...          ...          A        ?;       m.n
LIJERIA             74      1.6c      333C        2.7      13.9        ?S     13    P2         ...       So          ...         39          I.A          ...         PO        2n         1.1rAv
4A1,0wT             7q    4.7C        lmnr        3.1    209          ...    ...    ...    211          56X         60         so          7.6           00           ON       ?4        m.;)bry
4ALI                74    S.Ic          7I)c      4.6N   3?.3          3401   S.'s   I?p      te)        14          2P         arl        14.0           17           4        17        n.16&v
MAJQITANI A         TM      1.2c      1 A tic     S.5      ?1,0               ...    ...    I n          I SY        . . .       27          ...          . . .        3        2 4       . . .
4AJRTTT(IS          ? 2     0.9       3nA         3.7      1 1 .7ro           in       4      Pto        66          99          91          ...          ...         11        34         1 . 1j7rv
moRnCCn             741  15.1kc    p7lic          S."      I b.S       44    (17       9      P61        S4x         ?I          37          ...          3 1         t 3w      p I       ;P.n
4laERIA             7 1   69.SC       1 36C       3.;1N   ...          40A   ?4A   LPO A       ...       39xcy       . . .       3acy        ...          . . .        4        20cy    (, . 17ry
OWANnA              7;    3. 7c         IfINC     3.>C   PA . on       ...    ...    ...    23           S?          ...         51          ...          ...          2        1 1       M.73ry
SF4ECAL             7 1    4.DC       ?sf)C       4.Om   P2.SOR   INA   42A    SA             I 0        3six        . . .      4h          ...           ...         II v      21;       1 .7try
gIfRRA LEDNF   ?3           2.7c      1 94C       3.4    ;03. a        II    36    30         1 S?       34X         4 -;        31.        AIF           64          1 31      2 t       r, 5 I A v
504A0  A            73    2.9C          R(C       ...       1.0        57     1 6     1 3       5        1 3         9t          3s        Is.(           4s           3        1 A       1. I
Su,)"               12   1 6. S       12n         a..;    I 3.2        41    29    ?PI         I 5       38          7-5         4S         41 .(I        Ps          I 1       24         1  3 y
SWAZILAND           72    0.4C    pho             0.3k   19.7          37    26       is      ?A         66          ?;-         3m         7.0           ...         16my    ?o           1.
TA4ZANTA            74   111.2C       lt(IC       S.IN   11,0          36     ...   I?        65         4ax         ...         49          ...           1           2        21C       0.1
TU41 37 A           73    S . 3C      3110C       6. 3    P3.4         37     43    1 6       Ss         72          A 1         41         b.(           31          14        2 1       It. A
JGA404              70   I n .4c      1 soc       5.2N   I 1.b,CR   400   220   ?SO           PSA        4#XCY       ...         36          ...          14A          41yry   2 1        A . efuly
UPPER  VOLTA    7?          5.6         ba        4.0      P3.9        65     1.0      6        s        I 0         ...         as        I 0.0          p 0          P        2 3        n . n I It y
ZAIRE               7 3   1 9. 1 C    I 00C       S.?N   21 .3r        54C    17C   ?9C        I 5       63          38          44A        6.0           43           A        24        r'.46%v
ZAMBTA              73      4.SC      1010C       %.f.    lb.s         414    ?p      In       43        9-51        ...         Sf          ...          ?P          ISN       ?ft        n.44Ae
CE14TRAL AMEP?CA A40  THE CARIMSFA4
-------- r------------------------
COSTA RICO          71    i . SC      ksoc        S.2      22,7        57     Ps      1 2      49        m6cy        645         29           3.4         SR          pyr v     ?5       i p . i I r v
DOMINICAN REP.7?            4 . 2     4 8 t)      2.5      IS.SnR   a 2       24    IV2       s t        Be          I 7         sa           3 . (in     & 3         1 3       ?a         7.Mft
EL  SALVADOR    75          3.7c    390C          3.6      P3.8        61..     3     Loa     SAAY    7 t xc y       . . .       IQCV         ...         ...         lbwcy   ?Icy    4.3sBy
GUATEMALA           73      S.6C    4211C         1.9      1 6. a      is     23    1 a        4 7       64          26          35           't. n       69           A        Pr,        a.m9y
)4A I T 7           72      4.4       1 In        t).q      6.6m       61     I I      6       an"       22          2S?         4s           S.m         so            3       ?3         1 no'
HOOIDURAS           72    2. 7        42 (I       3.9      P6 Sf)   1.4       1 3     I 8     52         a I x       I A.        37           6.(         7-i         14Y        14        1. nt)
JAMAICA             To      t .9c     oil nc      h.NY   19.7c         33Y   22Y    YV    46            I 06)(CY     ...         Sp           ...         . . .       3?WCY   10           4.79cy
mewito              76   4id. II C    7%0C        2.6       9'.5       54     24      12       76        71          31          46           3.m         t-3         1 9,      23         6.,%2ry
NICARAGUA           74      2.1c    470C          2.7      1 4, 2      ...    ...    ...       57         8Sx        ...         34cy         ...         . . .       23        37C v    7.m
TRINTOAD I T. 71            1.0c      oooc        5.1      16.9        13     27    I?         90        9SX         67          3s           4.11        ts          49        ?-,        P."AY
SD'JTM AmtrATCA
;;;;;:              74   90,2C    S30C            4.3      12,0C       42     20       37      79        Box                     27cy          ...        ...         I AR       ISCY    S.mfsk
CHILE               70   1 0. 0       AOIIC       4.6Y   t0.6V         340Y  ISCY 404v   ...    I I I XDY            ...         37BY          ...        ...         4OWDY   ...
COLOPORTA           70   23.9c,   oooc            4.0      i0.9        35      to    20        75        bl          26          16           4.n         90          17         14        4,:;o
Lreliltonq          72      b.5       36(         3. 7     ?1,7c       4SqY 4?f)Y  I DOV   69            72          ...         38            . . .      ...         t a        1 4       4.9711Y
DUYiNA              74      0,7CI   400C          S,4N   14.70         47    35       14       83A       gpx         30          33           6.6         19          62W        24        I.An
PAptitsuA v         74      2.QC1   3?OC          1 A      17,9        S?      i 5 ,28         R i       8 8                                               65
Pr*u                7 1   1 4I Ci   5 R OC        14 s     24,tn       so     22      1 1      7 L)      80          3218    -    21:."       I -.%       I 0         11 I'll             I   0,
VENIM ILA           73   I 1I C,  1 240C          4.6      19.9        300   280   39fi    77A           el                      33            2.4         ...        33         ...    1 2.0.3cy



COMIPARATIVF fDUCATION INOICATOR8   ICONYD)                            ANNEX I  PACE 2
(I3£ZUU 3    19754
*   I  I        1         3                 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . .. . .  i. . .    I   ISS                        I      I
I GUNP/ S I GNP   it TOTALIS   OF PUBLIC I               I        I          lPRitt  lAV.PfI.   I             I        isec   I
I CAPITA,  DEVflTElq8uSL!C S EDUCATION    ILITER.  I PBI. ICOMPLE.  ,STU. ,SCN.TEACHIIPPOBRESS-I SEC.  ISTU.  I 
I   AT   I TO EDLU.1  PIP. I RECURRENT    ,ACY                IENROqLLITION       ,DENiTIISALABV  116110W RATE lENBDLLIDENTS,HII4EQil
I       1WARKFTI  (PIJSLIC,DEVnTOI'DEXP ALLOCATED.   RATE IRATIn IRATE FORIPER   IRELAYtInk iPRON PRNI.IRATrM iPPE   IENRfLLI
I POP, IPRIcEs.  Exp..   I  TO    I           TO:.    mSt  OF, 31 HE?   IRI.SCM,sTFACHI TO 54P' STO SEC.  I NP?   *TEArI4. RATIni
yp2(ooo2  I (Iss)t nNLY)I S            Dil. SPRY. SEC. HI.IADULTB),  (S)   !c'VCLEfl)4FR           CAPITYA   I  (18       I (SI   $ER    I (xi
I                     .               I                 I S                     I          I           I       I       i           I   i
I II)  a,   (3)  a  (32    a  (II)   a  (5)  a (6)    * (7)   ,  ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~(A)    * (9) 1  (II)    I (II)  ill?)   1(131 t(141 S
ASTA AWD OCEANIA
SANGLADESH       7 3  72.5C       7nC     1.?    ?32     .     .      .     .23          56X       *.        A           ...      ...        1SA     2p       ..
CHINA(TAIHAN) 73   is.lcl  'l)OO          1.3    13.0       28    A     2        2       98        90        4          4.0       84        55       26      63q.mo
INDIA            71 S63.5C,   linC        2.hVY  ...        .. .20...3... A91)                                3A        ...        ...      PAY    ?3840    A.1RAY
INDONESIA        73 12s.flT    120c       LA8    11.1       63    23    14      62       63        40        32         5.,0      91        I?       Is      2Pfll
IRAN             73   ?9.sc    453t       3.3    l?.6       ion  lea   leg   so          77        748       3?         s.618     Ana       24       32       4.3?ry
IRAQ             70   1l.1c    A7nC       6,7    i6,308.         .    .         26       AICY      ...       22         ..         G. QCY   36                6 24y
JORDAN          I73    2.1£c,   271c      7.,0     8.8      52                  so?I 5   9113      78        Ss         5.00t               -in53    22       4  A,
K(OREA           73  A2.Oc    lilt        2.4    19.3       b4    26      8     95       97        90        53         3.00      71        52       39       &.no
LE9AkNON         72    2.4      7nO       3.5   lAs0        39   410   t,0    69         86        69        49         2.00      63        2611    ?q       pl.oll
MALAYSIA         72  21t.43     333       6.4    22,70.6                                 91        ..        32 1                  .        333      3
IMAN             7?    0,6      533       P.3      3.8      a6-                 2         4K       99         3         7.0       *..4X 
PA%ISTAN         75   66.7c    1Ilt       1.6      6,2      45    25    to      a~       473       Sf1       59         2.00      *...       174     i4       f6.0
PHILIPPINES    74  39. Ic    )Otc    2.5    111.9           73    is    12      a?      1041       ...       34         is        ..        461      ...    21.03
S14G.ApOOAE      73      .1    1303       3.2N  16. ?       44    31    Is      75A    4074        72        33         ...       99        47       ?4       A.>Sy
TMAILAND         73   38.5      ??3t      3 .N '4  8.7'    q       9    55       e  SE  87         93C       32         3,3011   Otr        213f    34        2.00Q
TURKEY           72  37 . 0     373        . ..    I ,OOR ....... ..                     osEEY    ...        3400       ..         .        2PI0    27111    %.AIRY
YEMAEN           73    6.3      133n      0.5      4J'0     458P  21    3P   I¶0         451       IA        36         ;:n0      75, I        v     29       3 .0580t
YE4EN P.R    7?    I.5          II on     2.3A  22.6        79    42            I p      703       31        29        2 0.00     99        412      30       n.fl5AY
SU4MA*Y FOR 0FVEL(JIP'r Cr10NTRIES!
NJMOER OF cO1INTRIESI                     47      67       61    50    59      62      73         41        72          38k      £4        73       69        h7
RANGEI                                 13.5-   (13.8-   (25- 23-   (0.    (5.-       (1o-      127.      119-        (10.8     (7-       f1.4-    1 9.     (. 2I-
.3n.  P 3.31 )96 ) 521   431.   98           050I3A4)    99 )    66  3       25.0)    99 3       75. 0)   43 3     23.0)
IUARTILESIIUPPEP 1                      3.7    22.0      57    38    PO      68       91        76        45           7        74         e  Ii.           A 4.79
MEDIANI                    4.0          29.  So    27    2 5     so       7 1       56        38          4        63        I I      33       P . 33
LOWER I                    30    4 14. 0     4?    1 7    I1     20       48 Pi     35        53           I       25PI               I A 19    ,I~3
SYM4BOL9S ... DATUMI INAVATLARLF                  A.1970 n4R REFOE              MuCUJRRENT PRICES                           SnUPCFSt
MAGNTTIIDE '41L 79  NFGI IGIRLF RvI97I                            NuGop....
7  0IIESTIONA8Lf                      C32972                         PUINCLII101G FOREIGN AIn                     tOg uIMSI) A110 2 WnRLO  RANK
*INCLI'DFS PART-TIME STIJnENTR D.1973                             ()*CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                             ATLA4
*1   OH810FD AtTT  PRIMARY           F.1 074                       R6NINISTRY nFP EDIICATTON (NOEFl  ONLY                  A Trl )4 ?833 HjSRInNR
SuMnf ANM2 STATF GOVT.  NWLY                                     A~,iminp 'IWFRC'
TAFXCLIIDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                       ATATISTICAl
JUPURLIC ONLY                                                    YE 1882103
VBTNLtCLIIDG PRIVATE EXPENDIT[I2F
1uINCLJLlDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
Y.IINESCO SOURCES
COMPARATTVE EDUCATTIN 347A ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OPl VARIIYISJ E2£0CATIn4 SYSTEmS ANO ANALYSIS flF IRFLATTVF 9ITAGF3 (IF EDIlICAT01J3AL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VA9ITIJY COUNTRIES. HnwEVrR.9N THE PIASIS nF THE PRERENT DATA.C011SS.IAATIONfiL CnOMPARlIOn RHOnILo ME AppRoncHPo MITH
GREAT CAUTTnN. OATA PRRPFNTED IN THE ABOVE TARLE HAVE SIEEN CnL.LECTFIO LARGELY SY THEt RANKf MISSIOnS PROW GnyFppi.FNT sn'2pCEs, TWE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESrIWATE3 OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFnQTS NAVE SEEN MADE TO STANDAISDIZE DEFTNITYTNS AwnD ..1121M umITS. TOl CHEYK THEF
ACCURACY Of THE IIATA. 4EVERTHELESS.SUCW MATA ARE STILL IMPERFFCT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AWO TINE RANK IS wnIRKINg Tn IMPROVE THEN
PROGRESSIVFLO ON THE 10CASTON 1F ITS nPERATIMNAL WORK., IN THF USE OF THESE DATA. THE FOL.LOWING OI1AS IFTCATIOnS- xwOIIn 8F RORPF TA
fI2COUCATTON' AS IEFINEY~ TN THE TARLE INCLUDES ALL EnUCATTON AND) TRAINING.  FORMAL AND mnO.FMP*RAI
(2i)PRYMARY EDIJCATIT.J PEFERS TO EDUCATION AiT THE FIRST LFAEL AND "qECno&DRY' EftuCATION ROFFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE gErONDARY
.LEVEL REGARnLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECH4NICAL. AGRICULTIIRAL2 S
113'2LITFRACY RATESIfcnL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED Fronm CO)uNTRy CENSUSES. IN MANYEDIJNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY AP-RPOT4ATTO.NS Amn IT IS
.DOUSTFUL THAT 14y IjNIFORM TEFTNOTTON OF -LITERATt" HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY$
(4)"PUBLIC EIPENDITJRE IN EIUCATTrON"fC0LR.3.4 AND 5) REFER Tn ALL CAPITAL ANIO RECUBQENT EIPFNDTTIIRFS nFVnTFn TO EDIICATION NIY
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PURLIC AGENCIES,
(S5JENROLLMENT RATTnll(CnLS 7. 12 ANO 14i REFER To scHOOL YEAR AND MFAN THE PERCENTAGE oF ELIGTMIF CHILDREN FNRnLLEO FIILI -TINE
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE WARGTN OgFERROR IN THE DFVFIDnPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURAcy OF BASIC WA(TI.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION awnD FwRnLLENTS). ENRnLLMENT FIGUREJ
FREQUENTLY ARE HI7.HER THAN THE NUMBER OFJ  STIIODENTS ACTUALLY IN  stHOnL. nvFBAGFD STUIDENTS WHOSE  INCLUISION IS TNDICATF0  F8Y
FOOITNOTES ALSO CAN TAFLATE THE RATIOS3.



BANGLADESH AGRICULTURAL AND RURAIL TRAINING PROJECT
RURAL TRAINING REQUIREMENTS 1974-80
Local Government Rural Development and Cooperatives
Average Annual Training Requirement 1974-80
Projected   Addi-    Total Staff          Pre-Assignment              In-Service
Basic          Number      Staff a/   Total    tional        Training             Weeks   Total               Weeks   Total   Location
Educational      of Staff  Untrained    Staff        Staff b/ Requirement  No. of   per    Staff/   No. of   per    Staff/            of
Qualification    1973/74    1973/74        1980      1974-80      1974-80      Staff  Course  Weeks        Staff  Course  Weeks   Training
I.   LOCAL GOVERNMENT DIVISION
(a) Government Staff
District Assistant Director          Graduate              20          20         20           0            20         5       4        20        20       1        20   Academy
Circle Officer - Dev. (Thana)        Graduate             380         230        450         170          400         65       8       520       450       1      450   Academy
Rural Works Accountant               Graduate (B.Com.)   410          410        410           0           410         70      4       280         -       -         -   Zonal
(b) Elected Representatives
Zilla Parisad-Chairman & V.Chm.   n.a.                       -           -        40          40           40         10       4        40        40       1       40   Academy
Thana Parisad-Chairman & V.Chm.   n.a.                       -           -       820         820           820        140      4       560       410       1       410   Academy
II. RURAL DEVELOPMENT DIVISION
(a) I.R.D.P. Personnel
Dy. Director/Project Director        Graduate M.A.          20          10        40           20          30          5       8        40        20       2        40   Academy
Asst.Dir./Dy.Project Director        Graduate M.A.          10          10        60           50           60         10      8        80        20       2        40   Academy
District Accountant                  Graduate B.Com.        20          20        20            -           20        2-3      4        10         -       -         -   College
Thana Project Officer                Graduate M.A.         140           -       250          140          140         25     16       400       130       2       260   Academy
Thana Deputy Project Officer         Graduate B.A.         140           -       250          140          140         25     16       400       130       2       260   Academy
Thana Accountant                     Craduate D.C aj.      140           -        250         140          140         25      8       200         -       -         -   Academy
(b) TCCA Personnel
(i) Inspectorate
Chief Inspector                 Diploma                20           -        250         230          230         40       4       160        90      2       180   College
Inspector                       Diploma               100          50        500         420          470         80       4       320      250        2      500   Zonal
Assistant Inspector             Matriculates          700         300      2,000       1,430        1,730        290       4    1,160        670       2    1,340   Zonals
Accountant                       Intermediate (12)   300          250        500         250          500         80       4       320         -       -         -   College
Village Accountant (1:10 kss) Matriculate             760         720      3,000       2,280        3,000        500       4    2,000          -       -         -   Zonals
(ii) Management
District Chairman/Vice Chm.   n.a.                     40          40         40           -           40          -       -         -        40       2       80   Academy
Thana Committee Chm./V.Chm.   n.a.                    300         150        500         200          500          -       -         -       500       2    1,000   Academy
III. COOPERATIVES DIVISION
District Registrars                  Graduate (MA)          70           -         70         20            20          3     16        50        40       2        80   College
District Auditor                     Graduate (BA)          60           -         60          10           10        1-2     16        25        30       2        60   College
Inspectors                          Graduate (BA)         560          110       630          70          180         30      24       720       310       2      620   College
Assistant Inspectors                 Intermediate (12) 1,490           700     1,900         410        1,110        180      16    2,880        370       2       740   Zonals
IV.  OTHER
Cooperative Bank-Loan Officer        Matriculates         440         440        450          80          320         50       8       400       100       2       200   Zonals
B. Krishi Bank-Loan Officer          Matriculates         550         550      1,300         750        1,300        220       8    1,760        430       2       860   Zonals
n.a. = not applicable                                                                                             SUMMARY
= nil                                                                                           (Total Staff/Weeks of Training)
= negligible                                                                                     Academy      College    Zonals
a/ Untrained = lacking pre-assignment training after recruitment                 Pre-Service           2,360        1,285       8,860
b/ Including retirement                                                           In-Service           2,600          940       3,640
Total             4,960        2,225      12,500
+ 42 wks/yr.
= Required Capacity       120           50         300
160           70        400
Source: Government and mission estimates.



HANrTAflEL
AGRICULrURAL AND RURAL TRAINING PROJECT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE: PROJECTED REQUIREMENTS FOR FIELD STAFF, 1974-82
Number  Number  Number    Estimated
of      of      of       Number of     Location
Educational    Staff   Staff   Staff  New Staff p.a.       of
Agency, Category of Staff                Qualification   1974    1978    1982        1982-85       Training
DIRECTORATE OF AGRICULTURE (E & M)
Division District, Sub-division Staff
Departmental Officers                      Graduate           130      65       65         3         University
Assistant Plant Protection Officer         Diploma             40        -       -          -          ATI
Thana Level Staff
Thana Extension Officer                 Graduate            40     420      420        20         University
Thana Agriculture Officer               Diploma            450     450      450        20           ATI
Plant Protection Assistant              Diploma/Mat.       410     420      420        20           ATI
Thana Statistical Investigator          Diploma/Mat.       180     420     420         20           ATI
Union and Village Level Staff
UAA/VEA                                 Diploma          4,150   4,800   6,700        750           ATI
Jute Workers                            MAT. 1/          1,300   2,000   2,000                    Mat/ATI 1/
DIRECTORATE OF AGRICULTURE (R & E)
Middle Level Staff                         Diploma            500     700      800         40          ATI
CROP DEVELOPMENT HOARDS
Middle Level Staff                         Diploma            450     600      800        40           ATI
BADC
Middle Level Staff                         Diploma/Mat.    1,000   1,500   2,000         100           ATI
1/  Future of scheme uncertain; field workers currently receive no training,
but would ideally be diploma level.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture, Mission Estimates.



BANGL5aH                                                                                 A      4
A¢gfclsgurol sod jun01 Troiniop Pro loot
Annual Out-
Duration      Somber of      not Trained
Inotitutiom/Treinine Proonen        TIaintin Gi-o to                      Tre-  of Caursi-s)                   of Courses    -students          Per onnel      Lo..nion/Dletnibotion
A. fROSSIONAL IVM!
1.  o-gi1deokh ACod_   of Rur-S         Staff of the Integrated Rural        Pns-Seri:o, Spooialined Train-    Vonytig            130              -              Conill.
Dvlopont Deevlepeen. Ptogrm  nd Thna                                     itg, OnL-to tion
Offio-r-
2. Bangladesh Agrioultural              High.n Soho-1  Centifioste Can-   BtS. Cou-.. in:  Veterinary             4-6 yearn       2500            B.Sc.           Myn- iogh
tin-ratity                           did.tes cod Graduotee                Actenon, ignioultrn, Aniuol                                          1971 - 231
HSobhedry, Agricoltur-l Economic-                                     1972 - 366
cud turnl Sociology, Agricultur-l                                     1973 - 416
inu.neoniog and Tochnolugy                                         M.Sc.:
M.S-. Coo,ooe  in Slot  Focultito    2 yearn                          1971 -  50
3. BRnolednoh Agriculturel College    Shoo gl C-rtificae                     B Sc. nd HSc. ir AgricUltor          4-5 year-       B.Sc. - 500    Approx. 10    Dacto
tioo) cud Higher School fe,it-                                                             S.-4
fioato C.odid.tee and Gradoetne                                                          M4S.      45
4. CooperetiVe Collego                  Coopnrntio DSep-rtmeft St1ff         Prn-Snrvi.e ond In-Serrior           4-6 nonthe      72              500             Csillo
Kaboro cod Offico Holder- of         Sriooocti-n Cour-en                  1-3 woke
Socintino
5. Local G--orn.ent Troining            CiOcne Officero                      Pro-Serior                           4 ulkc
lo-titute
B IHTreRNEDTATE LEVRL:
I. Agri-utu-o1 Entens.ino loming.    SoLon AgnicuIturi Aoeintonto/           Ionic Agnicol1tc-ol Diploma Co-ns, 3 y-or            930              -Eight AETIc to Tmjhat, Goibodha,
IAtitutun                            Village Rtansion Agento              Short In-Sirvice Refrether  coons 2-3 months                                        Sh t        ocipur, Sylooc   tor
Tnjgoor, Nlotlapor
2. Zoa1 Coopeceatre Insirunes           Employees of CooperairsV Snooi-    ftiontatitn Courses                    1-3 erne.       425             2500           Ranopur, Coolt, Furidpr,
tiee,  tm_bhra *nd Office Holders                                                                                        NSaoaor, Moktagocho, Foi  hle
lloulavi booco
3. BSgladook Ric- Resoec.h              etension Agento. District Offi-   High-Yielding RIc- VSoiety Tech-   3 cooke             50              250            Joydcbp-r (Sostel order Co-       cticn)
Institute                            cer, Trahckts                        niqu..
4. Onteninery Training I.otitoto        LiVtnonrk Ansintlano, Vot-aicury   Banic Ani -l olth/RScb-ndry            I year          50              50             Myconooigh
Compoundor-                          Certificate C-orno
5. Rural DSvelopneot Training           Superois.r.  Rur-l Wonkh  Program,   bSic *ud Ad-nc-d (Diplon-)           6 noothe        15               -             Sylht
Institutn                           Circle Officers (DRVnlopseot),       Courtes., Sorics Co-roon,            6   .octhe      15
Lool - oveninGent Staff             orienrotiot Cou--e-                   3-4 uneko      50
6. Fishery Inetitoto                    Thon  Fiskeni-e  Officte.s Firh      BSoic Pihnertio  C-rtificot.         1½ yaaru        15              15/1% yearn    Chondpur
Cuitu-ists                           Coorfe aod In-SonOito Rofro-h-r
Cour eon
7. Fore-try Inetitoto                   Fornetern                           BSoic Forontor-  Certifi-coi          I ye-r          45             45               Sylhet
B. Forotry Inotitute                    Foroet Rtngers                       BSain  P-ocst DUngeon Diploma        2 ynoro         15              15/2 y-arn      Chitcogo-g
9. Hydrology Instituro                  Aocistant Techkiool Officers         Varioe  BSoic and Spe-t! Short   3-8 -oeka           0-12             -              Docco
and Asnintant fogi.ne.rn (WD)        Coo-..a to BSoc  (Science)
Staff                               Gr-doaton
10. Chittognog Ac.dsy                    Staff of WBD                         V-ni-un Sh-rt Co-reno it Efoi-       10-21 dayn      30              100-150        Chita-oog
rooritg on! Adiricitrotion
11. BADC                                Vorioun Categorion of  SADC Staff   Se.d lnnpn:tion  Irrigation Agro-  4-90 doyc           56             Approx.         fadhip-
Includins ',od InspectOrs ond        .n y, Admictntration.  Offi.c                                        72-oticolc
Irrigation Ogronomiece              frocadunsesatd Mono.gn-nt                                            60-1UDA
12. WbD Btrodi Trainint Intitoto         Ir-igati-o  O-er..er- *nd Y-ung      Co-r..o In irrigocion cod Irriga-  3 nooke to        30               -              Bohodi
Fr-m-r-                             tion t    sEq sip-nt                  6 enthn
13. Bhnking                              lo.n Officern                        Oniontotio.,  Ccornet                1 north         40              30              Dacca (B.ogladcsh Kr1Ihi taok)
14. Polytochoic Inotitutee               Tr-innee  in Vartoi  tracthe.        Ension.rim, V-rio-s  Typen           Vcrying         Appro-.         Etiocstr        20 Intitutro
of Rogit..ecing                                                                            10.000; i-c    1975-3500
to 12,000
C. PFANR LEVEL:
1. The  Efroonian Sar-icro Fromr acd GSoupa of Fromers                       Contiocoon Trainicg                   _               -               -             Throughou- C o..ry
2. Tho.. Dl-eIop.ent cod Tr-ining       "odol Permern, Honogern of           Continnoon Irslning                  I doy/onek       -               -              Throughnut Cruncry
Cenorro                              Villoge Co_peretime      I
3. Peripoteti  Coopor-tive              Villago Prmi?ry Snc-itien            Cooricoron Non-Vornal                1 ..ek           -               -              54  ontroccorn Tro-ni Widely
Inetrartore
4. ZCorl cd Th..a Wonk.hops             Pop DSirert Tobhell Op-tatcr    Practicol ihort  Co-r-no                   -               -               -              4 Vocal c0d 104 Thra. Workohops
5. Penn Heohntot   Trotting             F       Ir'er l Sort and Union Agnicol-    For- Hochai-otilon/Forn Machi.-    3 ecorho    40              120             Trg-or D, cco
In6 titute                          tonal A     taintoCt- cry
6. Fiehormnuo  Voetiosnol Trolittg     riehor^nan  Cooporotloon             Praclirol  leShion                   Short Coorces  55/Cccricr        -              4 Corioro Or  Coonrcy



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL TRAINING PROJECT
Budgetary Provision for Rural Training - 1973/74 - 1974/75
(Takas '000)
1973-74 (Revised Estimates)                        1974-75
Non-      Development  Development       Non-      Development  Development
Development  Expenditure  Expenditure   Development  Expenditure  Expenditure
Expenditure    Revenue       Capital     Expenditure    Revenue       Capital
Ministry of Agriculture
Training Institutions and Programs         1,467.0       2,190.0      3,600.0        1,600.0      1,061.0      17,t50.0
BAISSC                                          -          300.0           -              -       1,200.0            -
Other                                           -          500.0           -              -       1,150.0            -
Sub-Total                              1,467.0      2,990.0       3,600.0        1,600.0      3,411.0      17,950.0
Ministry of Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives
Academy of Rural Development - Comilla          -        3,030.0           -              -       3,100.0            -
Regional Academy of Rural Development           -          800.0           -              -         700.0            -
Rural Development Training Institute         111.0            -            -           116.0            -            -
Cooperative College and Zonal Institutes        -          100.0           -              -         500.0            -
Thana Level Training 1/                         -       20,000.0           -              -      22,200.0            -
Other                                        122.5       1,436.0           -           125.5      1,600.0            -
Sub-Total                                233.5     25,366.0            -           241.5     28,100.0            -
Ministry of Forests, Fisheries
and Livestock
Forestry Training                               -          380.0        120.0             -         800.0         800.0
Fisheries Training                              -          520.0         30.0             -          44.0         227.0
Livestock Training                           824.6          70.0        300.0          894.0        117.0         540.0
Sub-Total                                824.6         970.0        450.0          894.0        961.0       1,567.0
Water Development Board
Training Institutes                             -          630.0           -              -         700.0             -
Ministry of Education
Agricultural University                   10,566.0       7,500.0           -        10,566.0      8,900.0             -
Other                                                         -            -              -       1,000.0             -
Sub-Total                             10,566.0      7,500.0            -        10,566.0      9,900.0            -
TOTAL BUDGET PROVISION                13,091.1      37,456.0      4,050.0       13,301.5     43,072.0      19,517.0
1/ Assumption: 607. of IRDP and 307% of TIP Allocation for training.
Source: Government of Bangladesh, Demands for Grants and Appropriations, 1974-75.
August 12, 1974



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL TRAINING PROJECT
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(Takas '000)
1973-74 (Revised Estimaates        19714-75 (Budgetary Provision)
Non-                         Non-
Development    Development   Development   DBvelopment  Development
Expenditure-  Expenditure - Expenditure-  Expenditure - Expenditure -
Revenue        Revenue       Revenue       Revenue      Capital
Total Government Expenditure            3,555,973.0    1,632,695.0   4,600,347.0   1,516,791.0  3,733,209.0
Rural Training Expenditure 1/              13,091.1       37,456.o      13,301.5       43,072.0    19,517.0
% of Total Expenditure                     0.4            2.3           0.3           3.0          0.5
Ministry of Education                     637,841.0      206,199.0    814,813.0    223,407.0   111,707.0
% of Total Expenditure                    17.9           12.6          17.7          14.7           3.0
Training Budget - Other Ministries 2/      28,915.5        4,200.0      31,806.0      15,000.0      50,000.0
% of Total Expenditure                     0.8            0.3           0.7           1.0          1.3
TOTAL EXPENDITURE - Education and
Training            679,847.6      247,855.0    859,920.5    281,479.0   181,222.0
% of Total Expenditure                    19.1           15.2          18.7          18.6           4.9
1/ See Annex 5.
2/ Funds specifically earmarked for training under ministerial votes.
Source:  Demands for Grants and Appropriations 1974-75.



ANNEX 7
BANGLAIESH
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL TRAINING PROJECT
First Five Year Plan: Provision for Rural Training
(Takas 1000)
Agency, Program                               Total Allocation
Ministry of LG, RD and Cooperatives
IRDP 2/                                           186,000
TIP - Training                                     72,000
TTDC Construction                                  58,ooo
Expansion of BARD                                  26,000
Expansion of BARD Laboratory Area                  17,000
Regional Academies                                 40,000
Strengthening Cooperative College and Zonals       12,000
Sub-Total                                    311,000
Ministry of Agriculture
Extension Training                                 48,500
Agricultural Education                              3,400
Sub-Total                                     51,9o0
1/ Estimate based on 60% of projected operating cost of IRDP Program.



BANGLADESH
Agricultural and Rural Trainina Proiect
Bangladesh Agricultural University
Intake, Enrollment. Output by Faculty 1966/67 to 1979/80
Actual                                                                 Projlections                               Total
Faculty                              1966/67  1967/68  1968/69  1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973/74             1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80            Output
Agriculture              Intake             151       158       186       173        70       210       203       250           250       300       300       300       325       300
Enrollment         697       749       769       801       738       797       842       906          913    1,003      1,100    1,150      1,225      1,250
Output              51        66       117       108       116       158       186       173          210       203       250       250        275       300        1,563
Veterinary  Science    Intake                33        57        78       108       107       114        95       130           130       130       130       130       140       150
Enrollment         287       277       239       250       317       350       406       483          466       425       460       460       470        480
Output              42        35        48        39        64        39        53       147          171        95       130       130        140       150        1,283
Animal Husbandry         Intake               4        12        35        49        75        90        75        75            75        80        80        80        90       100
Enrollment         125       113       104       110       175       261       325       364          315       305       310       310        325       345
Output              13         7         7         9         2        12        35       124           90        75        75         75        80        90          694
Agricultural             Intake              60        57        37        57        50         78        89        90           90       125       125       125       125        125
Economics and Rural   Enrollment           144       201       238       257       261       279       311       364           347       394       430       460       485       505
Sociology               Output              -          9        21        20        24        57        37        50            78        89        90       100       100       110           760
Agricultural             Intake              71        72        71        48         -        75         87       100          100       100       100       100       100        100
Engineering and         Enrollment         156       228       299       347       309       337       353       381           410       387       400       400       400       400
Technology              Output               -        -         -         16         25        71        72        71          123        87       100       100       100        100          865
Fisheries                Intake              -         29        33         19       30        62         60       100          100       100       100       100       100        100
Enrollment          -         29        62        81       111       173       204       271          322       360       400        400       400       400
Output              -         -         -         -         -         29        33        49           62        60       100        100       100       100          633
Forestry                 Intake               -         -        -          -         -         -         -         50           50        50        50        50         50        55
Enrollment          -         -         -         -         -         -         -         50          100       150       200        200       200       205
Output              -50                                                                                                                         50        50          150
All Faculties - Total Input                 319       385       440       454        332       629       609       795          795       885       885       885        930       935
Total Enrollment        1,409    1,597    1,700    1,846        1,911    2,197    2,440    2,819            2,873    3,024    3,300    3,300    3,505    3,585
Total Output               106       117       193       192       231       366       416       614          734       609       745        780       845       900        6,948
Note:  Dropouts are not estimated.
Source:  BAU Development Plan



BANGLADERH AGRICULTUR&L AND RURAL TRAINIKi ROJECT
Agricultural Trainingu institutes
Outpuit of Diloma Holders -1 -1985
Current           Future
Location      Capacity  Enrollment  Capacity  1975-76  197  1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
To be Expanded
1. Daulatpur         150         0           240      -)        70     72    110    110    110    110    110    110    110
)
2.  Gaibandha        120         0           240      -)        5      58    110    110    liO    110    110    110    110
3.  Sherpur          110         0           240      -)        50     52    110    110    110    110    110    110    110
4.  Sylhet           100         0           240      -)        45     48    110    110    110    110    110    110    110
To be PelocatedA/
5.  Tejgaon to                                                                              1
Chittagong                  0           ?40       -        -      -110    110    110    110
6.  Natore to                                                                    c
Ishurdi         -           0          240        -               -      - r _         110    110    110    110    110
7.  Tajhat to
Faridpur        -           0           240       -        -      -      -       _     110    110    110    110    110
To be Phased Out
8.  Tejgaon          150        120           -       110      125    125    125    1?5      -       -      -       -      -
9.  Gauripuri/       100         20           -        20       90     90      90     90      -
10. Tajhat2/         120         0            -        -       110    110    110    110       -      -      -       -      -
11. Natore            80         80           -        75       75     75      75    g        - -                  -       -
Sub-Totals      930         220       1, 680      ?05     620    630    840    8bO    770    770    770    770    770
Net ad 'tion
@ 80%@                                           160     500    500    670    670    620    620    620    620    620
CIMILATIVE SIZE OF EXTENSION SERVICE            4,070     440  4,810  5,340  5,850  6,290  6,720  7,130  7,540  7,920
(Base: 4150 (1974))
Attrition rate = 3% per annum
1/  No new admissions in 1973-74.                                      1/ lr lN eatiog.
2/ To be merged with ATI Sylhet.                                      -
3/ To be retained aB in-service training istitute.
:/ Assuming 80% of graduates enter the exteamiem service.



BANGLADESH AGRICULTURAL AND  JRAL TRAI?I3 PROJECT
Agricultural Training Institutes
Output of In-Service Training Courses
i'uture
Location                Capacity   1975-76   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
1. To be Expanded
(a)  Daulatpur2l                  120        120       120    120    120    120    120    120    120    120    120
2'                           200       120    120    120    120    120    120    120    120    120
(b) Gaibandha?/                   120        120       120    120    120    120    120    120    120    120    120
150
(c) Sherpur?/                     120        100       100    120    120    120    120    120    120    120    120
150
(d) Sy1het?/                      120        100       100    120    120    120    120    120    120    120    120
150
2.  To bn Relocated
(a)  Tejgaon to Chittagoug !      120         -         -                 u 120    120    120    120    120    120
120    120    120    120    120    120
(b)  Natore to Ishurdi            120         _         _      _      _      120    120    120    120    120    120
(c)  Tajhat to Faridpur           120         -         -      -      -      120    120    120    120    120    120
3.  To be Phased Out
(a)  Tejgaon                      120        120       120    120    120      -      -      -       -      -      -
(b)  Gauripur2/                    80         80        80     80     80      -      -      -       -      -      -
(c)  Tajhat i/                    100        100       100    100    100    100    220    220    220    220    220
(d)  Natore                        70         70        70     70     70      70     -
1210       1460      930    930    970   1250   1300   1300   1300   1300   1300
1   Serves as a regional center for in-service training throughout the year, generating the additional output shown
in the second column of figures beyond normal sumner training.                                                        o
g/ Pre-service capacity to be used for in-service training during 1975-76, generating the additional output shown.
To be merged with ATI Sylhet.
y  To be retained only as an in-service training institute.



AGGICULT EANGOUAD. 8218 _103100
Slad-a    Gross         si-o           -olig       Aa.&Cto.           Soet           tD f         Total        Total C~lo  Works                                    PSYt.1eo      F-fote.eoo...     T-eSSaI-j        TOTAL   TOTA
Plac.-     Area    2Dvlao1-1   lO12Erooror         Atlolo. _0, -ho    Booir      tSoaM       Coostructlon   SOte OG., A Catt            oettt-         gjost Faltee                 Srla-nlsea                       7
A.  AGRICELTDMAL, TNAES8ES8  LeSTITUTIMNE
.ChI-w"an  (M2a8D0   71,406                                        1,055                           I 030           4,067       3,524          9,956             ilEoiG                 04,4        1.897         13.592             884                       1 4,076   OlGA4
2.lhrI  Sosa                                  240   64,031          1,182             -             2.607           4,223       3,835         0.,745             11,023                 690         1,7GG         G4A3l?             ATE7                      14.794    1,G3t
3. FaridparCae                                 TAO    64Att          1,031             -             2.500           4,404      3,900         11,194              12,425                 720         1,700         14.845             497            -0.4                  .8
4.911r(retMalE                                 7G 551           2570          1,029           1,744           8,011      1.316          5,711               6,170                 655           794          7,719             627            -8,346                 MAO
5,  Ia..po(Mrdd                                 29   71:8V             541           1,500           G,QTG           2,0          TAT          5.405              5St46                  TAG           842          7,809             A6             -8,230                  63
6. GOibeadhe (otan.de)                         103   MS,4401"          518           1,140           1,306           2,710       2,Ooo         64.49               6,997                 72             3            .9                I                          ,6         0
7. Eloerooo (ealeodeEl  140   GS,71G11   415           1,361              525           8,M43      lOts           5,310               5,743                606           775          7.0038             574            -           7.74382    598 ,2.8  17'4  7:82  59
S.b--El1 A  7TeA                        L1,2407L480,42a7         5,562           5,030          12,519          20,440      16.799         54,797             40,250               4,065         8,507         73,771           4.365             -78,136
1(0055                                             (4181           (387)           1003)         11,573)   (1.000)         (4,2151             (4.845)               13741        (8071        15.674)            (3361                                6,0810
FarrIer                                                              2 05                                                                      501,                487.                60%           9OT.           50%             10%                          51%      51%
TaoMage          Ta."                                            1,391                                                                     27.399              28,790              1.919         7,692         39,400              514            -     . 39,905
lCM8EatIt        (USl)                                            1177)                                                                    (2,200)             (0.015)              (225)         (591)        15.031)             (407 ),7
0.  18A98ATE 102300V308  MINING85
1. I1maaatagt                                  00a   10.506            030 .                                         1,205         799         0,094               2,324                 13N           314         1,768              186                        2.934      027
Sab-tatal I  I Tao.  LOW  nO.54W    231            -                -            1.205         790          7,194               0,300                 130          314          2,708              180            -          2.9549)  ill  T21)13  14,  ll~l  86)  ,95
uS$8                                               (18)            -                                to)        lG            (101)               (179                (10o          (241          (13               1140                                  227
Cara-o          %                                                    35%                                                                       00%                 48%                 60%          90%             53%       -     12%           -501                    50%
OarStrer         Take                                                5                                                                      1,147               I.1m                   78           283         1,466               2E                        1,488
ce-preca         (U009                                               (3)                                                                      (90)                (aOl                 18)         (00)          (013)              (2)           -115
0.  RZG010AI. 4104
1. Caer                                         8    353,875           690                             857           1,745      3,654          6,256               6,940                 281           981          8.186             596            -           9742       672
564-6M 1e 0D     Take                      LOW  f3,8               688             -857)                          1,745      3,604          6,356              0,944                 281            9M1         8,186              86                        8.742
O(us8)                                             (t3)            -(8                             (1354)     (Gal)          (48G)               (554                (26)          (751          15281             14535                                 672
Carego          %                                                    25%                                                                      5-0                  48                 68%            90%            53%             12%           -               0%
thDa  ITake                                                172                                                                     3,18                3,300                 157           883          4.34E              67            -4,487
Compnea          ( 008                                              (13)                                                                     1241)               (254)                (12)          (68)         (530)              (5)           -339
e.TeARBA TRAEINING mi1n
5, 15 Than-                                    450    48,810           773             --                            7,035         -            7,035              7,.OB                 785           316          8,828             336            -9.100                  78
Sob--ota  AITeka                          L475f   f48,M1o7          773                                           7 - 3,05     -            7,033               7,808                 705           516         8,829              536            -9,165
1  00)                                             1601            -                                54611      -5411                             (6001               (54)          114)          (8781             (26)           -705
Cetooga        I%                                                    23%.                                                                      521                                     60           98%             50%             12%           -49%                    49%
fEN.Asege        Take                                               193                                                                     3.5D                3 I71                 423           284         4.618               40                        4,458
Ca..epnr       1 1888                                               (13)                                                                     ('1711              (0861)               (321          (221          1248)             (3)                                  3436
F.  CIRLD 1EXSSD8N P0A2ILIT
1, 15 ThaMB                 -                        105.4DM         lA                ---11,2D                                   0631        10,032              11.238                 lAG         1,005         10.580    .        3864                      12,774       983
S8b6-RC1F  ITek.                             f-[1256400          1,2104             ---                                     10,032)        l0,tST              11,238                 141        8,003         12.380              386            -12,774
7  u09)                                             193)           -                                           772           ('770)              (65                   II)         1571          1953)             5501                                  985
PM-0g87         %                                                    250 5%                                                                                         7                  60            98%                            127                          50%      50%
E.oh...a.        Take                                               301                                                                     5,06                5,317                  05           903         6.313               47            -6.352
CODOOat-         (us()                                              (213861                                                                                      (4091                 (7)          (69)          (489)             (4)           -489
G.  8I0PPDTT8S 88801188
S. T-Sereic  YC-iin5-                                  -             ---                                                                                                                   -        -                                            3,100         3.1Q1       038
0. Tattlooioe  Asltaa-                                   -             -                                                                                                                                51            051             -            5964         16,215    1,247
Sob--atl G  ITeA-                                                                                                                                                                                    3     2        51Il                       T    49,0     18.315
1  8*(m-                                           -               ---                                                                                                             (09)            11)                        1,48                     1,485
FE %g   7                                                                                                                                                 --                                 0             30                             621           62%       62%
UEChOSC          TaO                                                                                                                           ---226                                                              106             -           10,20        12,046
CowMacs          (0180                                                                                                                                            --(7                                              17                           90                      928
00119800          I Tate                                             8,457                            -80,214                                                     88M                   ,DEO2       11,412        lo61655,837                     19 46        15,8
CMSITI8GC911ES    1 (0081                           ~~~~~~~~~~                                                                        ~    ~~~~~(852)  (A 100(8821    14691         18760        (0,8  07)         (468         (1,460                  (8'" ,082
TOTAL FM08018  GMX0C~
C02800N882        1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 52%       527
801CLU2800C         TkAs                                             l,1G5                                                                    6,        40,I         100               5,862        IE2771)        56,156             728         1l,M2G        08,976
MANIMNGIoI        1  0)                                                1631                                                                    13,000)            (3,20                  21            78)         (,2)(54)                         (90)                  5,283
TO TAL               lko                                           6O.884                                                                     8007                66.037               3,000         6,032         75,098           1.004          8,110        83,387
o"IUCIMfTaES00       (uo))                                            (529                                                                    (4,21)              (5,149)               (33)          (4040        (5,8483             (983         (470)                 6,414
TOTL P803CT C883
INCLUDING0          Tale                                           15,2E14,0001                                                                                  100,6)0               9.031        174          I182 18            7,111         05,174       214,4688
tSrIEN%0CIES    1 10381                                          (1,18.01(071)                                                              1.9(11.9710                               (702(      (R,3400       (4,0'155            (547)        (1,958)                16,498
185G-1.8         T1 k.                                              345                                                                       6031               78                   5,642        15,795         M0,207      ~       484)        1,8          0,8
MAS8TESAICIIO    1(100)                                               161(,21                                                                                     (5                    (6301       (0,205)        (6.0390             1688       1:') 11.280)2,17
C158P18E855  1 7                                                                                                                                    ajo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 26'1:                                                                  50%      50
1/  oC-B  arors  baad  oM  12%  .D MserotelIeo
eetCo1975






ANNEX 12
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL TRAINING PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS BY CATEGORIES OF EXPENDITURE
Takas (millions)          US$ (millions)
% of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Base Costs
Civil Works
Site Development      6.34    2.12    8.46    0.49    0.16    o.65        6.4%
Construction         40.10   40.11   80.21    3.o8    3.09    6.17       6i.2%
Sub-total            46.44   42.23   88.67    3.57    3.25    6.82       67.6%
Professional Services  5.14    0.70    5.84    0.40    0.05    0.45        4.5%
Furniture              2.44    3.66    6.10    0.19    0.28    0.47        4.7%
Equipment              1.14   10.27   11.41    0.09    0.79    o.88        8.7%
Technical Assistance
(including services
& recurrent costs)    7.25   11.82   19.07    0.55    0.91    I.L6       14.5%
Base Costs           62.41   68.68  131.09    4.80    5.28   10.08    100.0%
Contingencies
Physical (10%)       6.24    6.87   13.11    0.48    0.53    1.01
Price Increase
(56.9%)            39.12   31.15   70.2?    3.01    2.40    5.41
Sub-total           45.36   38.02   83.38    3.49    2.93    6.42
TOTAL              107.77  106.70  214.47    8.29    8.21   16.50
January 1976






BANGLAOESH
AGRICULTURAL. AND RURAL TRAINING PROJECT
Continanency Allowances (US8'OOO3
LSite Developmust              Constructioa                 Furniture                  Equipmsent           Professional Services    Tehic   AsetanceTTA
oclForeign  Total   Local  Foreigtn  Total_  Local  Foreign  Total   Local  PoreigLn  Total   Local  Forsiam  Total Lca    oeg    Total   LCal   oin  Total
1.  Total Base Costs                              489      163      652   3,084   3,086   6,170          187      282      469       87      789       876      395       54      4+49      557      909    1,466   4,799   5,283   10,082
2. physical Contingencies
(1                                       (lOS     (10)     (10)    (10)       (10)     (10)     (10)    (10)      (10)     (10)    (10)       (10)     (10)     (10)     (10)      (10)     (10)     (10)      (10)     (10)     (10)
Amount                                    49       16       65      308      309      617        19       28       47         9       79       88       40        3       45        56       91      147      481       528   1,009
3. Sub-total including
Physical Contingencies                       538       179     717   3,392   3,395   6,787          206      310       516       96      868      964      435        59      494      613   1,000   1,613   5,280   5,811  11,091
4. Price Increase Contingencies
(7.                                      (70)     (48)     (65)     (70)     (48)      (59)     (30)     (40)     (36)     (30)      (40)     (39)     (10)     (15)     (II)      (20)     (20)     (20)      (57)     (41)     (49)
Amunt                                    377       86      463   2,374   1,630   4,004           62      124      186       29      347       376       44        9        53      123      200      323   3.009   2,396   5,405
5. Total contingencies
Physical and Price Increase                 426      102      528   2,682   1,939   4,621           81      152      233        38      426      464       84        14       98      179      291      470   3,490   2,924   6,414
6. Total Project Costs
including Contingencies                     915      265   1,180   5,766   5,025  10,791           268      434      702       125   1,215   1,340        479       68       547      736    1,200    1,936   8,289   8,207  16,496
PRICE INCREALSE CALCULATIOIU
CIVIL WORKCS                                                                                 FURNITURE AND EqUUPMEN
Local                                          Foreanit                                           Local         --Foreign
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   Total   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   Total   1975   1976   1977   1978    1979   Total   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   Total
1. 3, of expected price                           1
increase per semester                     0 4-110 10  9 8  8 8  8  8                       0 4   7 7  6 6  6 6  6 6                          0 311/35  4 4  4 4  4 4                          0 3  5 5  4 4  4 44  4
2. Eapduditure phealng                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
(including advanced Procurement)          0  0    0  0  10 10  20 30  20  10   100                         10 15  25 25  15 10    100                                0  15 45 40    100                               55 35  10  0      10
3. Expected Price  )7                        0  4.1/ 14 26  37 48  60 73  87 102               0  4   11 19  26 34  42 50  59 69                 0  3-'/8 14  18  23  28  33 38 44                0  3   9 14  18 23  28 33  38 44
increases         ) Amount based on
)expenditure          0 0   0 04  512 22 1710   707.0 0   0 053511 1397    487.                                                                       5 1718S   407.                               15 11 40    307.
1/ For part of 1975. Base coats are estimates for October 1975.
November 1975



ANNEX 14
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL TRAINING PhDJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
1/                                                             Total Balance
Semester    Disbursement Each Semester  Accumulative Disbursement   Undisbursed
______US$'000)               %          US_ ($000)     US$OOO)
1           Nil           Nil             Nil            Nil            12.0
2           o.8           0.1             0.8            0.1            11.9
3           1.7           0.2             2.5            0.3            11.7
4           1.7           0.2             4.2            0.5            11.5
5           4.1           0.5             8.3            1.0            11.0
6          12.5           1.5             20.8           2.5             9.5
7          14.2           1.7             35.0           4.2             7.8
8          18.3           2.2             53.3           6.4             5.6
9          18.3           2.2             71.6           8.6             3.4
10          18.4           2.2             90.0          10.8             1.2
11          10.0           1.2            100.0          12.0             0.0
1/ Starting from the date of effectiveness.



BANGLADESH
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
|MEMBER          
|PRESIDENTS ADVISORY COUNCIL|
AGRICULTURAL                   CHAIRMAN      |SECRETARY                                                      AGRICULTU RALCI
INFORMATION SERVICE                BAISSC                     AGRICULTURE                                     RESEARCH COUNCIL
| ORGANIZATION |  |HEADQUARTERS
DIRECTOR                          ~~~~~~~DIRECTOR OF|
8RRI     ~AGRI. RESEARCHI                                AGRI, (EXT. & MGT.)
AND EDUCATION.                      
COLLEGE         INSTITUTESC    |    JUTE         EXT. & MGT.     EON. & TRG.
DY. DIR.     DY. DIRECTOR                         IRECTOR    DY. DIRECTOR
JUTE PROON.     EXT. & MGT.                     STATISTICS     PLANT PROTN.
JUTE EXT.       DISTRICT       PRINCIPAL       ASST. STAT.
OFFICER      AGRI. OFFICER       AETI.          OFFICER
SUB-DIVISIONAL   INSTRUCTOR                     PLANT PROTN.
AGRI. OFFICER      AETI.                         INSPECTOR
THANA AGRIJ                          A STAT.
EXT. OFFICER              '      INSPECTOR
JUTE EXT.   UAAVEA   ii,.nuuiulPT. PRIOTN.
AETI - AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION TRAINING INSTITUTES
UAA - UNION AGRICULTURAL ASSISTANT
VEA- VILLAGE EXTENSION AGENT
BAISSC - BANGLADESH AGRICULTURAL INPUTS, SUPPLIES AND SERVICES CORPORATION
BRRI - BANGLADESH RICE RESEARCH INSTITUTE                                          World Bank - 9082(R)






BANGLADESH
ORGANIZATION CHART
RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND COOPERATIVES                                                             CHART 2
SECRETARY
RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND
COOPERATIVES
Director General                                                      Registrar of
I RDP                                                           Cooperatives
Headquarters             FieldOrgnization           Field Organization           Headquarters                  Coperat
F 1                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZonalTCooper-
Traiension ad            District Director              Division                  Cret a                     ative Training
Extension  jjjc~~~~~~~~~jrecto11                            Mar~~~~~keting               Insti tute
Credit                    Thana
and                  Project Officers               District                  Industries
Cooperatives                 TCCA
Planning                      :
and                                               SubDivision                  Fisheries
Construction .
Administrative   1                         Th~~~         ~~~~ana     Amn
*               *     Cooperativ                  istration
*                 ~~~~~~Officer
3                    [3                      q      AuditAssistant
Inspector
Primary Societie  uasa14
World Bank-9080






BANGLADESH
Structure of the Education and Training System
University
B.Sc.                  M.Sc.
Intermediate or                4         
Higher Secondary        Training Institutes    *Academy
01tx  ..........
Poyehics                                 :Cooperative College
Secondary School Certificate
*    Higher School Certificate                          Training Institute
B. SC
Commercial
MSc                                                     Institutes
E    Non-formal (Irregular
duration and entrance
requirements)                                     Junior Training
VeterinaIry Trainin79
Institute
Marticulation    Pimary Training
o Seodar            Institute
Middle or Junior           ocation
High School               chool
Primary
Post
Primary                                       Secondary                         Secondary                    Graduate Level
Age        6       7        8        9       10          11       12      13         14       15        16       17       18        19       20                  22
II  111  i  i   i           i       II       i       ~     ~i   i          i        I   I              14      1115 
Grade                                                                                9 2  3  4  5  6  7  X  r  10  11  12  13        14      1r         16       17
World Bank-9081






cumhWf 4
AGlICtLTf3AL MMl IAL Td IIUIIIJIC?
UVIASiT1011 scWNXl
i  wylJso 0  rnsllNAjonJrl^JASOVMxiJsxss"Iwo
r' ~ ~       ~       ~       ~        z    D      ___________ Zss
Civil orlk.
lelection & ppnintOent of 0rthitett          O 0 0 0 0 O X X I X X
Poeperecior of  -chiiect-t-.l brief.                       X X X I X
Sketch pi...                                                      X X X X X
Con-rtet do.ente                                                          X X I X IIX X X
Tender periOd &                                                                       I ntre  .  x  x  I   I x
lIBRD ent.tivnenpo vionbpproval                            Ix         X X         X X         I X X            X                II
Construction                                                                                     XXXXXiXXiXiXXX           x    I X X X X X X X
lef.tn liebility period                                                                                                                  S X X X X X I X I I X I X I X
9goi-tont end F-roit.rn
Prnprotioronf -t-er litt                                       x         X X X X X X I  I x X
Prepao.tion of tender d..eot.                                                          x  t X X X
Tender period & contrt  -ds                                                                    I X X X   x  x
SYdO CeotOdire oepnOoiIi-n 6 opproonI X X                             XI X        X X        X X              X X               X X 
Yrocurenet delivery & inoet.lltloc                                                                          XIXIX XXXXXXXXXICIiIX X XXX XXXXj
Goereotee poniod                                                                                                                              X11.1 X     X  X  X  X  X  X   I X   I X
r.ehoic.1 M.iO.lt-nc 
Solootiot nf e-te. 5 4 k -pp.-.'p ol               0 u 0  X X X X
iopert * rvicee                                               X      XXXX          XXXX      XXlX      XXXX i      XiI Iii  Xlii Ii  iIliXiX XX  XX
Intention oE ceododaten for felvoefeipI    I                                         I         I I                I I I           II   I                     X  X X       
P          fllo.,ehip. coioinSpeodXX IfXi Xhi pX X X X X X X XXX
C. GlRDUAtE Iti-SIRVICC  TilKlNIN  - rnEIl1lfi
Civil Work.
S.l.ction & tppelnOtt of nobicecte           0 0 0 0   0  I X X X X
Ponproetion of erchitootornl biift                        X X X X X
k.to,h pl.-                                                       X X X X X
Conirnot docntn                                                           X X X  X X X
Tender period & c-.trn. t ndod                                                        X X X X I
IBkO centttion sopervlnion f. epprotl                     X X         I I        I X           X X            I X               I X
ConeorucIion                                                                                   XI X  K X X X X XiXXX X X I X   I X
lof.ct. liability period                                                                                                        I  II I  X  K X X X X X X XX
Rwign.t end pot-it-en
Preperncion ofe.neterlinfe                                    XK KtI X    XXXX   
Pteperntlot of ronder dountsee                                                     X X X X X I I
Teoder period fecetoto-t exveed.                                                               Xii X     i Y i 
1111D teetativO e p.r inioc & eppeovel                    X X         X X        xI X        X   x              X                X
Trocoreeor deivery 6 intlltion                                                                             X - t  X X X X I  X X X
loereotne period                                                                                                                    IiX    IIiiiiliiii X X X X X X X
tookutoal iseietOece
8lec1tin of e-perte & B.0k epprovol                   0 0    x x X
ubp-rt .erI-e                                                     X X X X X X I I I X X I X I X X X X   X X X I X I X X X X X C I II I X X X X X XX
F  oeoertn *IXIDK                                                                    Ilfxl           iiiSt 5II~Ki                    iiK        it i
Civil loom
Selection & .ppOiOt.-t of .r-hitct           O O O O O G  X X I IX
PoepeoOtion ef erchi-ct.rl boif.                           x I X IIt
Sketch pl..n                                                         x I X I
Co-tr-et donoeni                                                          X I t   X XX
Tender period b  nt-ect -nrde                                                         x     X X X
IDXD nentetive eIperoiIioo bI opprovel                     X X           XI  I I X           X                            I  I
Coneiorction                                                                                   XX  X1X1 iiXXXXIXII
DIfecte liebility period                                                                                                  x   I I I X   x  I I I t II
Teoipe.   d     t.nittre
Pr peoCtloO *f .eeeeo fist.                              |    XI XX IX XliS  xx
IeUp  t.tot of                   - nd r d _t                                        * x IX      I X                x             I
Tender peolod & rontr^ei    s                                                                        x          II  XlI I  x i  I     I
1011D notontiv eouperoieioe 6 oprovel                      X X             X         I X        I              I I X X           X X                t
Poocooi_neni delicery & inetell-tino                                                                       IXi      x Xx X      XXXX XX
Teefenicel kaleitence
Sel..tiot of *npQrt. & Xok  pprovl                  I         x O 1 X X X
Yxp rt *Tr,i,-$                                                   X xXXIIX      x                        XXXXXXXXXX






l6~~tTRRkBrgBB ~ ~ ~ ~   ~          50         SR
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
(1                                                                                                                        08~~~~~~~~~~~1 e i
B   RtC'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S'  -                                                                        B            R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ronqpur                                                                                     RB~~~~~~~~~~~00          "
N                             R   B .~~~~~~~~~~B<~ph- l                                              AL
AjpIJg                                             N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Ai  W                               ,A                                 3
tB-    04                                         C-
7'                                                Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                                                                    A A
'I               22   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_' UXQ .
AU2~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
5 7             DOBOBOR
Ag~-
OGRA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RNDMA 
1            OBOBO            -~~~~~~~~~~~~~MYEN 
K.1y.Ap.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0oBB
HoOB~~~~~~~~H 
B  QBBBBO~~~~r  ~~                      BPAfiAAGAHLALLI\
-AN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0?RB~A'                                                                                                                            Pty
/           B.~~~.d
Rood.  c   OBORIOR    oB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%r~                                    i : i 
40OA    S                                                                                            Ld      2        o       O       S
A.   ~ ~    ~      C000                                                                                          BARISALB.B102 



