FILE COPY                                  Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-1780-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR AN
AGRI]CULTURAL AND RURAL TRAINING PROJECT
March 2, 1976
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents msy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUI.VALENTS -/
Currency Unit       m    Bangladesh Taka (Tk)
US$1                     Tk 13.0
Tk 1                -    US$0.076
Tk 1,000            -    US$76.92
Tk 1,000,000        -    US$76,923
GLOSSARY
aman      -    rice planted before the monsoon (April - November)
and harvested in November or December
aus       -    rice planted in March or April and harvested in
July or August
boro      -    winter rice planted in October or November and
harvested during the period April to June
thana     -    administrative unit below district
union     -    administrative unit below the thana
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED
AETI      -    Agriculture Extension Training Institute
ATI       -    Agriculture Training Institute
BAU       -    Bangladesh Agricultural University at Mymensingh
CARE      -    Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere
CERI      -    Central Extension Resources Institute
DCA       -    Development Credit Agreement
FAO       -    Food and Agriculture Organization (UN)
HYV       -    High Yielding Varieties
IRDP      -    Integrated Rural Development Program
JEA       -    Jute Extension Agent
NCRT      -    National Committee on Rural Training
PIU       -    Project Implementation Unit
TAO       -    Thana Agricultural Officer
TCCA      -    Thana Central Cooperative Association
TEO       -    Thana Extension Officer
TTDC      -    Thana Training and Development Center
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
UAA       -    Union Agricultural Assistant
VEA       -    Village Extension Agent
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
The taka is officially valued at 29.9844 to the pound sterling.   The
pound now floats relative to the US Dollar and, as a consequence, the
Taka-US Dollar rate is subject to change. The exchange rate used in
preparing the data for this report is Tk 13.0 to US$1, the rate pre-
vailing at the time of preparing the report.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT: AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE E2tECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE l'EOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent
of US$12 million on standard IDA terms, to help finance an Agricultural and
Rural Training Project..
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh: Devel-
opment in a Rural Econcimy" (Report No. 455b-BD, dated September 15, 1974), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on October 1, 1974. An economic
mission was in the field during January and February 1975, to assess progress
since the Basic Report was written. The mission's report, entitled "Bangladesh:
The Current Economic Situation and Short-term Outlook" (Report No. 710a-BD,
dated May 2, 1975), was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 5, 1975.
A mission to assess economic prospects for the forthcoming year was in the
field from November 20 to December 9, 1975. Its report is being written.
3.        On August 15 a military coup ousted the Government of Mujibur
Rahman replacing him as President by Khondaker Mushtaque Ahmed, formerly
Minister of Commerce and Foreign Trade. However, events beginning on November
3, 1975, apparently caused by dissension within the armed forces, culminated
in further political changes. President Ahmed resigned in favor of a former
Chief Justice of Bangladesh, A.S.M. Sayem. Martial law is in effect country-
wide, with the new President serving as Chief Martial Law Administrator. The
three chiefs of the defense services are serving as Deputy Chief Martial Law
Administrators. The three Deputy Martial Law Administrators and six civilians
have been appointed to form a President's Advisory Council. Each of these
has a responsibility for several ministries. The new Government has confirmed
its commitment to the reform program begun in May 1975 with the devaluation
of the Taka and the agreement with the IMF.   More specifically, the new
Government confirmed that it intended to introduce such further economic
reforms as subsidy reduction, agricultural taxation, and import liberalization.
Whatever the longer-term objectives and orientation of the new Government
might be, the fundamental problems of the country, namely over-population,
weak administration, inadequate infrastructure and insufficient resources will
continue to confront Bangladesh.
4.        Economic progress since independence has been inadequate. Agri-
cultural output remains insufficient for a population growing at 3% a
year. Industrial output, heavily dependent upon imports, has been badly
affected by the scarcity of foreign exchange. State enterprises are often
handicapped by management deficiencies, excessive government controls, short-
ages and price regulation. Exports have been stagnant and barely finance
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
a quarter of import needs. The external sector has suffered from severe
import controls and inappropriate pricing of foreign exchange. Government
revenue has been insufficient to meet current and development expenditure
needs. Maintenance of the wide gap between national output and expenditure
depends on large flows of external assistance.
5.        The short-term orientation of the decision making process has been
a manifestation of Bangladesh's severe problems, especially the concern over
ensuring adequate food supplies. Drought and other natural adversities also
undermined the recovery efforts, bringing 1972/73 per capita GDP to about
80% of the 1969/70 level. Substantial increases in production during 1973/74
brought GDP to about 95% of the 1969/70 level. Unfortunately, this momentum
was not sustained in 1974/75. Severe flooding damaged standing crops and
reduced rice output. In addition, the foreign exchange crisis that developed
around mid-1974 slowed down the flow of imports and industrial recovery.
Despite some growth in the construction and service sectors, output in 1974/
75 has been estimated to be only 2% higher than in the previous year. Given
a 3% increase in population, this implies a decline of 1% in per capita
income.
6.        Even a healthy, well-managed economy would have been badly hurt
by the adverse shifts in the terms of trade which Bangladesh experienced
especially from 1973 onward. For Bangladesh the impact has been severe:
in 1973/74 the average prices of imports rose by some 56% and of exports by
about 7%. Export volumes did not reach projected levels, so that the gap
between foreign exchange expenditures and receipts widened greatly. In
1974/75 the average cost of imports increased by a further 23% while average
export prices rose by 21%. However export volumes, especially of jute and
jute goods declined, offsetting the export price effect. Bangladesh's trade
problems are compounded by dependence on annual food imports of 1-2 million
tons, even in years of favorable weather and by heavy reliance on imported
industrial raw materials and spares.
7.        Inflation in Bangladesh was about 60% in 1974/75.   The high level
of monetary expansion, combined with severe shortages of consumer goods,
especially food, insufficient raw materials and spares for industrial
operations, have been some of the causes of rapid inflation. There have
been other factors too: the severe import controls and erratic supplies
have encouraged speculation and hoarding. Beneficiaries of import licenses
have taken advantage of an unsatisfied domestic demand to reap scarcity
premia. In the face of the deteriorating situation, particularly regard-
ing the balance of payments, the Government in May 1975 indicated its in-
tention to introduce a series of economic reforms and, as a first step, it
adjusted the exchange rate from Tk 18.9 = L 1 to Tk 30 = t 1.
A&ricultural Production
8.        The gravest economic problem has been the food shortage.   During
the last five years, except in 1973/74, production of foodgrain has suffered



- 3 -
from drought, cyclones and floods. The devastating floods of 1974/75 reduced
foodgrain output by about one million tons. The Government launched a Spe-
cial Agricultural Rehabilitation Program to expand output of winter crops to
moderate the effects of the floods, but it was largely unsuccessful due to
a failure to procure seeds in time. Along with weather and natural calami-
ties, the poor crop production can also be blamed on fertilizer shortages,
lack of expansion of high yielding variety (HYV) acreage and failure to
meet irrigation targel:s. HYV acreage in 1974/75, for example, fell from
the 1973/74 figure of 2.0 million acres to 1.2 million acres. A recent
HYV task force found considerable overestimation of HYV acreage which now
may actually be as low as 500,000.
9.        A total of over 4 million tons of foodgrain was imported in 1973/74
and 1974/75 because production fell short of the country's requirements. In
1975/76, estimated imports of 1.5 million tons will be required even if the
Government production target is met; any shortfall will naturally increase
the import requirements.
10.       The rapid increase in the domestic price of rice over the past
three years has adversely affected the production of jute, Bangladesh's
second most important crop and the source of about 85% of its foreign ex-
change earnings. Farners have switched jute land to rice cultivation, thus
bringing jute productLon down sharply from its 1972/73 production of 6.6
million bales to 6.0 million bales in 1973/74 and 4.0 million bales in
1974/75. To restore jute production to its former level the jute farmgate
price should have beeia increased and announced before the planting season
which began in March 1975. Unfortunately, no minimum price was set in time,
and as a result, the jute acreage declined further. However, thanks to
favorable weather, the 1975/76 crop is presently estimated at 4.5 million
bales.
11.       The high foreign price set by Bangladesh together with the world
wide recession had adversely affected the raw jute sales which declined
rapidly from 3.3 million bales in 1973/74 to 1.0 million bales in 1974/75.
Because of this decline in sales, stocks of approximately 1.5 million bales
are on hand for the 1975/76 season, an average level for recent years. The
May 1975 devaluation of the Taka should allow an increase in the domestic
farmgate price of jute and should help raise the acreage. The recent devalua-
tion could in addition permit a decrease in the export price of jute and
jute goods (expressed, in foreign exchange) and should make them more compet-
itive abroad provided marketing and production costs are controlled. A
recovery of world demand could lead to an increase in export earnings from
jute and jute goods in 1975/76 even at reduced prices; however this recovery
has been slow due to a continuation of the world economic recession. In the
longer run a rapid expansion of the area under the Intensive Jute Cultivation
Scheme (IJCS), a well defined research effort, better storage, transportation
and jute collection techniques, and improved shipping facilities will be
essential to sustain increased jute production.



- 4 -
12.       Thus, in the agricultural sector, priority needs to be given to
increasing foodgrain output with special attention being given to prompt
provision of adequate agricultural inputs, credit, storage facilities and
streamlined marketing systems. Some progress has been made in recent years,
but much still remains to be accomplished.
Industrial Production
13.       The manufacturing sector, although accounting presently for about
7-8% of gross domestic product, is an important element in the Bangladesh
economy. It produces basic consumer goods, provides agriculture with fer-
tilizer and other key inputs, and contributes towards export earnings and
government revenue. The public sector comprises most medium and large-scale
industry while the private sector consists mainly of small scale enter-
prises. Existing industrial capacity--most of which was built before in-
dependence--has not been fully utilized.
14.       Many components of the industrial sector registered substantial
increases in output in 1973/74, due primarily to increased availability of
imported raw materials and spare parts and reduced labor unrest. Program
lending by IDA and other bilateral foreign economic assistance was instrum-
ental in making additional imports available, yet production in most indus-
tries was still below target, and for many industries even below the 1969/70
levels. Shortages of imported materials emerged again as a result of the
payments crisis of 1974 and affected output severely.
15.       In 1974/75, the overall level of industrial output appears to have
been below that of the previous year, largely due to an 11% decline in the
output of jute manufactures. Nevertheless there are important areas of
improvement in performance among many industries based on local resources,
particularly those which are export-oriented, such as sugar, tea and leather
which exceeded pre-independence production levels. However, in the case of
fertilizer (using local natural gas), the explosion at the Ghorasal Fertilizer
Factory, which put the plant out of operation for almost nine months, resulted
in a sharp reduction in urea output; the plant is now back in operation.
16.       Among the other industries, largely or fully dependent upon
imported raw materials and intermediate goods, there are wide variations
in performance, reflecting the priorities of the Government in allocating
its limited foreign exchange resources and, to a lesser extent, the avail-
ability in world markets of their input requirements which changed sharply
during the course of the year. The production of both cotton cloth and
yarn shows an improvement over the previous year and the production of
cloth in the mill sector is much higher than in 1969/70. Preliminary
data for output of cement, diesel engines and pumps also show increases,
but those for edible oils, footwear, commercial vehicles and matches show
declines.
17.       Prospects for 1975/76 vary substantially among different industries.
The jute industry should benefit from the exchange adjustment. The cotton



- 5 -
textile industry, which has a protected domestic market, should show con-
tinued improvement, provided sufficient foreign exchange is available for
importing raw materials. Fertilizer production should pick up during
1975/76 as the GhorasEil plant reopened in June 1975. The export possibili-
ties of those brancheE based on domestic raw materials have been improved
considerably by the exchange rate adjustment; these include not only jute
goods, leather, processing of shrimp and fish and tea which are basically
export-oriented, but also products such as newsprint and sugar which have
recently entered external markets. For both these groups of products, how-
ever, export performance will depend upon the success achieved in increasing
output. Most other irndustries, which are heavily dependent on imported raw
materials and spares, will need to rationalize production, increase pro-
ductivity and improve pricing policies. Progress in these matters is very
slow. Industrial performance in all sectors will be influenced by the extent
of labor unrest as well as by management efficiency.
Recent Economic Refornms
18.       Bangladesh, on May 17, 1975, adjusted its exchange rate from
Tk. 18.9 = b 1 to Tk. 30 = b 1. At the same time, it abolished the multiple
exchange rates it had applied to inward remittances and foreign travel,
export subsidies and the import license tax. It also announced that some
import liberalization would be introduced and import procedures streamlined.
In July 1975, Bangladesh entered into a Standby Arrangement with IMF,
enabling it to draw the equivalent of two tranches under the Regular Facility
(about US$75 million) between October 15, 1975 and July 28, 1976. During the
World Bank/IMF Annual Meetings, the Bangladesh delegation reconfirmed their
Government's determination to implement the provisions of the Standby Agree-
ment.
19.       The inadequate export performance in recent years is the principal
justification for a change in the exchange rate and exports are expected to
be the principal beneficiaries of the adjustment. The new exchange rate has
enabled jute purchasing agencies to offer a higher jute price for the current
season. This should lead to recovery of some of the jute land switched to
rice in recent years. The Aus rice crop (transplanted between March and
mid-April) is the principal competitor for jute land, though some of the
land under Aman rice (transplanted between July and mid-September) could
also be planted with jute. A switch back to jute obviously would reduce the
total rice crop. The maximum diversion of rice acreage to jute has been
estimated at about 2.5% of the rice acreage. On this basis, the possible
reduction in potential rice output could be about 225,000 tons. Even at
the lower post-devaluation export prices, the recovery in volume of jute
production and exports should mean additional foreign exchange earnings that
would enable imports of wheat in amounts at least three times as large as the
foregone rice output. In addition, there would be employment benefits, as
jute is more labor intensive than rice.
20.       The export of jute manufactures is still constrained by the inter-
national economic recession, affecting particularly such items as carpet



- 6 -
backing and hessian. Stocks of hessian have been reasonably high in import-
ing countries. Nevertheless the devaluation, by permitting downward adjust-
ments in the export prices of Bangladesh's jute products, has restored
importer interest and there have been some indications of an increase in
orders.  Should consumer demand recover during 1975/76, and should the
prices of synthetic substitutes rise due to cost inflation, as the trade
expects, the improved competitive position of jute products could lead to
a recovery in exports.  The evidence on this score has been very poor.   The
exchange adjustment should also provide some relief towards eliminating
operating losses of the jute manufacturing industry.  These losses resulted
from the necessity to maintain export prices (determined by international
competition), at levels much below domestic production costs. Government
policy forced the major share of the burden of financing these deficits on
the commercial banks. The higher taka receipts from the exchange adjustment
should permit the industry to discharge some of its accumulated debts to
banks thereby improving its capital structure presently characterized by
excessive debt and inadequate equity.
21.       The budget for 1975/76 projects an improved fiscal performance
including a large current account surplus, resulting from an increase in
current revenues substantially larger (27%) than the projected growth in
current expenditure (13%). Revenue returns for the first quarter indicate
a shortfall of 10-15%, but the authorities expect that compensatory increases
in succeeding quarters should enable targets to be reached. Most of the
revenue increase would result from sales taxes and from higher import duty
yields. Efforts to control inflation will be helped not only through achieving
a current account surplus, but also by the demonetization of 100 taka notes
in May 1975, and strict controls over the expansion of bank credit. The
fiscal/monetary measures agreed with the IMF include control over credit and
monetary expansion, and limits on bank financing for the budget. Other
important policy measures, however, are still needed. No action has been
announced as yet on several key problems which, if resolved, would considerably
improve the prospects for 1975/76 and later years: the need to reduce heavy
food subsidies; the need to increase direct taxation, especially of agricul-
tural incomes and particularly those of large farmers; and the need for
improved financial performance of state enterprises.
Balance of Payments and External Assistance
22.       Bangladesh commenced 1975/76 with an improved external payments
position. Stocks of foodgrain, which were at a very low level on July 1,
1974, were up by about 300,000 tons to 528,000 tons. The aid pipeline of
approximately US$1.2 billion was almost US$400 million higher than it was
on July 1, 1974. The pipelines for food and commodity aid were somewhat
higher than a year earlier and the pipeline of project aid was 60% greater.
Bangladesh's international reserves by end of FY75 were estimated at US$269
million, or more than double the level on July 1, 1974.
23.       Merchandise exports are expected to reach about US$420 million.
This is predicated on an improvement in the world economic climate and a
revival of demand for jute. It should permit a reduction in the high level



of stocks of jute goods in Bangladesh. Provided supplies are adequate and
export prices are competitive, Bangladesh should increase the volume and value
of jute exports in 1975/76. However, in view of the continued recession,
it is possible that the anticipated level of exports may not be achieved. It
should also be possible to maintain or improve the level of earnings from
tea, sugar and leather, as compared to 1974/75, since favorable demand
conditions for these products should continue in 1975/76 and as the exchange
adjustment improves their competitiveness.
24.       Merchandise imports are projected at US$1,370 million in 1975/76.
Foodgrain imports are projected at 1.5 million tons. Because of favorable
weather, foodgrain output has conformed to estimates; hence it should enable
Bangladesh to meet normal consumption requirements and build up foodgrain
stocks further to about 728,000 tons. Capital goods imports are estimated
at US$250 million, murh of which could be disbursed from the existing project
pipeline. Raw materials, intermediate and consumer goods amount to US$820
million, or US$320 million in excess of the level of comparable imports in
1974/75.
25.       The externaL capital requirements of Bangladesh are estimated to
be about US$1,200 milLion in 1975/76. This level of capital inflow should
enable Bangladesh to achieve a level of imports sufficient to permit a modest
rate of growth, to provide for any contingencies resulting from unforeseen
changes in foodgrain output or industrial needs, and to build up reserves
to a level that would enable it to deal with temporary imbalances between
receipts and payments. The Government now expects to disburse at least
US$550 million from the pipeline of US$1.2 billion on July 1, 1975. This
would leave a sum of US$650 million to be disbursed out of new commitments
in 1975/76.
26.       Following the Aid Group meeting held in June 1975, revised estimates
made by the Government and reviewed with IDA show that disbursements from the
Aid Group out of new commitments in 1975/76 could amount to about US$525 mil-
lion. The Standby Arrcangement with the International Monetary Fund (para-
graph 18) would enable Bangladesh to draw a sum of US$75 million from the
Regular Facility by the end of July, 1976, and US$32 million may be available
from the Oil Facility. A further US$35 million of disbursements from non-Aid
Group sources is feas:Lble. This would about bridge the deficit in the balance
of payments; however, IDA feels that the Government's estimates of disburse-
ments out of the pipeline existing on July 1, 1975 may be too optimistic.
On the other hand, some members of the Aid Group have not as yet estimated
their expected disburs;ements out of new commitments, while others have indi-
cated the possibility of increasing their contribution. The ability of
Bangladesh to disburse the required volume of aid will depend ultimately on
the speed with which agreements are signed and the aid utilized. IDA has
encouraged members of the Bangladesh Aid Group to increase the proportion
of their aid which can achieve the rapid transfer of resources the country
continues to require to expand agriculture output, maximize capacity utiliza-
tion in industry, increase employment and expand exports. In 1975/76
Bangladesh will need aid disbursements from commodity assistance of an un-
usually large magnitude. IDA has therefore encouraged donors to increase
program credit commitments to Bangladesh.



-8 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
27.       After Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and the Association
in August 1972, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated initially
on reactivation of IDA credits for uncompleted projects financed under
credits to Pakistan before the independence of Bangladesh. Eleven such
credits in an aggregate amount of US$151.35 million (including US$44.1
million for the repayment of amounts that had been disbursed under the cor-
responding previous credits to Pakistan) have been made to Bangladesh.
To date, twelve new credits have been made, totalling US$412.2 million. Of
these, US$275.0 million have been for program credits. The project credits
have emphasized agricultural development, but also included amounts for
population, telecommunications and transport.
28.       Negotiations are underway between the Government of Bangladesh and
the various bilateral and multilateral donors concerning the assumption by
Bangladesh of a portion of the debt contracted by Pakistan before Bangladesh
became independent. Until such negotiations are complete, it is not possible
to estimate precisely Bangladesh's total public indebtedness, or its total
debt service. With respect to the Bank Group, Bangladesh has agreed to
accept liability for certain debt for projects visibly located in Bangladesh
and completed before independence. Agreements for a Consolidation Loan of
about US$54.9 million and a Consolidation Credit of about US$31.0 million
(based on January 1, 1960 exchange rates) were signed on February 14, 1975.
29.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of January 31, 1976, and notes on the status of
execution of ongoing projects. In October 1975, Bangladesh applied for member-
ship in IFC. After an initial slow start, disbursement performance under
the program credits has been good, keeping pace with the estimates made
during appraisal. In contrast, disbursements under project credits have
lagged far behind expectations. Reasons for this include Government pro-
cedures for hiring consultants and for awarding procurement and civil works
contracts, and shortages of construction materials such as cement. Various
ways of improving this situation are being discussed with the Government.
Monthly meetings to discuss project implementation issues were initiated in
January 1975, both in Washington and in Dacca. Recent signs of progress
have included some improvements in Government procedures for reviewing tender
awards and consultants contracts, and the establishment of a Project Implement-
ation Bureau, to monitor the progress of projects and to assist in breaking
bottlenecks. While there has been an improvement in disbursement performance
over the past year, much more needs to be done to improve project implementa-
tion procedures so as to permit projects to proceed on schedule.
30.       As stated previously, Bangladesh's severe balance of payments
difficulties require that increased amounts of aid be given in a flexible,
fast disbursing fashion. Program lending should therefore remain a feature
of IDA assistance. For the next several years the requirements of existing
productive capacity will remain high for the types of goods - spares, com-
ponents and raw materials - financed by IDA program credits. However, long-
term improvement in the Bangladesh economy can be expected only if sound



policies, programs, and development projects are pursued. Thus, projects
of the highest priority must also be supported. Given its low per capita
income, Bangladesh's investment requirements cannot be met entirely from local
resources. In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position,
IDA Credits should cover all foreign exchange costs. Taking into account
the level of financing expected to be available from other external lenders,
and in order to direct IDA lending to those sectors (such as agricultural and
rural development) where the percentage of foreign exchange costs is relatively
low, the financing of local currency expenditures is also justified. The
Association recognizes the prime importance of the agricultural sector and
of efforts to close Bangladesh's food gap. The Population Project, approved
in early 1975, fits within the strategy of reducing the food gap in the
future. The Ashuganj Fertilizer Project, the Barisal Irrigation Project
and the Karnafuli Irrigation Project (approved by the Executive Directors
on January 20, 1976) are designed to assist in increasing food production
in the more immediate f'uture. The currently proposed project fits within
this last category of projects, and as such, it must be accorded a high priority.
31.       Other priority projects are at an advanced stage of preparation -
many of them in the agricultural sector. These include irrigation works in
the Muhuri area, a rura.l development project and a shallow tubewell project.
A development finance company project is also expected to be ready for con-
sideration in the near future. While development of the rural sector must
have top priority, the growth of other sectors cannot be neglected. Particular
emphasis should be placed upon projects which provide infrastructure for the
rural sector or process or provide outlets for its products, or which reduce
the strain on Bangladesh's foreign exchange resources. Several sector studies
supported by the Association - for example in industry and transportation
(also assisted by the United Kingdom) - should help the Government and the
Association to develop a suitable pipeline of projects consonant with mutual
assessments of economic priorities. Further economic studies will be oriented
to the same goal. Finally, the Association has provided funds under the
Technical Assistance Credit to assist the Government in preparing development
projects for financing by the Association and other lenders.
PART III - RIJRAL TRAINING
32.       Despite the fact that about 75% of the people are dependent on
farming or agricultural labor for their income and that 90% of the cultivated
land is used to grow rice, Bangladesh does not produce enough food for its
own requirements.- Even in a normal year some 10% of foodgrain supply is
imported, while in drought years the proportion can be as high as 30% (para-
graph 9).-
33.       Agriculture provides some 55% of the nation's output, and directly
and indirectly, over 90% of its foreign exchange earnings. Increased agri-
cultural production is therefore vitally important to the well-being of the
80 million people of Bangladesh. This increased production depends on an
adequate supply of inputs, including seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, credit
and technical advice on how to use them.



- 10 -
34.       A complex system of rural institutions has been developed to
provide services to farmers. At present however, most of these institutions
are functioning poorly. Financial, administrative and manpower constraints
limit the capacity of these institutions to provide the intended services.
35.       The Agriculture Extension Service under the Ministry of Agriculture,
the basic vehicle for providing technical advice to farmers, functions at
the Division, Subdivision, District, Thana and Union levels. It employs
about 4,200 Union Agricultural Assistants (UAAs) as field extension workers
(one extension worker per 2,000 farm families), who are supervised by 413 Thana
Agricultural Officers (TAOs). Parallel with the extension service, a cadre
of specialized Jute Extension Assistants (JEA) has been developed since 1971.
36.       The Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP), under the Ministry
of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives is an effort to extend
some of the rural development programs and concepts developed at the Comilla
Academy on a nationwide scale. The objective of the program is to use local
cooperatives (grouped into Thana Central Cooperative Associations - TCCAs)
as a mechanism for coordinating and integrating services to farmers, in-
cluding farmer training, credit, inputs, marketing, and rural works activities.
In addition to the agricultural credit provided through the TCCAs, credit is
available to farmers through the traditional cooperatives, the Bangladesh
Agricultural Development Bank, the Bangladesh Cooperative Bank, and some
(nationalized) commercial banks, but it is estimated that 85-90% of rural credit
needs are met from non-institutional sources. The IRDP, in collaboration
with the extension service, provides training at the Thana Training and
Development Centers (TTDCs), focusing on the training of group leaders (model
farmers and village cooperative managers) who are expected in turn to train
other members of the cooperatives. The training provided to farmers by the
IRDP and the extension service are supposed to be complementary: the former
is to provide motivation and basic training on a regular basis, while the
latter is to provide more specialized training and information.
37.       At present, farmer training is ineffective due to the many con-
straints the two main farmer training programs face. The extension service,
one approach to farmer training, has a broad infrastructure but its programs
tend to be obsolete and diffuse, seldom focusing on specific attainable
objectives. The technical advice given by extension workers is often behind
practical research findings. The staff is poorly trained and handicapped by
a lack of transportation facilities and training materials. An effective
extension service to support rural development programs would require better
extension programs, communication materials, staff training and a reorganized
field service.
38.       The other approach to farmer training developed at Comilla, which
focuses on training group leaders, worked well initially on a pilot basis
but deteriorated in effectiveness when it was expanded to a nationwide pro-
gram. It needs to be revitalized by the development of new teaching pro-
grams, better training for trainers, the development of more effective
teaching materials, the provision of adequate training aids, and the intro-
duction of more specific training closely related to the cropping seasons.
In addition, experiments should be undertaken to determine the effectiveness
of the establishment of training units adjacent to the TTDCs with facilities



- 11 -
for training, and programs for coordinating the services of the TCCAs and the
agricultural extension staff.
39.       Training of staff for these rural services is provided mainly at
the following institutions: the Bangladesh Agricultural University (BAU)
at Mymens-ingh, the Comilla Academy for Rural Development, Agriculture Ex-
tension Training Institutes (AETIs), TTDCs, the Cooperative College at Comilla,
and Zonal Cooperative Training Institutes. These institutions have made val-
uable contributions in the past, but are inadequate to meet present and future
rural development requi:rements. Rural training institutions have grown hap-
hazardly, and with frequently overlapping activities and sometimes with under-
utilization of facilities; better coordinations is required among them. Mid-
dle-level (techinician) training has been seriously neglected. Many institu-
tions still suffer froim physical damage, dislocation and loss of staff due
to the war, and from poor teaching and inadequate funding of training programs.
40.       The First Five-Year Plan of the Government of Bangladesh places
a high priority on the development of agriculture and the rural sector.
The short-term objectives of the Plan are to achieve self-sufficiency in
the production of foodgrains and to increase export earnings (about 90%
of which are currently agriculturally based). The Plan outlines an ambitious
program for rural development, which would entail increasing the number of
extension workers from about 4,200 to 16,000 over a five year period, and
increasing the number of IRDP primary (village) cooperatives from 14,000
to 39,000 (there are about 65,000 villages in Bangladesh). However, current
financial constraints have led the Government to scale down many plans and
programs to more realistic levels.
41.       A feasible agriculture extension program would involve a gradual
increase of the number of extension workers to about 10,000 in 1990. This
would provide one extension worker per 1,100 farm families, a satisfactory
ratio in an extension system relying on model farmers, together with improve-
ments in extension materials, organization and staff training. Realizing the
present serious understaffing of field level extension officers, the Ministry
of Agriculture has begun a sustained program for training and employing
increasing numbers of oiEficers at the thana and union levels.   The plan is to
create two new levels ofE officers:  Thana Extension Officers (TEOs) and Village
Extension Agents (VEAs), who will ultimately replace the existing Thana Agri-
cultural Officers (TAOs) and Union Agricultural Assistants (UAAs).    The TEO would
be better qualified than the existing TAO.   The TEO would supervise the VEAs
who, in turn, would each cover several villages.   During the transition period,
it is expected that the TAO would assist the TEO in his work and that the VEAs
would serve in priority rice growing areas, while the UAAs would be reassigned
to other areas. Thus far, 56 TEOs have been recruited; and 226 VEA are being
trained. Refresher courses for TAOs and UAAs instructors are being conducted.
42.       Within this context, a Central Extension Research Institute (CERI)
is being established with assistance from the Government of Japan to translate
research findings of other agencies into extension programs, to develop cur-
curicula for middle-level rural training institutions, to develop publications,



- 12 -
audiovisual aids and other training materials for the extension service, to
provide in-service training for teaching staff, and to evaluate the effective-
ness of agricultural extension programs. UNDP has an ongoing project (with FAO)
to develop agricultural-extension; the focus is teacher training for the AETIs,
but the project covers the entire agricultural extension system. Further
technical assistance for the extension service, possibly including assistance
from UNDP and the Government of Japan, is expected.
43.       A realistic goal for the IRDP program would be the establishment
of about 30,000 primary cooperatives by the early 1980s. To support this goal
for expansion of the IRDP program of farmer training, credit and cooperative
development, the Government is planning to: (a) extend the Comilla approach
by establishing a new Regional Academy at Bogra to conduct research on adapta-
tion of the concepts developed at Comilla to problems of small farmers and
landless workers and to the specific conditions of other regions; (b) strengthen
the Cooperative College and the Zonal Cooperative Training Institutes to train
practicing cooperative officers and new field staff; and (c) revitalize the
model farmer training program through improvement in the curriculum and better
training for the trainers. SIDA is currently considering a proposal from the
Government of Bangladesh to finance a number of Zonal Cooperative Training
Institutes, along with technical assistance for these Institutes and the Co-
operative College.
44.       The Government has established an interministerial National Comittee
on Rural Training under the Ministry of Planning to integrate rural training
policies with a view to adopting a more rational division of responsibility
among existing training institutions, which should result, inter alia, in
greater coordination between extension and TTDC activities. The objective is
to establish a comprehensive and integrated long-term plan for strengthening
the rural training system, improve its efffectiveness and enhance its contri-
butions to rural development.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       Under the Education Project (Credit No 407-BD, 1973), training is
being provided for university level agricultural students. The proposed
Agricultural and Rural Training Project would be the Bank Group's first ope-
ration involving middle-level agricultural training. In March 1974, the FAO/
IBRD Cooperative Program helped the Bangladesh Government prepare the proposed
project. The project was appraised in July 1974. Negotiations for the pro-
posed credit took place in Washington in August 1975. The Government of
Bangladesh was represented by a team led by Mr. Korshed Alam, Secretary,
Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives. The Appraisal
Report (Report No. 680b-BD, dated February 18, 1976) on the proposed project
is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Attached as
Annex III is a Development Credit and Project Summary.



- 13 -
Project Scope
46.       The proposed project aims at increasing agricultural production by
bringing farmers more ef'fective extension, cooperative and credit services.
This objective would be attained in two phases. The initial phase, under the
proposed project, would stress improvement and expansion of staff training
programs, and studies ar,d pilot programs to determine methods for improving
the effectiveness of rural institutions. A second phase , based upon the
studies carried out during the first phase, would be expected to concentrate
on better organization cf extension and rural development services at the thana
level.
A riculture Extension Training
47.       Graduate Level. In-Service Training Unit.  A Graduate Level In-
Service Training Unit would be established under the project at the Bangladesh
Agricultural University (BAU) to (a) provide periodic in-service training for
graduate officers engaged in rural development and teachers at extension
institutions and, (b) orient the research and teaching of the University
more directly to practical problems of rural development. This component of
the project would include hostel facilities for 60 participants simultaneously;
the trainees would have access to the existing teaching facilities at BAU.
The Unit, under BAU's Department of Agricultural Extension, would train about
480 persons annually. The Ministry of Agriculture would help BAU implement
this part of the project: (Section 3.06(b) of the Development Credit Agreement
- DCA).
48.       Agriculture Training Institutes.   The proposed project would include
the expansion of four existing AETIs and the relocation and construction
of three AETIs on new sites. Their name would be changed to Agriculture
Training Institutes (ATIs) since their curriculum is being revised to become
more multipurpose in sccpe (paragraph 41). The aim of this component is to
improve the quality of agricultural training and increase the output of
agricultural technicians. The ATIs would be the basic intermediate level
agricultural training institutions, offering a two-year diploma course in
agriculture and providing in-service training for middle-level agricultural
field staff. The project includes physical facilities and teaching materials
and aids. Teaching staff would be trained under the on-going UNDP/FAO proj-
ect, at the Central Extension Resources Institute (CERI), which is being
constructed with financi.al assistance from the Government of Japan (para-
graph 42), and at the Graduate Level In-Service Training Unit (paragraph 47).
The annual output of agricultural diploma holders would be increased from a
capacity of about 400 a year at present to 770 a year.
49.       In-Service Trainin&.   The proposed project would also include a
four-year program for immediate in-service training for practising extension
workers. During the first two years of project implementation, about 4,000
TAOs and UAAs (more than, 85% of the total present staff) would be
given an intensive three-week course in high yielding varieties (HYV) of rice,
using primarily field demonstrations developed by UNDP/FAn specialists working



- 14 -
in Bangladesh.   The proposed project would include the training costs (allow-
ances for travel, a per diem subsistence allowance, and training materials).
This in-service training would be related specifically to the Government's
program for expansion of HYV rice cultivation. A second course on jute
extension would be given in the third and fourth years of project implementation.
In order to ensure effective use of training after the trainees return to
their jobs, the Government has agreed to prepare before the conclusion of each
course detailed work plans for each participant and assess the effects of
training on the performance of the participants within six months of the
conclusion of the course (Section 3.09 of DCA).
Credit and Cooperative Training
50.       Bogra Regional Rural Development Academy.   The Government has
decided to establish a second regional Rural Development Academy at Bogra,
which would be patterned after the Academy at Comilla (paragraph 43). It
would conduct research on adaptation to the Bogra region of innovations
introduced at Comilla (e.g. model farmer training) focussing particularly on
problems of small farmers and landless workers. The Bogra Academy would also
undertake pre-service and in-service training of senior officers engaged in
rural development (e.g. IRDP field officers), thereby easing the training
load at Comilla. The Bogra Academy is expected to train about 640 staff of
rural institutions annually. The project would include physical facilities,
instructional equipment and technical assistance.
Farmer and Field Level Trials
51.       The project would assist the following studies and experiments
aimed at revitalizing thana level training and field extension services:
(a) an in-depth evaluation of the extension service and current thana training
programs that are being carried out by the Government with UNDP/FAO assistance;
(b) experimental facilities to try new modes of training and extension; and
(c) the development of a national plan of action for improving the field
extension service and the preparation of proposals for possible future invest-
ment. Sub-stations, including in most cases low-cost housing, meeting/office
facilities, transport and training materials, would be provided for extension
workers in about 15 thanas. In addition, 15 Thana Training Units (TTU), each
consisting of a low-cost dormitory for about 30 trainees adjacent to the TTDC,
would be constructed to enable more intensive training to be given to model
farmers and other key persons at the thana level. The Government has agreed
that, within three years of credit signing, it would send to the Association,
for comment, a comprehensive plan for improvement of the extension services
and thana level training (Section 3.07(c) of DCA).
52.       The Government has agreed to review its system of selection and
compensation of teaching staff at rural training institutions and to furnish
the Association, for comment, staff development plans for all project components
within one year of the effective date (Section 3.07(a) of DCA). The Government
would consult with the Association prior to introducing major curriculum
changes in project-supported institutions until completion of the project.



- 15 -
In addition, the Association would be given the opportunity to comment on
the annual research programs of the Bogra Academy (Section 3.07(b) of DCA).
In order to-ensure that in future only qualified and properly trained staff
would be assigned to ext:ension work, the Government has agreed that, after
July 1, 1977, agriculture extension agents (at the Village Extension Agent
level) would be required to hold at least a two-year agricultural diploma
(Section 3.06(a) of DCA).
Technical Assistance
53.       Some of the technical assistance required for project-supported
institutions is already being financed by bilateral and multilateral donors
other than IDA. In particular, UNDP is financing technical assistance for
the ATIs and the- Government of Japan is providing financing for the cons-
truction of CERI facilities and for related technical assistance (paragraph
42). In total, about 19 man-years of expert technical assistance are required
for the ATIs. The Government has agreed to arrange for this technical as-
sitance, a portion of which is already available under the UNDP and Japanese
programs. The remainder is expected to be provided by the expansion of these
programs. The Association would have an opportunity to comment on the terms
of reference for the experts employed to provide it (Section 3.08 of DCA).
SIDA, in connection with its proposed assistance for building Zonal Coopera-
tive Training Institutes, is considering providing expert assistance in
teacher training and curricula development to the Cooperative College and
Zonal Cooperative Trairning Institutes (paragraph 43). The proposed project
would include technical assistance to support investigations to be carried
out by the National Conmittee on Rural Training (paragraph 44), including
(a) two man-years of expert assistance for planning rural training systems;
(b) eight man-years of expert services and ten man-years of fellowships for
preparing an institutional development plan for strenghtening the teaching,
research and extension training programs at BAU; (c) up to four man-years of
expert services for on-going monitoring and evaluation of project activities;
(d) ten man-years of fellowships for teaching staff of ATIs; (e) up to three
man-years of expert assistance to carry out studies related to the operation
of Thana Training Units and Thana Sub-stations; and (f) four man-years of
expert assistance to the Bogra Academy for designing research programs, especially
on rural institutions. Consultants for the project would have qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment acceptable to the Association
(Section 3.02(a) of DCA). The Government has submitted to the Association
a comprehensive list of consulting architects for possible employment under
the project. Fellowships under the project would be provided in accordance
with training programs satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.13 of DCA).
Project Costs and Financing
54.       Total project costs are estimated at US$16.5 million (including a
foreign exchange component of about US$8.20 million). Project costs include
taxes and duties of ab,out US$0.35 million. About 68% of total project costs
(net of contingencies) would be for construction, 4% for furniture, 9% for
teaching equipment, 15% for technical assistance and 4% for professional



- 16 -
services. Once the project is completed, the annual recurrent costs of main-
taining and operating the project facilities would amount to about Tk 8.0
million (about US$0.6 million), which would correspond to about 6% of the
projected expenditures on rural training by all ministries in 1982. Project
costs include a contingency allowance for unforeseen expenditures of US$1.01
million and a contingency allowance for price increases of US$5.41 million.
The proposed Credit would finance close to 74% of total project costs (net
of taxes and duties), representing the full foreign exchange costs and about
US$3.8 million of the local currency costs (for justification of local cur-
rency financing, see paragraph 30 above).
Procurement
55.       Contracts would be grouped to the maximum extent practicable to
form attractive bid packages. Contracts for civil works exceeding US$500,000,
building materials exceeding US$50,000, and equipment and furniture exceeding
US$25,000, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with IDA guidelines. Ccontracts below these amounts would be
awarded without prior IDA approval following competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with local procurement procedures acceptable to IDA,
except that small equipment and furniture contracts (in amounts less than
US$10,000) would be procured pursuant to such bidding practices as are reason-
able under the circumstances, subject to a combined total of US$250,000.
Local contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of 7.5% on civil
works; local manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be given a
preference of 15% over competing foreign bids or the existing rate of import
duties, whichever is lower.
56.       Construction of small trial field extension facilities and Thana
Training Units is expected to be undertaken by the Cooperative for American
Relief Everywhere (CARE), Bangladesh, using techniques developed as part of
their ongoing low-cost housing program.
57.       A revolving fund of at least Tk 500,000 (about US$62,500), to be
operated by the Project Implementation Unit (paragraph 60), would be used
to cover local currency expenditures for certain project payments (Section
3.05 of DCA).
Disbursements
58.       The proceeds of the proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed against:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported building materials, furniture
and equipment (including vehicles and equipment for the PIU), or 70% of the
cost of these items if procured locally; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for
foreign consultants and fellowships, or 70% of total expenditures on local
consultants; (c) 60% of total expenditures for civil works, and (d) 60% of
total per diem expenditures and local travel costs and instructional materials
for in-service training.



- 17 -
Project Organization and Implementation
59.       The National. Committee on Rural Training (NCRT - paragraphs 44 and
53) has been established and would review periodically the progress of project
activities and would be responsible for the technical assistance provided as
part of the project. All ministries and agencies directly concerned would
be represented on the NCRT. In addition to general supervision, the NCRT
would review national policies with a view to establishing a long term plan
for development of rural training programs.   It will prepare such a plan
and submit it to the lAssociation, for comment, before June 30, 1977 (Section
3.03(b) of DCA).
60.       A Project Imiplementation Unit (PIU) has been established within
the Ministry of Agriculture. The PIU would be responsible for supervising
construction activities under the project, coordinating project activities,
and liaising with IDA.  The PIU would work directly with the Ministries and
agencies concerned in the planning and implementation of all project com-
ponents. The PIU would include a director, an architect (who could be
replaced by an engineer after completion of all major design work), a pro-
curement officer (all on a full-time basis) and an accountant, and appro-
priate supporting staif. Appointment of the director and architect are
conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (paragraph 64). All
principal project officers would be appointed after consultation with the
Association (Section 3.04(b) of DCA). The project educator would also assist
the NCRT. The PIU would retain consultant architects to execute design work,
plan construction, prepare contract documents and supervise civil works
(Section 3.02(b) of DCA).
61.       Assurances were obtained at negotiations that title to each ATI
would be acquired and transferred to the appropriate Government agency within
six months of Credit signing and title to all remaining sites within 18
months of Credit signing, and that each ATI would have at least 35 acres of
usable farm land prior to construction (Section 3.12 of DCA).   The Government
has approved all the locuments needed to authorize expenditures and appoint-
ments for the project, and all the necessary forms required for proper
implementation.
Project Benefits and RLisks
62.       The proposed project is the first phase of a program to increase
agricultural production by strengthening three key government rural services:
extension, cooperatives and credit. It would be a principal instrument for
providing the Government with trained staff to carry out priority rural pro-
grams. The project would economize on resources through coordination of
rural training policies, increase the coverage of trained extension workers,
provide immediate intensive in-service training in HYV rice technology to
extension officers, and would enable the Government to increase substan-
tially its trained credit and cooperative staff. The studies and trials
included in the proposed project would also prepare the way for future



- 18 -
investment aimed at directly improving field level operations of the extension
service and thana level training. Although the project has a high potential
for contributing substantially to rural development, implementation will be
difficult and the risk that the project will fall short of its goals must
also be considered high. The principal risks appear to be those of delays
in implementation (due to the general difficulties of project execution in
Bangladesh) and of deficiencies in the quality of training provided (due to
a general tendency in Bangladesh towards overly academic training programs).
In order to reduce these risks, the project includes a number of studies
(including evaluation) and technical assistance activities, which should
permit close monitoring of progress in the implementation of the project.
This close follow-up should enable the Project Implementation Unit (which
would be provided with sufficient staff and facilities to carry out the job)
and the National Committee on Rural Training, to identify problems early
and provide quick remedial actions.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement and the
text of the draft resolution approving the proposed Development Credit Agree-
ment are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
64.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement which are of
special interest are referred to in paragraphs 47, 49, 51, 52, 53, 57, 59,
60 and 61. Special conditions of Credit effectiveness (Section 5.01 of DCA)
would include: (a) establishment of a revolving fund for local expenditures
in the amount of Tk 500,000, (c) signing of a contract with consultant archi-
tects for the project, and (d) appointment of the project director and project
architect for the PIU.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments



OUTDAA- SMM               Page 1 of' 3 Pages
tea  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~~~~~~lliOP        on     (md-172)T
ft -176 km I               272f%llion (aid-197Z)                        840~~~~Ols  Por kalof rarble land
OffM    CAna 0 m  A  IS     W      A                                         70 /a           90 La       U.0 /a      430 
Infeet mortalt rate (per thimnd~ live birthe)               .             isO             ..       32041W  42a      39
1St. sapsterwry at btohh (puas)                                                            4506
Ag. a;n.ctur  tpercent; 
65 and over                                                                             3 DI   
=dOOi deedec        510                                     .                                5s        1.
Aga dpendncy  'Sti                                     1.6                                         0 / .82      :
Babe, population am qwalosot of total                       ...17                                       20 Ab       2  .~
Posily plaonizgs Nu or acoeptoas inmalatie (t?s .15                                                                 to22 
No. ',f uaere (% of married ionn)         *..                             .            .1
aw   mTbor force (thoLsanda)                              17, 40&c       22,300 L        W0,100 Lc   221.000W        ,0
Peroatagp employed 'L agriculture                         76             71              63           71   ,=     4
Percentage unw1oy*I                                       .             .                 2
ywoom 0  "    in-oms reoivd by hialheat 5%             19 /g          17 ~a           .6 /                     2 /,
percent o'f national inom. r:osivd by highest 20E           4, j     ~     12 L   .       *             53
nacetofotional in.,cce reived by lbust 20571OP                             r   2   . SX                    ~
Peoatofntional in,oam revaivad by lowmst la            18   ~         209  1                       13I        fl.
OF LOD OISMOV~~~~~~~~~~~~~lsL
IVoe bsmallest l0I of                                                  'Iro..l O.
NO&i2jtth96iwscicn10m                                                    7,600 /5,      27,380 ~s     4,800       L.77(./
Population per naizin  poreom                          1.10,0W0        72,030 7    ~    8,321.L      5,110       I 11.
Population per hospita2 bad                             11,0W0          8,1.20 ftj      1,1.50 Lj    1,620 A.      20
For ampita calorie Supply as S of requirements ZS          e.0 /ab                         82           90
P%er oita protein mupgly, total (gVan par dayF&                           ..                            53
Of hih, animal and pula....                                                             hl           16 4L&b        I
Death Paue 1-4, years                                                                                                6a...
/8pImc    cokool1 enrollment ratio                 4,2 Lada       50/a&b,ae       n1           79 lt       69/
"Nle             '0slenrollment ratio                    815 ZE                         2           26          34o7
Tears of i. o1ragpovided, first and ascend level           10 L.          10 La            212                     137
Yoomticnel uurolment is % of mec. school enroflsmnt        ...28                                         6    8    37
Autliteracy rate S                                      ...                             6 AiMs.n     )6          a
1-gm0     Do. of paveone par room (urban)                   ...                             .2.8                    2.3
Percent of occapiad ondta vitheut pipad water              ......65 /
Access to aleatricity, (as S of tota  popuLlation)         ......57 
percent of dural populaticn onoiwotd to slectricity         .              ....                                     31. /
rcivers par 10CC population                         ..6                                         23          422
Pasengeor oar. par 10OCC populatim                                          I i/a           2/a          I2
Elactrio pour   maatptioo (kvah p.c.)                        312 7a                       023 7j       IO  7;      il     d
Newsprint coce,option ;.c. kg par lyear.                                  0.2 T.          0.2 7   ~    0. 7;       3.0
Iota.,  Figurco refar sit,.,, to the latest periodis or to       anounmt of environmntal toqeratsae    00 e.ae      n
the latent years. Latest ;.ariods refr ain. principle to         distribution by Me a ed am of watimnal Populations..
the years 1956.60 or 1966-0,; the lategot yow  La pr-        A   Protein standardsa (requiremets) for all scuntrias am atsb-
ciple to 1960 and 1970.                                          lImbed by =a 3conano Research Service provide for a miniUMa
Th. Par Capta GaP ..tlmat. is at -,k.t prtc.. for             allowance~ of 60 gream of total protein par day, and 20 greeof-
y.ear  ther, than 1960,,salculated by the bane converion      aniImaled psalna protein, of ebich ID wrne should be animal
techniqu  as the 1972 Porld Bank Atlas.                      protein. fthae standards are somrdt leaw than those of 75
ZL  Average madcar of daughters par woman of reproductive        graen of total protein ead 23 grarn of animal protein as an
-ge.                                                         avarags for the word, proposed by PAO in the third World Food
L~Population growth rate,, ere for the decad. conding in   'a    =117.
1960 and 1970.                                               Sunni atudies have waggeetd that Crude death rates of Children
1  ik tio of population uric,, 15 and 65 and over to popuia-   ape 1 thrgu 4i may be wand an a first ipramation bmat     of
tion of gee 15-61 for age dependency ratio and to labor       malnutrition.
force of gagn  15-61. for economic dependency ratio.     Li. Percntage enrolled of corv'apndin   population of achoo1 asm
Pi AO reference atandardo represet physiological ,.-,           as defined for each centry.
quIrements for normal activity and health, taking
a 1972;   &   1961;    c  Ratimtet;   Ld West MLialayia   /. Regisetred only;    Lf, ProJection, 1973;   ZL  1965-70;
1960-61;   ai 1960.77   Lg. Ruicipalitie., re     cYcpapala and other places idth urb,an Characteristica;    Ak For
definition of urban ace       mgMi IeSbOOk 1 2 p. 15;-l7-3                        Rtoo      ouato       ne   5nd 65
erG cr0  to totl isborforce; na' de only;  /O'L2  Gacotted areas of lO,O0  or aore inhabitants;  Li. AID
eutienta of labor force in age grou  15-59; IBM~ rePOrt givea a figure of 180.4, mllion baead on the 1971 population
Cenous. tThe differonce ia due to changcs in the definition of a worker. In the 1971 census, parocna were Classified
Only on the beet. or their main activIties; this led to the exclusion of eaveral categorise,uha      oswve
~  1963-61;  Li Hou~sholde;  ~  1971; t 1969; ~_ Data refer to housing unite;    LI  1967.68,   /   Number on
the rogiater, not al working in the country;   4& Pore., in government servicee only;        Gov0erment heepitals only
LL 16; La  Includ.Lng ruaml hospital.;  4M   1969-70;   (&   196L-66;   49   1959-60,    A   Approximate enrollmet
U an eretage of popuLlation in 6-10 age group;  /&[ Eatinat, which includes overapge tudent.;    LK   Approximate
enrollmet an percentage of population In 11-15 age grop;    /gik Up to end of aSeonda level;  Lai. 1965;   4!   15 years
and over;  /g4   Foin,i.tion of 10 yemrs and Over based on one percent cospl. date of 1971; ~g   1966;   Im   Definition,
of literacy uninown;   La   1966-67.
aSelection of Malays: a as an objactive country is based on MLalysiase ouccama In mA-Intaining a high rate of eConoIC
growth end adaquate level Of welfare concurrentlY with dliveneifyi.ng its economic amtrutur.
January 1976



ANNEX I
BANGLADESH
EDONOMIC IDYBIP!42W   DAT                                               Page 2 of 3 Pages
(Amounts in 9411iona of U.S. doll-a-rs
1967-69-~~~~~'  1973  Estimates           1~~~~~~~~/ l 164                Av.
A.    Actuals        1974     t1m5a19s            1960-   195,      1973 -   1976 -1967-69     1974     1975
Av.191-9Y    W          1974     1975     1976      1965     1970     1976      1980       -     -        17
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS~__
In Constant 1972/73         Prices & Exchange6Hate         Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product                  6,012         5,702      6,350     6,496   6,86        4.7     3.3       6.5      4.2       98.5   101.7    101.4
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)              89-                    -107       -92     -98                                             1.5    -1:..7   -1.4
Gross Domestic Income                   6,101         5,702      6,243     6,404   6,788       5.6     2.5       6.0      4.2      100.0   100.0    100.0
Imsports(incl. NFS)                       879           747         617      687     759      20.6     6.8       0.6      5.4      14.4      9.9     10.7
Exports    1  (import capacity)           598           373         263      227     257      12.3   -14.6     -13.2      8.0       9.8      4.2      3.5
Resource Gap                              281           37W5                 4-60    50-2                                           4. 6     5.7      7.2
Consumption Expenditures                5,668         5.800       6,226    6,424   6,780       5.7     3.6       5.2      3.9      92.9     99.7    100.3
Investment   "1 (mncl. stocks)            785           276         370      440     510      13.3     8.8      22.5      6.8      12.9      5.9      6.9
Domestic Savings                           433          -98          17      -20       8       4.3    10.0         -        -       7.1      0.3     -0.3
National Savings                           416          -74          52         9      36      8.7    20.5                   -      6.8      0.8      0.1
MEHCHANDISE TRADE                                   Data at Current Prices                                                         As Percent of Total
Tnports
Capital goods                            .            100          155     150     248        ..       .      35.5     16.2        .      17       12
intermediate goods (3wLfuela)            .            176          220     275     418         .       .      33.2     14.7        .      24       23
Fuels and related materials
of which:   Petroleum                  .             23          87      143     138         .       .      80.3     20.0        .      10       12
Consumption 1      ioo aC c,1i.fodgr.ins)  ..428                  439      645     512         .       ..      4.5     10.1        ..     49       53
Total Mec.Ipot          cf              547           727          901   1,213   1,316         .       ..     22.0     13.7              100      100io
Exports
Primary producto ~xc. fuels)              .           120          128      84      125       .        .      -1.3     13.8        .      35       23
Fuels and related materials
of which:   Petroleum
Manufactured goods                        --          214          243     286      288        .        .     10.4      18.5       .       65      77
Total Merch    M. ~ot  fb               481           344          37 1    370                .         .      63       1.                0        0
Tourism and Border. TraaLe
Merchandise Trade Indices             In Constant 1972/73         Prices & Exchange Rate
Export Price Index                       61           100          108     133   --153        ..i             10.0       8.5
Import Price Index                       52           100         152      187     184        ..       .      22.6      7 .7
Terms of Trade Index                    118           100          71       7 2     7 2        .       .      11.5       0.7
Exports Volume Index                    148           100          101      81      91        .        .      -3.2      8.3
VALUJE ADDED BY SECTOR               Data at 1972/73                Prices & Excharxge Rates    Average Annual Growth Hates        As Percent of Total
Agriculture                           3,542         3,402       3,788    3,712   3,920         .       .       4.9       3.8       59     61       59
Industry and Mining                     420           412         472      467     508         .       .       7.2       7.0        7      8        7
Service                               2.050         1,888       1.940    2.145   2.270                         6.4       4.0       34     31       34
Total                                 6,012         5,702       6,200    6,324   6,698                         5.5       4.2      10-0   100      1O00
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                       As Percent of GDP
TCent-ral Government)
Cur-rent Receipts                       317           298         5 25     744                                35.3       ..5.3             8.3     11.4
Current Expend-itures                   365           389         590      664..                       .      19.5       .          6.1    9.3     10.2
aidgetary Savings                       -48         9-91          -65       80.                       ..         -       .         -0.8   -1.0      1.2
other Pablic Sector                      .
Publ-ic Sector Investment               421          253          284      322                .        .      8.4        .          7.0    4.5      5.0
us $ mil1lonV'
CURRENT EXCPENDITURE DETAILS                          Actual                Estimates       DETAIL OH                              At end 1972   P and ER
As % Total Current Expend.)             1969/70   1972/73    19 73/ 74  974/75 1957       PUBLIC SECTOR                      First Plan       of Total
Education                                  .        14.8      14.7       15.5     15.0    INVESTMN~2T PROGRAM                 (1973/74   -  1977/78)'
other Social Services                      .         4.0       3.8        4.3      4.7    Social Sectors                         758          15.3
Agriculture & Other Economic                                                              Agriculture                          1,3V2          26.4
Services                              .         11.2      8.4         7.2     7.1    Industry and Mining                  1,024          20.7
Administration and Defense                 .        67.4      62.7       60.4     54.4    Power                                  529          10.7
Other                                      .         2.7      10.4       12.6     18.8    Transport and communications           802          16.3
Total CuLrrent Expenditures                        10 0. 0  i100. 0     1006.0   100.0    Other                                  524          10.6
_____________________________________________________________________________ Tot__  TotaldExpenditures                1100.
SEL.ECTED INDICATORS                               1960-     1965-     1970-    1976-       FINANCING
(Ca.lculated from 3-year averaged data)            1965      1970      1975    1980            Domestic Borrowings                 784         15.9
Average ICON                                                  T7.                              Public Sector Savins              2,022          40.9
Import Elasticity                                    .       1.29        .      1.4            Program aid counterpart           1,009         20.4
Ma~rginal Domestic Savings Rate                      .       0.22         .       .            Foreign Project Aid              ]~12           22.8
Marginal National Savings Rate                       .       0.35         .       .            Total Financing                  4,940         100.0
LABOR FORCE AND                                 Total Labor Force                                Value Added Per Worker (1972/ 7,3    Pricles & Exc. Rates)
OUITPUT PER WORKER                In Millions         % of Total          1961 - 73         In U.S.Dollars      Percent o  Avrae          1970 - 73
1960/61   1972/73   1961       1973     Growth Rate         1970       1973       1970       1973      Growth Rate
Agriculture                       16.1      20.5      85       78           2.0               .         166         ..        76
:ndustry                           1.0      1.8        5        7           5.0               .        229          .        105
Service                            1.8      3.9      _10       15           6.7               .        484          .        222
Total                             18.9     26.2      100      100           2.8              248       218                   100
not applicable        - nil or negligible                      Note:   All figures are on fiscal year basis July 1 - June 30.
not available         - less than half the
smallest unit shown
1/  Data prior to 1972 pertain to erstwhile East Pakistan.                                                                                    January 1976
2/  These are original Plan targets, which are out of reach in the present circumstances.



ANNEX I
Pnge 3 of 3 Pages
BANGLADESH
BAIXCE 07 PANTSl ENHAL ASSISTANCE AND DMBT
(eamounts in mOUon. of U.S. dolarsat curront prices)
Avg. Annual
Actual                         Estimated                                   prcjsctsd                                    Deco1th Hate
196/7      196970       23L        17J3/74       19 74/75           _          _ ~6/7  17/7          90Il       17/O1976-1980
SUDMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                       447         51'         373          400          426            420         537         597          717        870                        16.4
umporictoo(il. BPFS)                  -556        -635       -747          -937       -1,286         -1,410      -1.703      -1.860      -.L0f4      -2118I                        13.4
ResourceaHl-nce (I-N)                    -tl9       "17          -374         -537         -860           -990      -1,166      -1,263       -1,337      -1,448                       11.8
Interect (net)                            ..           ..           --                        -5           -25         -46         -68         -92         -116                       50.0
Direct Inv-seent Incoe                     .           ..           -            -             -
Workers' Remittance                        ..          ..          20           30            35            35          35           35          35          35-
Crrrent Tronsfers rnet)           ..           ..          25           12           11             30          30          31          37           38                       6.1
elin    oe CurrentTAcountc                 ..          .,       -            -2 4gS        -819             o       -1.147       -1.265      -1.357      -140                         14.0
Privte Diret Iovs ltent                                                                                                                                     301.
Of icial Capital (rants                    *                      ;90          130          383            200         220         300          300         300                        0.6
public M&LT Losno
D-brcs     t MSL                                                 95          219          596            868         973       1,044        1,155       1,304                       19.4
-Rt     nEsburcem                                          e     n      t    S . . 9 5  -11  -16          -35         -79        -103        -128       .                           42.0
NbtDiibickerreois  ..       ..       '3*""        ""1SF       """BS*           ~~~~     ~~~~~8 3 3  """191  ""lI  1,027        16117.6
Other M&LT Loanc
Dusbursemtens                            ..          ..          71           38           62                                      *-
Rei Ulooatse e97e ..                                   ."                                                                        "'"   9   i                50 5
Not Disburam ont,                                                                                             ~   ~~~~~        ~         ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Act- 1  Eetie,tcd
Capital Traosacticsu n.e.i.                ..          ,,          '7           76           -51           -180                                     jj 1971A72 172373  973/74      1974/75
Change in Net Hwes,roa (-    urce           .          .           20           43          -155        DEBT AND .DEB    IVICB  / 
Cgros  Reserves (-ud puired)                   ;157                            114          269         Public 13bt Out. & Disbursed               37        175      491          1,330
ORANT AND LOAh OOMIMENTS
Official GUreets & GrPnt-liDc ..                       ..          ..          ..            321          rnteret en Public Debt                               _         I             21
0081              ..          ..         -             -           ~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Oiher Debt Service Cet)
TARD                                                             68           74          150           Total Debt Service (not)
Other                                    ..          ..          71           38            62
Other Multilateral                       ..          ..          11            28           82        burden  n  Export EArdnig  (9)
Gcocrucests                               .          .          107          622           867                    t                                                                   .
Suppliers                                ''          ''          30           57            -           Public Debt Service                        -         -         7.0           4.0
Pinuccial Inutttuti.se                                                                                  To -  -tal Debt Levi                      ''
Bonde                                    ..          ..         -                                                     ee- TDScDfrect lovot. I...
Public Loaos n.e.i.
Total Public MhLT Ioans                                            287        859          1,t61        Average Tenon of Public Debt
1/                               Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 3311974                      Lnt. as 9 Prior Year D1&D                 .          -         -             1.0
EXTERNAL DEMT-                                  Debwreed OnDl               Percent                         Amort. ae S Prior YTee LO&D               *-         -         6.3            3.3
World Banh
TDA                                              204.0                     26.2                         IBD Debt Out. & Disbursed
Other Multilateral                                 5.6                       0.7                             as .  Public Debt OhD                  ..         -         -             4.1
Go-errmente                                      369.2                      47.5                             as 9 Public Debt Service
Suppliers                                        119.6                      15.4
Fanc-al Instituti-s                               23.8                       3.1                        IDA Debt Gist. & Disbursed
3lods                                              -                         -                           0as 9 Public Debt 06D                      *-         7.8      19.6          15.7
Public  Debt. n.e.i                                -                         -                              aa   Public Debt Service                           -         1.7            1.7
Total Public MhLT Debt                           777.1                     100.0
Other M&LT Debto
Short-term Debt (disb. only)                      27.2
.-it uppliouble                                                  e  staff estimate
.. available .- nil or negligible
,    not uvailable separateay                                        --  lwoe than hblf the
but included in total                                               samllest pnit shevn
I/ Ncgotiations are underwy between the Govcrsmect of B.o1ladeebh cd veious bilaterl end o1ltilt-crsl dunces coce.ruing the osouuption of a petio- of the dubt coctrocted by Pakistan
befo- Bn-gladouh becee idepeodont.      ct1il ouch nen0tiotio   se complete it io cut possible to estimate p-eci-ely Bonglodebh tcoct    public debt or debt -croico.
,laoaarly 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of January 31L 1976
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh
US$ Million net of
Credit                                                        Exchange 4Ajustment
Number    Year                 Purpose                        Amount    Undisbursed
339       1972    Cyclone Area Reconstruction
(replaces Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971)      25.0         13.2
340       1972    Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184 of 1970)                     13.0         9.0
341       1972    Tubewells (replaces Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970                                     14.0         6.2
343       1972    Telecommunications (replaces part
of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969)               7.3         1.7
345       1972    Reconstruction Imports                        50.0         0
353       1973    Small-Scale Industry (replaces
Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970)                  3.0         0.4
367       1973    Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963)                   7.0         2.1
368       1973    Dacca Water Supply and Sewage (replaces
Credit No. 41-PAK of 1963)                  13.2         2.0
S-14       1973    Irrigation Engineering (replaces
Credit Nos. S-8-PAK and S-10-PAK
of 1969 and 1970)                            3.15        0
381       1973    Foodgrain Storage (replaces Credit
No. 83-PAK of 1966)                         19.7         0.8
407        1973    Education (replaces Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and 1966)                21.0         9.9
408        1973    Highways (replaces Credit No. 53-PAK
of 1964)                                    25.0        17.0
409        1973    Technical Assistance                          4.0          3.1
410        1973    Cereal Seeds                                  7.5          7.3
424 /a     1973    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation         8.7          6.8
458       1974     Imports Program                              50.0          1.9
437       1974     Second Telecommunications                    20.0         19.4
515       1974     Third Imports Program                        75.0         14.0
527        1975    Ashuganj Fertilizer                          33.0         31.3
529       1975     Consolidation Credit                         31.0          0
533       1975    Population                                    15.0         14.9
542       1975     Barisal Irrigation                           27.0         27.0
591        1975    Fourth Imports Program                      100.0         90.6
605 /b    1976    Karnafuli Irrigation                          22.0         22.0
SUBTOTAL                             594.55       300.60
Principal Repayment                                    0.20
Credits held by Association                          594.35
B. IBRD Loans to Bangladesh
1087      1975    Consolidation Loan                            54.9         0
TOTAL                                649.25       300.60
/a   Increase in Credit amount from $4.1 million to $8.7 million not yet effective.
lb Credit declared effective February 24, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUJTION
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project; US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closin_ Date: June 30, 1976
Implementat:Lon of the original project, financed under Credit No.
228-PAK of 1971, had not commenced prior to-the suspension of disbursements.
The repair work on damaged port terminal buildings has been completed and re-
pairs of landing facilLities are expected to be completed in mid 1976. Contracts
have been signed for all equipment component of the telecommunications sys-
tem. Earthwork has been completed for about 50% of primary roads, and
70 cyclone shelters are under construction or complete. Activation of the
cyclone warning system is expected soon. Progress was slow initially due
in part to administrative delays and the severe shortages of construction
materials in Bangladesh. Construction materials are now available, progress
has improved somewhat. Project completion is expected to be about two years
behind the schedule a-aticipated.at aDpraisal. In June 1974, the Government
submitted to the Association a proposal for reducing the scope of the project
in order to cope with the sharp increase in construction costs since the
Project was appraised. The proDosal involved reductions in the feeder roads
to be financed by the Credit (financing for these roads has beer obtained from
the World Food Progran), reductions in the fisheries subproject, and minor
reductions in other project items. Given the very early stage of procurement
under the project, it was decided not to formally amend the project at that
stage, and it was agreed that the Government's proposals for reducing the
project provided a reasonable basis for proceeding for the time being. A revised
proposal from the Government based upon revised cost estimates, concerning
the amendments required in the project description and allocation of the amounts
of the credit to each subproject has just been received and is under review.
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irriation II Project:    US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972: Effective Date: January_17, 1973;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1977
The Project is far behind schedule and continues to be plagued with
problems. Major flooding, work stoppages caused by 100% increase in con-
struction labor costs, shortages of cement, fuel, and operable construction
equipment, ineffective management, inadequate provision of local funds and
general inflation are factors which have delayed project construction. There
is some improvement in construction recently. Outstanding contractor claims
have recently been resolved. Manufacture of the electrical and mechanical
equipment for the regulators and pumping plant has been completed, and
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
delivery is being made to the sites. Delays in finalizinp, the low-lift
pump specifications by WDB retarded procurement. Tenders have now been
issued. Continuing inflation and other adverse factors are expected to
increase the Project costs substantially over the appraisal estimate.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of November 6     ,1972;
Effective Date: January 13, 197     Closing Date:  December 31,
1976
This project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 208-PAK of
1970 and credits from Sweden and Canada.   Although bids had been received in
1971, no contracts were awarded before Bangladesh independence.   The present
Credit is again in conjunction with a Credit from Sweden and a grant from
Canada. Construction on this project began during January 1974. In April
1974, IDA approved award of the contract for supply of the well pumps and
engines. Due to initial delays, present implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule. In January 1974, the Government and the engineering con-
sultants signed a revised contract providing for the additional engineering
and agriculture consulting services needed for the project. In February
1974, the agricultural consultants (who were under sub-contract to the engineer-
ing consultants) withdrew from the project, stating that the salary scales
in the revised contract signed by the engineering consultants were inadequate
to attract staff of the calibre required for the project. Proposals to replace
the agricultural consultants and expand their activities have been agreed
in principle by the Government, and the financing of the additional agricultural
consultant costs is currently under consideration by a bilateral aid agency.
Drilling of the tubewells has progressed satisfactorily in the past construc-
tion.
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project: US$7.3 Million Credit of November 15,
1972: Effective Date: Januay 17, 1973; Cloi       Date:
June 30, 1978
The project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1969, and goods and services valued at about US$2.2 million were received
in Dacca prior to suspension of disbursements. Three out of the four micro-
wave systems in the Project are under installation and are scheduled to be
commissioned by March 1976, and about one year behind schedule. The fourth
system is a replacement of a coaxial cable system in the original project.
This change was agreed to by IDA and was caused by price increases demanded
by the original contractor which made the choice of a microwave system more
economical. The bid invitation for this sytem has been included with the
bids that have already been invited for other microwave systems under
Credit 487-BD. Even so, the system is scheduled to be commissioned in
late 1977 or early 1978. The Closing Date for this Credit has been extended
from December 31, 1975 to June 30, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Cr. No. 353    Small-'cale Industry Project; US$3.0 Million Credit of
January 19, 1973; Effective Date:   May 14, 1973;
Closinp Date: June 30, 1976
The Project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 192-PAK
of 1970. The Credit lhas financed notional repayment of amounts previously
disbursed under Credit: No. 192-PAK (US$187,000) and payment of outstanding
amounts for consulting services performed under Credit No. 192-PAK (US$12,000).
Disbursements for new activities up to January 31, 1976 amounted to approximately
US$2.4 million. The balance amount available is expected to be disbursed
during 1976. A UNDP/1JNIDO technical assistance project has made some limited
progress toward the reorganization of BSIC.
Cr. No. 367    Chittagong Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973
Closin Date: June 30, 1976
The project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 42-PAK under
which US$3.3 million was disbursed. The work has progressed at a slow rate,
but will improve now that several civil works contracts are under way. Phys-
ical progress had been curtailed by lack of cement, slow delivery of pipe,
and slow preparation of designs and contract documents. While the immediate
requirements for pipe and cement are on hand, several supply and construc-
tion contracts are yet to be tendered. WASA has been requested to hasten
the preparation of contract documents and the tendering for this work. Man-
agement, labor and union problems are now being better addressed following
the appointment of the new Chairman. While collection performance has im-
proved, financial operations and financial management remain weak. The Gov-
ernment has increased lWhe water rates by 50 percent effective July 1, 1975.
However, unless the performance in billing and collection improves and leak-
age is reduced, further rate increases would be necessary to meet the finan-
cial covenants of the Credit Agreement. The Association has agreed to extend
the Closing Date by one year to June 30, 1976. At that time a decision will
be made, based upon the progress over the year in meeting the financial cov-
enants, as to whether or not to extend the Closing Date for the additional
1 to 1-1/2 years required to complete the project.
Cr. No. 368    Dacca WILter and Sewerage Project; US$13.2 Million Credit of
April ,_1973; Effective Date: June .7, 1973
Closing Date: June 30, 1976
The project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963. By December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$6.0 million
had been disbursed. The work has progressed at a slow rate but will improve
now that several civil works contracts are under way and tubewell materials
and equipment have been delivered. Right-of-way acquisition and contractor
performance continue as major problems. Management and labor problems con-
tinue, and financial operations and the financial condition of the WASA
remains weak. The Government has increased the water rates by 50 percent,
effective July 1, 1975. However, unless performance in billing and collec-
tion improves and leakage is reduced, further increases would be necessary



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
to meet the financial covenants of the Credit Agreement. The Association
has agreed to extend the Closing Date by one year to June 30, 1976. At that
time a decision will be made, based upon the progress over the year in meet-
ing the financial covenants, as to whether or not to extend the Closing Date
for the additional 1 to 1-1/2 years needed to complete the project.
Cr. No. 381    Foodgrain Storage Project; US$19.7 Million Credit of May 18,
1973; Effective Date: July 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975
The project is also financed by a credit from the Kingdom of
Sweden of 25.0 million Kroner. The project was originally financed by
US$19.2 million IDA Credit No. 83 of 1966 and a 25 million Kroner credit
from the Kingdom of Sweden. The project was almost completed at the time
of Bangladesh's independence and 95% of the present IDA and Swedish credits
were used for repaying the previous credits. The remaining funds (US$1.25
million from IDA and about US$0.25 million equivalent from Sweden) are being
used to pay outstanding bills for work completed prior to the war, comple-
tion of some supporting facilities for the grain storage silos, replacement
of spares and equipment damaged during the war, and a feasibility study for
a second grain storage project. The designs for the jetty modifications have
been approved and we are awaiting receipt of proposed arrangements for con-
struction. The feasibility study for a second grain storage project was
completed in October 1975. Supervision missions have reported serious deterio-
ration in the silos mechanical equipment due to inadequate maintenance. The
management and staffing of the Directorate of the Silos is inadequate. Delays
in ordering spare parts (for which funds are available under the Credit)
increase the risk of breakdown. The Government has agreed interalia (i) to
employ consultants to improve foodgrain storage management, (ii) to release
local funds required for ancillary civil works for the project, (iii) to fill
all managerial, technical, and administrative vacancies by June 30, 1976 and
(iv) to finalize the contract award for jetty construction by June 30, 1976.
Based upon these assurances the Association agreed that the Closing Date for
this Credit which had originally been December 31, 1974 be extended for a
second time from December 31, 1975 to June 30, 1976. The Government was
informed that any further extensions of the Closing Date required to complete
the project would be considered only if the Government has met its commitments
concerning steps to be taken to improve silo maintenance and operations.
Cr. No. 407    Education Project- US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30 1978
The project was originally financed by two IDA Credits 49-PAK and
98-PAK. By December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$7.7 million
had been disbursed out of the US$17.5 million aggregate total of the two
former credits. The Credit 407-BD added US$3.5 million to the total of the
original Credits, in order to help the Government meet part of the increases



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
in total project cost. Progress on the Agricultural University portion of
the project was delayed initially due to difficulties in reaching agreement
with the consultant architects on a revised contract. Construction has also
been delayed due to shortage of building material, delays in the preparation
of equipment lists, and furniture designs. The recent devaluation of the
Taka has considerably reduced the cost overruns. Without including price
and physical contingencies, the cost of the project is now estimated at 58%
over the appraisal estimates in Taka terms, but only 10 when expressed in
US dollar equivalent.. The Government has submitted to IDA proposals for
modification of the project to meet the cost overrun. These proposals are
currently under review. Implementation is about 24 months behind the appraisal
schedule. Progress on the technical education portion of the project is
about 12 months behind the appraisal schedule. The graduates are facing
severe problems of untemployment, and the curriculum needs revision to make
it more relevant to job requirements. The Government will be making recom-
mendations on the development plan of the Agricultural University shortly.
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 53-PAK. By
December 1971,-when disbursements were suspended, US$3.62 million had been
disbursed, out of the original credit of US$22.5 million. The new credit
adds US$2.5 million to the original credit amount, in order to help the
Government meet part of the increase in total project cost as a result of
currency realignments. Four construction contracts were signed in September
1973 for the Sitalakhya Bridge and the Feni Section of the Dacca/Chittagong
road worth about US$9.2 million. A fifth contract with consultants for
construction supervision was signed in February 1974 but they were in the
field earlier. Shortage of spare parts, administrative delays and deficien-
cies in some contractors performance have delayed certain elements of the
project. Constructioni of the 1300-foot bridge over the Sitalakhya River
previously on schedule is now likely to be completed two years behind
schedule, in mid-1979 due to technical difficulties compounded by poor
contractor performance. However, the twenty-mile Feni bypass road construc-
tion project is well on the way to completion, and plans for paving the road
are now under prepara:ion. The estimated cost of civil works has increased
by about 60%, in line with worldwide trends. However, the total overall
project cost increase is considerably less, being about 25%. Disbursements,
which in the past have been slow, show signs of improvement.
Cr. No. 409    Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 2), 1973; Effective Date: August 20, 1973;
Clsinr Date: December 31, 1977
After a slow start, the Government has recently begun to take
advantage of the funds available under this credit for preinvestment plan-
ning, feasibility studcies and technical assistance for agencies involved in



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
project planning and implementation. Contracts have been signed with con-
sultants for seven projects with an allocation from this Credit of about $1.3
million. These studies have played a key role in the preparation of the
Ashuganj Fertilizer Project and three other projects which are under con-
sideration for FY76 and FY77. Another six subprojects involving $2.3 mil-
lion of credit funds have been recently approved and arrangements for selec-
tion of consultants are underway. Credit funds are expected to be fully
committed by June 30, 1976, but some of the studies financed will take up
to two years to complete. The Closing Date for this Credit has been extended
from December 31, 1975 to December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project is about 20 months behind appraisal schedule. Follow-
ing a year of virtual stagnation, the Seed Certification Agency has been
established, seed legislation has been drafted and procurement of equipment
and construction of buildings has started. However, serious staffing, pro-
curement and financial problems remain. The Government has been trying to
obtain additional bilateral financing to help meet the cost overrun. However,
the Government has now agreed to proceed with the full project, and to meet
the full cost overrun if other financing does not become available. Mean-
while, recruitment of key personnel has been extremely slow due to the lengthy
procedures required by the Government; appointments are required in particu-
lar for the head of the Seed Certification Agency and for the general manager
(field) of Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC). A full-
time official in charge of coordination in the Ministry of Agriculture has
just been designated. Procurement of farm machinery has been held up because
of the bidders' failure to comply with tender specifications and by the
Government's unsuccessful efforts thereafter to arrange for bilateral finan-
cing.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973; Effective Date: September 27,
1973- Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Detailed investigations have indicated that the damage to the
Chittagong offshore oil terminal was more severe than previously believed.
Consultants were appointed late in 1973 to study several alternative tech-
nical solutions. An Amending Agreement modifying the project description,
in line with the consultants' recommendations, and increasing the amount of
the credit from US$4.1 million to US$8.7 million was approved by the Execu-
tive Directors on September 16, 1975. The Amending Agreement is not yet
effective. The procurement of spare parts, tools and equipment for the
Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority, Bangladesh Inland Water Trans-
port Corporation, Chittagong Port Trust and Bangladesh Engineering and Ship-
ping Corporation suffered from initial delays, reflecting in part the lack



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
of familiarity of the agencies with IDA procedures and slowness in reaching
decisions as to which spare parts had highest priority. Progress has now
improved and it is expected that all orders will be placed by early 1976.
Disbursements for this portion of the project are expected to be completed
by June 30, 1976, one year later than originally anticipated.
Cr. No. 458    Imports Program; US$50 Million Credit of February 7, 1974;
Effective Date: February 7, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1976
By Jume 1974, licenses for the full amount of the credit had been
issued to the various eligible industries. As of December 31, 1975, dis-
bursements amounted to US$48.0 million and. in addition letters of credit
guaranteed by IDA had been opened for US$1.0 million. Import orders have
been placed for the balance, and the credit is expected to be fully disbursed
by the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Credit became effective July 23, 1974. Procurement work is well
in hand with the major orders expected to be placed by March 1976. Local
telephone expansion has lagged about a year behind schedule due to slower
than expected deliveries from the local factory (hampered by labor unrest).
However, the factory production is now picking up and the shortfall in
project targets is expected to be made up by 1977. According to present
cost estimates, foreign costs are likely to be within the original estimates.
The local costs will increase from Tk 470 million to Tk 680 million due to
higher labor and construction costs and the imposition of a 20% tax on all
imported goods. Under the Credit Agreement, BTT is to establish a modern
accounting system and is to be transformed into a Board with adequate auton-
omy. Accounting consultants have been appointed. The Board was legally
established before the June 30, 1975 deadline, but the ordinance was revoked
almost immediately thereafter.   A new ordinance establishing a Telecommunica-
tion Board was recently promulgated. We are waiting further information on
the regulations under which the new Board will operate.
Cr. No. 515    Third Imports Program: USS75 Million Credit of October 9.
1974: Effective Date:  October 10,_1974;
Closin, Date: December 31, 1976
Provision was made to reimburse the Government for up to USA10 mil-
lion for eli2,ible imports paid for after July 1, 1974. btit prior to the date
of the credit. Disbursements amounted to US.59.6 million as of December 31,
1975, and in addition letters of credit puaranteed by IDA amount to UJS$6.9
million.  The Credit aT'roved on October 9, 1974 u.as for US$50 million. but



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
after the Fourth IDA Replenishment Agreement became effective, an amendment
increasing the credit amount was approved on February 27, 1975. The Amend-
ing Agreement was signed on March 10, 1975 and became effective on April 7,
1975. The Government has allocated the full amount of the Credit among the
various eligible industries, and import orders are being processed. It is
expected that by March 1976 the bulk of disbursements would have taken
place.
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 1    1975; Effective Date:  December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project is being cofinanced by Asian Development Bank, KfW, and
the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total of $109
million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Site preparation work is
proceeding on schedule, but, overall, the project is about six months behind
schedule due primarily to delays in awarding the General Engineering and
Management Assistance Contracts. These contracts were signed in late
November/early December and the firms are expected to commence work in
Bangladesh early in 1976. Commencement of commercial production is now
expected by February 1979.
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:   US$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31 1982
Project is being confinanced by six co-lenders providing a total of
about $25 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Notwithstanding
the delay in declaring the Credit effective, the Government has made substan-
tial progress in project implementation. The organizational structure of the
Population Control and Family Planning Division (body responsible for the
population program) has been defined and its staff is being placed in position.
The Population Program Officers, who are responsible for the population
programs of five non-health ministries, have been trained abroad and have
initiated the schemes of their respective ministries. A contract with
architectural consultants for the Building, Planning and Design Unit of the
Ministry of Health has been signed. The Government is proceeding with the
selection of required consultants and advisors for other parts of the project.
However, because of institutional problems, the implementation of a few project
components is some months behind schedule. In particular, the Government has
still to formally appoint a number of key personnel.
Cr. No. 542     Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: September 30, 1975
Closing Date:  December 31, 1980
Project consultants are mobilizing staff. Procurement of local
construction materials and construction of office and storage accommodation
in Barisal is proceeding.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Cr. No. 591    Fourtih Imports Program; US$100 million of November 25, 1975;
Effective Date: December 29, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$ 22 Million of January 28, 1976;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980



ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL TRAINING PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Amount:                  US$12 million equivalent.
Terms:                   Standard.
Project Description:     The project seeks to increase agricultural production
by bringing farmers more effective extension, co-
operative and credit services. It involves expansion
of training programs for extension and rural develop-
ment staff and studies and pilot programs to determine
methods of improving the effectiveness of the ex-
tension and rural development efforts at the local
level. The Credit would finance: (a) construction,
furnishing and equipment for: a graduate level
in-service training unit at the Bangladesh Agricul-
tural University (BAU) for training officers engaged
in rural development and teachers at extension
institutes, three new Agriculture Training Institutes
(ATIs) and the expansion of four existing institutes,
a Regional Academy of Rural Development at Bogra,
and experimental facilities (Thana Training Units
and Thana Sub-stations) in 15 thanas to try new
modes of farmer training on a pilot basis; (b)
in-service training for present extension personnel;
and (c) technical assistance and training programs.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Estimated Costs by C mponents:
US Dollars (millions)
Local Foreign Total
Agriculture Extension
Graduate In-Service Unit            0.11    0.12     0.23
7 Agriculture Training
Institutes (ATIs)                 2.94     3.07    6.01
In-Service Extension Trg.           0.21    0.03     0.24
Field Extension Facilities          0.49     0.49    0.98
Credit: & Cooperative Trg.
fRegional Academy Bogra             0.33     0.34    0.67
Thana Training Units                0.37     0.34    0.71
Supporting Services
Technical Assistance                0.35     0.89    1.24
Elase Cost Estimate                 4.80     5.28   10.08
Contingencies
lUnforeseen Expenditures            0.48     0.53    1.01
Price Increase                       3.01    2.40    5.41
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        8.29    8.21   16.50
Financing Plan:
Government of Bangladesh                 4.50       -     4.50
IDA                                       3.79    8.21   12.00
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        8.29    8.21   16.50



ANNEX III
Page 3
Procurement:             (a) Contracts for civil works exceeding US$500,000,
building materials exceeding US$50,000 and equipment
and furniture exceeding US$25,000 would be awarded
after international competitive bidding. (b) Respec-
tive contracts below these amounts would be awarded
after local competitve bidding in accordance with
local procurement procedures acceptable to IDA, ex-
cept that small equipment and furniture contracts
(costing less than US$10,000) would be procured
pursuant to such competitive practices as are rea-
sonable under the circumstances, subject to an aggre-
gate of US$250,000. (c) A preference limited to
7.5% on civil works and 15% or the existing rate of
import duties, whichever is lower, on the c.i.f.
price of imported goods would be extended to local
contractors and local manufacturers in the evaluation
of bids.
Estimated Disbursements:                US$ Thousands
1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80   1980/81
0         300     700     3,200      4,400   3,400
Technical Assistance:    The project would include technical assistance to
support investigations to be carried out by the
National Committee on Rural Training, including
(a) two'man-years of expert assistance for planning
rural training systems; (b) eight man-years of expert
services for preparing an institutional development
plan for strengthening the teaching, research and
extension training programs at BAU; (c) up to four
man-years of expert services for on-going monitoring
and evaluation of project activities; (d) up to
three man-years of expert assistance to carry out
studies related to the operation of Thana Training
Units and Thana Sub-stations; and (e) four man-years
of expert assistance to the Bogra Academy for de-
signing research programs, especially on rural
institutions.
Consulting architects would be retained to prepare
designs and contract documents and to assist in
planning and supervising the project's construction
components.
The project would include ten man-years of fellowships
for preparing the institutional development plan for
BAU and ten man-years of fellowships for teaching
staff of ATIs.
Appraisal Report:        Appraisal of an Agricultural and Rural Training
Project in Bangladesh. Report No. 680b-BD, dated
February 18, 1976.



