CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 621 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Agricultural and Rural Training Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 25, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 25, 1976, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General Con-
ditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ATI" means Agricultural Training Institute, a post-
secondary school institution which offers a two year diploma course
in agriculture and provides in-service training for middle-level
agricultural field staff;
(b) "BAU" means the Bangladesh Agricultural University at
Mymensingh;
(c) "Cooperative College" means the Cooperative College
presently located at Comilla Academy and shall include any suc-
cessor thereto;


﻿-3-
(d) "IRDP" means the Integrated Rural Development Program,
an agency of the Borrower's Ministry of Local Government, Rural
Development and Co-operatives;
(e) "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(f) "NCRT" means the National Committee on Rural Training
established by the Borrower under Notification Number MP/A-10/2M-
168/75/77 dated May 3, 1975, in accordance with Section 3.03 and
Schedule 5 of this Agreement;
(g) "PIU" means the project implementation unit to be estab-
lished pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(h)  "Revolving Fund" means the fund referred to in Section
3.05 of this Agreement; and
(i) "Taka" means Taka in the currency of the Borrower.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods, works and services (other than consultants' services)
for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to tirm,e.


﻿-5 -
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing March 1, 1986, and ending September 1,
2025, each installment to and including the installment payable
on September 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of The United Kingdom and Northern
Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02(a) of
the General Conditions.
*


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, educational and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall cause to be employed consultants
and experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association (a) for the
purposes specified in Parts C(1) to (4) and (7) inclusive of the
Project and (b) to prepare designs and contract documents and to
assist in planning and supervising construction in respect of the
civil works included in the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain the interminis-
terial National Committee on Rural Training ("NCRT") as more fully
described in Schedule 5 to this Agreement with terms of reference
acceptable to the Association. NCRT (i) shall have over-all respon-
sibility for implementing the Project and coordinating the rural
training activities of the Ministries and agencies involved in the
Project; (ii) shall have direct responsibility for carrying out
Part C of the Project; and (iii) shall review national policies
regarding rural training with a view to assisting the Borrower in
formulating a plan for the long-term development of rural training
programs.


﻿-7 -
(b) The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1977, or such other date
as the Association may agree, formulate and submit to the Associa-
tion for its comments a plan for the long-term development of its
.      agricultural and rural training institutions.
-          Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain
a project implementation unit ("PIU") as described in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to making appointments to any of the positions
in PIU referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
the Borrower shall furnish the Association such information on the
qualifications and experience of its proposed appointees as the
Association shall reasonably request sufficiently in advance of
the proposed appointments to afford the Association the opportunity
to exchange views ith the Borrower prior to such appointments.
(c) The Project educator, project accountant and procurement
officer shall be appointed to the PIU not later than three months
after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Association
may approve.
(d) The Borrower shall permit and enable PIU to take action
directly to procure goods and services when the project director,
in his discretion, deems direct procurement desirable.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
and without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Sec-
tion 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:


﻿-8-
(a) Establish and maintain a Revolving Fund in a commercial
bank to be used exclusively to account and make payments for the
following items for the Project to the extent payment for them
is to be made in Takas:
(i)       local expenditures on consultants and experts
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(ii)      import duties, other local taxes and other expenses
incident to the import into Bangladesh, and clearance
through customs, of all imported items for the Proj-
ect (other than for transportation and marine
insurance);
(iii)     in-service training expenses, including travel,
per diem and teaching materials; and
(iv)      any other expenditures for the Project in respect
of which prompt payment is desirable.
(b) Deposit in the Revolving Fund at least once per month
an amount sufficient to raise the balance of unencumbered funds
in the Revolving Fund immediately after such deposit to Taka
500,000 plus such amounts as may be necessary to make all payments
estimated on the basis of the Project implementation schedule,
prepared in accordance with paragraph 4(d) of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, to become due in the sixty days following such deposit
for the items described in the foregoing paragraphs (a)(i) to
(a) (iv) inclusive; and


﻿-9 -
(c) Authorize appropriate officials of PIU to make withdrawals
from the Revolving Fund for the purpose of making such payments.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take, and cause to be taken,
all action required to ensure that:
(a) After July 1, 1977, the minimum educational qualification
for appointment as an agricultural extension worker, at the Village
Extension Agent (VEA) level or the equivalent, by any ministry or
agency of the Borrower shall be an agricultural diploma representing
the successful completion of at least two years' study in agriculture
after secondary school.
(b) Staff of the MOA shall be made available to the BAU grad-
*    uate in-service training unit, described in Part A(3) of the Proj-
ect, to assist in preparing, and participating in, in-service
training programs.
Section 3.07. The Borrower and the Association shall exchange
views in respect of the matters described below sufficiently in
advance of the implementation of any contemplated changes in policy
or action to permit the Association's views to be taken into account.
(a) Not later than one year after the Effective Date, compre-
hensive plans for staff selection, compensation and development
in respect of all training institutions referred to in Part A of
the Project. In formulating such plans, the Borrower shall re.iew
its present system of selection, compensation and development of
staff of rural training institutions.
91


﻿-10                                     0
(b) Until the Closing Date, (i) any major changes in the
curricula of the training institutions referred to in Part A of
the Project, and (ii) the anndal research and training programs
of the Bogra Academy of Rural Development.
(c) A comprehensive evaluation to be conducted by the Bor-
rower of its agricultural extension services (including terms and
conditions of extension worker service and effectiveness of field
practices of such workers) and its present thana level training
programs. The Thana Training Units described in Part A(1)(c) of
the Project shall be located adjacent to Thana Training and Devel-
opment Centers approved by the Association and such Units and the
thana sub-stations described in Part A(1)(d) of the Project shall
be utilized to test new modes of training and extension work. On
the basis of such evaluation, the experience gained through such
tests and such other studies as may be desirable, the Borrower
shall formulate a comprehensive plan for the improvement of its
extension services and thana level training and submit such plan
to the Ass.ociation not later than three years after the date of
this Agreement.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall take all action required
to insure that nineteen man-years of expert technical assistance
is provided to ATIs.
(b) The Borrower shall afford the Association the opportunity
to comment on the terms of reference for the experts to be employed
to render the services described in the preceding paragraph (a).


﻿9                           -11 -
Section 3.09. In respect of the in-service training described
in Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that (i) de-
tailed work plans showing monthly schedules of work for the follow-
ing six months will be furnished each participant, prior to the com-
pletion of the participant's in-service training; and (ii) the
effects of such training will be assessed within six months of the
conclusion of each course.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall rea-
sonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds


﻿-12-
of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and ser-
vices financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire all such land and rights in respect
of land as shall be required for the construction and operation
of the facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to
the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect
of land are available for purposes related to the Project. All
such land and rights connected with each training institution
shall be vested in the respective department of the Borrower which
exercises primary control over the training institution involved.
(b) Such action shall be completed: (i) in the case of the
land required for the facilities described in Parts A(l)(a) and
A(2) of the Project, not later than six months after the date
of this Agreement, and (ii) in the case of land required for
all other facilities described in Part A of the Project, not
later than eighteen months after the date of this Agreement.
(c) In respect of each ATI included in Parts A(l)(a) and
A(2) of the Project, construction of facilities shall not commence


﻿-13-
until the Association has been provided evidence of the acquisition
of at least 35 acres of land which is accessible thereto and suit-
able for planting or, if appropriate to the ATI involved, for
livestock use.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall cause Parts C(5) and (6)
of the Project to be carried out in accordance with training pro-
grams satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 14-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause the minis-
tries, institutions, agencies and authorities of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof to
maintain separate records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition related to the Project.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the ministries, insti-
tutions, agencies and authorities of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof to: (i) have their
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements
of income and expenses and related statements) related to the
Project for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied, by auditors acceptable
to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of their financial
statements for such year so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
6


﻿-15
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Revolving Fund described in Section 3.05 of this
Agreement has been established, on terms satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, and the Borrower shall have deposited Taka 500,000 therein;
(b) the Borrower has made arrangements satisfactory to the
Association to obtain the services of consultant architects for
the purposes set out in Section 3.02(b) of this Agreement; and
(c) the Project Director and Project Architect have been
appointed to PIU in conformity with Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date June 30, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
3.06 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿-16                                      0
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary and any Additional Secretary,
any Joint Secretary and any Deputy Secretary of the Ministry of
Planning of the Borrower are each designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Secti-T- 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
(Planning Commission)
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:
PARIKALPANA
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-17 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ M. R. Siddiqi
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                 1,310,000        60%
(excluding
building
materials)
(2) Building ma-               3,960,000
terials
(a) Directly                                100% of foreign
imported                               expenditures
(b) Procured                                70%
locally
(3) Furniture and              1,210,000
equipment
(a) Directly                                100% of foreign
imported                               expenditures
(b) Procured                                70%
locally


﻿-19-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Technical                   1,420,000
assistance
(a) Foreign                                  100% of foreign
consult-                                expenditures
ants and
fellowships
(b) Local con-                               70%
sultants
(5) Per diem expendi-            140,000          60%
tures, local travel
costs and
instructional ma-
terials for in-
service training
(6) Unallocated                 3,960,000
TOTAL      12,000,000


﻿-20                                      0
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for
goods or services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency,
of any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from,
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance
with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by,
or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of
any such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the da*e
of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures


﻿-21 -
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(1) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not nreeded to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Credit.


﻿-22                                      0
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Training Institutions
(1) Constructing, furnishing, equipping and staffing
the following new training institutions:
(a) Three ATIs, each with facilities for training
and housing 240 persons per session and not
less than 35 acres of land accessible thereto
and suitable for planting or livestock use;
(b) One regional academy of rural development at
Bogra with facilities for housing and training
eighty persons per session to: (i) conduct
research on farmer training and development
of new rural social institutions and (ii)
train officers engaged in rural development;
(c) Fifteen experimental Thana Training Units
with facilities for housing thirty persons
per session to facilitate training of farmers
and rural development workers; -and
(d) About 40 thana sub-stations including housing
for extension agents and meeting/office


﻿-23 -
facilities in 10 of the 15 thanas with Thana
Training Units described in the preceding
paragraph, and housing for about 75 additional
extension agents in the other 5 thanas with
such Thana Training Units.
(2) Constructing, furnishing, equipping and staffing
additional facilities at existing Agricultural
Extension Training Institutes at Daulatpur,
Gaibandha, Sherpur and Syihet to increase their
capacity to 240 persons each per session, providing
not less than 35 acres of land accessible thereto
and suitable for planting or livestock use and
converting such Institutes into ATIs.
0
(3)  Constructing and furnishing dormitories with a
capacity of sixty persons and staff housing at BAU,
and staffing and ec-uipping in connection therewith
a graduate level in-service training unit to provide
in-service training to extension workers and other
rural development staff holding university degrees.
Part B:   In-service Training
(1) Providing in-service training to about 4,000 union
agricultural assistants and thana agricultural
officers in the first two years following the
Effective Date through three-week courses in the
cultivation of high yield varieties of rice.
01


﻿- 24                                     0
(2) Providing in-service training to middle level
agricultural workers in the cultivation of jute.
Part C:   Technical Assistance
Providing technical assistance to NCRT, BAU and the
ATIs including:
(1) Two man-years of expert assistance for planning
rural training systems.
(2) Eight man-years of expert assistance for preparing
an institutional development plan for strengthening
the teaching research and extension programs at BAU.
(3) Up to three man-years of expert assistance in con-
nection with the studies described in Section 3.07(c)
of this Agreement.
(4) Up to four man-years of expert assistance for moni-
toring and evaluation of the Project.
(5) Ten man-years of fellowships to strengthen the
teaching, research and extension training capacity
of BAU.
(6) Ten man-years of fellowships for staff of the ATIs
in the fields of curriculum development and special-
ized agricultural and communications subjects con-
nected with extension services.


﻿-25 -
(7) Four man-years of expert assistance to the Bogra
Academy of Rural Development in research design
and rural institutions.
All numbers given above are approximate. Changes in administrative
arrangements which do not substantially alter the character of the
Project may be made with the Association's consent.
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 1980.
S


﻿-26                                      0
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.3 of this Schedule, contracts
shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in Octo-
ber 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
2.   (a) Before procuring instructional equipment or furniture,
PIU shall submit detailed furniture and equipment lists to the
Association and obtain the Association's approval thereof.
(b) Modifications to such lists made subsequent to the
Association's approval which do not exceed the equivalent of $1,000
for any one item or in aggregate 10% of the total proceeds of the
Credit allocated to equipment and furniture, and which are in
accordance with appropriate educational practices, may be made
without the prior approval of the Association. Contracts for civil
works, furniture and equipment will be bulked to the extent prac-
ticable to promote competition.
(c) Bidders for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more shall be prequalifiet as described in Part 2.2
of the Guidelines.


﻿-27-
3.   (a) Contracts for: (i) furniture and equipment; (ii) building
materials and (iii) civil works not estimated to exceed, respec-
tively, $25,000, $50,000 and $500,000 equivalent shall be let on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with local procedures acceptable to the Association.
(b) Contracts for furniture and equipment estimated not to
exceed $10,000 equivalent may be let pursuant to such competitive
practices as are reasonable under the circumstances, provided that
the aggregate cost of contracts so let shall not exceed 8250,000
equivalent.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of fids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
@       1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:


﻿-28                                       0
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the informa-
tion required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such pref-
erence and the following methods and stages that will be followed
in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Bangladesh if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Bangladesh equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Bangladesh.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evaluated
bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of each group shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.


﻿-29 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences
for Domestic Contractors
1.   With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category (1) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 hereto, which
is let pursuant to international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Guidelines, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference
of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
(a) Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the information required for prequalification,
if required under Part A.2(c) of this Schedule, or together with
their bids such information, including details of ownership, as
shall be required to determine whether, according to the classifi-
cation established by the Borrower and accepted by the Association,


﻿-30                                      0
a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic pref-
erence. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference
and the method that will be followed in the evaluation and compari-
son of bids to give effect to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received'and reviewed by the Bor-
rower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i)       bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii)      bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Association in detail of the pro-
cedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in
said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for
domestic preference under Part C.1 above and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for such
eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association
for its comments before the applicants are notified, and the


﻿- 31 -
Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifi-
cations in, the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for: (i) furniture and equipment;
(ii) building materials, and (iii) civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $25,000, $25,000 and $100,000 or more respectively:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, a list of all contracts for
civil works to be let in carrying out the Project indicating the
estimated value of each contract and the forecast timetable for
award, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications
and other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall
make such modifications in the said documents or procedures as
the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concur-
rence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower
shall inform the Association of the names of the bidders and the
respective amounts of the bids.
(c) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award


﻿- 32 -
the contract and the reasons for the intended award and shall fur-
nish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a de-
tailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with the recommendation for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the con-
tract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 4
Project Implementation Unit
(Section 3.04)
1.   The Project Implementation Unit ("PIU") shall be established
within the Ministry of Agriculture.
2.   The PIU will include the-following key personnel appointed on
a fulltime basis (except for the accountant) and assisted by ade-
quate supporting staff:
(i)       Project Director
(ii)       Project Architect
(iii)       Project Educator
(iv)       Project Accountant
(v)       Project Procurement Officer
The responsibilities and job descriptions of the foregoing
personnel shall be acceptable to the Association. The Project
Educator may share his time between working for PIU and NCRT. The
Project Architect may be replaced by a Project Engineer after all
major design work is completed and approved.
3.   PIU shall report to the Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture
in respect of Parts A(1)(a), A(1)(d), A(2), and B(1) of the Proj-
ect, shall report to the Secretary, Ministry of Local Government,
Rural Development and Cooperatives in respect of Parts A(1)(b)
and (c) of the Project, shall report to the Secretary, Ministry


﻿-34                                     0
of Education in respect of Part A(3) of the Project, and shall
report to the Chairman of NCRT in respect of Part C of the Project.
PIU will report to the official in charge of jute extension activi-
ties in respect of Part B(2) of the Project.
4.   Under the guidance of the officials described above, PIU
shall be responsible for the financial, administrative and techni-
cal control of the Project and shall ensure its proper execution,
and to that end shall be suitably empowered to perform said func-
tions and charged with responsibilities that shall include,
inter alia, the following:
(a) Directing all aspects of the physical execution of the
Project and maintaining liaison with the Association;
(b) Reporting periodically to NCRT and the Association
on Project progress, including inter alia the
preparation of quarterly reports on the progress of
the Project;
(c) Calling upon and assisting NCRT in resolving major
policy issues affecting the progress of the Project,
which may require coordination of the views of the
various Ministries and Agencies involved in the Project;
(d) Preparing comprehensive implementation and disbursement
schedules for the Project;
(e) The selection, briefing, coordination and supervision
of the consultant firms and contractors, including the
establishment of their terms of reference and


﻿-35-
administration of their agreements, the review and
approval of all architectural design work and ,contract
documents;
(f) The preparation of master lists of furniture and
instructional equipment;
(g) All necessary steps for competitive bidding for civil
works and for the procurement of furniture and
instructional equipment, including preparation of bidding
and contract documents, the evaluation of bids and the
making of recommendations regarding the award of
contracts;
(h) The supervision of construction and procurement (and
direct procurement when desirable) and installation
procedures for furniture and equipment and the regular
inspection of construction sites;
(i) Providing such assistance in the recruitment and coordi-
nation activities required for carrying out Part C of
the Project as NCRT may request;
(j) The keeping of project accounts and processing of
all Project related expenditures, withdrawal and
related applications to the Association and
certificates of payments;
(k) The monitoring of Project implementation and
ensuring that the works are meeting established
performance standards;


﻿- 36 -
(1) Ensuring the adequacy of supply of construction materials
to construction sites; and
(m) Providing such assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture
as required to ensure the effective implementation of
Part B of the Project.
5.   Nothing contained in this Schedule shall be interpreted to
relieve the Borrower of its obligations under this Agreement to
obtain the consent or approval of the Association of actions taken
by PIU.


﻿- 37 -
SCHEDULE 5
National Committee on Rural Training
(Section 3.03(a))
1.   The National Committee on Rural Training ("NCRT"), established
as an interministerial committee chaired by the Chief of the Agri-
culture and Rural Division in the Ministry of Planning, will in-
clude as members high level officers of the concerned Ministries
and Institutions, such as Agriculture, Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives, Education and Livestock and Fisheries,
and the Bangladesh Agricultural University ("BAU").
2.   NCRT shall have the overall responsibility for:
(a) supervision, review and coordination of the on-going
rural training programs;
(b)  assessment of the performance of the existing rural
training system, both formal and nonformal, In relation
to requirements; and
(c) based on the assessment referred to in subparagraph (b)
above, development within two years, of a comprehensive
and integrated long-range plan and policies for strength-
ening the rural training system and improving its effec-
tiveness and enhancing its contributions to rural devel-
opment.
S1


﻿-38                                    0
3.   NCRT shall periodically review the progress of the Project
and shall resolve any major policy issues affecting the progress
of the Project which require the coordination of the views of the
various ministries and agencies involved in the Project.
4.   Among the priority tasks of NCRT would be to ensure implemen-
tation of Part C of the Project, giving special emphasis to:
(a) reviewing the role of BAU in research and extension and
its relationship with other agricultural faculties and
assisting in preparing an institutional program for
integrating its teaching and research programs with the
extension service commensurate with the requirements;
(b) recommending programs for improving the operation and
effectiveness of the extension service and the thana
level training programs; and
(c) reviewing the training programs of Bangladesh Academies
of Rural Development at Comilla and Bogra, Cooperative
College and Zonal Cooperative Training Institutes with
a view to reallocating credit and cooperative training
at different levels to these institutions consistent
with available facilities and regional needs.
5.   NCRT shall carry out the recruitment and coordination activi-
ties required for carrying out Part C of the Project with such
assistance from PIU as NCRT may r.equest. NCRT shall provide such
information to PIU concerning Part C of the Project as is required
to enable PIU to carry out the tasks referred to in (b), (d) and
(j) of paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-39 -
6.   Based on the outcome of the studies and assessment carried
out by NCRT and the development plan proposed by it, NCRT will
identify an immediate program to improve agricultural extension
and training for credit and cooperatives.
7.   To pursue its appraisal and planning functions, NCRT shall
have a competent secretariat, adequate technical assistance And
analytical services.


