                                     Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR2126



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-36540)



                                 ON A CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 88.1 MILLION
                      (US$ 110.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                    FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIA

                                      FOR A

           COMMUNITY BASED URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                 March 28, 2012




Urban and Water
AFCW2, Federal Republic of Nigeria
Africa Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                Exchange Rate Effective March 26th, 2012
                 Currency Unit = Nigerian Naira (NGN)
                         XDR 1.00 = US$ 1.54
                       US$ 1.00 = NGN 157.45

                            FISCAL YEAR

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFTOS   World Bank Africa Core Operations Services
CBUDP   Community Based Urban Development Project
CDD     Community Driven Development
CDS     City Development Strategy
CMU     World Bank Country Management Unit
CTC     Community Technical Committee
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
FGD     Focus Group Discussion
FGN     Federal Government of Nigeria
FMWH    Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
FMF     Federal Ministry of Finance
FMHUD   Federal Ministry of Housing and Urban Development
FPCU    Federal Project Coordination Unit
IDA     International Development Association
ISR     Implementation Supervision Report
JISU    Joint Interim Strategy Update
LG      Local Government
MTR     Midterm Review
NGOs    Non-Governmental Organizations
NPV     Net Present Value
PDO     Project Development Objective
PIM     Project Implementation Manual
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PSC     Project Steering Committee
SG      State Government
SMU     World Bank Sector Management Unit
TTL     Task Team Leader


                    Vice President:   Obiageli Ezekwesili
                  Country Director:   Marie-Francoise Marie-Nelly
                   Sector Director:   Jamal Saghir
            Acting Sector Manager:    Alexander E. Bakalian
              Project Team Leader:    Hassan Madu Kida
         ICR Author / Team Leader:    Hassan Madu Kida
                             FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                          Community Based Urban Development Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet

    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph


  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20

  ANNEXES

  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 21
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 22
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 26
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 28
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 30
  Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 33
  Annex 7. ICR Sources and List of Supporting Documents .......................................... 37
  Annex 8. Questionnaire sent to Project Implementation Units……………………….38

  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                            Community-Based
Country:                Nigeria                   Project Name:             Urban Development
                                                                            Project
Project ID:             P069901                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-36540
ICR Date:               29/02/2012                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            FEDERAL MINISTRY
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:
                                                                            OF FINANCE
Original Total
                        XDR 88.10M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 88.10M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 88.10M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Federal Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and State PIUs of Akwa
Ibom, Bauchi, Ebonyi, Edo, Jigawa, Nassarawa, Ogun, and Ondo.
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/01/2000      Effectiveness:             06/23/2003         06/23/2003
                                                                                    06/28/2005
Appraisal:            04/01/2002      Restructuring(s):                             03/18/2009
                                                                                    06/23/2010
Approval:             06/06/2002      Mid-term Review:                              04/30/2008
                                      Closing:                   06/30/2009         08/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Substantial
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
                                                                            Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:
                                                                            Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                                     Yes                                           None
 at any time (Yes/No):                                 (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                                Quality of
                                     Yes                                           None
    time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
    DO rating before
                               Satisfactory
 Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agro-industry                                                     22
General education sector                                          26
General public administration sector                               8
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector             22
Roads and highways                                                22


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
HIV/AIDS                                                           13
Municipal finance                                                  25
Participation and civic engagement                                 24
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                   13
procurement
Urban services and housing for the poor                            25

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                            At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:              Obiageli Ezekwesili                       Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:            Marie-Francoise Marie-Nelly               Mark D. Tomlinson
Sector Director:             Jamal Saghir                              Letitia A. Obeng
Sector Manager:              Alexander E. Bakalian (acting)            Letitia A. Obeng
Project Team Leader:         Hassan Madu Kida                          Alison C.N. Cave
ICR Author/Team Leader:      Hassan Madu Kida
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
(i) Establish partnerships between communities and their Local Governments (LGs) so
that sub-project proposals are developed jointly by them;
(ii) deliver basic urban services in poor urban settlements; and
(iii) demonstrate viable approaches to infrastructure development and service delivery
that enable LGs to move away from a culture of total financial dependency for
infrastructure investment and even recurrent infrastructure O&M expenditures.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
To increase access to basic urban services in selected cities.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

Original PDO indicators included: (PDO1) the partnerships result in the bulk of project
proceeds being invested on-site1, (PDO 2) i) reduced time spent on water collection and
lower unit costs, ii) reduced incidence of flooding, iii) increased use of public transport,
and iv) higher satisfaction levels for services delivered – water, roads, drainage, solid
waste management, and (PDO3) increase in own source revenue generation by 5% per
annum in real terms for LGs. The PAD did not include baseline values for PDO2 and 3
nor specific targets as the demand-based design of the project did not allow to know, a
priori, the choices that the communities would make during implementation.

Revised PDO after the restructuring included:
                                                 Original Target        Formally         Actual Value
                                     Baseline     Values (from          Revised           Achieved at
             Indicator
                                      Value         approval             Target          Completion or
                                                  documents)             Values          Target Years
    Number of people with access
                                        0                NA                 NA                912,000
             to water supply
    Number of people with access
                                        0                NA                 NA                843,700
         to sanitation facilities
        Number of people using
      rehabilitated or newly built      0                NA                 NA               2,171,000
               access roads
      Number of people reached
                                        0                NA                 NA                598,020
    through HIV-AIDS campaigns
     Number of people enrolled in
                                        0                NA                 NA                 36,629
                  school
     Number of people who go to
                                        0                NA                 NA                  360
         clinic on a daily basis




1
  “On-site? means local infrastructure investments within the poor areas of the cities selected. It is opposed
to “off-site? which refers to trunk infrastructure outside the poor settlements themselves. An implicit
assumption at project appraisal was that decision-makers may be inclined to favor “off-site? investments.
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                 Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                      Baseline    Values (from                     Achieved at
           Indicator                                               Revised
                                       Value        approval                      Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                  documents)                      Target Years
      Water supply schemes               0            NA               NA                39
            Public toilets               0            NA               NA               193
Refuse collection trucks in service      0            NA               NA                38
            Incinerators                 0            NA               NA                 5
            Compactors                   0            NA               NA                 1
            Roads (km)                   0            NA               NA              179.3
          Footpaths (km)                 0            NA               NA                18
            Bus shelters                 0            NA               NA                 5
   People trained on HIV-AIDS            0            NA               NA             24,587
   Condom packets distributed            0            NA               NA             25,400
 Individuals tested on HIV-AIDS          0            NA               NA             29,600
      Classrooms and school
                                         0            NA               NA              247
        infrastructures built
      Classrooms and school
                                         0            NA               NA              315
     infrastructures renovated
    Education equipment items
                                         0            NA               NA             6,412
              provided
           Health Centers                0            NA               NA               13
        Health centers beds              0            NA               NA              144


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
          Date ISR
No.                                   DO                        IP               Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1      12/18/2002           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                0.00
  2      05/30/2003           Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory               0.00
  3      11/26/2003           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                1.89
  4      05/25/2004           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                4.82
  5      06/18/2004           Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory               5.32
  6      12/08/2004           Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory               5.92
  7      04/22/2005          Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory               8.84
  8      06/29/2005          Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory              11.17
                               Moderately                  Moderately
  9      12/13/2005                                                                  17.86
                             Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
 10      06/06/2006       Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory        23.29
 11      11/22/2006       Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory        28.72
 12      05/25/2007       Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory        37.08
 13      11/22/2007       Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory        45.05
 14      05/22/2008       Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory        53.54
 15      11/28/2008       Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory        61.15
 16      05/22/2009       Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory        66.14
                        Moderately
 17    12/29/2009                        Moderately Satisfactory      81.63
                       Unsatisfactory
 18    06/02/2010       Satisfactory          Satisfactory            93.34
 19    03/29/2011       Satisfactory          Satisfactory           134.26
 20       Draft         Satisfactory          Satisfactory           136.20

H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                           Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                 Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO       IP       in USD
                                          millions
                                                      PDOs changed. Outreach of
 06/28/2005      Board     U      U           11.17
                                                      component 2 reduced
                Country
 03/18/2009                S       S          64.28    20 months closure extension
                Director
                Country
 06/23/2010                S       S          93.34    6 months closure extension
                Director


I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

   1. The Community Based Urban Development Project (CBUDP) was prepared
      during the first years of democracy in Nigeria after more than three decades of
      military rule. The CBUDP was part of the first wave of projects with which the
      Bank scaled up its portfolio after years of keeping a low profile during the
      military regime. The general institutional setting was weak, corruption levels were
      high, and public procurement processes were extremely weak.

   2. The main urban issues in Nigeria in 2002 were: (i) rapid urbanization, increasing
      urban poverty, and social unrest in cities, (ii) infrastructure deficiencies,
      especially in low-income neighborhoods, due to inadequate investment in new
      facilities and negligible maintenance of existing facilities, (iii) poor utilization of
      existing resources, (iv) inadequate fiscal decentralization leading to high levels of
      dependency on Federal resource flows to maintain and increase recurrent and
      capital expenditures, (v) inadequate access by Local Governments (LGs) to
      financing for infrastructure investments, and (vi) inadequate technical and
      management capacity at both State and LG levels, coupled with poor urban
      information systems.

   3. The project was in line with the Government‟s priorities. The Federal
      Government of Nigeria‟s (FGN) National Urban Development Policy of 1997
      aimed to improve the living standards of the Nigerian people by facilitating
      adequate, efficient and functional service delivery. This was to be achieved by
      providing infrastructure developed to design standards that would make urban
      facilities and amenities more affordable through investments in a package of basic
      services to upgrade poor urban settlements.

   4. The Nigeria Joint Interim Strategy Update (JISU) of June 2001structured IDA
      assistance to Nigeria through three strategic pillars: (i) community-driven
      development, (ii) governance, and (iii) private sector-led growth. The CBUDP
      aimed at addressing communities‟ needs. The governance pillar was reflected in
      the partnership between local communities, LGs and State Governments (SGs) to
      boost good governance by empowering local governments to provide services to
      local communities, while at the same time empowering communities to demand
      such services from their government. Finally, the infrastructure works and the
      out-sourcing of some operations to the private sector was to promote its role in
      economic growth. The rationale for Bank assistance was thus comprehensively
      justified.

   5. Given IDA‟s experience in urban development – including community-based
      urban development – this CBUDP was intended to enable the FGN to develop an
      approach to infrastructure provision that promoted demand-led and participatory



                                            1
            planning techniques for public expenditures on infrastructure within budget
            constraints, thereby promoting better utilization of resources. It also aimed at
            assisting States in developing long-term, realistic and workable financing
            strategies for scaling-up upgrading interventions in their cities in the future, and
            help the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing (FMWH) draw lessons from
            urban policy work in Nigeria.

      1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

      6.     The original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) were to: (PDO1) Establish
            partnerships between communities and their LGs so that sub-project proposals are
            developed jointly by them; (PDO2) Deliver basic urban services in poor urban
            settlements; and (PDO3) Demonstrate viable approaches to infrastructure
            development and service delivery that enable LGs to move away from a culture of
            total financial dependency for infrastructure investment and even recurrent
            infrastructure O&M expenditures.

      7. The original key outcome/impact indicators corresponding to the PDOs were:
            (PDO1) the partnerships result in the bulk of project proceeds being invested on-
            site2, (PDO 2) i) reduced time spent on water collection and lower unit costs, ii)
            reduced incidence of flooding, iii) increased use of public transport, and iv) higher
            satisfaction levels for services delivered – water, roads, drainage, solid waste
            management, and (PDO3) increase in own source revenue generation by 5% per
            annum in real terms for LGs.

      1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
          Indicators, and reasons/justification

      8. The project was restructured in June 2005 (Board approval). The three original
            PDOs were replaced by the following: “To increase access to basic urban services
            in selected cities.? The restructuring thus eliminated the original PDO1 and PDO3
            and widened the target area of PDO2 from „poor urban settlements‟ to „selected
            cities‟. The 3 new PDO indicators were changed to: (1) increased access to all
            weather roads, (2) increased access to safe reliable and affordable water supply,
            and (3) increased access of primary school children to improved school facilities
            and services. The corresponding output indicators were: (i) infrastructure
            investments as agreed in the States, (ii) upgrading fund, (iii) capacity building,
            and (iv) greater awareness of HIV/AIDS.

      9. The main reason for the 2005 restructuring was the need to modify the project‟s
            second component design. First, because only eight cities (out of thirteen
            envisaged by project design) had demonstrated demand for the second phase of
            the CBUDP. Second, the substantial appreciation of the SDR with respect to the



2
    Idem.


                                                 2
      Naira since project preparation increased the available financial resources. These
      combined elements necessitated a revision of the project design.

   10. Other reasons to restructure the project included: (i) Political interference had
      caused substantial delays, both during the bid evaluation process, and, in some
      cases, even after awards had been cleared by IDA. The latter had resulted in
      delayed signing of cleared contracts of as much as six to eight months in some
      cases. As a result, disbursement under the project was slow and thus required
      changes in the implementation arrangements; (ii) The Federal Project
      Coordination Unit (FPCU) had not been functional, and there was no entity
      coordinating, monitoring, or providing support to the State Project
      Implementation Units (PIUs) to proactively mitigate against implementation
      delays; (iii) The 20% counterpart fund requirement in CBUDP was found to be
      high, given the low per capita GDP of Nigeria.

   11. The results indicators were aligned to the restructured PDO and further refined in
      January 2010 following a review by the Bank‟s Sector Management Unit (SMU),
      the Country Management Unit (CMU), and the Africa Core Operations Services
      (AFTOS). The indicators included (1) number of people with access to water
      supply, (2) number of people with access to sanitation facilities, (3) number of
      people using rehabilitated or newly built access roads, (4) number of people
      reached through HIV-AIDS campaigns, (5) number of pupils enrolled in school,
      and (6) number of people who go to clinic on a daily basis.

   12. No target values were prescribed for PDO2 indicators before restructuring and the
      PDO indicators after the restructuring. It is considered that this was the result of
      the community based approach for the project, where individual investments were
      demand driven and could not have been identified upfront.

   13. Since the bulk of the investments under the project (91.7%) took place after the
      restructuring of 2005 (see section 3.5), the indicators outlined in paragraph 11
      above have been taken as the most valid ones and have been primarily used for
      this ICR, as they best match the character of the project following restructuring
      and the availability of data. In addition, and where necessary, some information
      on previous indicators has also been used both in quantitative and in qualitative
      terms. The sources of data used for the ICR are more fully outlined in Annex 7.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

   14. The main beneficiaries have been citizens gaining infrastructure and services in
      seven cities (Uyo in Akwa Ibom State, Bauchi City in Bauchi State, Abakaliki in
      Ebonyi State, Benin City in Edo State, Hadejia in Jigawa State, Karu in
      Nassarawa State, and Abeokuta in Ogun State). Another city was added in 2005:
      Akure in Ondo State. Before 2005, the beneficiaries of the seven original cities
      were just those inhabitants of some low-income urban settlements. Investments




                                           3
           after the restructuring expanded the benefits to larger areas and many more
           communities.

       15. Other beneficiaries include PIU staff, LGs, and SGs obtaining capacity building
           through a number of training events that will allow them to make better informed
           investment choices, as well as the private sector through contracting out of
           construction and maintenance of works to local development and contracting
           industry. Indirect beneficiaries of this project have been the members of the
           Community Technical Committees (CTCs), PSC, and traditional institutions.

1.5 Original Components

       16. Seven cities of seven States were selected during the project preparation to benefit
           from upgrading of basic infrastructure during a period of two to three years from
           effectiveness in what was called Phase I. An Upgrading Fund called Phase II was
           intended to follow on Phase I, which would be open to the seven States of Phase I
           and six additional ones. The Fund was going to be accessible to all 13 States
           conditional on meeting a number of eligibility criteria.

       17. Community development in the framework of the CBUDP was understood as
           community mobilization and organization in effective CTCs, consultation with
           them in selecting subprojects to be implemented and strengthened voice in
           communities‟ relationship with the Local Governments.

       18. The six components of the project are described below.

Component 1: Upgrading of basic municipal infrastructure in selected settlements in
seven cities of seven states – Phase I3:
   19. During Phase 1, this component was meant to finance integrated packages of
       multisectoral investments to provide or rehabilitate basic municipal infrastructure
       and services. They included water supply, roads, footpaths, drainage, power
       reticulation, private and public sanitation facilities, solid waste management,
       street lighting, slaughterhouses, markets, recreational facilities, schools, and
       clinics.

Component 2: Upgrading Fund (referred to in the Development Credit Agreement as
“Subprojects?) to finance basic municipal infrastructure in select settlements in cities of
13 States – Phase II:
   20. An Upgrading Fund was established to support subproject proposals in Phase II.
       The Fund was meant to be accessible to all 13 States when they met a number of




3
    The beneficiaries of this component covered about 46 percent of the population of those seven cities.


                                                       4
        eligibility criteria4 and once they had reached the preliminary engineering stages
        with their own funds.

Component 3: Capacity building and training, one city development strategy, and
knowledge sharing networks:
   21. A first sub-component was to finance project-related training for stakeholders,
       including PIUs, SGs, LGs, and CTCs. A second one was to finance broader
       training including financial management and M&E. A third sub-component was
       to undertake analytical work with stakeholders‟ consultation to develop a City
       Development Strategy in the city of Karu. The last one consisted of facilitating
       information sharing of experiences between PIUs and its respective states.

Component 4: Implementation support for the Project Implementation Units (PIU) and
the Federal Project Coordination Unit (FPCU):
    22. Basic office equipment and facilities were to be provided to assist in the
        establishment of PIUs in all States and the FPCU in Abuja, as well as support for
        impact evaluations for all subprojects.

Component 5: HIV/AIDS awareness campaign on project sites:
  23. This component planned the development and execution of an AIDS Education
      Information and Communication Campaign in the project areas, including
      construction sites, in project-supported schools and clinics, solid waste collection
      sites, and transport and disposal network.

Component 6: A project Preparation Facility (PPF):
  24. This was made available to the FGN to enable project preparation in the seven
      Phase I States. It was reimbursed from project funds when the project became
      effective.

1.6 Revised Components

    25. During the 2005 Board-approved restructuring, the scope of the second
        component was narrowed from thirteen to eight cities, which were the seven
        original ones plus the city of Akure in Ondo State. This was due to the fact that
        the remaining States did not manifest an interest to meet the eligibility criteria.
        The other components of the CBUDP did not change.

1.7 Other significant changes

    26. As indicated above, the 2005 project restructuring modified the PDOs and limited
        the participating states to eight. Two subsequent project restructurings (both
        Country Director approval) gave time extensions to the implementation of the


4
  The criteria included having an urban poverty map of the State, audited accounts of the SG and LGs in the
last year, appointed core PIU staff, and demonstrated financial ability to meet the counterpart fund
contributions.


                                                    5
      project by a total of 26 months - the first for twenty months (in March 2009), and
      the second for six months (in June 2010). These two restructurings allowed funds‟
      reallocations and time extensions that permitted completing the implementation of
      ongoing activities at the time.

   27. Although Phase I was supposed to end in 2005, it ultimately closed in 2007. Phase
      II started in 2006 and lasted until project closure, although works did not start
      until 2007. With the 2005 project restructuring and the elimination of PDO1, the
      main focus on on-site infrastructure was put aside. However, projects were
      selected by the PIUs by considering the communities‟ priorities as stated in the
      initial project‟ surveys and by interacting with the CTCs. As such, the community
      aspect of the project as originally understood (see paragraph 17) was preserved
      after the restructuring despite the fact that larger scale trunk infrastructure was
      also financed.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

   28. There was a clear rationale for the Bank‟s intervention under the CBUDP and it
      was in line with the Government‟s priorities. There was a strong commitment
      from the States‟ Governments and stakeholders towards the PDOs. A sound sector
      analysis had been undertaken. The Bank team provided the required skills during
      preparation. Financial and economic analyses were conducted, and safeguards
      issues were addressed.

   29. The Bank had previously supported community-based urban interventions
      through its urban projects in Nigeria. The key lessons from these projects
      highlighted by the FMWH were taken into consideration. These included: (i)
      ownership by communities is critical, and is best ensured through community
      involvement and fostered through strong partnerships between LGs and
      communities; (ii) appropriate standards and continuous monitoring are critical for
      the success of such projects.

   30. The commitment of the States‟ Governments during project preparation was very
      solid, both because of the high interest in bringing the project to the States‟ capital
      (except for Jigawa where the chosen city was not the capital), and because of the
      interest in being the direct implementing actor. However, this commitment was
      uneven later on during the project due to limitations in capacity. On the other
      hand, the commitment of the FGN was weaker. The project design attempted to
      solve this situation by giving the FGN a central coordination role.

   31. Preparation took an extended period. The first preparation mission took place in
      1999, just after one year after the end of the military regime. The three years that
      elapsed until Board approval in 2002 –and one extra year until effectiveness in
      2003 - were utilized to reach agreement on priorities and implementation



                                            6
           modalities. However, the long period of preparation undermined the usefulness of
           procurement and financial management training that had taken place, and
           enlarged the gap between the original engineering estimates and final bids for
           works contracts. The States‟ PIUs were not located within the urban institutions
           (in most cases in the Office of the Governor or the Secretariat to the Governor)
           which to some extent undermined their institutional development legacy.

       32. Many of the difficulties that the project experienced were identified as high risks
           from the outset – with mitigation measures put in place accordingly – including
           the risks of SGs and LGs counterpart funds not being made available in a timely
           fashion, or the PIUs not getting sufficient autonomy to work efficiently. However,
           some of the mitigation measures identified were not fully effective5, and some
           risks such as the underperformance of the Federal Government as a key
           coordinator (FPCU) were not addressed. The FMWH was restructured at least two
           times during the project implementation. The resultant changes in departments
           and staff reflected themselves inter alia on the FPCU performance. Changes in the
           structure of the FMWH, a key counterpart ministry at the federal level, were
           beyond the control of the project.

       33. Additional shortcomings at project appraisal included: (i) the second component
           of the project appears to have been developed somewhat hastily and inserted into
           the project shortly before it went to the Board largely as a result of internal
           pressure within the Bank to increase the overall project financial envelope, (ii) the
           20% figure of State‟s contribution was too high, as demonstrated by the need to
           bring it down to 5% at the restructuring stage, and (iii) including seven States
           (and foreseeing thirteen for phase two) as a result of the politics of domestic
           regional equilibrium led to an overambitious geographical scope of the project.

       34. The above mentioned shortcomings are considered relatively significant but
           nevertheless do not make the project objective or design inconsistent with the
           FGN and the Bank‟s continuing development priorities in Nigeria.

2.2 Implementation

       35. The restructuring took place early enough and contributed to the full utilization of
           funds. The following were the key elements of the restructuring: (i) The
           geographical scope was reduced from thirteen to eight States, and most eligibility
           criteria were eliminated; (ii) The PDOs were modified from three to one to make
           it easier to monitor the achievement of PDOs; (iii) The integrity of the bid
           evaluation process was strengthened in two ways. First, design engineering
           consulting firms were to provide bid evaluation services to the PIUs, changing
           past practice of the PIUs undertaking the bid evaluation themselves (which had
           left the process open to interference). Second, the role of the Project Steering
           Committee (PSC), consisting of the political leadership in each State, was


5
    For example, counterpart funding was delayed despite the mitigation measures defined at appraisal.


                                                       7
        redefined. The PSC reviewed performance of PIUs through post-review of the
        activities, and not prior review as was the case before; (iv) The Ministry to which
        the FPCU reported to in 2002 had changed from the Federal Ministry of Works
        and Housing (FMWH) to the Federal Ministry of Housing and Urban
        Development (FMHUD) - this change was reflected in the DCA. Technical
        Assistance would be provided to the FPCU to ensure that systematic project
        coordination and monitoring, preparation of consolidated reports from States; (v)
        Counterpart fund contribution from States was reduced to a 5% requirement for
        local costs of civil works, with IDA financing 100% of foreign costs and 95% of
        local costs of civil works.

    36. The Midterm Review took place in April 2008 and assessed the overall progress
        of the project towards achieving its development objectives, with 35% of the loan
        having been utilized at the time. This Review confirmed that the restructuring had
        improved the project‟ implementation and addressed many of the earlier
        challenges. The MTR recommended: i) to have the counterpart funding being
        made upfront to avoid delays, (ii) to work on sustainability mechanisms for the
        constructed infrastructures, and (iii) to reinforce the project M&E mechanisms.

    37. The main factors contributing to overall successful results and achievement of the
        revised PDO include:
       Relevancy of the project objectives, design and implementation.
       High commitment of the States‟ Governments – the counterpart funding problem
        diminished as the project moved forward.
       Restructuring the project early enough to allow implementation of planned
        activities after restructuring.
       Having the Task Team Leader (TTL) based in Nigeria from 2005 onward. This
        contributed to the closer supervision of the project and to get it back on track, by
        ensuring enhanced quality of works and increasing the number of field visits, as
        well as by establishing a more fluid interaction with the FPCU, the PIUs, and the
        States‟ Governors to solve emerging challenges6.

    38. The main factors that gave rise to challenges and delays include:
       The initial lack of familiarity of PIU staff with Bank procurement and financial
        management procedures necessitated the operators to undergo a learning process
        to facilitate effective project delivery.
       A high number of procurement contracts to be handled7 (over 130 in Phase I)
        before 2005. The restructuring contributed to solve this by opening the CBUDP to
        finance large trunk infrastructure subprojects.



6
  However, there were some flaws in the formal reporting, such as not having formal Aide Memoires of
supervision missions from late 2005 to mid 2009, while Implementation Status Reports were filed on a
regular basis.
7
  The role of communities and CTCs was to express type of project preferences and participate in the
monitoring, but the procurement was handled by the PIUs.


                                                 8
      Political interference from State politicians in Bank procurement procedures
       managed by the PIU caused delays.
      The quality of original engineering designs and of the supervision services was
       poor, as well as the quality of contractors in some States. This showed a clear
       improvement after the 2005 restructuring.
      The FPCU was inefficient and did not fully perform its role of supervisor and
       coordinator of the States‟ PIUs. As targeted by the restructuring, the FPCU
       performance improved however after 2005.

   39. An interruption in the project occurred before the 2005 restructuring due to a case
       reviewed by the World Bank Integrity Vice-Presidency, which required the team
       to revise its implementation and risk mitigation measures. This caused some
       delays during that period, which need not be attributed to the Bank‟s performance
       but to exogenous circumstances.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

   40. The M&E design was adequate. The PIUs were meant to operate and maintain an
       effective monitoring and evaluation system that would ensure the capture,
       analysis and flow of the information needed to track performance of project
       interventions. This was expected to serve as a decision-making tool for project
       managers and policymakers. This information would be gathered and analyzed by
       PIUs, using key procurement and disbursement progress indicators (included in
       the Project Implementation Manual) in formats agreed upon with IDA. Every
       quarter, the PIUs were responsible for developing quarterly progress reports, and
       submitting them to the FPCU, PSCs, LG community development officers, CTCs,
       and IDA. Community development officers, together with CTCs were responsible
       for ensuring continuous communication with the communities during the project
       cycle to keep them abreast of developments. The CTCs and community
       development officers were to ensure that quarterly reports were timely posted or
       displayed in at least two prominent and appropriately selected public places in
       respective project areas. Public places were going to be selected to ensure that
       both men and women of the community could have access to the information.

   41. A survey was done at the beginning of the project to gather households‟
       socioeconomic data, which was used to develop the initial economic and financial
       analysis. However, target values for the CBUDP outcome indicators were not
       included in the PAD due to the demand-based character of the investments.

   42. During implementation, M&E ratings in the project‟s ISRs ranged from
       unsatisfactory to satisfactory, with a majority being on the satisfactory side. Data
       was collected but was sometimes inconsistent. Given the challenges of collecting
       consistent data for all the States, starting in 2005, a single “deliver basic urban
       services? indicator was used and evaluated in each of the 8 States, in which the
       PDO was given a rate going from unsatisfactory to satisfactory. Also, ten
       implementation progress indicators were evaluated in each state (project


                                            9
      management, PSC interference with PMU responsibilities, speed of resolution of
      outstanding issues, safeguards, financial management, counterpart financing,
      disbursements, procurement, contracts management & quality, and monitoring
      and evaluation). Evaluating some of the above mentioned indicators in itself was
      an innovative exercise in the Nigerian context, and some of them were
      particularly relevant to some of the challenges experienced by the CBUDP before
      restructuring – e.g. interference with PMU responsibilities and quality of works.
      The M&E aspects of the project improved further in 2009, when an M&E
      consultant was hired to gather data at the State level in a quarterly manner until
      project closing.

   43. The main data sources of this ICR are the M&E completion report, the ISRs, as
      well as a questionnaire sent by the ICR team to the eight PIUs after project
      closure requesting for outcome information as well as some data inputs to
      evaluate the project‟s efficiency.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

   44. There were no significant failures to maintain acceptable financial management
      arrangements during project implementation. Satisfactory performance was
      achieved in complying with FM covenants on submission of periodic financial
      reports i.e. unaudited Interim Financial Report and Annual Audit report, there was
      no outstanding report. The audit opinion was unqualified throughout project
      implementation. However, there were challenges with the timeliness of
      submission of IFRs, the quality of same and in some instance their completeness.
      There was less than satisfactory performance in the maintenance of timely,
      accurate and reliable financial management arrangements, evident in unretired
      advances, inadequate documentation for incurred expenditures and ineligible
      expenditures observed during Bank's implementation support mission and
      external audits. Remittance of Government Counterpart Fund was a challenge: it
      was delayed in some states whilst only partial remittance occurred in others.
      Despite these difficulties, overall FM performance was satisfactory.

   45. Before restructuring, there were many revisions with some procurement
      documents with the PIUs which caused implementation delays. In June 2004, the
      project was downgraded because procurement of contractors and consultants had
      lagged behind the original schedule. Useful training took place late 2004.
      However, two challenges persisted: inadequate compliance with Bank‟s
      procurement rules, and inadequate autonomy for project staff to advance
      implementation after all technical requirements had been met (i.e. political
      inference, which lasted until April 2005 at least). The long time between
      clearances of contracts and awards was also a problem: the bulk of contracts of
      Phase I were signed in January 2005, six to eight months after IDA clearance.
      Most of these issues were solved with the project restructuring, with the
      procurement ratings being either moderately satisfactory or satisfactory from that
      point until project closing.



                                          10
   46. The CBUDP was a category B project, and the only safeguard applicable to the
      project was OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) and it was rated as satisfactory
      throughout the project. The overall environmental safeguard performance of the
      project is satisfactory. The anticipated potential adverse environmental and social
      impacts were limited, site specific and easy to mitigate. At the time of project
      preparation, the exact locations of the project‟s interventions were not known. As
      a consequence, an environmental and social management framework (ESMF)
      detailing the principles and procedures that would be followed to ensure
      environmental sustainability and social acceptability was prepared by the client
      and disclosed in Nigeria and the World Bank InfoShop. The ESMF also contained
      a checklist for screening CBUDP‟s activities for their potential adverse impacts in
      perspective of avoiding, preventing, reducing and/or mitigating negative impacts.
      During project intervention, project activities were screened and appropriate
      safeguards instruments (EIA, ESIA) were prepared in close consultations with the
      communities and potential project affected persons prior to the commencement of
      civil works as required.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

   47. The completed works are functional and have been handed over to the respective
      municipalities or pertinent administrations - by signing MoUs – who will be in
      charge of the maintenance of those infrastructures. Experience has shown that
      assets that generate revenue (e.g. the abattoirs and markets) are highly likely to be
      maintained more systematically and as such to remain in operation over an
      extended period. Other investments – roads, clinics and schools – are clearly
      dependent on the States‟ willingness and practice to adequately fund their
      operation and/or maintenance.

   48. No specific urban intervention is planned from the Bank‟s side. However, an
      urban water intervention to reform the sector and improve access to water services
      is currently under preparation. Officials of PIUs have gained knowledge on
      community based practices and state of the art procurement and financial
      management skills.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

   49. The objective of the CBUDP, its design and implementation were relevant
      both before and after the 2005 restructuring. Both the original and the post
      restructuring project objectives are relevant to Nigeria‟s needs today as (i) the
      pressure of rural-urban migration continues to impact the social amenities and
      infrastructure in the major metropolitan areas, and (ii) the demand for basic urban
      infrastructures remains very high.




                                           11
      The original and the post restructuring design and implementation were relevant,
      but the original ones had significant shortcomings. These included the somewhat
      hastily developed second component of the CBUDP, a counterpart contribution
      that proved to be too high, an ambitious geographical scope of the project, and an
      oft inappropriate location of the PIU. Many of the above mentioned shortcomings
      were addressed during the 2005 restructuring, and a few moderate shortcomings
      may have still remained - e.g. eight States were still an ambitious geographical
      scope given the recent reengagement in Nigeria after the prolonged period of
      conflict.

3.2 Achievement of original Project Development Objectives

   50. Concerning the original PDO1, the associated key indicator was: “the partnerships
      result in the bulk of project proceeds being invested on-site?. The quality of the
      data provided by States on the percentage of investments that was done on-site is
      too poor to be used. The amount of contracts and disbursement rates show,
      however, that during phase 1, off-site investments only took place if there was a
      need for trunk improvements to enable services to reach the settlements. Hence
      PDO1 was achieved according to its key indicator. After restructuring, the
      proportion of off-site investments considerably increased.

   51. The key indicator associated to PDO3 was: “to increase in own source revenue
      generation by 5% per annum in real terms for LGs?. For the four States out of
      eight for which data is available, the LGs own source revenue increased from 9 to
      30% from 2002 to the project restructuring in 2005, which indicates that the
      original PDO3 was achieved.

   52. The original indicators of PDO2 were: “i) reduced time spent on water collection
      and lower unit costs, ii) reduced incidence of flooding, iii) increased use of public
      transport, and iv) higher satisfaction levels for services delivered – water, roads,
      drainage, solid waste management?. There is no data available for the first three
      indicators. However, for the fourth one – which indirectly captures the other three
      indicators - a beneficiaries‟ survey report indicated that a vast majority of
      respondents was very satisfied with what the project had achieved, particularly
      with the roads interventions (see section 3.7 and Annex 5).

   53. Based on the above, the achievement of               project objectives before
      restructuring is rated as satisfactory.

3.3 Achievement of post-restructuring Project Development Objectives

   54. The table below gives the result chain for the post 2005 restructuring project. A
      number of results were achieved in the water supply, sanitation, roads, HIV-AIDS,
      education, economic growth, security, and drainage flooding sectors. These
      resulted in providing different type of services to citizens of the eight CBUDP




                                           12
             cities, which in turn contributed to achieving the PDO indicator of achieving
             access to basic services.
                                            CBUDP RESULTS CHAIN
                                                                        OUTCOME RESULTS
 ACTIVITY              INTERMEDIATE RESULTS                                                                     PDO
                                                                            (additional)
                                Indicator              Value              Indicator               Value
                        Water supply schemes                      No. of people with access
  Water supply                                          39                                       912,000
                              constructed                                  to water
                       Public toilets constructed       193
                      Refuse collection trucks in
                                                        38        No. of people with access
      Sanitation                 service                                                         843,700
                                                                   to sanitation facilities
                        Incinerators in service          5
                        Compactors in service            1
                          Kilometres of roads
                                                        179
                              constructed                            No. of people using
       Roads            Kilometres of footpaths                   rehabilitated or newly built   2,171,000
                                                        18
                              constructed                                 access roads
                           Bus shelters built            5                                                     Increase
                       Number of people trained        24,587                                                  access to
                                                                  Number of people reached
                                                                                                             basic services
      HIV-AIDS       Condom packets distributed        25,400       through HIV-AIDS             598,020
                                                                                                              in selected
                     Number of individuals tested      29,600           campaigns
                                                                                                                 cities
                      Number of classrooms and
                                                        315
                      school infrastructures built
                      Number of classrooms and
                                                                  Number of pupils enrolled
      Education          school infrastructures         247                                       36,629
                                                                        in schools
                               renovated
                         Number of education
                                                       6,412
                      equipment items provided
                     Number of health centres built     13
                                                                  Number of people who go
       Health        Number of health centre beds                                                  360
                                                        144        to clinic on a daily basis
                             provided
Other activities8:
                         Number of women‟s
                                                         1
                           training centres
                         Number of abattoirs             3
                       Number of fish processing
                                                         1
      Livelihood                centres
                      Number of fishmarket stalls       100
                      Number of community halls          6
                      Number of poultry markets          1
                        Number of ICT centres            2
                       Kilometres of street lighting     8
                        Number of street lighting
       Security                                         734
                                fittings
                        Number of control kiosks         9
                        Number of transformers           51
                            Number of poles             110
                         Kilometres of drainage         160
       Flooding
                           Number of ponds               3




  8
   These activities are not associated with one of the output indicators considered (see paragraph 11).
  However, they are in line with the PDO of “increasing access to basic services in selected cities?.



                                                        13
    55. As can be seen from the results chain table, significant investments in urban
        service delivery took place under the project, and access to urban services was
        tangibly expanded. All of the subprojects were completed and are functional.
        Overall, during implementation, supervision by the Bank team followed closely
        the quality of works, which was considered satisfactory. Since significant
        infrastructures were delivered, they are functional and increase access to basic
        urban services as per the PDO, the post restructuring achievement of
        objectives is rated satisfactory.

    56. As far as capacity building activities are concerned, the CBUDP provided training
        events to more than 11,600 members of PIUs, SGs, LGs, CTCs, PSCs,
        community members and other stakeholders over the duration of the project.

3.4 Efficiency

    57. The economic analysis developed at appraisal computed a roads cost-
        effectiveness ratio, a water headwork cost-benefit analysis, a social benefits ratio
        of phase 1 investments, and an economic viability ratio of phase 1 investments.

    58. Due to data constraints and the multi-sector nature of the CBUDP, two indicators
        have been retained for the ICR economic analysis. First, the economic viability
        ratio of investments as defined in the PAD but applied to the whole project (not
        only to phase 1), and second, a comparison with similar subprojects undertaken
        by the Government. The efficiency of the project is not disaggregated in before
        and after 2005 restructuring.

    59. Over the estimated life of the project of 20 years, the economic benefit to cost
        ratio of the CBUDP investments would be 4.8 (it was 4.5 at appraisal as can be
        seen in the PAD), indicating that the investment is economically justifiable9.

    60. Compared to similar interventions undertaken by the Government, the project‟s
        interventions in each of the eight States have oscillated between 77% and 92% of
        what the cost would have been if the Government had financed it. From a sector
        point of view, CBUDP roads subprojects have cost 80% of similar Government
        interventions. This figure is 81% for water subprojects, 78% for schools, and 68%
        for clinics. The Bank‟s intervention hence appears to have expanded the FGN‟s
        value for money.




9
  (US$ 7.2 per HH per month * 12 months * 20 years) / (US$ 47 per capita * 8 persons per HH) = 4.8).
US$ 7.2 per HH per month is the average monthly increase in the price of households‟ rents over the life of
the project, and US$47 represents the average investment per capita done by the CBUDP in the
intervention areas (see Annex 3 for further details).



                                                    14
   61. Given the evidence presented in the two paragraphs above, the efficiency of the
       project is rated as satisfactory, both before and after restructuring.

3.5 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

   62. For evaluation purposes, the pre 2005 restructuring results framework is given the
       weight of the total disbursement rate of the project at the time
       (i.e. 8.3% or US$ 11.2 million out of US$ 134.4 million disbursed at closure),
       while the post 2005 restructuring results framework is given a weight of the
       remaining disbursement (i.e. 91.7%). The project is overall rated moderately
       satisfactory, as a result of combining the ratings of the relevance, achievements,
       and efficiency of the CBUDP.

                                                              Rating
                                                Before                       After
               Relevance                     Relevant                      Relevant
                                          (with significant       (with moderate shortcomings)
                                           shortcomings)
            Achievements                         S                            S
             Efficiency                          S                            S
              Outcome                            MS                           MS
     (combining the 3 elements above)
           Disbursement %                       8.3%                        91.7%
               Overall                                         MS

3.6 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

   63. The appointment of some former PIU members to high level government
       positions due to the skills gained in the project illustrates that the capacity
       building and activities have had a positive impact.

   64. The City Development Strategy (CDS) of Karu (Nassarawa), completed at the end
       of 2002, is a successful output of this project. The strategy was utilized to
       empower the informal private sector, first by establishing consultations with local
       businesses to identify key constraints on their growth. Business representatives
       then began to work together, and then formalized their cooperation as a Business
       and Economic Development Committee. This Committee has subsequently
       obtained funding for two new marketplaces, increased subcontracting, and
       initiated a low-cost housing scheme, becoming an unexpected high impact
       outcome of the project.

3.7 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey

   65. The beneficiary survey undertaken was more qualitative than quantitative. The
       consultant used focus group discussions, in-depth interviews, and semi-structured
       questionnaires.



                                           15
   66. Beneficiaries in all the communities visited highly appreciated the CBUDP‟s
      efforts and the subprojects. The subprojects were seen as a welcome relief that has
      improved their quality of life and has opened up more opportunities of livelihood.
      A vast majority of respondents surveyed using the semi structured questionnaires
      judged the project very satisfactory, this figure being consistent across states.

   67. In all the states it was observed that the roads subprojects received the highest
      accolade from most respondents. The major benefits of these roads includes
      increased access, reduced time spent in traffic, better conditions of vehicles,
      reduced flooding and time for flash floods and elimination of cesspools on the
      roads. Respondents were more satisfied with the quality of roads and drainage
      systems constructed in the second round of investment.

   68. Other subprojects were also very much appreciated. Respondents in Bauchi,
      Ebonyi, Edo, Jigawa and Ogun were full of praises for the Maternity Clinics,
      Primary Health Centres, and Dispensary subprojects. Other subprojects received a
      lot of praises as well, but these were more location specific. For instance,
      respondents in Abakpa in Abakaliki, Owu-Gbagura, Ago-Oko and Ilogbo in
      Abeokuta, Oke-Aro, Eyinke, Irowo, Odige and Odopetu in Akure where trunk
      drainage were constructed said that the drainages have resolved the annual
      flooding experienced in their communities. In Benin City, Edo State residents
      around the areas ravaged by gully erosion were extremely satisfied about the
      project intervention.

   69. Despite the high satisfaction level with the subprojects, the performance of some
      subprojects is beyond the control of the managers of the subprojects because of
      their dependence on the performance of other external entities. Also, not all the
      projects have been very successful. In Akwa Ibom the level of satisfaction of the
      water project is more of mere appreciation of the project as the needs of the
      people have evolved over the last decade when the project was initially conceived.
      Also the public toilets in most of the project sites have suffered from some
      management problems, vandalisation, poor revenue generation, and misuse.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

   70. The likelihood of the basic urban infrastructure services provided not being
      adequately maintained is moderate to significant, and depends on each specific
      State and sector. For example, while the abattoir in Nassarawa will be well
      maintained by the butchers‟ association, some roads may not be well maintained
      by the State governments. As for the impact of some of the infrastructure services
      not being operational after a certain period, it would be significant, as it would
      imply going back to the pre-project situation, with much worse urban services.
      This project‟s rating of the risk to development outcome is thus substantial.




                                          16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

   71. The Bank performance during identification, preparation and appraisal of the
      project is rated moderately satisfactory. The team prepared the project in a
      challenging context in which the Bank was scaling up operations in Nigeria after
      the return to a civilian regime. The Bank identified, facilitated the preparation of,
      and appraised the operation so as to achieve the PDOs in a manner consistent with
      the Bank‟s fiduciary role. In particular:
       The project was consistent with the Government‟ development priorities.
       The project took into consideration lessons learned from previous operations.
       The poverty alleviation and social development aspects were central to the
          project.
       The design responded comprehensively to the immediate needs of the sector –
          from enhancing the role of LGs to their partnerships with communities.
       Many risks were correctly identified and properly mitigated.

   72. The Bank performance in ensuring quality during the restructuring preparation
      was satisfactory. In fact, the restructuring design successfully managed clearly
      improve the following original shortcomings: the pragmatic structure of
      component two, the borrower‟s required contribution, limiting the geographical
      scope of the project, giving the means to the FPCU to develop its role, and
      improving the fiduciary mechanisms.

   73. However, the rating is less than fully satisfactory because (i) the PAD results
      framework had some shortcomings, (ii) some risks could have been better
      assessed, (iii) the pressures surrounding and hasty development of component two
      resulted in an ambitious project design. Overall, however, these shortcomings are
      moderate and do not make the design inconsistent with continuous FGN‟s or
      Bank‟s priorities.

(b) Quality of Supervision

   74. The Bank quality of supervision is rated moderately satisfactory. The Bank
      identified and resolved challenges during implementation so that the PDO could
      be successfully achieved. In particular, the Bank:
       Demonstrated detailed and high quality monitoring of the technical and
          engineering aspects of the civil works, including consistent, frequent and
          flexible support to the client.
       Provided support in the areas of financial management and procurement
          intensified after 2004 when it became obvious that project capacity in these
          areas lagged behind.



                                           17
            Prepared a project restructuring in 2005 which was essential to put the project
             and funds utilization back on track
            Moved the TTL to the field early in the implementation process and improved
             the close supervision of the project, and implied a lot of traveling under
             difficult logistical conditions to the eight States of the project. The
             improvement in the procurement, disbursement rates, and quality of works are
             all evidence of good quality of supervision.
            Most importantly, the PDO was achieved and access to basic services in the
             selected 8 cities improved.

     75. However, the rating is less than fully satisfactory because: (i) reporting lagged
        behind: between 2005-9 only ISRs were produced for review and approval by
        Management, while formal Aide Memoires were replaced with less formal (but
        more frequent) communication exchanges between the Client and the field-based
        TTL, (ii) No attempt was made during implementation to establish a baseline
        which would have improved the M&E aspect of this project. , (iii) Internal
        communication within the Bank could have been better. Namely, when TTLs
        changed, some of the information was not adequately transferred to the incoming
        TTL, resulting in delays in management decisions. Overall, however, these
        shortcomings are moderate and do not make the implementation inconsistent with
        continuous FGN‟s or Bank‟s priorities.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

     76. The ICR rates the overall performance of the Bank as moderately satisfactory.
        In line with the harmonized criteria for ICR and IEG evaluations, the rating of
        overall Bank performance is based on the ratings for each of the two dimensions
        which are both rated moderately satisfactory: (i) Bank performance in ensuring
        quality at entry, and (ii) the quality of supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance10

(a) Government Performance

     77. The Government‟s performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory. The FPCU
        and the States‟ Governments contributed to the successful implementation of the
        project. In particular:
         The FPCU liaised between the FGN and the project, and ensured some aspects
            of the overall CBUDP coordination.
         The commitment of the State Governments was high and they were proactive
            during all preparation stages - and to a lesser extent during implementation as
            well.


10
  The FPCU (as an extension of the FGN) and the States Governments of the eight CBUDP States are
considered under the Government performance subsection, while the 8 State‟ PIUs are considered under the
Implementing Agencies performance subsection.


                                                  18
   78. However, the rating is moderately unsatisfactory because of the following
       significant shortcomings:
        The FPCU started to function early 2005, but without substantial technical
           support at the beginning. Throughout the project, the FPCU was at the
           bottleneck of coordination problems, failed to provide the support to States it
           was supposed to give, and did not effectively develop its monitoring tasks.
        Political interference from State Governments happened in almost all PIUs. In
           some of them, there were even pressures on PIU staff to be captured by PSC
           members to choose certain project over others, or to influence the Bank‟s
           procurement procedures.
        They FPCU started the project being located in the FMHUD and then changed
           to the FMWH. The transaction costs of the location change negatively
           affected its performance. Moreover, its staff were often asked by the
           Ministries were they were located to work on tasks that were not related to the
           CBUDP. Hence political interference was a challenge.
        As expressed in the MTR, most stakeholders were of the opinion that some of
           the delays experienced on the project resulted from actions attributable to the
           FPCU.
        The delays in payment of counterpart funding were a constant during the
           whole project, creating worries on whether all the works could be completed
           on time, and despite the percentage of counterpart contribution having come
           down to 5% during the 2005 project restructuring.

(b) Implementing Agencies Performance

   79. The Implementing Agencies performance is rated moderately satisfactory.
       Although the performance of each PIU varied from one State to another, overall
       they were essential in achieving the project‟s PDO and using the Bank‟s fiduciary
       rules. In particular:
        The PIUs were committed to the project and the PDO;
        As project implementation advanced and the PIUs gained experience with
           Bank practices and had benefitted from FM and procurement training, the
           agencies delivered on their respective roles, which allowed full disbursement
           of the loan and successful achievement of the PDO.

   80. However, the rating is moderately satisfactory because of the following moderate
       shortcomings:
      There were some financial management shortcomings as indicated in section 2.4
       above.
      Some of the State PIUs performance left some room for improvement.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

   81. The ICR rates the overall performance of the Borrower as moderately
       satisfactory. In line with the harmonized criteria for ICR and IEG evaluations,


                                           19
      and considering that one dimension is in the unsatisfactory range while the rating
      for the other dimension is in the satisfactory range, the rating of the overall
      borrower performance depends on the outcome rating. The moderately
      satisfactory rating is given because the outcome is in the satisfactory range.

6. Lessons Learned

   82. Carefully evaluating the local capacities and interests appears to be essential to
      avoid designing projects with an overambitious geographical scope. A challenge
      in Nigeria is that an intended geopolitical equilibrium requires having in most
      projects at least one State from each of the six geopolitical zones of the Federation.
      Projects should be limited to a scope that is technically and logistically feasible.

   83. A sound and achievable monitoring and evaluation system should be put in place
      and used since the very beginning of a project, and defining outcome indicators‟
      baseline, and where possible - target values, is essential to evaluate the project
      later on.

   84. Nigeria remains a challenging environment, and having the TTL based in the field
      and/or allocating high supervision budgets are examples of measures that can help
      overcome these challenges.

   85. Despite some States having gained expertise in community based urban
      development, it remains to be seen whether the States‟ Governments actually use
      this approach in the future. Innovative mechanisms should be developed to ensure
      that the expertise gained by States is used after project closing, as well as to
      address the critical problem of infrastructure sustainability.

   86. Given the Federal governance nature of Nigeria, it is important to ensure that all
      tiers of Government are fully on board with Bank‟s interventions to maximize the
      impact of projects.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies

   (a) Borrower/implementing agencies

   87. A Project Completion Report was prepared by the FPCU in August 2011. A
      summary of the main issues raised in this report can be found in Annex 6.




                                           20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                       Actual/Latest
                                    Appraisal Estimate                     Percentage of
           Components                                  Estimate (USD
                                     (USD millions)                         Appraisal
                                                          millions)
Rehabilitation or delivery of basic
                                            31.54             39.20
municipal infrastructure                                                       124.3%
Upgrading fund                              64.27             79.52            123.7%
Capacity Building and Training                4.23             4.70            111.1%
Implementation Support and
                                              7.77            11.88
M&E                                                                            152.9%
HIV/AIDS awareness Campaign                   0.19             0.21            110.5%
Project Preparation Facility                  2.00             2.00            100.0%
             Total Baseline Cost           110.00           137.51             125.0%


(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                      Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
         Source of Funds
                                    Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)   millions)
Borrower                                           27.52        N/A         N/A
International Development
                                                    110.00        137.51         125.01
Association (IDA)




                                           21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The table below summarizes the subprojects implemented in each State per thematic area:

   Themes                      Subprojects                             States
  Economic                       Abattoir                    Ebonyi, Jigawa, Nassarawa
  Growth and          Fish market & processing centre                  Jigawa
   Security                   Street lighting                Ebonyi, Edo, Jigawa, Ogun,
                                                                        Ondo
   Education         Renovation dilapidated classrooms        All except Akwa Ibom &
                                                                        Ondo
                      Construction of new classrooms               Same as above
                   Provision of other educational facilities   All except Akwa Ibom
                          such as desks, toilets, etc
  Environment             Solid waste management               Edo, Nassarawa, Ondo
                           Reclamation of ponds                     Bauchi & Edo
                                 Bus shelters                          Ebonyi
                   Construction of drainages and channels     Bauchi, Ebonyi, Ogun &
                                                                        Ondo
  Health Care                     Maternity                            Bauchi
                      Dispensary/Primary health center          Bauchi, Ebonyi, Edo,
                                                                   Jigawa & Ogun
                            Recreation facilities            Ebonyi
     Roads                  Construction of roads             All CBUDP implementing
                                                                        States
                          Construction of footpaths            Bauchi, Ogun & Ebonyi
                     Construction of road side drainages      All CBUDP implementing
                                                                        States
 Water Supply                   Water supply                  All CBUDP implementing
 and Sanitation                                                         States
                                Public toilets                Edo, Jigawa, Nassarawa,
                                                                     Ogun, Ondo
                       Construction of concrete pads                     Edo




                                          22
In the following pages is a table of outputs of subprojects implemented by State and
thematic area:




                                           23
24
            average investment   % increase in own source revenue by
   State     per capita (US$)           LG between 02 and 05
  Jigawa            39                           30%
 Bauchi             43                           20%
Nassarawa            /                             /
   Ogun             29                            9%
   Ondo             28                             /
    Edo             59                             /
 Ebonyi             68                           20%
Akwa Ibom           61                             /




                                     25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Providing basic infrastructure in participating communities has lead to an appreciation in
the property values in the settlements. Given the large number of owner occupied homes
with permanent structures in the settlements selected, significant benefits can accrue to
owners from an appreciation of the value of their properties. As many factors affect
property value, a single indicator would not capture all of the benefits. Nevertheless, rent
is a good proxy of benefits arising from appreciation of property value. A rent of US$10
per month is assumed for the beginning of the project (this figure is taken from the PAD),
that is a yearly rent of US$ 120.

Based on information provided by the PIUs, the rent of households increased by US$ 87
yearly on average as a result of the project, and the investment per capita has been of
US$ 47. An estimated life of the project of 20 years is assumed, and the economic benefit
to cost ratio of the CBUDP investments results to be 4.8 (it was 4.5 at appraisal),
indicating that the investment is economically justifiable:
[(US$87 per HH per year x 20 years)/(US$47 per capita x 8 persons per household)= 4.8]

Even if only 25 percent of the households benefited, the benefit-to-cost ratio would be
greater than 1, indicating overall justification of the project.

               Increase yearly rent (US$)    Investment per capita (US$)          RATIO
   Jigawa                 40                             39                          2.6
   Bauchi                 60                             43                          3.5
    Ogun                  48                             29                          4.2
    Ondo                  120                            28                          10.8
     Edo                  40                             59                          1.7
   Ebonyi                 240                            68                          8.8
 Akwa Ibom                60                             61                          2.5
 AVERAGE                  87                             47                          4.8

The following information was provided by the PIUs, with averages of all types of
projects taken for each State, as well as the % of the CBUDP subsectors with the most
important proportions of investments:

              average % prices similar
                projects Government         Roads     Water      Schools   Clinics
  Jigawa                80%                  81%      80%         80%
  Bauchi                78%                  80%                  70%       72%
 Nassarawa
   Ogun                 92%
   Ondo                 77%                 68%        68%
    Edo
  Ebonyi                77%                 78%        89%        76%       64%


                                              26
 Akwa
 Ibom     92%
Average   83%   77%   79%   75%   68%




                 27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
          Names                              Title              Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Amos Abu                      Sr Environmental Spec.           AFTEN
Sunday Achile Acheneje        Procurement Specialist           AFTPC
Ruth Adetola Adeleru          Team Assistant                   AFCW2
Akinrinmola Oyenuga
                              Sr Financial Management Specia   AFTFM
Akinyele
Belinda Lorraine Asaam        Program Assistant                  AFTUW
Mary Asanato-Adiwu            Senior Procurement Specialist      AFTPC
Ernestina Attafuah            Senior Program Assistant           AFTUW
Bayo Awosemusi                Lead Procurement Specialist        AFTPC
Joseph A. Gadek               Sr Sanitary Engineer               TWIEA TTL (2005-09)
Sophie Hans-Moevi             Language Program Assistant         AFTSN
Jonadab William Ekundayo                                         AFTU2 -
                              Municipal Engineer
Metibaiye                                                          HIS
Benson Chukwuweike Ojoko      Consultant                         AFTFM
Chukwudi H. Okafor            Senior Social Development Spec      ECSS4
Comfort Onyeje Olatunji       Program Assistant                  SASDO
Africa Eshogba Olojoba        Sr Environmental Spec.             AFTEN
Modupe Dayo Olorunfemi        Program Assistant                   INTOP
Edward Olowo-Okere            Director                           AFTOS
Eustache Ouayoro              Country Director                   AFRVP
Adenike Sherifat Oyeyiola     Sr Financial Management Specialist AFTFM
Deepali Tewari                Senior Municipal Development S     MNSUR TTL (2002-05)
Mary Oluseyi Zackius-Shittu   Program Assistant                  HRSSY
Hassan Madu Kida              Lead Water & Sanitation Specialist AFTUW TTL (2009-11)




                                              28
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                      12                       136.50
  FY01                                       5                        47.12
  FY02                                      22                       287.87
  FY03                                       5                         6.37
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                          Total:            44                       477.86
Supervision/ICR
  FY00                                       1                         3.38
  FY01                                                                 0.00
  FY02                                                                 0.00
  FY03                                    35                          57.32
  FY04                                    64                         154.08
  FY05                                    64                         200.03
  FY06                                    51                         240.69
  FY07                                    34                         132.61
  FY08                                    31                         129.07
  FY09                                    17                           0.00
                          Total:         297                         917.18




                                       29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The study looked at the level of satisfaction of intended beneficiaries with services
provided using CBUDP funds in targeted areas/sites; the extent to which community
members participated in needs identification and selection of project sites; the short-
comings of the project in service provision and what improvements can take place; and
the level of gender representation in planning and implementation processes – e.g.
community technical committee (CTC) membership. Focus group discussions, in-depth
interviews, and semi-structured questionnaires were used.

Beneficiaries in all the communities visited highly appreciated the CBUDP‟s efforts and
the subprojects. The subprojects were seen as a welcome relief that has improved their
quality of life and has opened up more opportunities of livelihood. In all the states it was
observed that the roads subprojects received the highest accolade from most respondents.
The reasons lean towards its impact on the lives of the respondent, the surprise with the
fact that the selected roads were actually upgraded and the quality of work done. About
175 km of road with different specifications were constructed by this project, providing
smooth flow of traffic, growth in economic activities, easy links to other roads and new
structures been developed as a result.
The major benefits of these roads includes increased access, reduced time spent in traffic,
better conditions of vehicles, reduced flooding and time for flash floods and elimination
of cesspools on the roads. All respondents expressed delight and appreciation.
Dissatisfaction was recorded on width of roads in which a few respondents expressed
desires for the road to be wider and the network expanded to some areas not yet served.
The similar comments about the impacts and quality of the road subproject above was as
expressed 91.3% of respondents in all the 8 States about the quality of the roads and
impact of the road project. In Abeokuta respondents along Ija Offa, in Owu Gbagura
confirmed that before the CBUDP intervention the area was completely cut off from the
rest of the Abeokuta. Even Okada (Motor Bikes) do not come to that area but now the
community is accessible from different areas. Similar, respondents from 6 different sites
in four States expressed appreciations about being reconnected of parts of community to
other parts was received from.

It is worthy of note to say that respondents were more satisfied with the quality of roads
and drainages constructed in the second round of investment. A key reason for this may
be because according to one respondent “…can’t you see that now they have linked all
the roads and drainages that were first constructed together with the new roads. Also, the
new roads constructed are tarred drainage to drainage without any shoulders?
[Participant, FGD, Ondo].

Furthermore, it was observed that community ownership partnership with the Local
Government is demonstrated by the many speed breakers constructed by the LGA and
residents along many of the roads particularly in Akwa Ibom. In Benin City members of
the community engaged the services of labourers to desilt the gutters at the entrance of
College Road from Ikpobai road. The silts have been a major cause of erosion which has


                                            30
damage to the road at that point. “This gutters channel all the water from Aduwawa to
this place and then to the flood re-injection site along this same College road therefore
making the desilting important because now when rainfalls this whole area becomes
flooded because of the blocked gutters. We believe that by clearing the gutters the
flooding will reduce if not eliminated because when the road was first constructed the
issue of flooding did not exist’ [Participant FGD, Edo State].

Despite the high satisfaction level with the subprojects, the performances of some
subprojects are beyond the control of the managers of the subprojects because of their
dependence on the performance of other external entities. For Instance, the performance
of the street light and electrification upgrade subprojects are primarily dependent on the
supply of electricity by the Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN). These
subprojects have common characteristics irrespective of their location and they are
further dependent on the ability to set up a functional supply chain for consumables,
maintenance and cost recovery for operation.
Other subprojects were also very much appreciated. Respondents in Bauchi, Ebonyi, Edo,
Jigawa and Ogun were also full of praises for the Maternity Clinics, Primary Health
Centres, and Dispensary subprojects. According to a stakeholder in Bauchi,
In Ebonyi State the Matron of the newly constructed PHC confirmed that the construction
of Doctors Quarters in the second round of investment as really assisted the PHC which
is the only available PHC in Abakaliki LGA. She confirmed that now the LGA provided
staffs and funds the Centre.

Patients interviewed confirmed that they now have better access to health care services.
In Ogun the PHC have been used by several organisations to achieve their health care
objectives. According to the Matron in one of the PHC in Ogun, “NGOs and other
organizations collaborate with us for programs such as HIV/AID campaign and testing,
we are now a main immunization centre for this whole community, In Jigawa the number
of patients treated monthly has been on the increase because the PHC are becoming more
popular.

Other subprojects received a lot of praises but this were more location specific for
instance respondents in Abakpa in Abakaliki, Owu-Gbagura, Ago-Oko and Ilogbo in
Abeokuta, Oke-Aro, Eyinke, Irowo, Odige and Odopetu in Akure were trunk drainages
were constructed said that the drainages have resolved the annual flooding experienced in
their communities
In Benin City, Edo State residents around the areas ravaged by gully erosion were
ecstatic about the project intervention. According to a widow who is a retiree and
business owner resident near the subproject site said that
However, not all the projects have been very successful. Our findings reveal that in Akwa
Ibom the level of satisfaction of the water project is more of mere appreciation of the
project as the needs of the people has evolved over the last decade when the project was
initially conceived. “Now people have found an alternative to public water supply in
private boreholes however the water supply needs of the community has not been met the


                                           31
water supply scheme as constructed is to advance for the CTC or community to
successfully and sustainable operate and maintain? [FGD with CTC Akwa Ibom].

Also the public toilets in most of the project sites have suffered from management
problems, vandalisation, poor revenue generation, poor access and misuse.




                                       32
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's Project Completion Report11

General comments

The critical factors in the achievement of the broad objectives set for the CBUDP project
were manpower capacity and institutional arrangement for delivery of services. Although,
the project provided for training to improve the quality of manpower, little was put in
place to set the institutions in line with the objectives. The complexity of the civil service
was not put into appropriate perspective in the project design which seeks to forge a more
dynamic collaboration between the public and private sectors for better project
implementation.

The underlying assumptions with respect to resource availability, manpower development
and institutional capacity in the design of the objectives of the project have been put to
test during the eight years of project implementation. The first few years of project
implementation were more of a learning period.

At the State level, the implementations of subproject were to be coordinated by the
agency of government concerned with urban development. Thus, the Project
Implementation Units (PIUs) were to be located in the Ministry responsible for urban
planning and development. However, PIUs were found to be located in Ministries other
than those responsible for urban planning and development. The lack of professional
competence in such cases delayed project implementation and resulted in increased
overhead costs.

Over the period of implementation, the focus of CBUDP has not been on active
community mobilization, but rather “to assist the borrower to increase access to basic
urban services in eight cities?. Although the structure of the Project Implementation Units
(PIUs) in the States includes that of a Community Development Officer (CDO),
sufficient emphasis was not placed on mobilization, sensitization and active participation
in project development and implementation. However, the various communities were
adequately consulted at the beginning and during subproject selection while subsequent
activities were basically determined and executed by the State Governments through the
PIUs. It is pertinent to note that the attempt at the CDD approach has left indelible and
positive legacies in some of the communities.

The major constraints in the achievement of physical works include the following: (i) The
large variety of eligible infrastructure under the project led to selection of small
components of each type of infrastructure thereby spreading the available funds thinly;
(ii) Poor selection and performance of contractors (most of the contracts slipped beyond
completion date by more than 12 months); (iii) Non familiarity of project staff with
complexity of Bank procedure in the selection and appointment of Contractors and
Consultants; (iv) Delay in the issuance of no objection by the Bank from 2003 to 2008

11
     This report was produced by the FPCU in August 2011.


                                                   33
(however, the situation improved significantly afterwards which enhanced the project
delivery); (v) Bottlenecks in the institutional arrangement for project supervision and
monitoring both at Federal and State levels, (vi) Inadequate and late release of
counterpart funds, and (vii) Initial pre-allocation of project fund to States limited
competition for funds, the warehousing effect did not facilitate quick utilization of funds.

Evaluation of performances

   a) Borrower’s performance

The FPCU discharged its roles and responsibilities under the project. A major
achievement was the institutionalization of M & E process into the project, production of
project Video documentary for the 8 States as well as acquisition of satellite imagery and
training of 36 officials of the participating States in the processing and application of GIS
for city wide urban infrastructure planning, delivery and management. The Federal
Ministry of Finance (FMF) collaborated with the FPCU in monitoring project
performance through the level of fund draw-down. The FMF also processed amendments
to the loan agreement and other several requests for extension of project closing dates.
The FPCU participated in all the formal supervision missions with the Bank and its
contributions were quite significant. In June, 2009, the FPCU engaged the services of M
& E consultant to assist in project monitoring and evaluation. This Consultant
substantially improved the quality and timeliness of supervision. However, it failed to
address policy issues such as the National Urban Development Policy to provide
direction in urban development.

On the part of the FPCU, the unit suffered from institutional instabilities that impaired it
from performing at the expected optimum level. The main problem was distortions in
institutional set up of the Ministry which resulted in a change of name of the Ministry of
Works and Housing at least two times with resultant changes in departments and staff.
Another challenge was the non-provision of operational fund at the initial stage of the
project.

Essentially, the CBUDP was State Government oriented. The principal executing agency
responsible for implementing the project at the State level was the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). The unit was responsible for the coordination of all sub-
project activities, administration, contract management and supervision. In general, the
State PIUs executed the various sub-projects successfully and achieved the desired
objectives in the physical works components and financial record keeping. Jigawa State
had serious difficulties due to poor working relationships between State top officials and
staff of implementation unit. However, none of the States presented a credible project
sustainability plan by the loan closing date.

Major constraints in the performance of the beneficiary States among others include:
initial constraints of payment of counterpart funds, location of the PIU in other Ministry
outside the line Ministry responsible for urban development, bureaucratic inefficiency
within the State Government set-up, interference in day to day management of the project



                                             34
and in procurement process, and dual role performances of PIU staffs between the PIUs
and their respective departments of the line ministries.

   b) World Bank’s performance

The CBUDP received tremendous support from the Bank technically and financially. The
relationship between the Bank and the borrower remained very cordial all through the
project implementation period. However, some critical bottlenecks identified at the
World Bank level include the following: (i) Changes of Task Team Leaders (TTL) by
the Bank. Under the project, it was not the same TTL that prepared the project that
implemented it. Also, another TTL came in towards the close of the project; (ii) WB
guidelines on the project were considered too stiff. The series of „no objection‟ to be
given by the Bank resulted in slow and sometimes long delay in project implementation;
(iii) The winding system of the Bank in procurement matters with regards to the series of
„no objection‟ being required at every stage was a major cause of delay in project
implementation, and (iv) the Bank‟s appraisal did not take Nigeria‟s political and
governance situation into account. The Bank agreed to an implementation structure
whose implications they only understood subsequently.

Lessons learned

The lessons learned in the implementation of the project can be summarized as follows:
      The project implementation clearly indicated the deficiency in manpower
         capacity at the various levels. A major lesson is to emphasize capacity building
         to ensure proper project implementation in future projects.
      The issue of post-implementation maintenance of projects has been further
         accentuated by the project. Almost in all cases, post construction maintenance
         has not been given due attention notwithstanding the articulation of such in the
         various operational plans submitted. The cases of projects completed more than
         one year ago in Akwa Ibom and Nasarawa States underscores the need to focus
         on maintenance issues.
      It has been shown that for greater impact, effort should be made to address
         specific problems within smaller geographical areas rather than spreading little
         funds over too many States and urban centers. Future projects should therefore
         be issue specific, simple and cost effective with emphasis on city- wide
         infrastructure.
      The CBUDP project has shown the negative effect of the lack of adequate
         incentives to the PIUs. In most cases, the PIUs put extra hours which
         necessitated the need to introduce robust incentives to encourage the staff of the
         PIUs to boost their moral and enhance their efficiency and effectiveness of their
         schedule of duties
      In order to avoid long delay in project implementation, institutional
         arrangements should be clearly defined and set into context during project
         design. The location of the PIU should be in the line Ministry responsible for the
         supervision of urban planning and development. Also, the legal documentation
         process should be well defined to avoid delay in the start-up of projects.


                                            35
   An effective Federal level Urban Development Policy and coordinating Agency
    is needed in Nigeria The draft National Urban Development Policy needs to be
    finalized to provide the much needed guidelines to urban development issues. It
    is recommended that the World Bank should assist in finalizing the policy
    document to strengthen urban development in Nigeria and allow both the federal
    Government and States to collaborate in this regard.
   The institutional capacity of Local Governments Areas (LGAs) to operate under
    any form of Community Driven Development (CDD) process is weak and needs
    to be strengthened. It is recommended that in future capacity building in form of
    sensitization training be organized at the LGAs.




                                      36
Annex 7. ICR Sources and List of Supporting Documents

The first two references of the list below have been the key sources used for the
quantitative analysis of this ICR. The questionnaire sent to PIUs was developed by the
CBUDP team and sent to PIUs in view of the important data gaps to evaluate the project.

      Questionnaire sent to Project Implementation Units, see Annex 8 (December
       2011)

      Evaluation of the World Bank funded Community based urban development
       project, Okay Sanni Associates (2011)

      Beneficiaries Assessment Report, Okay Sanni Associates (August 2011)

      CBUDP Project Completion Report, FPCU, Federal Ministry of Lands, Housing
       & Urban Development (2011)

      CBUDP M&E Progress Report, Okay Sanni Associates (June 2010)

      CBUDP Phase II Baseline Report, Okay Sanni Associates (August 2009)

      End of CBUDP M&E framework assignment report, Olukayode Sanni (April
       2007)

      IDA Proposed Project Restructuring and amendment to the credit agreement for
       the CBUDP (June 2, 2005)

      CBUDP Project Appraisal Document (2002)

      CBUDP Implementation Status and Results Reports (2002-2011)

      CBUDP Aide Memoires (2002-2011)




                                          37
 Annex 8. Questionnaire sent to Project Implementation Units

        INFRASTRUCTURES PROVIDED BY CBUDP                                   2002      2011
               # people with access to water supply
            # people with access to sanitation facilities
         # people using rehab or newly built access roads
         # people reached through HIV-AIDS campaigns
                    # pupils enrolled in school
             # people who go to clinics on daily basis

Please answer the following questions for year 2011:

What is the Unskilled wage rate per day?


How many working days have households gained as a result of the
project, per year? (less sikness such as diarrhea, fiever, pneumonia,
malaria, etc)
And idem for school days, per year?
How much do HHs spend on medical expenses per month?
How many people live in an average HH?

How much has CBUDP you invested in infrastructures in your
State?
How many people have benefited from them?
What is the average investment per capita?


By which % has the rent of households increased as a result of the
project? (between 2002 and 2011)



   % of infrastructure investments made on-site (that is not trunk infrastructures)
Phase I
Phase II
TOTAL project


Increase in own source revenue by Local Governments between
2002 and 2005




                                                  38
Total cost of Headwork (in Nairas), including:

            -    1 headworks and 2 boreholes with 10 nos. standpipes
            -     2 Nos. 200 mm diameter boreholes
            -     2 Nos. submersible pumps (25 HP)
             -    Starters, change over switches and miscellaneous
electrical works per headworks
            -    Riser pipes surface plates, headworks piping and
borehole piping for 2 boreholes including 10 Nos. stand pipes
            -    1 Nos. 100 KVA generating sets
            -    1 Nos. 100 KVA transformers
            -    1 Nos. pressed steel plate (gauge 4 mm) EWT on 10
m stage height (100m3)
            -    Spares (mechanical and electrical) and
               -     Generator and services building including treatment
facilities for sites


Annual cost estimate of typical O&M per headwork for water                                  Amount
supply                                                                     Time frame       (N)
borehole servicing and redevelopment                                       semi-annually
reservoir and distribution servicing                                       quarterly
electro-mechanical systems servicing e.g. generator and transformer        weekly/monthly
service/treatment plant and building servicing                             monthly
consumables                                                                recurrent
spare parts                                                                Annually
salaries/wages                                                             Monthly
TOTAL


Nairas people pay for 20 litres of water coming from the headwork? (N
2 before intervention, when there was no headwork)




                                                39
                                       Type of
            Name road                   road        Length     Population density    Cost
Name 1
Name 2
…

Prices of similar projects undertaken by your State Govenrment outside the CBUDP?

CBUDP sub-project name            Cost Sub-sector      Cost for equivalent Government project
                                       Water
                                       Road
                                       School
                                       …
                                       …




                                             40
                                                                                   To Tahoua                                                                        To Agadez                                    To Nguigmi
                                                                                                                                                                                                     10°E                                                                                            15°E

                                                                                               Illela                                                                                                                          NIGER                                                            1963 Level

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                e                        1973 Level
                             NIGER                                                SOKOTO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ob
                                                        To                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Y
                                                       Kandi                                   Sokoto                                                   Katsina                                                                                                                                                2001 Level
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Nguru                                              Oamasak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Yobe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    b
                                                                           ma                                               Kaura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Lake Chad
                                                                      Ri                                          S        Namoda                               S a h e l Hadejia                                                           Gan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               a




                                                                                                                  o
                                                                                                                  ok
                                                                                                                       o                       K AT S I N A                                                                              gu




                                                                                                                    ot
                                                                                                                    o
                                                         Birnin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ORNO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                B ORN O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  u
                                                                                                                                                                                   J I G AWA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                d
                                                         Kebbi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 aar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Y OB E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OBE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ma
                                                                                                                      Gusau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CHAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ko
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Jam
                                                                                                         Z A M FAR A
                                                                                                           AM                                                     Kano                                                                                                      Maiduguri
                                                           KE BB
                                                           KEB B I                                                                                                                           Dutse                              Pokiskum             Damaturu
                                         To               Nig
                                        Kandi                 er
                                                                                                                                                                    K AN O

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ngola




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .
                                                                                                                                                  Zaria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Go




                                                                                                                                                                                             Bunga




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G OM B E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OMB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M
                                                                                                                                                                                        BAUCHI
                                                                                                                                                      Kaduna                                                                                                    Biu
                     BENIN                                  Kainji
                                                                                                  Kontagora
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bauchi
                                                           Reservoir                                                                                  KADUNA                                                                                 Gombe
                                                                                                                                    a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ra
                                                                                                                              dun
                 10°N                                          Wawa              NIGER
                                                                                                                            Ka                   Ba u c h i                                                                                                                                                                 10°N
                                                                                                                                                                                 Jos
                    To
                                                                                                                                                P l a te a u




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          da
                    Bori
                                                                                                                                Minna




                                                                                                                                                                                 Jos
                                                                                                                                                                                 J s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Man
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    nu
                                                                                                                                                                                             P L AT E A U




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AW
                                                                                            N ig                                                 ABUJA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Yola




                                                                                                                                                                                   Plat
                                                                                                er




                                                                                                                                                                                    la
                                                                           K WA R A                                                FEDERAL                                                      Shendam




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AM
                                                                                                                                   CAPITAL                                                                                                   Jalingo




                                                                                                                                                                                       eau
                                                                                                                             Baro TERRITORY




                                                                                                                                                                                        au
                                                                                Ilorin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AD
                                                                                                                                                                         Lafia
                                                                                                                                                  N AS AR AWA
                                                                                                                                                    AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NIGERIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ta
                                                   O YO
                                                   OYO                                                                                                                                                                    ab




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ar
                                                                                                                                                      Benue                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bali
                                                           Oshogbo                         EKI T I
                                                                                           EK IT                                     Lokoja                                                          Wukari
                                                                                                Ado-Ekiti                                                     Makurdi                                           TA R A B A
                                                                                                                           KOGI
                                                  Ibadan
                                                                   OSUN                     Akure                                                                 BENUE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    s.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mt
                                  Abeokuta                                                                                                                                                                                 Chappal Waddi
                                                                                     ONDO                                                                         Udi Hills                                                    (2,419 m )
                                      OGUN                                                                                                                                                                                       Go
                                                                                                             EDO                                                                                                                             th
                                                                                                                                               ENUGU
                  To                                                                                                                                  Enugu
                                                  LAGOS
                                                                                                                                    ANA




                 Lomé                                                                       Benin                                                               Abakaliki
                                                 Lagos                                       City
                                                                                                                                      A
                                                                                                                                      AMB




                                                                                                                      Asaba                    Awka       EBONYI                                                                                                                           NIG ERIA
                                                                                                                                          RA
                                                                                                                                          RA
                                                                                                                                          RA




                                                                                             Sapete                                                                                                                      CAMEROON
                                                                                                                                r
                                                                                                                           Nige




                                                                                                                                                                   CROSS                                                                                                                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                        D E LTA                         Owerri         Umuahia
                                                                                                          Warri                                                    RIVER                                                                                                                   STATE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                        IMO ABIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
                 5°N                                                                                                          RIVERS              Aba       Uyo                                                                                                         5°N
                                                                                                        Yenogoa                                        AKWA-         Calabar        To
                                                                                                                    Port                                                                                                                                                                   RIVERS
                                Gulf            of        Guinea                                        BAYELSA Harcourt                                IBOM                       Doula
                                                                                            N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MAIN ROADS
                                                                                               ig




                                                                                                     er                                                                                                     0            50         100            150     200 Kilometers
                                                                                                           Delta                                                                                                                                                                           RAILROADS
SEPTEMBER 2004




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 33458
                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STATE BOUNDARIES
                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0                   50                   100          150 Miles
                 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                    Bioko I.                                                                                                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                     5°E                                                       (EQ. GUINEA)                                          10°E
