Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
6s+- -Z.c0- 5                        i
RqPout No. P-4915-GH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 89.2 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
SECOND PHASE OF THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
FEBRUARY 28, 1989
This docment has a restricted dibution and may be used by reipients ooly In the perfomance of
their offical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Cedi
Cedi 1.00      =  US$0.0043
US$ 1.00       =  Cedis 230  (as of
January 13, 1989) 1/
ABBREVIATIONS
BOG       -    Bank of Ghana
CAG       -    Controller and Accountant General
COCOBOD   -    Ghana Cocoa Board
ERP       -    Economic Recovery Program
ESAF      -    Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
NDPS      -    National Development Planning Secretariat
NRS       -    National Revenue Secretariat
OHCS      -    Office of the Head of Civil Service
PAMSCAD   -    Program of Actions to Mitigate the Social
Costs of Adjustment
PHC       -    Primary Health Care
PIP       -    Public Investment Program
PNDC      -    Provisional National Defence Council
PIP       -    Policy Framework Paper
SAC I     -    First Structural Adjustment Credit
SAC II    -    Second Structural Adjustment Credit
SAP       -    Structural Adjustment Program
SOE       -    State-Owned Enterprise
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/   All transactions through the official banking system are settled at
the exchange rate determined at the weekly auction. Effective
February 1, 1988, the Government permitted the establishment of
foreign exchange bureaus. The selling rate for the US dollar set by
the foreign exchange bureaus as of December 1988 was US$1 = 0330.



FOR 6O CAL USE ONL
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page No.
cREDIT AND PROGRAM SU)KERY ............................................  i-ii
PART I- THE ECONOMY ........              .................. ....   .............  1
A.    Background ................. *4  .................... 0.0 .......   1
B.    The Economic Recovery Program 1983-86 ......              ............. .       2
C.    The Structural Adjustment Program 1987-88 ...........     *# ......  3
D.    Economic and Social Effects of the Program ............                * .....  5
PART II - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM 1989-90 ...                   ...........  7
A.    Medium-Term Objectives  .             .....................................  7
B.  Program Components . .                     .        .        ................... 9
1. Continuation of Macroeconomic Reforms  ..                 .................. 10
2. Sectoral Strategies  ..................... . . ................ 16
C.    Program Management .....            ............................ ..   ...    21
D.    Program Effects   .............................................               22
PART III - THE PROPOSED CREDIT .........              ........................... 23
A.    Credit History .............................................. 23
B.    Proposed Financing             .......................................... 24
C.    Credit Administration, Procurement and Disbursement ..........   24
D.    Monitoring and Tranche Release Conditions .                 ..................  26
E.    Risks  .......................................................  27
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA ..............              ..........  28
PART V - CO..ABORATION    TH THE I    ............................... 29
A.    Fund Relations with Ghana ................................... 29
B.    Bank-Fund Collaboration . .................................... 30
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION ....               ................... 30
A1WZ
I.   Economic Indicators              ........................................ 31
II.  Status of Bank Group Operations  ......              ....................... 34
III. Supplementary Data Sheet . .....             ..................   ........... 36
IV.   Letter of Development Policy ....                ............................ 37
V.    Matrix of Policy Actions            ............... ...................... 51
This document has a restrd distdbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authorzaon.



6ANA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Ghana
Amount:             SDR 89.2 million (US$120 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA with 40 years maturity
Program
Description:        The second phase of the Government's structural
adjustment program (1989-90) aims to maintain an average
growth rate of at least 5 percent per year, raise
investment to 16 percent of GDP by 1990, and raise
national saving to 8.5 percent of GDP. To achieve these
targets. the program aims to further improve the
incentive structure to stimulate growth, encourage
savings and investment, and strengthen the balance of
payments; it also supports increased efficiency in the
use of resources by the public sector, while ensuring a
stable fiscal and monetary stance. The Government's
Letter of Development Policy and the accompanying matrix
of policy actions outlines a program of actions designed
to achieve these aims. These actions focus on trade and
exchange rate policy, tax policies and administration,
specific private sector development initiatives, public
expenditure management, State-owned enterprise reforms,
and Civil Service reforms.
Program
Benefits:           The second phase of the structural adjustment program is
expected to build on the economic gains achieved since
the introduction of the Economic Recovery Program in
1983. The projected real GDP growth rate of 5 percent
per year will allow real per capita consumption to
increase at about 1 percent per year. The rise in the
share of investment in GDP will lay the foundation of
future growth, and the projected growth in national
savings will lower Ghana's dependence on foreign savings
in the future. The continued reforms in exchange and
trade policies will serve to promote non-traditional
exports and stimulate new import substitution activities
in the private sector. Reforms in the structure and
administration of taxes will strengthen public finances
while improving incentives to work, save, and invest.
Better public expenditure management will concentrate
public resources on high priority areas in
infrastructure, health, education, and agricultural
research and extension. Special attention will be given
to programs and projects aimed at alleviating poverty and



- ii -
increasing the access of the poor to health and education
facilities. State-owned enterprise reforms are expected
to lead to a slimmer and more efficient public sector.
Changes in the size and management of the Civil Service
will increase the motivation and effectiveness of
government departments.
Program Risks:       The main risks confronting the structural adjustment
program aret (i) inadequate response of private
investment to the new incentives structure; (ii)
insufficient implementation capacity within the
Government; and (iii) social reaction to some of the
cost-cutting measures that are included in the program
such as Pubsidy reductions, redeployment, and higher user
fees. however, the Government is minimizing these risks
through actions on a broad front. It is implementing a
range of policies and programs to encourage private
investment through infrastructural development, the
financial sector adjustment program, liberalized trade
policy and foreign exchange markets, and the clearance of
arrears in the payment of profits and dividends. The
implementation capacity of the Government is being
bolstered through an institutional support project
financed by IDA and through training programs financed
from bilateral grants. And the Government is meeting
some of the social reactions by explaining the objectives
of the reforms, implementing a program of actions to
mitigate the social costs of adjustment, and by balancing
the reduction-in subsidies, parti. alarly in utilities,
with improved quality of service.
Economic Rate
of Return:          Not applicable.
Estimated
Disbursements:      The credit will be disbursed in three tranches:  US$60
million upon effectiveness, US$40 million after a
performance review to be held around January 1990, and
US$20 million after a review of the SOE component of the
program to be held around March 1990.
18112R1



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOWHENDATION OF TU6 PRESIDENT
TO TUE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO TUE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TO SUPPORT A SECOND PHASE OF TIE STRUCTURAL ADJUStMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 89.2 million (US$120 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity to the Republic of Ghana to
support the second phase of the Government's Structural Adjustment Program.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A.   Background
2.        The following assessment of the economy is based on the report
entitled Ghana: Structural Adjustment for Growth (Report No. 7517-GH),
which was distributed to the Executive Directors in January 1989, and on
the work of various missions to review the first Structural Adjustment
Credit (Cr. 1777-GH), update the policy framework paper, and assist the
Government in preparing Phase II (1989-90) of its Structural Adjustment
Program.
3.        The economic deterioration of the Ghanaian economy in the 1970s
and early 1980s stemmed from a combination of inappropriate economic
policies and exogenous shocks both at home and abroad. Large budget
deficits, in part required to support an extensive and inefficient public
sector, led to a marked acceleration in inflation. Given a reluctance to
adjust the nominal exchange rate, the real rate appreciated significantly,
shifting relative incentives away from the production of tradables to non-
tradables. The resulting decline in the production of exports and import
substitutes, combined with disenchantment amongst aid donors with Ghana's
economic management, caused a prolonged foreign exchange crisis.
necessitating foreign exchange controls and quantitative restrictions on
imports which in turn further constrained production and growth. The
decline in the tax base due to the reduction in exports and imports and the
related drop in economic activity forced major cuts in government recurrent
and capital expenditure. The resulting deterioration in Ghana's once well-
developed social and physical infrastructure further reduced its productive
capacity. Government responded to shortages with additional price controls
and rationing, which worsened the problem by eroding production incentives
and creating a vast black market with related corruption, smuggling and tax
evasion. Declining real incomes and reduced economic opportunities also
caused many skilled Ghanaians to leave the country.
4.        Ghana's economic problems were further exacerbated in the early
1980s by a severe drought that caused the worst food shortages since
Independence, by a sharp deterioration in its terms of trade following
increases in imported petroleum prices and lower prices for cocoa and gold
exports, and by the strains imposed by the sudden return of over a million
Ghanaians expelled from Nigeria. The cumulative effect of the downward



- 2 -
economic spiral can be seen in the trends in key economic indicators
between 1970 and 1982: per capita real income declined by 30 percent.
import volumes dropped by a third, real export earnings fell by 52 percent,
domestic savings and investment declined from 12 percent and 14 percent of
GDP respectively in 1970, to almost insignificant levels vhile inflation
averaged 44 percent per annum over the period.
B. The Economic Recovery Pro&ram 1983-86
5.        A Provisional National Defence Council (PNDC)  was set up under
Flight Lieutenant Rawlings on December 31, 1981. The PNDC introduced an
Economic Recovery Program (ERP) which was developed in close consultation
with the IMF and World Bank. The major objectives of the ERP were to: (a)
shift relative prices in favor of production, particularly for exports; (b)
restore fiscal and monetary discipline; (c) initiate rehabilitation of the
country's productive base and its economic and social infrastructure; and
(d) restore incentives for private savings and investment. The main
actions taken by the Government under the ERP are summarized below.
6.        The Government adopted a realistic exchange rate policy and
devalued the cedi in stages from 02.75 to US$1 in April 1983 to e90 to US$1
by January 1986. A foreign exchange auction covering almost two-thirds of
,dxternal transactions was established in September 1986. Administered
prices were increased to reflect the impact of the new exchange rate and
price and distribution controls were removed from a wide range of products.
Interest rates were adjusted successively so that they became positive in
real terms in 1985. In the area of fiscal policy, Government concentrated
on eliminating subsidies and mobilizing resources through improved tax
collection and higher consumption taxes. Public sector wages and salaries
and the statutory minimum wage were raised to partially offset the massive
erosion in real incomes. Civil service pay differentials were also widened
to improve incentives to those at the most senior levels.
7.        Apart from the improved incentives framework, the Government also
made significant improvements to its public expenditure policy. Recurrent
expenditures were reoriented to increase provisions for operations and
maintenance as well as for health and education. Preparation of an annual
capital expenditure program was initiated in 1986. Major sectoral
rehabilitation programs were also launched under ERP, particularly for
transport, other infrastucture and the key productive sectors of cocoa,
timber and mining.
8.        IDA supported ERP between 1984 and 1987 with seven policy-based
credits totalling almost US$400 million (inclusive of the African Facility)
together with conventional project and sector lending of US$268 million.
IMF support for ERP over the same period took the form of three Standby
Arrangements, totalling SDR 501 million and a Compensatory Financing
Facility of SDR 179 million. Total assistance from the Ghana Consultative
Group including IDA rose sharply, with commitments averaging US$420 million
annually between 1984 and 1986.
9.        The initial response of the economy to ERP was dampened by the
1983 drought, infrastructural bottlenecks, and lags in aid inflows.
Th-reafter, economic performance improved sharply. Inflation fell from 123



-3-
percent in 1983 to 25 percent in 1986, goverrment revenues increased from 5
percent of GDP to 14 percent of GDP during the same period and GDP growth
in the 1984-86 period averaged over 6 percent, resulting in thiee
successive years of increased per capita incomes.
C. The Structural Adjustment Program 1987-88
10.       The Economic Recovery Program was succeeded by the Structural
Adjustment Program (SAP), the first phase of which covered the 1987-88
period. The aims of the program were tot (i) establish an incentive
framework that would stimulate growth, encourage savings and investment,
and strengthen the balance of payments; and (ii) improve resource use,
particularly in the public sector, while ensuring fiscal and monetary
stability. Specifically, the Structural Adjustment Program comprised
policy and institutional reforms in the areas of trade and exchange rate
policy,-the cocoa sector, public resource management, State-owned
enterprises, and public sector management.
11.       Trade and Exchauge rate policies.  Reforms in this area were the
centerpiece of the structural adjustment program. In February 1987 the
official and auction rates of exchange were unified at the then prevailing
auction rate of 0150 per US dollar. Since then the exchange rate has
depreciated to 0230 per US dollar (January 13, 1989). The average amount
supplied to the auction each week came to US$4.35 million in 1987 and
US$5.22 million in 1988. Access to the auction was also widened during
this period. By February 1988 there were effectively no foreign exchange
restrictions for the import of goods into Ghana, except for five items on
the negative list of imports and those imports prohibited for social
reasons. All bona fide foreign exchange requirements for business travel
abroad up to a total of US$3000 per person were also made fundable through
the auction. Finally, to promote the development of a foreign exchange
market, the Government approved the establishment of a number of foreign
exchange bureaus that are free to set buying and selling rates for foreign
currency independently of the auction rate. The prevailing bureau rate of
0330 per US dollar (January 13, 1989) was about 43 per cent above the
auction rate, partly because the foreign exchange bureaus cover a wider
range of transactions and need to be competitive with the parallel market.
It is expected that this differential will shrink gradually as the auction
is expanded to include payments for all current transactions and the number
of foreign exchange bureaus increases (see para. 37).
12.       By the beginning of 1987, Ghana's import tariff levels were
moderate by developing country standards, and except for a few products,
import bans and quantitative restrictions had been removed. However,
differences in import and domestic sales taxes accentuated variations in
effective protection. These were addressed in the 1988 budget which
realigned import and domestic sales taxes and further compressed the tariff
structure.
13.       Cocoa Sector policies.  The principal policy objectives for the
sector under SAP were to increase production by raising producer
incentives, and to trim the operational expenses of the Ghana Cocoa Board
(COCOBOD). Government raised the producer price hy 65 percent (to 42
percent of the export FOB price) for the 1987188 crop year and a further 18



-4-
percent (to 50 percent of the export FOB price) for the 1988/89 crop year.
To reduce its operating costs, COCOBOD reduced its staff by about 12,000 in
1987, ceased production on 52 of its 92 plantations, reduced its road
haulage costs, and divested majority ownership of its insecticide plant.
14.       Public Resource ManaRem_nt.  SAP aimed to improve domestic
resource mobilization, restructure current expenditures and formulate a
three-year rolling public investment program. Government introduced
several tax reform measures in the 1987 and 1988 budgets aimed at
realigning taxes, expanding taxation of consumption, and strengthening tax
administration. Revenues collected in 1988 are estimated at 36 percent
above 1987 levels which in turn were 53 per cent higher than in 1986.
Preliminary norms to help allocate and monitor non-wage recurrent
expenditure in health, education and agriculture have been prepared.
Finally, preparation of a three-year rolling public investment program has
been established as an annual exercise and includes a mechanism to protect
the funding of high priority projects from unplanned resource shortfalls.
15.       State-owned enterprise (SOE) reform.  Under the Structural
Adjustment Program, reforms in the State-owned enterprise sector weze
intended to encourage efficiency through an apppropriate policy framework,
initiate divestiture of SOEs that could be better operated by the private
sector, and strengthen the management of SOEs that would remain in the
public domain. The policy statement on SOEs and guidelines for SOE access
to budgetary funds have been finalized, and a study of cross-debts amongst
SOEs and Government has been prepared.
16.       The SOE divestiture program started slowly due to unanticipated
complexities in updating accounts, valuing assets, and meeting the net
financial liabilities of the SOBs identified for divestiture. However, the
Government did succeed in making progress in the latter half of 1988. Of
the 32 SOEs that it advertised for sale initially, ten have reached the
final stage for liquidation, and the Government has offered to sell its
interests in six joint ventures to the foreign partners.
17.       Corporate plans and performance contracts were the means by which
SOE performance was to be monitored and improved. Of the 14 priority SOEs,
10 had prepared corporate plans by the end of 1987 and four of these were
translated into draft performance agreements. The performance agreement
between COCOBOD and the Government was finalized and signed in early 1988.
By the end of December 1988, the Gover,nent had finalized the corporate
plans and performance agreements of all 14 priority SOEs.
18.       Public Sector Management.  Reforms in public sector management
aimed at improvements in Civil Service efficiency and economic policy
coordination. The principal means for increasing Civil Service efficiency
were to be through a reduction in its size, and greater differentials in
remuneration. The Government removed over 12,000 surplus staff 1 from the
11 This was in addition to the 12,000 redeployed by COCOBOD (see para. 13).



civil service payroll compared to the target of 15,000 by end-1987. In
addition, the Government is implementing a comprehensive staffing and
functional review of the Civil Service to identify further redundancies.
On the basis of the interim findings of this review, the Government cut an
additional 12,000 staff from its payroll in 1988 and paid them their full
compensation. At the same time, another Government objective is to
increase the salary differentials within the Civil Service to try and
attract better qualified staff to senior positions. No progress was
achieved with this objective in 1987, and in 1988 it received a slight
setback when the Government announced an interim across-the-board salary
increase which resulted in a small compression of salary differentials.
The Government intends to correct this in 1989 by increasing salary
differentials once again, subject to overall budgetary constraints.
D. Economic and Social Effects of the Proaram
19.       The economic consequences of the 1987-88 SAP are difficult to
quantify at this point, partly because of the short period since its
inception, and partly because the impact of many of the reforms under SAP
are likely to influence the economy in the medium term. Nevertheless,
conclusions drawn from the trend of broad economic aggregates and the
performance of particular sectors indicate continued improvement in the
Ghanaian economy. Despite the adverse effect of erratic rainfall in 1987
on foodgrains and cocoa production, the economy grew at a healthy 4.8
percent. And in 1988, economic growth was above 6 percent. Strong
performances were registered in mining, construction, utilities,
manufacturing, and the service sectors. Agriculture, particularly
foodcrops, rebounded in 1988 as a result of better weather in the main
agricultural areas and the use of improved technological packages in
certain &reas. Export volumes of gold and timber products rose
substantially in response to the rehabilitation of infrastructure and the
continued depreciation of the Cedi. The introduction and subsequent
broadening of the foreign currency auction have increased the availability
of spare parts and raw materials for the manufacturing sector, which is now
able to plan production for the first time in many years.
20.       The Budget.  Total revenues (excluding grants) grew strongly in
1987 to reach 14.1 percent of GDP, but slid to an estimated 13.3 percent in
1988 primarily as a result of lower cocoa export taxes. Recurrent
expenditures, however, have declined steadily as a share of GDP since 1986.
This has meant that public savings, which rose to 3.3 percent of GDP in
1987, steadied at 3 percent of GDP in 1988. Nevertheless, the Government
pressed ahead with increases in capital expenditures which climbed from 7.3
percent of GDP in 1986 to an estimated 8.3 percent in 1988. But with a
rapid rise in foreign financing, the Government was able to reduce its debt
to the domestic banking system by 07.0 billion in 1987 and 011.2 billion in
1988.
21.       Money and Credit.  The broad money supply grew by 54 percent in
1987, reflecting a substantial increase in the net foreign asset position
of the banking system. At the same time, the velocity of circulation
declined slightly, reflecting an increased willingness on the part of the
public to hold cedi-denominated assets. Net domestic assets of the banking
system grew by only 11 percent compared to 42 percent in 1986. Since the



- 6 -
banking system's outstanding claims on the Government declined during 1987,
credit to the private sector (excluding cocoa) grew by 32 percent. The
monetary survey for 1988 indicates that the growth of broad money fell to
43 percent. Again, the growth was largely attributable to an improvement
in the net foreign assets position of the banking system, with net domestic
assets registering an increase of only 10.7 percent. The relatively modest
increase in the net domestic assets of the banking system occurred despite
a 24 percent growth in credit to the private sector (excluding cocoa)
partly because the Government reduced its debt to the banking system by
ll.2 billion cedis.
22.       Prices.  Inflation remained high at 34 percent in 1987, compared
to 33 percent in 1986. This was mainly caused by the shortfall in domestic
food production, increases in domestic petroleum product prices, and the
lagged effect of the rapid depreciation of the Cedi in the last quarter of
1986. Evidence for the first ten months of 1988 indicates that inflation
fell to an estimated 26-27 percent for the year as a whole. Increased food
production, and tight control over both the budget deficit and monetary
expansion, have been the principal reasons for this decline and are likely
to cont-inue their influence on prices well into 1989.
23.       Balance of paiments.  The overall balance of payments generated a
surplus of about US$139 million in 1987, indicating a sharp turnaround from
previous years. This permitted an addition to reserves of about US$30
million and a reduction of external arrears of over US$70 million. Three
important factors contributed to the improvement in the overall payments
balance. The first was a substantial increase in disbursements of official
grants and long term loans. The second was a reduction in scheduled
amortization of external public debt. And the third was higher net private
transfers, the probable consequence of a more realistic exchange rate, the
emergence of new investment opportunities, and increased confidence in the
:tability of the economy. The trade balance, however, deteriorated
significantly, largely as a result of a sharp increase in non-oil imports
and a modest decline in receipts from cocoa. The trend in cocoa exports is
likely to continue until the international price for cocoa stabilises,
which is not expected to be before 1990. The bleak prospects for cocoa
underscores the need for Ghana to improve its export performance in other
products. The record so far has been encouraging. Exports other than
cocoa have done better than expected over the last few years, with non-
traditional exports almost doubling in 1987, albeit from a small base.
24.       Latest estimates for 1988 indicate that foreign exchange earnings
from cocoa declined by a further 15 percent, the combination of lower
export prices and the effect of bad weather on cocoa production. But the
consequent increase in the current account deficit was matche4 almost
exactly by an increase in the disbursements of grants and a sharp increase
in direct foreign investment. As a result, the overall balance of payments
remained in surplus, albeit at a lower level of about US$125 million.
Nevertheless, this permitted the Government to maintain its program of
arrears reduction, meet its obligations to the IMF, and add a small amount
to its international reserves.
25.       Social impact.  The prolonged decline in the economy in the 1970s
and early 1980s caused a substantial reduction in per capita real incomes



- 7 -
and the vast majority of the population experienced sharp falls in living
standards. Reforms introduced under the Economic Recovery Program and the
Structural Adjustment Program have reversed this trend as indicated by the
increases in per capita income since 1984. The real increases in
agricultural producer prices and the shift in resources from urban to rural
areas has meant that the benefits of the reform program have been widely
spread. The main losers from the Structural Adjustment Program are the
minority - not usually the poorest - who benefitted from the rents created
by the previous restrictive and distorted economic environment. However,
some urban poor, particularly the unemployed and underemployed have also
been adversely affected in the short term. Urban wages for unskilled labor
could decline in real terms for a further short period as the Civil Service
continues to reduce its numbers and the liberalization of international
trade leads to job losses in inefficient public and private enterprises.
26.       To ensure that the structural adjustment program includes
measures that address these problems directly, the Government has
introduced a Program of Action to Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment
(PAMSCAD). This program, to be implemented over a period of 2-3 years,
seeks to improve the delivery of basic services to the poor, enhance
opportunities for employment, and raise labor productivity. PAMSCAD has
received strong support from the donor community, amounting to about US$85
million, to cover the estimated total cost.
PART II - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM 1989-90
A.   Medium Term Objectives
27.       In formulating the components of the next phase of structural
adjustment, the Government continues to be driven by two central concerns.
The first is to create productive employment opportunitien for the rapidly
growing number of job seekers. The second is to alleviate the extent and
depth of poverty in the country. In the main, these are not new problems.
Through the first phase of the Structural Adjustment Program, the
Goverrment recorded some initial successes and ga4ned experience in
managing and evaluating policies that address these two objectives. In
addition, there is now greater recognition of the transitional effects of
the structural adjustment program on unemployment and poverty.
28.       The Government, therefore, intends to continue with the basic
thrust of its macroeconomic reforms, strengthening those that have
demonstrated effectiveness in promoting growth within a stable economic
environment. Greater attention, however, will be given to the design and
implementation of sectoral policies. In the sectors of industry,
agriculture, and associated infrastructure, the program will contribute to
increased growth in incomes, production, and employment. In the social
services, improved delivery of health and education services will directly
benefit the poor and contribute to the human capital base for sustained
growth in the future.
29.       A key macroeconomic target of the next phase of the Structural
Adjustment Program is to maintain an average GDP growth rate of at least 5
percent per year which would improve per capita incomes by about 2 percent



annually. This growth will need to be accompanied by structural change in
two central aspects of the economy:
(a) an increase in the share of investment in GDP from an estimated
12.5 percent in 1988 to 16 percent by 1990, with a
substantial improvement in the share of non-mining private
investment; and
(b) a rise in national savings from 6.5 percent of GDP to 8.5 percent
of GDP.
In addition, the Government intends to pursue its growth objectives within
a stable macroeconomic environment. To this end, two additional
macroeconomic targets are:
(a) the reduction of inflation to 9 percent per year by 1990; and
(b) the maintenance of overall balance of payments surpluses,
averaging about US$110 million per year, consistent with
repayments of arrears and a modest increase in foreign exchange
reserves.
30.       Achievement of the 5 percent growth target will depend to a
considerable extent on the performance of agriculture and industry. Growth
in agriculture, the most important sector of the economy (47 percent of
GDP), is expected to accelerate to an average of 3 percent per year.
Cocoa, in particular, is expected to rebound from its poor performance in
the 1987/88 crop year, and benefit from the substantial increases in new
plantings over the last four years. Food crop yields, especially of
cereals, are expected to rise in response to improved fertilizer supplies
and the introduction of a program to disseminate existing technologies. In
industry, growth of manufacturing output is expected to remain strong, but
there is some risk that the rate may decelerate towards the end of the
period as further expansion comes to depend upon the creation of new
capacity rather than the rehabilitation of existing plant. Minerals
production, especially gold, is expected to be buoyant; output is expected
to rise as a result of ongoing rehabilitation of public sector mines, as
well as from initiated and planned new investments in the private sector.
Construction is also expected to fare well, and is anticipated to increase
by about 25 percent by 1990. Transport and utilities will benefit from
large public investments planned for the next three years. Wholesale and
retail trade, however, are expected to decline as a share of GDP as the
internal terms of trade move in favor of tradeables.
31.       Economic growth averaging 5 percent a year will require a rapid
rise in the share of investment to GDP. And private investment,
particularly in the non-mining sectors, will need to account for a
substantial share of the growth in total investment. An inadequate private
sector response to the new incentive structure will inevitably have
consequences for overall investment, growth, incomes, and employment. This
underscores the importance of further improvement in the structure of
incentives and in the more general climate for private sector activity. It
also explains the emphasis in the next phase of the program on the
consolidation of gains made in the areas of trade and exchange rate policy



with complementary reforms in tax policy and administration, financial
sector policy, and sectoral policies in industry and agriculture.
32.       A similar structural change will need to occur in the sources of
savings. Gross domestic investment will increasingly need to be financed
from private domestic savings, although official external financing will
continue to remain a major source of support. Consequently, private
savings are to be encouraged through reforms in the financial sector, tax
policy and administration, the emergence of new investment opportunities,
and a reduction in the rate of inflation. Public savings will continue to
be important and are to be raised modestly as a share of GDP despite the
projected declines in cocoa tax revenues over the medium term. Non-cocoa
taxation will be expanded in a manner that improves incentives to save and
invest, and channels resources into efficient export and import
substitution activities.
33.       The pursuit of growth with structural change will be rendered
easier in a stable macroeconomic environment. To lower inflation, the
Government will pursue prudent fiscal and monetary policies. The budget
deficit is expected to rise in the near future and then decline thereafter,
but it will continue to be financed through non-inflationary external loans
and grants. In fact, the Government intends to maintain its policy of
reducing its net borrowing from the banking system over the program period.
As a consequence, the Bank of Ghana will be able to permit increased net
lending by banke to the private sector while limiting the expansion in net
domestic assets of the banking system. In addition, seasonal credit to the
cocoa sector will be provided increasingly by commercial banks rather than
the Bank of Ghana, thereby reducing the inflationary injection of high
powered money into the banking system.
34.       Strict aggregate demand management will contribute towards
further improvements in the external payments position. Disbursements of
the pipeline of foreign grants and credits will permit the maintenance of a
current account deficit of between 6-8 percent of GDP. But this should not
affect the debt-service ratio, which is expected to decline after 1988.
The Government intends to reach an overall balance of payments surplus of
about US$110 million a year during the program period. This would permit
it to eliminate all public external arrears by 1990 and achieve full
normalization of relations with its foreign creditors, and at the same time
increase its foreign exchange reserves to about 12 weeks of imports.
B.   Program ComPonents
35.       The next phase of reforms falls into two general components.  The
first is the continuation of macroeconomic reforms, particularly incentive
policies and public resource management.   The second is the implementation
of key sectoral strategies to provide the infrastructural and institutional
support necessary to facilitate private investment and production, thereby
contributing to growth, employment, and the alleviation of poverty. These
macroeconomic and sectoral components will be linked through the public
expenditure program. At the macroeconomic level, the public expenditure
program will be consistent with resource needs and availabilities. At the
sectoral level, it will be used as the Government's key instrument in



- 10 -
implementing its sectoral strategies and its special programs to generate
employment and alleviate poverty.
1.  CONTINUATION OF MACROECONOMIC RPFOBS
36.       The macroeconomic component of the SAP consists of a
strengthening and deepening of incentives policies and management of public
resources. Incentives policies, which will increase in importance as
private investment grows, will be addressed through trade and exchange rate
policies, tax policies and administration, specific private sector
development initiatives, and financial sector policies. Public resource
management, which can further contribute to the effectiveness of government
programs in attaining development objectives, will consist of public
expenditure management, State-owned enterprise reforms, and civil service
reforms.
Incentive Policies
37.       Trade and exchange rate policies.  This set of policies stood at
the very center of the first phase of the SAP. The next phase will
concentrate on further reducing the segmentation of Ghana's foreign
exchange market in stages, and rationalizing the structure of trade taxes
and tariffs (para. 42). The differential between the auction rate and the
rate offered by the foreign exchange bureaus will be reduced by expanding
the auction to cover all current transactions by 1990. In particular, all
bonafide requests for transfers of profits and dividends will be made
eligible through the auction by end-January 1989. By January 1990, the
Government will permit the servicing of approved private external borrowing
to be funded through the auction, and by June 1990 all current account
transactions would be eligible for the auction. To ensure that the supply
of foreign exchange to the auction is sustainable, the Government will
ensure that the allocations to the auction are consistent with foreign
exchange cash flows. The number of foreign exchange bureaus is being
increased, and exporters (other than COCOBOD and mining companies) are
permitted to convert their retained foreign exchange earnings with foreign
exchange bureaus. This, and the new streamlined procedures giving
exporters ready access to their retained foreign exchange earnings, will
serve to increase the supply of foreign exchange earnings to the bureaus
and exert a downward pressure on the bureau rate.
38.       Ghana has steadily reduced its external payments arrears from
over US$600 million in early 1983 to US$99 million by end-1987. The
Government intends to eliminate all remaining external payments arrears by
end-1990. On trade policy, the Government will continue to rationalize the
structure of import duties and sales taxes, and progressively reduce
special taxes on certain imports (para. 42). However, these reforms will
be informed by a proposed study of the effects of trade liberalization on
the manufacturing sector. To reduce the anti-export bias in the current
incentive structure, and thereby promote non-traditional exports, the
Government will strengthen the duty drawback systems. It will also,
through the Ghana Export Promotional Council and the Ghana Investments
Center, assist exporters with information on external markets and
attractive investment opportunities in potential export products.



- 11 -
39.       Tax Policies and administration.  Government revenues from cocoa
will be squeezed over the medium term as a result of declining
international prices and the Government's policy of raising domestic
producer prices. This, together with the need to maintain public savings
and investment, will require a substantial improvement in the collection of
non-cocoa tax revenues. The impetus for reforms in the tax policy and
administration system. therefore, derives from the need to put in place
broad-based sources of revenue while improving incentives for private
savings and investment, and encouraging the efficient allocation of
resources.
40.       The strategy for meeting this objective will involve:  expanding
the role of consumption taxes; reducing the level and variation of
protection afforded by import taxes; reforming direct taxes to enhance
equity, improve incentives, and broaden the tax base; and finally,
strengthening tax administration.
41.       To expand revenues from consumption taxes, the Government will
consolidate sales tax rates and improve the administration of sales taxes.
The process of unification of tax rates across comparable imported and
domestically produced goods will be completed, and inconsistencies in the
determination of the base for excise and sales taxes will be eliminated.
Furthermore, the Government will undertake a study of the feasibility of
using a credit system to extend the coverage of the sales tax.   If found
feasible, the credit system would replace the current practice of
suspending the tax on purchases by registered producers. In the interim,
the Government will extend the sales tax to motor vehicles. This, along
with an increase in the excise tax on fuel, would generate additional
revenues and contribute towards capturing the externalities arising from
road use.
42.       The Government will introduce a phased restructuring of import
duties to create a lower and more uniform pattern of protection to
encourage the development of non-traditional exports and efficient import-
substitution industries. This process will involve lower standard rates
and the transfer of the role of luxury taxation to excises and the sales
tax. It would also involve: phasing out special import taxes; further
reductions in the scope of duty exemptions and concess rns; and
streamlining the duty drawback system. The program to rationalize the
structure of import duties, special import taxes, and exemptions will be
informed by a study on the effects of trade liberalization on the
manufacturing sector which will be completed by October 1989. In addition,
the Government will also establish procedures for reviewing rates of duty
on particular products and responding to requests for changes in
protection.
43.       In the area of direct taxes, the Government will progressively
expand the base for personal income taxation to include various types of
cash and in-kind benefits that remain tax-exempt or under-valued.   Coupled
with increases in the personal exemption, this will increase equity; and
lower marginal tax rates and fewer tax brackets will encourage private
initiative and effort. These measures will be coordinated to maintain the
level of take-home pay, encourage compliance, and reduce administration



- 12 -
costs. The Government will also reduce the tax on dividend income and is
considering the introduction of a tax on bank interest at source. This
would lower disparities in treatment between different types of investment
income.   The Government will also conduct a comprehensive review of the
effects of personal and corporate taxes on saving and investment, and of
benefits available through the Investment Code, to develop a strategy for
future revisions of direct taxation.
44.       Finally, to improve tax adminstration, the Government intends to
computerize management information systems. An important first step is to
introduce a unique taxpayer identification number system. Procedures to
facilitate filing of returns and payment of arrears will be developed, with
a particular focus on the self-employed. Assessment, collection, and
auditing procedures will undergo further revisions to encourage greater
voluntary compliance. To increase confidence in the fairness of the
system, a Tax Court and a Tax Appeals Tribunal will be established.
45.       Private sector development.  The growth of private investment
will be central to the success of the Structural Adjustment Program. To
ensure that this response to the new incentive structure will be
forthcoming, the Government will need to display a strong commitment
towards private sector development. Several components of the program are
aimed at building an economic environment attractive to private investors
(for example, trade and exchange rate policies, financial sector policies,
and a better focused public expenditure program). To complement this with
more specific measures, the Governmenc has prepared an action plan for
private sector development. It is already implementing a program to
release private blocked capital and dividends as part of its broader
program to clear its external arrears. In addition, the Government will
establish structured channels of communication with key private sector
organizations for regular and constructive dialogue between the Government
and the private sector, and involve the private sector in government task
forces and committees dealing with issues related to the private sector.
To ensure that the tax structure does not unduly inhibit private
investment, the Government will reduce the tax on dividend income and unify
corporate tax rates (except for trading and financial institutions). It
will also review the effect of the current structure of taxes and tax
benefits on incentives to invest, and rationalize the structure
accordingly. To encourage the flow of information on investment
opportunities in the economy, and to reduce the regulatory impediments in
the investment approval system, the Ghana Investments Center will
streamline its procedures and strengthen its promotional and advisory
functions. In addition, the Government will take steps to reduce delays in
customs and immigration procedures, and ensure that complaints against
private enterprises are dealt with through legal and authorized channels.
46.       Financial sector policies.  Fundamental weaknesses in Ghana's
banking system have served as a key constraint in the development of the
private sector. With the support of the IDA Financial Sector Adjustment
Credit, the Government is introducing an ambitious set of financial sector
reforms. To further improve the allocative efficiency of the banking
system, the Government has abolished interest rate controls and sectoral
credit ceilings and will review the floor for agricultural lending. To
enhance the soundness of the banking system, the Government will improve



- 13 -
Central Bank supervision of the banking system, and restructure individual
commercial and development banks. To properly manage liquidity in the
financial system, the Central Bank is investigating the prospects of
introducing new monetary instruments. And to encourage the long end of the
financial market, the Government is reviewing the need for resuscitating
the capital market, and is changing the policies affecting the operation of
insurance companies and pension funds, particularly the Social Security and
National Insurance Trust.
Public Resource fMnagement
47.       Public exoenditure mana8ement. The Government's program to
introduce a more efficient tax system will need to be matched by
improvements in the management of public expenditures. To provide the
planning assumptions for the preparation and monitoring of the public
expenditure program, the Government will update the macroeconomic framework
at least twice a year in April and September. To streamline the budget
process, indicative allocations of expenditure will accompany the initial
budget circular. The Budget Task Force has developed guidelines to apply
the recently prepared norms for the allocation of recurrent expenditures in
health, education, and agriculture for 1989. It will improve these
guidelines for use in the 1990 budget. Finally, the Ministry of Finance
will adhere to the guidelines for budgetary transfers to SOEs.
48.       The Ministry of Finance will continue to prepare rolling three-
year public investment programs to guide its annual development expenditure
allocations. A Project Selection Committee has been established to ensure
that investments proposed by sector ministries meet established criteria,
the blend of projects reflects the strategies articulated for each sector,
and the complementarity between projects in different sectors is adequately
captured. Summaries of sectoral strategies on agriculture, industry,
health, and education, and their implications for the public expenditure
program are included in this report (paras. 61 to 84). The strategies will
be revised at periodic intervals and will be used as the basis for the
reviews of the three-year public investment program.
49.       The Government will stress the monitoring of public expenditures.
The Budget Division will continue to monitor cash flow on the basis of
monthly expenditure returns submitted by the Controller and Accountant-
General (CAG). In this context, the Government will also strengthen the
audit and accounting capacity of the office of the CAG. An important
improvement to be made in monitoring will be to provide greater detail of
expenditures by recurrent categories, for each ministry. The Budget
Division will monitor expenditures under the PIP and prepare half-yearly
reviews. The Budget Division will also prepare a quarterly report on both
recurrent and investment expenditures and submit these to IDA not later
than two months after the end of each quarter. These quarterly reports
will include an analysis of significant expenditure shortfalls and
overruns, especially for priority sectors and supercore investments, and
indicate mid-course corrections. Quarterly cash flow forecasts will also
be prepared by the Ministry of Finance and updated monthly, based on
projected expenditures and resource inflows.



- 14 -
50.       State-owned enterprise (SOE) refonms.  As noted earlier, the
reform of the SOE sector started slowly but has begun to accelerate (see
paras. 15-17). Nevertheless, the pace of progress in the future will
remain uncertain, reflecting, in part, the complexity of some of the issues
confronting the sector. It also reflects the limited administration
capacity of the State Enterprises Commission (SEC), but this is being
remedied gradually with technical assistance financed by the World Bank
through the Public Enterprise Project (Cr. 1847-GH).
51.       The objectives of the SOE reform remain unchanged, namely
increasing the efficiency, profitability and productivity of State-owned
enterprises and reducing the burden they place on Government. These
objectives will be tackled through an improved policy framework, better
management of priority SOEs, and the divestiture program.
52.       Under the program period, the Government will introduce policies
that encourage the commercial operation of SOEs. This would include
permitting greater management autonomy in such areas as pricing, staffing,
redeployment, remuneration, and procurement. To restore discipline in
Government-SOE financial :elations, the Government will formalize the
guidelines defining the criteria and procedures for budgetary transfers to
SOEs. The budget will not provide SOEs with subsidies, equity, or loans,
nor will the Government guarantee loans, unless such contributions are part
of the approved corporate plans and, in the case of investments, are also
included in the public investment program.
53.       As envisaged under the Public Enterprise Project (Cr. 1847-GH),
the SEC will be strengthened to monitor and evaluate SOE performance and to
advise Government on SOE policy. The SEC will monitor and evaluate the
performance of priority SOEs using the parameters agreed in the performance
agreements between Government and the SOEs which will be drawn up annually.
A performance-based incentive system will also be developed by SEC to
encourage greater management efficiency in SOEs. By end-1989, updated
corporate plans will be prepared and performance agreements signed for all
14 priority SOEs.
54.       The divestiture program was slow in getting off the ground, but
some progress has been achieved recently (see para. 16). The Government
advertised the sale of 32 SOEs in April 1988. Ten of these SOEs are now in
their final stage of liquidation, and the Government is committed to
selling its interest in six others, all joint ventures. Dossiers have been
prepared for another ten, with the remaining six to be completed by end-
1988. These dossiers provide a description of the activities of each
company, present updated and audited accounts, and include a valuation of
its assets and liabilities. An analysis of the prepared dossiers indicates
that, in most instances, the assets of these companies (valued by the Land
Valuation Board) exceed their financial liabilities, albeit by relatively
small margins. However, virtually all these companies also have large
unfunded liabilities in the form of redundancy and retirement benefits for
labor that potential buyers will be reluctant to accept. This represents a
significant hurdle to progress in the divestiture program, particularly
since many SOEs employ surplus labor that private investors may not wish to
maintain.



- 15 -
55.       The Government has, therefore, decided to accept responsibility
for the retrenchment costs in SOEs that arise as a result of divestiture.
This acceptance vill permit divestiture negotiations with potential
investors to proceed. The Government is committed to divest ten SOEs in
1989, including the State Fishing Corporation. These ten would be in
addition to the six joint ventures that were scheduled to be divested by
end-1988. Completion of this program, will be a condition of release for
the third tranche of this credit. Finally, a moratorium on the creation of
new SOEs will remain in effect for the duration of the program, except as
agreed with IDA and subject to existing laws.
56.       Civil Service reforms.  The Civil Service suffers from low
salaries, understaffing at higher levels, and overstaffing at lower levels.
The Government formulated a reform strategy under the ERP aimed at
addressing these problems and at the same time at strengthening its
capacity to gradually and durably improve civil service performance. The
main elements of the strategy involved reducing overstaffing within the
Civil Service and seeking other efficiency gains; reforming pay and grading
policies; overhauling personnel management systems; and instituting
systematic training and staff development. Implementation of this strategy
started under the first phase of the structural adjustment program assisted
by the IDA-funded Structural Adjustment Institutional Support project and a
management consultancy funded by the United Kingdom's Overseas Development
Administration.
57.       Despite initial implementation difficulties, efforts to reduce
overstaffing have begun to take hold. About 12,100 employees were removed
from the public payroll in 1987. The Government's redeployment program is
assisting them in their efforts to find productive employment in the
private sector. Taking into account recruitments of about 3,000 within the
Government's selective recruitment freeze, this represents an initial 3
percent reduction in the size of the civil service. Based on a systematic
program of payroll audits, functional reviews and job inspections meant to
ensure that staff reductions do not affect  e delivery of public services,
the Government redeployed a further 12,000 V in 1988 and is committed to
12,000 additional redundancies in 1989. The program will be extended into
1990 as further instances of overstaffing are revealed. The Office of the
Head of the Civil Service (OHCS), the civil service management agency, is
gradually building up a capability to keep staffing levels of the Civil
Service under continuous review, and to extend its investigations into
other means of achieving efficiency gains.
58.       To attract and retain the higher level skills critically required
to carry out its difficult task of economic reconstruction, the Government
has also begun to reverse a long decline in the competitiveness of its pay
policy, and to establish a pay structure based on objective job evaluation
criteria. Starting with an exceptionally compressed salary structure with
a 2.3:1 ratio of highest over lowest gross salary in 1985, the Government
introduced a first adjustment bringing the ratio to 5.7:1 in 1986, and
21    This figure does not include the recruitment of skilled staff at the
higher levels of the Civil Service. The net reduction in the Civil
Service is, therefore, likely to be less than 12,000 per year.



- 16 -
intends to increase this gradually as budgetary resources permit to an
indicative target of 13:1. The phasing and the precise timing of this pay
increase will be determined on the basis of the Government's financial
strategy which provides for containing the annual wage bill within 5.5
percent of GDP in 1989, and 6 percent of GDP thereafter. In parallel, a
rationalized grade structure will be introduced in early 1989 for senior
posts. and over a two year period in the remainder of the Civil Service. A
system relating pay to performance will be gradually put in place as well,
beginning with the introduction of a reformed individual performance
evaluation system.
59.       Planning of manpower resources in the Civil Service suffers
severely from the lack of information on the numbers, deployment and
occupational categories of civil servants. The establishment of a reliable
data base integrated with the payroll represents a necessary first step
towards effective manpower planning. A preliminary study will be completed
by early 1989 and such a system put in place over the next two years. Full
implementation of the 1989 program to integrate the personnel payroll and
management information system will be a condition of second tranche
release. A full personnel management development program will also be
developed and agreed with IDA by the end of 1988. and implementation will
begin in 1989.
60.       Training constitutes an essential element of civil service
reform. A training development program was agreed during negotiations
directed to improving the relevance of training to job performance, to
strengthening training management, to introducing more cost effective
training packages and to increasing the productivity of training
institutions. Implementation will begin in 1989.
2.   SECTORAL STRATEGIES
61.       The basic macroeconomic reforms of the structural adjustment
program provide the framework and set the context of development. But to
ensure the supply response to the new incentive structure that is now in
place, the Government has identified key constraints in the context of two
important sectors, agriculture and industry, and developed strategies to
overcome them. And to lay the foundations for sustained human resource
development, the Government will adopt strategies in the sectors of health
and education.
62.       The primary reason for including these sectoral strategies in the
structural adjustment program is to provide a better basis for the annual
review of the public expenditure program. The strategies as they exist at
present have not been developed in sufficient detail to draw precise
implications for public expenditures. But the Government expects to update
these strategies every year, and with each successive round, it is expected
that they will include clearer linkages between the priorities in the
objectives and the priorities in the expenditure programs.



- 17 -
Asricultural Strategy
63.       Objectives.  The Government's objectives in the agricultural
sector are threefold. The first is to improve food security by increasing
agricultural productivity and incomes while reducing their vulnerability to
fluctuations in prices and weather conditions. The second is to increase
export earnings from the agricultural sector. And the third is to improve
management of natural resources. These objectives are to be attained by
application of selected sectoral policies, especially those relating to
pricing, privatization and the environment, and through the public
expenditure program.
64.       Sector Policies.  Apart from the exchange rate and import tariffs
which have had, and will continue to have, a major impact on agricultural
incentives, the single most important agricultural policy instrument
remains the price of cocoa. In the future, cocoa producer prices will be
determined according to a set of principles acceptable to IDA and based on
a study that was completed in August, 1988. Other pricing policies include
the phasing out of subsidies for fertilizer by 1990. To address credit
needs within rural areas, the Government will undertake a program to
restructure the rural banking system and improve the efficiency of
financial intermediation. Further gains in efficiency in the agricultural
sector will be achieved through privatisation. As part of its program to
reduce costs, COCOBOD, for example, will complete the feasibility studies
for the divestiture of its remaining 40 plantations, and also remove
subsidies on input supplies. The Government will also proceed with the
phased privatisation of seed production and fertilizer distribution. In
the meantime, however, the Government will ensure the timely availability
of both improved seeds and fertilizer. For fertilizer, the Government is
to ensure that import orders for fertilizer are placed in time to have
sufficient stocks delivered by January each year (40,000 tons for January
1989). Finally, the Government is undertaking reforms in its forestry
policy to discourage wastage and inefficiency and to control better the
volume of cutting. The main instruments for this purpose will be royalty
fees and concession rents. In addition, the institutions responsible for
managing forestry resources will be strengthened.
65.       The Government also plans to prepare a comprehensive
Environmental Action Plan. Apart from reforms already specified as part of
the forestry strategy, the Action Plan will also identify specific policy
actions, related investments, and institutional needs in the following
priority areas: (i) land management (soil degradation and erosion); (ii)
water resource development; (iii) coastal zone management; (iv) control of
mining and industrial pollution; and (v) planning for human settlement.
Under this plan, procedures will be established for an environmental review
of public and private investments and support will be provided for the
expansion of environmental education.
66.       Expenditure Programs.  The public expenditure program will be a
critical vehicle for implementing the Government's agricultural strategy.
In particular, achievement of improved yields for food crops will depend on
an appropriate allocation of budgetary resources to the provision of basic
services, especially extension and research, the delivery of inputs and the
rehabilitation of rural infrastructure. Among other things, the extension



- 18 -
and agricultural research systems will need to be improved considerably and
oriented more towards small farmers. Development of specific strategies to
increase the production of roots and tubers, for example, is being given
attention in the research program. Public sector investments are also
being reexamined and priorities are being reset. The strategy for rice
production, is being shifted from investment in large-scale irrigation
schemes to smaller ones and swamp development. Improvement in rural
infrastructure, especially feeder roads, is being concentrated on districts
with high potential. Post-harvest losses -- a major cause of low realized
yields -- are also being addressed on a priority basis. Not all of these
programs have been fully costed at this stage but considerable progress has
been made. To complete the process, the Government is preparing a medium-
term agricultural development program which will define public expenditure
priorities and allocations for the next two or three years in much greater
detail.
Industrial Sector Strategy
67.       Objectives.  The Government has two broad concerns in orienting
its industrial strategy to facilitate the adjustment process. One
objective is the development of a more internationally competitive
industrial sector. Growth is to be encouraged particularly in local
resource-based industries for exports and efficient import substitution.
The second key objective in the sector 8.s to generate employment, with an
emphasis on job creation in small- and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs),
thereby contributing to absorption of new entrants to the labor market and
redeployees from the public and private sector.
68.       Sectoral Policies.  Macroeconomic policies will continue to exert
a major influence on incentives in the industrial sector. Refinements in
trade taxation and exchange rate policies, as well as the adjustment
program in the financial sector, are essential components of the industrial
strategy. Further, the SOE reform program (para. 50) is expected to foster
increasingly commercial operation of manufacturing SOEs.
69.       Improved availability an. access to information of use to
potential private industrial investors is being addressed. A national
census of industrial establishments is complete and the results becoming
available through publications beginning mid-1988. Small-scale, and medium
to large-scale enterprises are being covered by separate national surveys
in 1988, and the Ministry of Industries, Science and Technology is
preparing for the regular release of information from such surveys, as well
as other reports and reviews of industrial prospects and conditions.
70.       The Government is undertaking a comprehensive review of agencies
providing technical and support services to industry, including research
and development. One focus of this effort is to improve institutional
support to the small- and medium-scale industry subsector, which will be
crucial in generating employment and private investment. The Ministry of
Industry will strengthen extension services to assist new entrepreneurs in
identifying and preparing projects for presentation to financial
institutions, and in disseminating information on technological
developments via regional out-reach units. Industrial research is also
undergoing a reorientation to improve incentives for private research and



- 19 -
development, and to find the most effective mandate and use of resources
for publlr research agencies.
71.       Expenditure Programs.  This industrial strategy is leading to
adjustments in public expenditure in the sector. Resources are being
concentrated on the generation of information and improvement of support
services, as well as, in liaison with the key infrastructure agencies, on
ports, electricity, water, roads, and telecommunications. In this context,
the Government will also assess the viability and cost effectiveness of
establishing an export processing zone to promote manufactured exports.
72.       Allocation of investment funds to manufacturing SOEs, whether
through direct investment or net lending out of budget resources, will
decline as their commercial viability improves and their access to
commercial sources of finance increases. Allocation of the development
budget for investments in both new and existing public manufacturing
enterprises is to be phased out entirely in five years.
Health
73.       Obiectives.  The Government's priority is to rapidly improve the
quality and coverage of the current health services, which reach less than
half of the population, are poorly managed, and are subject to widespread
shortages of essential items. Within this broad objective, the main focus
will be to speed the expansion of primary health care (PHC).
74.       Sectoral Policies.  Sector reform will concentrate on
strengthening management, procurement, financing and manpower. The
Ministry of Health (MOH) will be reorganized in 1989 to decentralize
operational responsibilities and improve managerial systems and skills in
key posts, with headquarters focusing on policy, planning, monitoring,
supplies and aid coordination. Key central, regional and district
managers, not necessarily doctors, will be appointed by end-1989. Planning
and the rehabilitation of facilities and services will have immediate
priority.
75.       Procurement is being improved initially by limiting MOH drug
procurement to an essential drugs list introduced in June 1988. Meanwhile,
long-term estimates of needs have been prepared. Procurement procedures
will be speeded up, inventory management improved, and delivery to health
units streamlined. A broad national drugs policy will be implemented
through 1990.
76.       Expenditure Programs.  The reform of Ghana's health services
delivery system will include efficiency gains and cost recovery which will
permit expanded service through 1990 at the same recurrent budget share as
allocated in 1988. Based on service targets and expenditure norms, budget
allocations will increase substantially for PHC, transport and maintenance.
The3e will be balanced by savings achieved through redeploying excess non-
technical staff by end-1990, increasing efficiency of drug supply,
tightening medicalltechnical staffing and budget norms, and discontinuing
subsidies on institutional feeding by end-1989. A revolving fund will be
established in 1989 to finance essential drug purchases and port clearance
costs, and will receive an initial capitalization as well as all proceeds



- 20 -
from putting drug sales to all health institutions, and by them to
patients, on a cash-and-carry basis. Cost recovery will remain equivalent
to at least 15 percent of MOH recurrent expenditures through 1990.
77.       Spending by MOH on PHC and drugs will be protected from overall
resource shortfalls. Salaries of staff at facilities operated by missions
will remain fully funded. Completion of PHC facilities will have first
priority in the health sector PIP, and these will be included in PIP core
investments as well. New projects will have satisfactory feasibility
studies before implementation.
Education
78.       Obiectives.  Ghana has embarked on a major six year program of
education reform with three main objectives: to improve pedagogic
effectiveness; to make education financing more efficient and equitable;
and to ensure that the reformed system can be sustained with national
resources within modest growth expectations.
79.       Sectoral policies.  A key element in the restructuring of the
educational system is the phased introduction of a Junior Secondary School
system and a consequent reduction in the length of pre-university education
from 17 to 12 years. This will allow scarce pedagogic resources to be
concentrated more effectively and will reduce considerably the private and
public investment in the education of each child. This program is being
supported by development of a revised curriculum, teacher training, and
examination reform.
80.       In addition to this fundamental restructuring. the Government is
seeking to ensure that primary school intakes grow by at least 6 percent
per year. This is to be achieved through media campaigns, greater
curriculum relevance, increased teacher accountability and adequate
supplies of educational material. At all levels, special attention will be
devoted to strengthening students' cultural identity through the use of
local languages, and the development of craft skills.
81.       Policies addressing the secondary level are to double throughput.
with increasing emphasis on science and technology. To improve the
effectiveness and holding power of basic education, enrollments in
residential teacher training college will increase significantly so that
all untrained teachers will be eliminated from the system by 1993. For
technical education and vocational training to play a direct role in
promoting national development, curricula and programs will be directed at
preparing the youth for productive *self-employment' and work in the
informal sector.
82.       At the higher education level, priority will be attached to
improving the management of financial, human, and physical resources; to
integrate tertiary education firmly into the national educational
structure; and direct curricula and programs so that graduates play an
active role in national development, especially in rural and technological
areas.



- 21 -
83.       Finally, to ensure a maximum level of public participation in the
political as well as the development process, the Government has decided to
reduce the 70 percent adult illiteracy rate. It plans to complement the
education reform program with a massive functional literacy campaign that
will be extended to full nationwide coverage by 1991.
84.       Expenditure Programs.  To improve equitable and efficient use of
financial resources, both to and within the educational sector, the
Government will begin applying established norms in drafting the annual
budget and preparing the public investment program (PIP). Further cost
savings and recovery will be achieved through reducing non-teaching
staffing levels, raising annual book-user fees, and reducing food and
boarding subsidies, with a concessional loan scheme introduced to cushion
any hardship to students from poor families. In the recurrent budget, the
share allocated to basic education (primary and junior secondary) will
continue to increase, from its 1987 share (582) of actual recurrent
expenditure to 602 by 1990, as will associated teacher training. Secondary
and higher education shares will decrease. In the PIP, the focus will
continue to be rehabilitation of facilities, with a priority given to non-
tertiary education. Non-aid financed capital expenditures on higher
education will await establishment of a university rationalization plan on
the basis of the recently completed study.
C.  Program Management
85.       The continuing constraint of economic management capacity within
the Government is being addressed. The existing management framework is
being modified and understaffing being relieved to strengthen the critical
policy analysis and planning functions, particularly public investment
programming, budgetary control, aid coordination and debt management. The
SAP team, headed by the Chairman of the Committee of Secretaries, will
continue as the highest body to make economic policy decisions, supported
in its coordination function by the Economic Liaison Unit. Day-to-day
management of the structural adjustment program will remain with the
Ministry of Finance, which is being strengthened to undertake this task.
The Structural Adjustment Program Secretariat, which was created to monitor
implementation of the structural adjustment program, is becoming part of
the International Economic Relations Department. It will also continue to
be the project management unit for the Structural Adjustment Institutional
Support Project. The International Economic Relations Department of the
Ministry of Finance is also being strengthened to better monitor aid flows,
particularly World Bank disbursements. The Investment Projects Analysis
Division will be strengthened, and will be responsible for all budget
matters including preparation of the Public Investment Program. The
Ministry of Finance is also seeking to complete staffing of its Economic
Policy Unit, in spite of difficulties in hiring qualified personnel. Terms
of reference for a debt management unit and monitoring system within
Ministry of Finance have also been prepared and are ready for
implementation. Finally, the Government is continuing its preparations for
establishing a National Development Planning Secretariat (NDPS), which is
expected to become operational before the end of 1990. The NDPS will be
responsible for the preparation of the medium- and long-term development
framework and sectoral strategies to guide the preparation of the PIP.
Based on this framework, the Ministry of Finance will prepare the rolling,



- 22 -
three-year PIP for incorporation in the annual budget and submit it to the
PNDC for approval.
D.   Program Effects
86.       Economic benefits.  The primary measure of the adjustment
program's impact on the general well being of the Ghanaian population is
growth in real GDP. With an annual growth of at least 5 percent, real GDP
is expected to increase by slightly more than 10 percent during the two
years of the program. Of this increase, approximately 40 percent is
expected to be generated by the industrial sector, 32 percent by services
and 28 percent by agriculture. These figures are indicative of the
structural adjustment occuring in the economy -- industry, the smallest
sector in 1988, is expected to increase most rapidly whereas agriculture,
the largest sector in 1988, will decline as a share of GDP.
87.       The change in real consumption per capita is often taken as a
more appropriate measure of a program's impact on individual welfare.
Allowing for population growth of 3.2 percent a year and for an increasing
share of investment in GDP, the increase in real GDP of 5 percent a year
translates into an increase in real consumption per capita of about 1
percent in 1989 and 1990.   Realization of these growth rates would imply
that real consumption per capita would have increased by 13.4 percent since
the inception of Ghana's recovery program in 1983.
88.       While growth in the immediate future is of great importance, an
additional, and equally important dimension of a program's impact is the
extent to which it lays the foundation for growth in the long run. In this
respect, the current two-year program will achieve a further increase in
the share of investment in GDP -- from 12.5 percent in 1988 to 16 percent
in 1990. and then to 16.5 percent in 1991. The implication of this
productive investmet is that growth will be maintained at current levels.
National savings will continue to fund around half of this increased
investment with the remainder being in the form of concessional external
loans and grants.   Current efforts to increase investment are not
expected, therefore, to lead to future debt problems. In fact, the debt
service ratio (including 1MF and arrears) is projected to fall from 69
percent in 1988 to 35 percent by 1990. As with the structure of
production, these developments with respect to investment and saving are a
further indication of the adjustment occuring in the economy.
89.       Social effects.  The next phase of structural adjustment is
expected to result in a modest increase in per capita income and
consumption and hence generate gains for the large majority of Ghanaians.
Distribution of these gains is not likely to be even, however, and other
groups may not share in the gains. Identification and monitoring of the
effects of structural adjustment on households will improve with the first
results of the Ghana Living Standards Study which was recently initiated.
It is thought that the improvements in producer incentives, particularly
for small-scale cocoa farmers and entrepreneurs, and the shift in resources
from urban to rural areas, and from traders to producers will enhance
economic opportunities and increase incomes in much of the economy.
Poverty and economic hardship will remain difficult problems, however,
particularly for such vulnerable groups as small farmers in the Northern



- 23 -
and Upper regions, whose productivity is low, and who face unemployment and
hunger in the lean season, as well as low income unemployed and under-
employed urban households, and retrenched workers from the public and
private sector.
90.       The effort to moderate the costs of the adjustment program must
be concerned primarily with creating employment opportunities. Labor
supply and demand appear to be such that, in the aggregate, newly created
jobs as a result of economic growth will exceed the number of new entrants
to the labor force by a margin sufficient to absorb those retrenched from
the public and private sectors and raise real wages. This aggregate
picture may mask considerable unemployment and under-employment in some
economic sectors. Absorption of redeployed w3rkers may become more
difficult because of their changing geographical concentration and skills
mix. For example, although many redeployed workers have opted to find
employment in the agricultural sector, an increasing number will likely be
clerical or unskilled workers who would compete with new entrants for
available urban jobs.
91.       Generation of employment opportunities is being pursued along
several policy avenues. The short-term interventions of the PAMSCAD (para.
26) are designed to create jobs through priority public works and food-for-
work programs and to retrain redeployed workers.  In the longer term, the
principal concern will be to continue capital deepening as well as
improvements in capital and labor productivity. Strengthening existing
macroeconomic reforms, particularly of trade, tax and regulatory policies
that affect the level and efficiency of investment, will continue to be
important. Finally, promotion of labor-intensive activities, consistent
with Ghana's comparative advantage, offers scope for increasing job
opportunities that match available skills, particularly in agriculture and
manufacturing.
92.       The structural adjustment program is also working through the
public expenditure program to make a substantial improvement in delivery of
social services and establishment of basic infrastructure. Recurrent
expenditures for equipment, materials and other supporting inputs in
health, education and other basic needs are being increased. In the
development budget, investment programs in social development are being
more carefully targetted to increase poorer groups' access to services that
improve their productivity and participation in economic growth. Many of
these crucial investments in Ghana's population and workers' productivity
will only begin to contribute to economic growth and well-being beyond the
current phase of structural adjustment, but they serve to strengthen the
reversal from previous neglect and deterioration of human capital.
PART III - THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.   Credit History
93.       Preparation of the proposed Credit commenced after the successful
second tranche review for first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I) in
February 1988. Appraisal was carried out in June 1988 and negotiations



- 24 -
were held November 21-23, 1988. The Ghanaian team was led by Dr. Kwesi
Botchwey, PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning, and included
Mr. Ato Ahwoi, PNDC Secretary for Fuel and Power and Head of the NRS, Mr.
W. Adda, PNDC Secretary and Chairman, State Enterprises Commission, Dr.
G.K. Agama, Governor, Bank of Ghana, and Dr. J. Abbey, Ghanaian High
Commissioner to the U.K.
B.  Proposed Financins
94.       As part of the annual update of its Policy Framework Paper (PFP),
the Government reviewed, in conjunction with the Bank and the Fund, the
financing requirements over the next phase of the structural adjustment
program. The preliminary balance of payments projections and assessment of
financing requirements are based on the following assumptions: (i) an
unfavorable outlook on the cocoa price, such that despite projected growth
in the volume of cocoa exports, foreign exchange earnings from cocoa are
likely to remain below the 1987 level through 1991; (ii) rapid growth in
other exports, notably of minerals and non-traditional goods; (iii) import
volume growth roughly in line with GDP growth; (iv) continued limited
recourse to international commercial borrowing; (v) maintenance of real
levels of concessional aid flows; and (vi) access to the Fund's medium-term
facilities at a level sufficient to further reduce net resource transfers
to the Fund.
95.       On the basis of these assumptions, the total financing
requirement for the period 1989-90 amounts to US$1.6 billion. The current
account deficit alone is expected to total about US$731 million despite
private unrequited transfers at higher levels than in the past. The next
largest claim on Ghana's foreign exchange resources, almost US$283 million,
will arise from obligations to amortize its medium- and long-term debt, and
another US$70 million will be needed to meet Ghana's commitment to
eliminate its external payments arrears by end-1990. In addition, the
Government's schedule of repayments to the IMF will amount to US$283
million, and the Bank of Ghana plans to reduce its net foreign liabilities
by about US$125 million. Finally, about US$120 million will be added to
international reserves, which is expected to rise to almost 13 weeks of
imports of goods.
96.       About three-fourths of Ghana's financing requirements will be met
by grants and loans from bilateral and multilateral sources. Close to half
of the projected drawings from these sources is expected to come from
commitments made as of end-1987. World Bank disbursements, including the
Special Africa Facility, would amount to US$425 million. In addition, the
Government is expected to draw about US$300 million from the Fund under the
ESAF. The remainder, about US$125 million, would comprise short-term
commercial borrowing to finance oil imports, medium-term suppliers'
credits, and direct foreign investment.
C. Credit Administration, Procurement and Disbursement
97.       It is proposed to support the next phase of Ghana's structural
adjustment program with a second structural adjustment credit of US$120
million. The Bank of Ghana (BOG) would administer the Credit on behalf of
the Government and disburse the funds through its weekly foreign exchange



- 25 -
auction. BOG would: (a) maintain separate accounts to record
disbursements and repayments; and (b) arrange for an audit of such accounts
by auditors acceptable to IDA, and submit certified copies of the relevant
audited accounts to IDA within six months after the end of each fiscal
year. The auditors report would include an opinion on whether satisfactory
procedures are in operation at BOG regarding the use of statements of
expenditure.
98.       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be used exclusively to
finance the foreign exchange cost of eligible imports through the foreign
exchange auction in the BOG. Except for a few exclusions such as defense
items, any imports would be eligible for financing. Not more than US$40
million of the proceeds of the credit would be used for petroleum imports.
And up to US$24 million could be financed retroactively for imports paid
for up to four months prior to loan signing. To speed up disbursements,
imports below US$2 million by private entities and SOEs would be procured
in accordance with their normal procedures; for such procurements,
reimbursements can be requested from the Association on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Imports by the government sector below US$2
million would be procured according to its procedures which are acceptable
to IDA. Imports worth US$2 million or more in the private, government and
SOE sectors would be subject to international competitive bidding according
to Bank guidelines, using current standard bidding documents acceptable to
IDA. International suppliers are well represented in Ghana; this, together
with the ongoing auction system and trade liberalization, should ensure an
internationally competitive market in which importers can be relied on to
procure their goods and services from the least costly and most reliable
sources.
99.       To facilitate procurement and disbursement, multiple special
accounts (up to six), in U.S. dollars at commercial banks, are to be used
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association. US$30 million of
the IDA credit will be deposited initially in these special accounts.
Applications for replenishment of the special accounts will be submitted
monthly, or when withdrawals equal one-sixth of the amount advanced.
Applications will be fully documented with respect to payments against
contracts of more than US$500,000 equivalent. Reimbursements for payments
against smaller contracts will be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure certified by the BOG with supporting documents retained for
review by visiting missions. Annual audit reports will include a separate
audit of amounts withdrawn on the basis of statements of expenditure and on
special accounts.
100.      The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed in three
tranches as follows:
(a) a first tranche of US$60 million would become available
immediately upon effectiveness (April 1989);
(b) a second tranche of US$40 million would be made
available following a mid-term review of performance to
determine the satisfactory implementation of the
adjustment program (January 1990); and



- 26 -
(c) a third tranche of US$20 million would be released following
the successful completion of the 1989 SOB divestiture
program and agreement with IDA on the 1990 SO! divestiture
program (March 1990).
D.  Monitoring and Tranche Release Conditions
101.      The Letter of Development Policy (Annex IV) describes the
specific measures that have been or will be taken during this phase of the
adjustment program. These measures are summarized in the matrix of policy
actions shown in Annex V. A second tranche review would take place roughly
nine months after release of the first tranche. Release of the second
tranche will depend upon overall satisfactory progress of the structural
adjustment program and the completion of the following actions in a manner
satisfactory to the Association:
(a) Conditions of Second Tranche Release
(i)  The foreign exchange auction system has been expanded to
include service payments on approved private external
borrowing.
(ii) Reforms of the tax structure have been introduced and are
reflected in the 1990 budget.
(iii) Allocations for recurrent expenditures and the 1990-92
Public Investment Program are reflected in the 1990 budget.
(iv) Performance agreements for all 14 priority State-owned
enterprises have been updated and signed.
(v)   The 1989 program of pay reform for the Civil Service and the
1989 program of integrating the payroll and management
information systems have been implemented;
(vi)   The cocoa producer price for 1989/90 has been set and
announced and the cocoa producer price for 1990191 has been
proposed and transmitted to the Association.
Release of the third tranche will depend upon overall satisfactory progress
of the structural adjustment program and the completion of the following
actions in a manner satisfactory to the Association:
(b) Condition of Third Tranche Release
(i) Implementation of the 1989 SOE divestiture program and
agreement with IDA on the 1990 SOE divestiture program.
102.      The Government will submit to the Association a report evaluating
the progress made in implementing the adjustment program starting from the
date of credit approval, which will provide the basis for the mid-term
review of the program scheduled for January 1990 and the release of the
second tranche. The Association has the option to cancel all or part of



- 27 -
the second tranche if the conditions for its release have not been
fulfilled within 90 days after the mid-term review. Similarly, the
Association has the option to cancel all or part of the third tranche if
the condition for its release have not been met within 90 days after the
review of the divestiture program scheduled in March 1990. The Government
would submit to the Association a final report on the implementation of the
adjustment program within six months of the full disbursement of the
credit.
E.   Risks
103.      Three principal risks could threaten the achievement of the
program's objectivest inadequate response of private investment,
insufficient implementation capacity within the Government, and social
reaction to some of the cost-cutting measures that are included in the
program -- subsidy reductions, higher user-fees, and worker redeployment.
104.      Inadequate private investment to achieve economic growth targets
could become a problem in the next several years, especially as managers
and entrepreneurs achieve rehabilitation of existing capacity, and need to
shift to new investment projects. Liquidity constraints, infrastructure
bottlenecks and remaining policy impediments may contribute to the
reluctance of entrepreneurs to advance beyond project identification to
implementation.   The Government is taking concrete steps to address such
issues through the financial sector adjustment program, through
improvements in water, telephone and electricity services, as well as road,
rail and port infrastructure, and through a liberalized foreign exchange
regime and a program to clear arrears of blocked capital and dividends.
Despite these efforts, renewed private investment will need to involve a
shift in perceptions and confidence in the durability of the policies
shaping Ghana's economic future, and it is difficult to judge when patient
commitment by the Government to appropriate policies will begin to bring
results.
105.      Another possible constraint to the pace of economic
transformation will be the still weak implementation capacity of the
Government. Measures to attract trained Ghanaians back into public service
have so far met with only limited success, and the motivation of the Civil
Service continues to be low. A number of actions are in place to minimize
the risks of inadequate implementation capabilities. The ongoing
Structural Adjustment Institutional Support Project will continue to focus
on strengthening public sector management. The project aims to improve the
supply of trained Ghanaians from within and outside Ghana, particularly in
key areas of economic and financial management. Training programs will be
geared to reducing dependence on external technical assistance. However,
in the interim, technical assistance will still be provided to support
cocoa sector reforms under the Cocoa Rehabilitation project and to state
enterprise reform through the Public Enterprise project.
106.      The structural adjustment process also faces the risk of
successful opposition from groups who may perceive that they are being
asked to endure a disproportionate share of the costs of the program.
Retrenched workers from the Civil Service and State-owned enterprises,
students facing reduced boarding subsidies and higher book fees, and health



- 28 -
service users facing higher drug costs, could play a vocal role in striving
to delay or defeat reforms intended to improve budgetary management. The
Government should be able to forestall such socio-political risks by
balancing and timing higher service costs with improved service provision,
mitigating transitional unemployment through achieving overall economic
growth, providing generous compensation benefits to redeployees, and
implementing retraining and temporary job creation projects under PAMSCAD
(see para. 26). In addition, the success of reforms to date is partly due
to the Government's careful efforts to explain the rationale of the program
to the general public, and continued effectiveness in such communications
will be critical to the success of the program.
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
107.      Bank and IDA lending to Ghana as of September 30, 1988 amounted
to US$1,371.3 million, while total disbursements were US$958.2 million.
Agriculture accounts for 13.5 percent of total Bank and IDA commitments;
industry and energy for 23.4 percent; transport, urban and water supply for
21.2 percent; education and health for 3.6 percent; adjustment lending for
35.5 percent; and technical assistance for 2.8 percent. IFC has made.
investments in Ghana totalling US$32.5 million. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of September 30, 1988.
108.      Following the formulation of Ghana's Economic Recovery Program
(ERP) in 1983, the Bank provided a series of policy-based credits in the
mid-1980s to help the Government arrest the deterioration in the economy
and lay the basis for sustained growth. These credits and related
technical assistance were designed to ensure the flow of urgently needed
imports. particularly for the key export-oriented sectors -- cocoa, timber
and mining -- and for manufacturing and transport. The Bank also increased
investment lending over this period, emphasizing rehabilitation,
maintenance and institutional strengthening in the transport (railways,
highways and ports), energy (power distribution and petroleum refining),
water and urban sectors. In addition, the Bank is supporting reforms in
the industrial, financial and education sectors, and is providing
assistance for operations aimed at increasing production potential and
efficiency in agriculture.
109.      Support for the structural adjustment program in 1987 took the
form of the first Structural Adjustment Credit for SDR 90.9 million (US$115
million equivalent, including the African Facility) and its companion
technical assistance credit of SDR 8.6 million (US$10.8 million). The
latter was designed to strengthen the institutions responsible for
implementing the SAP and to improve economic management. Supplemental
financing of US$15 million was added to the first Structural Adjustment
Credit in October 1987. Assistance has also been provided to support the
public enterprise reform component of SAP by means of a Public Enterprise
Project.
110.      Support to the Government to help secure effective implementation
of its reform program through both analytical work and financial assistance
will continue to be the central focus of the Bank's strategy for Ghana.
The other key elements of the Bank's strategy are to support the



- 29 -
implementation of financial sector reforms to improve financial
intermediation; to promote agricultural and industrial growth in line with
Ghana's long-run comparative advantage; to help upgrade the economic
infrastructure; to help improve the delivery of social services; and to
mobilize increased cofinancing and strengthen aid coordination.
111.      In agriculture, investment lending will be directed towards rural
financial intermediation, applied research, and the upgrading of essential
services, particularly extension and improved input supply. Assistance is
also to be directed towards the development of the irrigation subsector,
improvements in the cocoa subsector and in the management of the country's
forestry resources. In industry, the main thrust of assistance to improve
performance would be to increase capacity utilization in small and medium
scale industries in the short term, and facilitate the selective
rehabilitation and expansion of economically viable industries in the
medium term.
112.      The Bank's approach to help rehabilitate Ghana's economic
infrastructure includes support for improvements in the finances and
operational efficiency of parastatals in the water, transport and energy
sectors. Equally important will be the upgrading of urban and rural
infrastructure, including improved management, planning and revenue
mobilization at all levels of gover.,nent. Special efforts will also be
made to strengthen planning and delivery systems and ensure adequate
maintenance of infrastructure and public services. In support of PAMSCAD,
the Bank has provided financing for a labor intensive project to
rehabilitate urban infrastructure.
113.      In line with the Government's renewed emphasis on health and
education, the Bank's social sector program is being boosted. In
education, it would build on the success under the ongoing education sector
adjustment credit to reshape the structure of the system and make it more
relevant to Ghana's socio-economic conditions. In the areas of population,
health, and nutrition, the Bank is helping to draw up a much needed
operational strategy on the basis of which government policies and programs
will be refined, taking into account overall budgetary constraints.
114.      The need to ensure that scarce external resources are used for
the highest-priority investments means that improved aid coordination will
continue to be given high priority. In this connection, the Bank has
chaired the Consultative Group (CG) meetings since 1983, organized or co-
sponsored special aid coordination meetings on industry, the social
sectors, mining, and PAMSCAD. It has also initiated a forum for regular
consultations among donors at the local level.
PART V - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMP
A.   Fund Relations with Ghana
115.      Since the inception of the ERP in 1983 the Fund's Executive Board
has approved three successive Stand-by Arrangements and two Compensatory
Financing Facility purchases by Ghana amounting to a total use of Fund
resources by end-1986 of SDR 611 million or 299 percent of quota. In



- 30 -
November 1987 the Fund Board approved a three-year extended arrangement of
SDR 245.5 million and a three-year structural adjustment arrangement of a
further SDR 129.9 million. A year later, these were replaced by a three-
year arrangement under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF)
equivalent to SDR 368.1 million.
B.   Bank-Fund Collaboration
116.      There has been close collaboration between Bank and Fund staff
through joint missions and regular contact, both between the respective
Resident Representatives in Accra, as well as headquarters staff. The
staff of both institutions have worked extremely closely with the
Government in design and preparation of the Structural Adjustment Program.
A second policy framework paper (PFP) was jointly prepared in 1988 by
Government, Fund and Bank staff in preparation for Ghana's request to the
IMF for access to the Extended Structural Adjustment Facility.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
117.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association. I recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed Development Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 28, 1989



- 31 -                                     ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3
ONA"
KEY ECONOMIC IIQICATORS
(in percent) Pi
Actual         Prl la.             Pro3ectod
S84    1985    198S    I987      1988    im 19     g     1991
GDP Growth Rate                    8.6     5.1     6.2     4.0      6.0      6.4     4.6     4.8
GODY Growth Rate/                  5.6    4.2    6.6    4.7          6.7     3.8     4.6     4.8
GODY/Capita GrowtJm Rate  /        2.3     1.6     3.8     2.0      2.6      0.8    1.a      1.4
Total Consump/Caplta Growth Rate   4.4     0.1     3.8    2.1       2.6      1.0    0.7      0.6
Debt Servie  ELT (in US1 MW)5    408     415      M88    561      628      496     364     294
Debt Service ratio I/             66.6    61.8   48.7    61.8      68.5    62.4    85.1    25.1
Debt Service/GDP                   5.3    6.7      8.0    12.2      12.2    10.2     7.6     5.7
Gross Investment/GDP               6.9     9.6     9.7    10.8      12.6    14.3    16.0    16.S
Domestic Savings/GDP               4.2     6.7     6.1     4.4      6.3      4.9    6.3      7.9
National Savings/GDP               4.0     6.4     5.6    5.9       6.6     6.7      8.6     9.4
Marginal Private Savings Rate     ...    10.7      0.4     0.4      4.8      7.0    12.0     8.2
Publ Ic  nvetment/GDP              2.6    4.2      7.8     7.8      8.8      9.6    10.9    11.0
Public Savings/GOP                -0.6     0.1     1.7     8.3      3.0      B.0     4.0     4.8
Privato Investment/GODP            4.4     5.5     2.4     8.0      4.2      4.6     5.1     6.6
Private Savings/GODP               4.6     5.4     8.7     2.7      3.4      8.7     4.5     4.7
Ratio of Public/Private Invest.    0.67    0.76    8.0     2.6      1.9      2.1     2.1     2.0
Government Revenues/GDP            8.0    11.8    18.6    14.1      18.3    14.0    15.2    18.1
Government Expenditures/GDP       10.9    16.4    19.2    19.0      18.8    20.9    22.6    22.7
Deficit (-) or Surplus (*)/GDP    -2.9   -4.1   -5.6    -4.9       -6.6    -6.9    -7.4    -6.6
Export Growth Rate                 2.0   21.9   12.4       9.8    -0.1    14.1       7.8    10.4
Export/GOP                         8.0   10.6   16.6   19.7    17.9   19.6   21.6   22.6
Import Growth Rate                28.9     8.9    16.4    18.6      8.2     3.3      4.9     4.4
Imports/GDP                       10.8   18.6   20.1   26.1        25.1   28.9   81.3    81.2
Current Account (in USIM)        -214    -264    -204    -224     -809   -38    -363    -389
Current Account/GDP               -2.8    -4.2    -4.2    -4.9     -6.0   -7.6    -7.6    -7.1
Source: World Bank Estimates.
a/ Except where indicated.
/ GODY Is defined as GOP per capita adjusted for changes In the terms of trade.
c/  Ineludes IMF repurchsses and payments of arrears.
{/ Debt service as a ratio of exports of goods and non-factor services.
Note: Growth rates are calculated In real terms and all shares are calculated using current prices.



- 32-                                ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
BALANCE OF PAWIENTS
(USO Mlillion)
1986     19?      1986     1989     1990     1991
_ ~~~-  - -- -- - --                                          - - __- -- - --  _
Export of Goode (fob)                  749      927      628      6o8      919      1047
Coco  bons end Product.              503      495      430      870      409      438
Other export                         248      382      896      408      510      609
Import of Goods (cif)                 -605    -1026   -lil     -1201    -1291    -1396
O1i                                 -125     -145     -140     -169     -178     -198
Non-oil                             -600    -860      -982    -1042    -1112    -1199
1rade Batlnce                          -56     -19      -282    -808      -872     -348
Non-factor Services                 -115      -95      -89      -90      -96      -103
Receipt.                              48       To       90      110      117       127
Pnymnt.                             -168     -174     -179     -200    -212       -281
kesouroe Balance                      -171     -298    -871      -454     -467     -452
Net Factor Pyment.                    -106     -182     -189     -180     -118     -113
intorat payment.                    -102     -122     -130     -119    -106      -102
Public and BOG                     -45     -47       -76      -76      -71      -78
Privete                             -1       -3       -5        0       -1       -1
IMF Charges                        -55      -52      -49      -48      -84      -20
Factor Payment. and other             -4      -11       -8      -11      -10      -11
Net Privat. Transfers & StL             73      202      201      2)5      220       106
Current Account Balance               -204     -224     -ao9     -as8    -868      -3869
As X of CDP                         -4.2!    -4.9s    -6.03    -7.6!    -7.6x    -7.1!
External Capital Inflow                185      375      484      478      478      494
Grants                               118      122      177      212      220      213
Pubie Foreign Borrowings            128      218      195      247      285      803
ULT Net                            139      280      209      259      289      380
Gross Inflows                    890      418      414      406      411      431
Concession l (LT)              257      804      80o      85       854      S82
of which   SALe                0       56       78       60       6o       s0
Non-Conc ealonal (MT)            133      109      114       70       56       69
of which:  oil                59       64       86        0        0        0
Amortization                    -251     -162     -205     -146     -122     -128
Trust Fund                         -11      -12      -13      -12       -4        0
Private Foreign Borrowing (Nt)         8       -a       -1        2        1         1
Direct Foreign Investment              4        5       25       26       28       29
Short torn borrowing                 -19       8a       87       -6      -61      -62
Errors and Omnisione                   -86       12        0        0        0        0
Overal B no Ionce                      -57      139      126      110      110       125
Note: Total* may not add due to rounding.



- 33 -
Page 3 of 3
GEM
EXTSL  FDWANP   Eg        ONS  M7-91
(in US$ millimi)
______________________________________________
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Total Financing Requireunt                      686      825      623      785      737
Current Accomt, Excl.
Official Transfers                            224      309      368      363      369
Amortizatiml a/                                 195      218      158      125      128
Reductiom in Arrears                             n        30       45       25        0
Change in Reserves and
Other Liabilities b/                           22       13       77      164      174
DMF Repurchases                                 174      255      175      108      66
Disbursements: Existing Comitmtnts c/           686      594      332      238      154
Grents                                          122      106       76       44       26
Loans                                           408      358      256      194      128
Bilateral Creditors di                         46       73       89       75      47
.Wtilateral Creditors                         250      247      151      111       76
ofr hich: World Bank                        191      187       95       70       68
of dhich: Adjustment Lending                 58       73        0        0        0
Private Creditors (net)                       112       38       16       8         5
Direct ForeiVl Investmnut                         5        0        0        0        0
ThY Purchases                                    94      130        0       0        0
SAF                                              56        0        0       0        0
Disbursemmnts: Expected New Ocmuitments           0      231      491      547      583
Grants                                            0       70      136      176      187
Loans                                             0       56      151      218      305
Bilateral Creditors d/                          0       10       15       32       91
Mbltilateral Creditors                          0       22      120      155      182
of which: World Bank                          0       15      15       145      161
of ihich: Adjustmnt Lending e/                0        0       60       60       50
Private Creditors (net)                         0       24       16       31       32
Direct Foreign Investmet                          0       25       25       28      29
DMF ESAF                                          0       80      179      125      62
Total Identified Financing                      686      825      823      785     737
Note: Total identified financing is inclusive of disbursements
under Special Program of Assistance.
a/ Includes IMF Trust Fund.
b/ Includes outward official unrequired transfers.
cl As of December 31, 1987.
dl Includes concessional and ncnconcession-l loans.
el Includes only structural adjustment credits.



-34-                                     ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
A. TM STATUS OF SANK GROtUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 80, 18)
Amount in US3 M i Ion
Loan or                                                                             (less Cancellation)
Credit         Flscal                                                             -----------------------
Number          Year     Borrower               Purpos               Bank            IDA     Undisbursed
Ten loans and seventeen credits fully disbursed                      169.72         200.40
1009-GH          8B      Ghana         Volta Region Aar. Dev.                       29.60           3.09
1170-CH          81      Ghana         Ra lway RehabilIttation                      29.00           0.98
1342-GH          83      Ghana         Water Supply TA                               13.00          2.26
1373-CH          83      Ghana         Energy Project                                11.00          7.16
143S-GH          84      Ghana         Export Rehabilitation                         40.10          1.52
F009-CH          84      Chan*         Export Rehabilitation                        38.90           6.79
1436-OH          84      Ghana         Export Rehabilitation TA                      17.10          0.49
1448-OH          84      Ghana         Petroleum Rof. Rehab. A TA                    6.90           1.48
1498-CH          84      Ghana         Second Oil Palm                              26.00          16.97
16e4-GH          85      Ghana         Accra District Rehab.                        22.00          11.SO
1573-OH          85      Chana         RIC II                                       80.00           8.26
A003-GH          8S      Ghana         RIC II                                        27.00          1.63
1601-CH          85      Ghana         Road Rehab. A Maintenance                    40.00          17.79
AO01-GH          85      Ghana         Road Rehab. & Maintenance                     10.00          6.19
1628-OH          86      Ghana         Power System Rehab.                           28.00          9.46
1663-CH          86      Ghana         Health A Education Rehab.                     15.00         11.34
1672-OH          86      Chana         Industrial Sector Adj.                        28.50          8.24
A013-GH          86      Ghana         Industrial Sector Adj.                        25.00          4.05
1674-CH          86      Ghana         Porte Rehabilitation                         24.50          17.53
1744-GH          87      Ghana         Education Sector AdJ                         34.60          23.06
1759-OH          87      Ghana         Northern Grid Extension                        6.30          3.22
1777-OH          87      Ghana         SAC I                                         34.00         14.81
A02S-GH          87      Ghana         SAC I                                         81.00         27.34
A025-1-GH        88      Ghana         SAC I                                         15.00         14.97
1778-GH          87      Ghana         Struc. Adj. Inst. Support                     10.80          8.49
1801-OH          87      Ghana         Agricultural Svcs. Rehab.                     11.00         18.07
1819-OH          87      Ghana         Petroleum Ref. A Dist.                       1.00          16.10
1847-GH          87      Ghana         Public Entorprise TA                          10.50          9.40
1864-OH 1/       88      Ghan*         Cocoa Rehabilitation                         40.00          40.39
18S8-OH          88      Ghana         Transport Rehabilitation                     60.00          67.61
1874-OH          88      Ghana         Priority Works                                10.60          8.85
1911-OH          88      Ghana         Financial Sector Adjust.                     100.00         58.50
1921-OH 1/       88      Ghana         Mining Sector Rehab.                         40.00          37.81
1946-OH 1/       89      Ghana         Toleccaunications II                          19.00         17.81
TOTAL                                                   189.72       1181.60         487.09
of which has been repaid                                89.23          7.72
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                          100.49       1173.88
Amount sold          0.38
of which repaid     0.38
TOTAL undisbursed                                         0.00        487.09         487.09
1/ Not yet effective as of September $0, 1988.



-35 -                                   AM=  I I
Page 2 of 2
GHANA
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INESTMENTS
(s ot September 30, 198)
Inveotment     Fiscal                             Typos ot
Nuber        Year            Obligor            Business           Loan    Equity    Tot.l
-      tUS6 million
777-OH           84       Ashanti Goldfield       Mining             27.6      -        27.5
Corp.
914-OH           86       Kota Basin Oil          Oil                  -       4.5       4.5
Exploration
8s       Canadian Bogosu         mining                       0.6      0.S
Resources Ltd.
Total gross *ommitments                                              27.       65.1     32.6
Less cancel Iations, t.rmlnotlone,
repayments and salea                                                                   1.6
Total commitments now held by IFC                                    27.       15.1     31.0
Total undisbursad                                                       -        -      10.4



- 36 -
ANNEX III
GHANA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Supplementarl Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the program              8 months
(b)  Appraisal mission                              June 1988
(c)  Completion of negotiations                     November 1988
td)  Planned date of effectiveness                  April 1989
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
(i) Prior to January 1990, or other agreed date, IDA will review the
Government's progress in implementing the structural adjustment
program (para 100).
(ii) Prior to March 1990, or other agreed date, IDA will review the 1990
SOE divestiture program (para 100).
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Release of the second tranche would be contingent upon satisfactory
progress in carrying out the structural adjustment program, in particular
(para 101):
,i)       expansion of the foreign exchange auction system to include
service payments on approved private external borrowing;
(ii)      introduction of reforms to the tax structure and their
reflection in the 1990 budget;
(iii)     incorporation in the 1990 budget of allocations for
recurrent expenditures and the 1990-92 Public Investment
Program;
Uiv)      signing of updated performance agreements for all 14
priority State-owned enterprises;
(v)       implementation of the 1989 program of pay reform for the
Civil Service and the 1989 program of integrating the
payroll and management information system; and
(vi)      setting and announcement of the 1989/90 cocoa producer
price and transmittal to IDA of the proposed cocoa producer
price for 1990/91.
(b) Release of the third tranche would be contingent upon implementation
of the 1989 SOE divestiture program and agreement with IDA on the 1990 SOE
divestiture program.



37 -                             NNEX IV
1J Ca ef WJY the                                                MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND
*umt.r and date of sht                                           ECONOMIC PLANNING
keeler solbequtoted                                              EOOI  PANN
P.O. BOX M.40
ACCRA
rot Ref .No.                             Ms
rd*Wel                                RJWUPVSLIC O?OA__   NovemterA23N A88
SECOND STRUCrTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Conable:
Re:  Ghana's Structural Adiustment Proaram.e
1.          As part of its Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP), the
Go-Jernment of Ghana is implementing a wide range of economic reforms in the
economy. By this letter, the Government of Ghana requests from the
International Development Association a second Structural Adjustment Credit to
support the next phase in the implementation of this programme. To this end,
let me briefly recapitulate our experience with the reforms that we introduced
in the first phase of the Structural Adjustment Programme, and then describe
in some detail the objectives and further actions that we intend to implement
as part of the next phase (1989-1990). Accompanying this letter is a matrix
that presents these actions in timetable format.
Backsround
2.          In the depths of an economic crisis, the Provisional National
Defence Council embarked on an Economic Recovery Programme in 1983. The major
objectives were fourfold; (a) to shift price incentives in favor of
production for exports and efficient import substitution; (b) to restore
fiscal and monetary discipline; (c) to initiate the rehabilitation of the
country's productive base and economic and social infrastructure; and (d) to
encourage private investment. Among the key policies undertaken were a series
of substantial devaluations of the currency followed by the introduction of an
auction for foreign exchange, the dismantling of price and distribution
controls for a wide range of products, the liberalization of interest rates,
and the improved mobilization of tax resources and reductions in government
subsidies.  As part of the management of its fiscal affairs, the Government
granted wage increases to reverse the erosion of civil servants' remuneration,
and expanded its support to health, education, and to operations and
maintenance costs.  In addition, rehabilitation was initiated in key sectors
such as cocoa, timber, gold mining and transport infrastructure.



-38-                                 ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 14
3.          The second phase of the Economic Recovery Programme, also tevmed
the Structural Adjustment Programme, covered the period 1987-88. IDA
supported this programme through the first Structural Adjustment Credit,
signed in April 1987 (and supplemented in October 1987) for US$130 million and
a companion credit for US$15 million for institutional support. The aims of
this first phase were to strengthen the recently implemented incentive
framework to (a) stimulate growth, encourage savings and investment, and
strengthen the balance of payments, and (b) improve resource use, particularly
in the public sector, while continuing to ensure fiscal and monetary
stability. Policy and institutional reforms were undertaken in the areas of
trade and exchange rate management, the cocoa sector, public resource
management, state-owned enterprises and public sector management.
4.          We have recently reviewed available evidence on the outcome of
this first phase of structural adjustment as part of the Policy Framework
Paper for 1988-91 prepared in conjunction with the World Bank and IMF. The
economic results achieved in 1987 and so far in 1988 have been encouraging,
with the basic macro-economic objectives mostly realized. Growth of real GDP
and the external payments position in 1987 actually outperformed targets.
However, a number of problem areas exist, and will require our particular
attention. First, the growth of real GDP remains constrained by savings that
are inadequate to finance needed investment in priority sectors. Thus,
domestic resource mobilization will need to improve, through increased
government revenue generation, faster rehabilitation and restructuring of the
state enterprise sector, and comprehensive reform of the financial sector.
Second, determined efforts are needed to control inflation, which accelerated
after 1985 and has shown few signs of abating. And third, special efforts
will need to be made to compensate for the recent decline in the international
price of cocoa, which is our major export earner and source of government
revenue.
bijectives of the Second Phase of Structural Adjustment Programme
5.          During the next phase of adjustment, our focus will be to
consolidate the gains achieved so far, and to ensure that the economy
continues along a path of sustained growth. This will entail reinforcing the
macroeconomic policies that have had the most positive impact, strengthening
the institutional framework, and implementing a broad-based development
strategy. If we are successful in achieving our objectives, we will have made
some headway in alleviating the extent and depth of poverty in the country,
and in creating sufficient employment to abso-b the sizeable number of new
entrants into the labor market.
6.          We have, therefore, set ourselves the ambitious target of
maintaining the real GDP growth rate at about 5 percent per year. To achieve
this target, we project that investment as a share of GDP will need to rise
from 11.8 percent in 1988 to over 15 percent in 1990. But unlike in past
years, we would like to see this rapid increase in investment come from the
private sector rather than the public sector. We are, therefore, very
conscious of the need to improve incentives for investment and increase the
confidence of the private sector in the permanence of the reforms, and
demonstrate the commitment of the Government to private sector development.



39                              ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 14
We also recognize the Importance of maintaining a stable macroeconomic
environment within which private investment can flourish and serve the long
term interests of the economy. To achieve this, we intend to reduce inflation
to 8 percent per year by 1990, and maintain overall balance of payments
surpluses of the order of US$110 million per year, which would be consistent
with the repayment of arrears and a modest increase in foreign exchange
reserves.
7.          To achieve these targets, the program consists of continued
reforms in trade and exchange rate policies, tax policy and administration,
financial sector policies, and initiatives to facilitate private sector
development. In addition, the Government will continue to improve its
management of public expenditures, maintain the momentum of reforms of the
civil service and the State-owned enterprise sector, and implement priority
sectoral actions in agriculture, industry, health, and education.
Policy Components
Trade and Exchange Rate Policy
8.          The central role of a flexible exchange rate policy and
liberalization of the trade system in the first phase of structural adjustment
will continue. Licensing by the Bank of Ghana of private dealers to operate
institutionally separate foreign exchange bureaus began recently as a means of
extending the legal foreign exchange system. Since the first opening of
several bureaus in February 1988, a differential between the ut'ction exchange
rate and the foreign exchange bureau rate has prevailed, much as anticipated.
The Government is committed to the eventual convergence of these two rates,
and several actions are being pursued to achieve this in the medium term.
Licensing of additional foreign exchange bureaus is continuing, including for
operation by comuercial banks. Increased foreign exchange flows to the
bureaus is being encouraged by allowing them to handle exchange earnings of
exporters of non-traditional goods, and this should exert a downward pressure
on the bureau rate. Additional measures will expand transactions through the
foreign exchange auction, to include transfers of profits and dividends by
January 1989. Furthermore, by January 1990, service payments on approved
private external borrowing will be eligible through the auction and by June
1990, the auction will be expanded to include all current transactions. To
strengthen confidence in the operation of the auction, careful management of
cash flow will continue to ensure that allocations of foreign exchange are
consistent with sustainable inflows, and auction procedures will be followed
in a routine and transparent manner.
9.          To restore our credit worthiness in international capital markets,
we have reduced our external payments arrears from US$600 million in 1983 to
less than US$100 million by end-1987. We will continue to follow this course,
and by the end of 1990 we expect to eliminate all our external payments
arrears. On trade policy we will continue to rationalize taxes on imports,
and to streamline regulations affecting export procedures. Import taxes will
be adjusted in phases as detailed in para.ll, with the objective of reducing
the level and variation of effective protection. Asrthe Government is
actively promoting exports, particularly of non-traditional goods, it is also



-40 -                                ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 14
reviewing and simplifying administrative procedures, such as the duty drawback
scheme and retention accounts, that may be impeding growth in this area.
Meanwhile, all restrictions on imports have been eliminated as of February
1988, with the exception of five items and those imports prohibited for non-
trade reasons. The Government will completely eliminate the requirement for
obtaining an import license before gaining access to auction funds, as this
procedure has been rendered obsolete with the expansion of the auction to
include all eligible goods.
Tax Policies and Administration
10.         We are committed to maintaining progress in financing from our own
resources the expenditures needed to improve the living conditions for our
people, and to supply the infrastructure and services which our productive
sectors need to provide employment and generate wealth. Since cocoa.taxes,
the mainstay of our public revenues, are expected to decline, we must
intensify efforts to raise revenues from other sources. But we will do this
by spreading the burden of taxation more fairly, and by taxing more
comprehensively the incomes and spending of those who have so far borne less
than their fair share. We will reduce the burden on those currently paying
income taxes while strengthening the institutional and administrative
framework to systematically expand the tax base. We will also take care to
ensure that by improving the efficiency and consistency of tax administration
and enforcement, the private sector will be encouraged to undertake the
investment needed to sustain economic recovery. Our strategy for achieving
these objectives involves expanding the role of taxes on consumption, since by
this means we will be able to ensure that all who enjoy the benefits of our
nation's resources will also make some contribution towards the public good.
it also involves reducing the level and variation of protection afforded by
import taxes, to encourage efficient production for export as well as the home
market, and sustain only those activities which can thrive without large
implicit subsidies borne either by the consumer or the Government. Since the
desired tax changes will need to be consistent with targets for fiscal deficit
and changing revenue prospects, their scope and pace of implementation will
require careful review. This will be done in consultation with IDA as part of
the annual budgetary process.
11.         On the indirect tax front, we will continue to extend the coverage
of the sales tax while rationalizing and lowering rates of tax to the extent
possible within budget constraints. With this end in mind, we will study the
feasibility of introducing a sales tax credit system or improving the existing
ring system, and prepare an action programme which will improve compliance and
allow for a fair and efficient extension of the tax in the future. In
conjunction with these actions, we will continue to restructure import duties
by bringing the top rate down by 5 percentage points annually to a maximum 15
percent. We will also phase out special import taxes, correct existing
anomalies in how excise and sales taxes are applied, review and reduce the
scope of exemptions and concessions from duties and sales taxes, while
streamlining the duty drawback system to encourage the development of
efficient import substitution and non-traditional exports. Finally, we will
increase taxation on vehicles and fuel to improve eqfuity and also raise
additional revenue.



- 41 -                               ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 14
12.         To encourage compliance, reduce administration costs and spread
the burden of taxation more fairly, we will progressively expand the base for
personal income taxation incorporating. over time, all forms of remuneration
into the tax base. increase personal income tax relief and reduce marginal tax
rates and the number of rate brackets. We will conduct a comprehensive study
of the effects of direct taxes and Investment Code incentives to identify ways
of taxing investment income while encouraging efficient investment decisions.
The findings of this study will be evaluated and changes made in the
Investment Code and Income Tax Law if necessary to provide a more desirable
incentive structure for investment. In the meantime, we will reduce taxation
of dividend income, and unify the company tax rate at 45 percent (with the
exception of trading and financial entities which will continue to be taxed at
55 percent).
13.         We will only be able to raise adequate revenues while nurturing
private sector development if the tax system is fair, non-arbitrary, and based
on publicly accepted and understood procedures. This requires that we
continue to strengthen tax administration, focusing particularly on
computerization of management information systems and tax processing, and
developing systematic procedures for audit, assessment and collection. To
facilitate these measures. We will shift to the harmonized tariff
nomenclature by the end of 1988, and we will study ways of improving
identification of taxpayers, and will adopt and implement a unique taxpayer
number scheme by January 1990. At the same time, to increase confidence in
the fairness of the system we are establishing a Special Tax Appeals Tribunal,
and developing procedures to review requests for changes in protection.
Private Sector Development
14.         The Government is keenly aware that a cooperative partnership with
the private sector must be cemented for the economy to move from
rehabilitation to a period of stable and diversified grouth. We are thus
committed to improving the policy and regulatory environment for the private
sector, and in providing a stable and conducive climate for private
investment. Reforms in the trade and exchange rate system, tax policies, and
the financial sector, will all contribute towards strengthening the private
sector. And more focused public expenditures on infrastructure, health, and
education, will ultimately work for the benefit of private investors. In
addition, however, the Government recognizes that a number of additional
measures will also need to be taken, particularly to impro-e the regulatory
framework for private investment. Specific measures include continuation of
the programme to release private blocked capital and dividends. Dialogue with
the private sector will become even more regular and structured through
strengthening of formal and informal channels of communication and private
sector contribution to Government task forces and committees dealing with
relevant issues. The Ghana Investment Center will further streamline its
procedures to facilitate private investment and strengthen its promotional
and advisory functions.



- 42 -                              ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 14
Fnancial Sector Policies
15.         The Government has embarked on a broad reform programme of the
country's banking system with the assistance of the World Bank through the
Financial Sector Adjustment Project.  The emphasis of this programme is d&
policies and institutional reforms necessary to overcome constraints or
imperfections in the financial system which are hindering the flow of funds to
productive sectors, thus limiting investment and output responses to ongoing
adjustments in trade and incentive policies. To improve the resource
mobilization and allocative efficiency of the banking system, we have
abolished sectoral credit ceilings and will review the existing floor for
agricultural lending. Interest rates on deposits and credits have been
liberalized. Improvements in the regulatory framework and stronger banking
supervision by the Bank of Ghana are being coupled with restructuring of
financially distressed banks to enhance the soundness of the banking system.
The Bank of Ghana is also contemplating new monetary instruments to improve
the management of liquidity in the financial system. Finally, means are being
sought.to establish long term capital finance through a review of prospects
for a securities market and of policies affecting the use of funds generated
by insurance and pension schemes.
Public Expenditure Manapement
16.         It is the Government's intention to increase the efficiency and
effectiveness of public expenditure in working towards our development
objectives. A critical appraisal of the procedures for planning and
implementing the recurrent and investment budgets has indicated to us gaps and
weaknesses in our information, management, and control mechanisms to which our
full attention is now turned.
17.         To begin with, we have recently updated the macroeconomic
framework for the preparation of the 1989-91 public expenditure plan. It is
our intention to maintain routine updating of this framework twice a year, in
April and September, beginning with the coming fiscal year, to provide a firm
foundation for our economic planning activities. We have also begun preparing
quarterly reports on key economic indicators, which we shall provide to IDA
not later than two months after the end of each quarter.
18.         To shorten the process of budget preparation. a number of
organizational innovations have been instituted and will continue to be
scrutinized for additional improvements. In addition, indicative sectoral
allocations for recurrent expenditure are being introduced early in the budget
process to streamline preparation by ministries and agencies.
19.         Within the non-wage recurrent budget, progress is being made
towards establishing expenditure norms upon which more effective budgets can
be crafted and monitored. Physical and financial norms are being established
and their use incorporated into an operational manual for preparation of
recurrent budgets in the agriculture, health and education sectors. These
norms will begin to be used in preparing the 1989 budget, albeit cautiously to
ensure that sectors for which norms have yet to be established are not
provided with inadequate funds. Refining these norms and developing



-43-                                ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 14
guidelines for other key sectors will be the next step to be taken for
inclusion in the 1990 budget.
20.         Effective planning for the investment budget has in the past been
hampered by inadequate planning capacity in the sector ministries. To
overcome this, a Public Investment Programme (PIP) task force was created, and
contributed immeasurably to our planning of the three-year, rolling investment
program, starting with 1986-88. Additional steps now need to be taken to put
this process on a more secure institutional footing. It is our intention to
integrate the PIP task force as part of the existing Investment Project
Analysis Division in the Ministry of Finance by the end of 1988. In addition,
the capacity of planning units in the sector ministries is being upgraded so
that they can more effectively prepare project profiles for the budget
process, based on feasibility studies in accordance with well-articulated
sector strategies. Out of the our experience with preparing the Public
Investment Programme for the past several years, it has also become evident
that a stronger project selection procedure is needed to ensure that
established criteria are being fulfilled. We have, therefore, established a
project selection committee within the Ministry of Finance for this purpose.
Terms of reference are under preparation that will define its mandate to
decide upon projects for inclusion in the PIP. To ensure the effectiveness
for this process, the sector coverage of Public Investment Programme is being
expanded at the same time, and beginning with the 1989 budget, non-PIP
expenditure will not comprise more than 10 percent of total development
expenditure.
21.         An ongoing process to vhiLh we attach-much importance is improved
integration of sectoral strategies into the PIP. These strategies, notably in
agriculture, industry, health and education, are central to the structural
adjustment program in that they articulate further actions needed to ensure
supply responses to the new incentives structure, and lay the foundations for
sustained human resource development. The strategies will need further
development to strengthen their detailed consequences for public expenditure.
For the 1988-90 PIP, it is currently foreseen that roughly 60 percent of the
PIP will be allocated for the rehabilitation and development of economic
infrastructure, that about 30 percent will be towards the directly productive
sectors, with the social sectors accounting for the remaining 10 percent.
These allocations will be examined and revised each year as necessary on the
basis of experience and further information gained from implementation. The
proposed PIP that results each year from these improvements will be reviewed
with IDA.
22.         Mechanisms for monitoring and controlling expenditures are
undergoing modifications to strengthen the link between planned and actual
expenditure. Within the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for
expenditure releases, cash flow data, including revenue trends and expenditure
releases (PIP and recurrent), are to be monitored more closely through a
reporting format that has been discussed with IDA staff. These data will be
made available to IDA no later than two months after the end of each quarter.
The Ministry of Finance has also begun preparing twice-yearly reviews of
actual non-wage recurrent expenditures in health, education and agriculture,
and the programme of public investment. Beginning in 1990, these recurrent



- 44 -                                ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 14
expenditure reviews will be extended to other key sectors. Since this
monitoring will depend on information provided by the Accountant General's
office. which is responsible for actual expenditure, a plan is being
established to strengthen its audit and accounting capacity for both recurrent
and capital expenditure.
State-Owned Enterprise Reform
23.         The Government initiated a comprehensive reform of the state-owned
enterprise sector under the first phase of the Structural Adjustment Program.
The initial pace of the program was dictated by the difficulty of issues
arising out of the detailed implementation of the program. Despite these
start-up difficulties, there has now been an acceleration of programme
implementation and expansion of its scope. Our resolve remains to continue
pursuing with vigor the unchanged objectives of improving the efficiency and
productivity of the sector and reducing its financial and managerial burden on
Government.
24.         Towards accomplishing our objectives, a number of actions are
being pursued with regard to priority SOEs. The scope for further
improvements in policies to increase autonomy in SOE staffing, redeployment,
and wage decisions, would be investigated by January 1989, and reforms will be
introduced where problems are identified. To improve financial discipline of
SOE's and to wean them from past dependence on subventions and loans from the
central budget, established guidelines that define the criteria and procedures
for Government financial transfers will be applied in the 1989 and subsequent
budgets. In addition, a study of cross debts and arrears for 18 SOEs has been
completed. On the basis of this-study, cross-debts and arrears of the Volta
River Authority, the Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation, and the Electricity
Corporation of Ghana will be cleared by the end of 1988. The cross debts and
arrears of the remaining SOE's and the government will be settled by the end
of 1989. The State Enterprise Commission has been restructured to effectively
monitor ane evaluate the performance of SOEs and to assist SOEs in the
restructuring of their finances and in the preparation of their corporate
plans. By the end of 1988, corporate plans and performance agreements for all
14 priority SOE's would have been finalized, for implementation to commence in
1989. Subsequently, all priority SOE's. would update their corporate plans,
and updated performance agreements would be signed by the Government prior to
the beginning of each fiscal year.
25.         To reduce the scale of government participation in non-priority
activities, we have identified and advertised 32 SOEs for divestiture. Ten of
these are in their final stage of liquidation. The Government's interest in
another six, all of them joint ventures, will be sold by the end of 1988. At
the same time, the Government is preparing a divestiture strategy to carry the
programme through for the next several years. For example, the Government is
committed to divesting ten additional state-owned enterprises in 1989,
including the State Fishing Corporation. In selecting SOEs for divestiture,
we will give priority to those which have attracted investor interest, as well
as those which impose a significant burden on the budgetary resources of the
Government. To maintain the momentum of the program, we will explore every
divestiture option available to us, including sale, leasing, management



- 45-                                 ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 14
contracts, liquidation, and public and employee share issues. A similar plan
will be prepared for 1990 by the end of 1989 and its contents agreed with IDA
before implementation. A particularly difficult issue remains, however, over
how to handle the unfunded liabilities of SOE's, often arising out of
contractual agreements with labor groups on pension and termination benefits.
Financing of these will in most cases be necessary as a precondition for
divestiture, and we are developing a detailed strategy for this that will
include a commitment of budgetary resources. The extent of this commitment
will need to be established with care since it entails sacrifices in other
important programmes that otherwise would be financed from the constrained
resources of the budget. While we hope to identify and mobilize non-
budgetary resources for the financing plan, including an amount available from
IDA under this credit, it must be recognized that the pace of divestiture will
in the end be determined by the availability of resources and the expressed
interest of investors. In light of this, the Government has adopted a
flexible approach to the divestiture program not only in terms of modality,
but also of degree of Government ownership to be retained (if any), and the
degree of foreign investment. A Divestiture Implementation Committee,
reporting directly to the Committee of Secretaries has been established as a
focal point for managing and implementing the program with representatives
from relevant government agencies, including sector ministries, the Trades
Union Congress, and Committees for the Defence of the Revolution. The broad
guidelines by which the programme will operate are as follows; i) where an SOE
is not viable and all reasonable options for selling or leasing it have been
exhausted, the SOE will be identified for liquidation: ii) the Government will
consider foreign investment where there is a need for external equity,
management and/or technology; and iii) a general moratorium will be in effect
on the creation of new SOEs for the duration of the divestiture programme
except in special emergency or strategic cases, subject to agreement with IDA
and in accordance with prevailing law.
Civil Service Refonm
26.         The Government will continue to pursue efforts to bring
productivity of the public service up to acceptable levels and focus it on the
nation's priority tasks. This we will accomplish through a combination of
measures involving a frontal assault on waste and inefficiencies (notably
overstaffing), the establishment of competitive compensation rates, especially
for higher-level staff, and an active programme to improve the management of
the Civil Service itself.
27.         Efforts to reduce overstaffing have begun to take hold.  About
12,100 surplus employees were removed from the public payroll in 1987.
Another 6,800 were retrenched between January and September 1988. The
Government's redeployment programme is assisting redeployees in their efforts
to find productive employment in the private sector. Based on a systematic
program of payroll audits, functional reviews and job inspections meant to
ensure that staff reductions do not affect the delivery of public services,
the Government is committed to a targeted programme of redeploying a total of
12,000 civil servants in each of 1988 and 1989. The Office of the Head of the
Civil Service is gradually building a capability to keep staffing levels of



- 46 -                               ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 14
the Civil Service under continuous review, and to extend its investigations
into other means of achieving efficiency gains.
28.         To attract and retain the higher level skills indispensable to
carry out its difficult task of economic reconstruction, the Government has
also begun to reverse a long decline in the competitiveness of its pay policy,
and to establish a pay structure based on objective job evaluation criteria.
Starting with an exceptionally compressed salary structure with a 2.3:1 ratio
of highest over lowest pay in 1985, the Government introduced a first
adjustment bringing the ratio to 5.7:1 in 1986, and intends to gradually raise
it in the medium-term subject to budgetary constraints. A system relating pay
to performance will be assessed for its viability in the Ghanaian context, and
if found suitable, will be introduced by 1990.
29.         While vigorously implementing the measures outlined above, the
Government also takes a longer view of Civil Service management and is rapidly
rebuilding capacities in this critical area. The Office of the Head of the
Civil Service's three divisions of Management Services, Personnel Management,
and Training and Manpower Planning and Development, are being staffed and
trained, and are developing and will carry out medium-term action programmes
in their respective areas. An integrated payroll and personnel information
management system will be put in place over the program period. Finally,
special emphasis will be put on strengthening Civil Service training
institutions and on making training more cost-effective and more relevant to
job performance.
Sectoral Actions
30.         Greater attention is being given to strengthening the links
between the macroeconomic and sectoral programmes in this next phase of
structural adjustment. For the key productive sectors of agriculture and
industry, effective programmes will be pivotal in achieving overall growth
targets as well as in creating new jobs. The two social sectors, health and
education, form another locus of our strategy, where we are mounting
significant reforms to bring urgent improvements to the wellbeing of our
people, to allow them to contribute more productively and meaningfully to the
development of our country. Our sectoral strategies will need to undergo
continued elaboration and refinement, but it is our intention to use them to
improve the use of public expenditures in a manner consistent with the
macroeconomic strategy described previously.
Agriculture
31.         Our objectives in the agricultural sector are several, reflecting
its size and diversity, and its importance in providing productive employment
for over half the labor force. The goals are to improve food security through
increased agricultural productivity and incomes, to diversify and expand
agricultural exports and to improve management of natural resources. Among
the principal sectoral policy instruments will be prices, including the cocoa
producer price, which is to be agreed annually with IDA, and fertilizer
prices, which will be completely liberalized by 1990. Our fertilizer input
policy also includes ensuring establishment of adequate pre-planting stocks



- 47 -                              ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 14
for 1989 (40,000 tons) and 1990, concurrent with phased privatization of
fertilizer marketing from initial imports to final distribution. The seed
industry will also undergo reorganization. Privatisation will also play a
role in increasing the efficiency of resource use in the cocoa sector, where
the preparation for divestiture of COCOBOD's remaining 40 plantations will be
pursued vigorously and feasibility studies finalized on rehabilitation of its
cocoa processing factories. As far as cocoa producer incentives are
concerned, our objective will be to increase the ratio of the cocoa producer
price to the FOB export price for cocoa from the present 50 percent to an
indicative target of 55 percent. We will consult with IDA on the producer
prices to be set for the 1990191 and 1991/92 crop years within this framework.
Forestry policy is being reformed to improve management and price incentives
so as to discourage waste and to control better the volume of cutting. In
addition to forestry policy, the agricultural sector will contribute to the
comprehensive Environmental Action Plan that is under preparation through
proposals for land management, water resource development and coastal zone
management. Finally, the Government is preparing a program to improve credit
services to agricultural activities through strengthening rural banks and
credit unions, and other financial intermediaries.
32.         Initiatives are underway to improve translation of these sectoral
objectives and policies into a well-focussed and balanced public expenditure
programme. Improving food crop yields will depend on adequate budgetary
allocations being provided for basic services, especially extension and
research and rehabilitation of rural infrastructure. A major orientation of
the extension system will be towards replication of existing technologies that
have been proven effective by small-scale farmers. As a first step,
priorities for a short-term rehabilitation program affecting extension,
research. and animal health services have been costly, and in conjunction with
expenditure norms that are being prepared, will serve to guide establishment
of the recurrent budget beginning in 1989. Progress has also been
considerable in establishing strategies and expenditure priorities in favor of
post-harvest losses, roots and tuber research, rural infrastructure, and
small-scale irrigation projects for rice production, and these are already
being reflected in public expenditure. To incorporate these elements in a
comprehensive medium term agricultural development programme, the Ministry of
Agriculture is engaged in detailed subsector reviews for the development of
seed, tree crops, livestock, fisheries, irrigation, research, extension and
input distribution. This work will be integrated into a rolling 3-5 year
programme of expenditure priorities.
Industry
33.         Growth of the industrial sector is expected to contribute to our
economic development by transforming local resources, adding to export
earnings, and generating new jobs. One part of our strategy is to continue
improving incentives for efficient and internationally competitive production,
both in the public and private sector, through adjustment in trade taxation
and a flexible exchange rate. Rother than investing resources directly in
manufacturing, the Government will instead concentrate its resources in the
provision of public goods useful to the industrial sector. Generation of
information, improvement of suppart services, and provision of infrastructure



-48 -                                   ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 14
such as ports, electricity, water, roads and telecommunications, are becoming
the main vehicles by which the Government will promote industrial development.
The special focus in the provision of these services will be for export-
oriented industries and efficient import-substitution industries based on
domestlec raw materials. Allocation of Government resources for investment in
manufacturing SOEs, whether through equity participation or net lending, be
eliminated altogether within five years.
Health
34.         To improve the quality, coverage and management of the health
services, the Ministry of Health (MOH) is undertaking a far reaching programme
to reorganize and decentralize its operations, to strengthen management and to
install management systems and incentives. The agenda was given additional
impetus at an important public symposium in June, 1988, which reaffirmed our
commitment to pursue pragmatic solutions to broad-based delivery of essential
health services. As part of the programme, MOH will restrict its drug
purchases to items on an essential list, speed up procurement, and improve
inventory management. Health institutions will retain 1002 of their drug
sales proceeds to finance their drug purchases which in turn will increasingly
finance MOH drug replenishment. Service targets attainable through 1990 will
be identified. It is expected that MOH will retain its share of the recurrent
budget, and within this will spend higher proportions on primary health care,
transport and maintenance, via savings to be achieved through redeployment of
excess non-technical staff, better drug supply management and discontinuing
institutional feeding. Within the health investment programme the focus will
be on completing ongoing projects, especially for primary health care with a
particular emphasis on speeding up use of already committed foreign aid.
Education
35.         As an integral part of -.ts economic strategy, the Government is
implementing a wide-ranging reform of the educational system. The overall
objectives are to improve pedagogic effectiveness and relevance; to make
education financing more efficient and equitable; and to ensure that the
reformed system can be sustained within budget constraints, assuming a modest
growth in the share of education in public expenditures. Other elements of
the reform include reduction in the length of pre-university schooling from 17
to 12 years; an acceleration in the growth of primary school intakes and
enrollments; and a restructuring and rationalisation of tertiary education.
Implementation of this reform, expected to take six years, is receiving
support from the World Bank under the first Education Sector Adjustment
Credit. The reform programme will be further strengthened by focusing on
overall public expenditure planning and implementation. Development and
application of recurrent expenditure norms, and improved cost recovery and
savings, will result in a better allocation of the operational budget between
wage and non-wage expenditure and an increased allocation to basic education.
Investment will focus on rehabilitation of facilities. With this programme,
the education system should effectively contribute to a reduction in
illiteracy, to retraining of redeployed workers, and to the development of
appropriate skills in new entrants to the job market, such that our work force
becomes more productive and adaptable.



-49 -                              ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 14
Social AsRects of the Structural AdJustment ProEramme
36.         Ultimately, the justification for the structural adjustment
programme will need to be based on its contribution to an improved standard of
living for our people. Our efforts so far have been rewarded with increasing
per capita income, greater economic opportunities, and improved access to
basic social services such as health and education. These advances are not
negligible in contrast to the prolonged contraction of income, scarcity of
consumer goods, and breakdown of infrastructure and social services that
preceded our Economic Recovery Programme.
37.         While continuing to pursue macroeconomic policies which we judge
will make the largest contribution of income growth and the long-run
alleviation of poverty, we remain keenly aware of the immediate consequences
of the daily confrontation with poverty still facing many of our people.
Nutritional deficiencies persist, and the quality and level of services in
health, education, clean water and sanitation remain inadequate. Moreover,
some groups are facing deterioration in living standards during a transitional
period of structural adjustment. As we proceed with our macroeconomic
programme, it is our conviction that we must balance a structural approach to
employment creation and poverty alleviation with some measure of relief for
those amongst us who carry the largest burden of poverty.
38.         To establish this balanced sipproach, we are re-establishing
effective public expenditure programs in health and education as previously
described, and are with IDA preparing a number of initiatives which will
benefit the poorer segments of our society. To improve the provision of
credit in rural areas, we are completing initial steps to support a rural
finance project that will be a key link in improving productivity and income
opportunities for our rural population. A separate project under review wil3
provide institutional and financial support for the development of small and
medium enterprises in agriculture, industry and the service sectors; these
will have particular potential in generating new jobs.
39.         We are also implementing a special, short-term Programme of Action
to Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment, for which we have already
organized donor support. This action programme has the dual objective of
cushioning the impact on those vulnerable groups who have been adversely
affected by the adjustment programme as well as developing quick, targetted
interventions for those groups in poverty and economic hardship who will not
benefit from the adjustment programme in the short run. We are relying in
part on community initiatives to identify and implement projects, and have
prepared projects to generate employment, meet basic needs (water and
sanitation, health, nutrition and shelter) of vulnerable groups, and support
non-formal education and primary school enrollments. The Priority Public
Works Project, for instance, is intended to support a programme of urban
infrastructure development that will generate 10,000 productive jobs over a
two-year period. Special counselling and training services are being provided
to assist redeployed workers to re-enter the productive work force. Finally,
we are also undertaking a living standards survey that will improve our
ability to identify and target vulnerable groups, and to monitor the impact of



- 50 -                            ANNEX IV
Page 14 of 14
the adjustment programme on income levels and distribution, employment, health
and nutrition.
Monitoring of the Structural Adiustment Progra  e
40.         The Government is taking steps to ensure effective monitoring of
the Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP). The Structural Adjustment
Programme Team, headed by the Chairman of the Committee of Secretaries, will
continue as the highest body to coordinate economic policy decisions. Other
institutional responsibilities are being reorganized in light of the
anticipated establishment of a National Development Planning Commission. The
Structural Adjustment Programme Secretariat, which was created to monitor
implementation of policies and programmes under the first Structural
Adjustment Credit, is also to be brought into the Ministry of Finance, and
will become the main agency to monitor SAP implementation and act as the
secretariat to the SAP Team.
41.         Monitoring and implementation systems for crucial parts of the
structural adjustment programme are being strengthened. Information on aid
flows is being improved in the International Economic Relations Department of
the Ministry of Finance, particularly of counterpart funds and World Bank
disbursements. Terms of reference for a debt management unit and a monitoring
system within the Ministry of Finance have been prepared and are ready for
implementation. Also being instituted are systems to monitor and report
periodically of actual public expenditure and key economic indicators, as
described above in para. 22. To improve project selection for the Public
Investment Programme, the Investment Project Analysis Division in the HOF is
being strengthened. The National Revenue Secretariat is now producing up-to-
date, monthly tax revenue reports and analysis. Identification and monitoring
of the effects of structural adjustment on households will improve with the
first results of the Ghana Living Standards Study which was recently
initiated. The Government of Ghana will provide the Association with such
information the Association requests in connection with the progress made in
implementing the structural adjustment programme and achieving its objectives.
Conclusion
42.         In view of the initiative taken by Ghana in the formulation and
implementation of the next phase of the structural adjustment programme, the
Government requests your favorable consideration for the extension of a second
Structural Adjustment Credit for not less than US$120 million. The
Government would also appreciate IDA's assistance in organizing cofinancing
from other multilateral and bilateral sources to support the programme.
r. Kwesi Bothwey\
nanc~~~~~~~e
- -_ and EcVi. a.. an. n
November 23, 1988



ACTIONS TO BE US PORW BY THE #E=0  STM1ClRA  ADABIT   aRDIT             Nto: Underlined *ction  in the colum  mrked
a/ end b/ arcondit;oneof *econd and
third troncho  release rePetively.
ACTIONS TO BE TAB  (1988-1990)
oai)8wE           d         KEY ISS                      ACYZIbS TAKEN PRIM IIB iEE                                                                          BeORE
TO S04ER8 1908                        JA#ARY 109                   JANARY IM9  */               END OF PROOAW
PEIII  b/
TRADE AND EOUNOE
RATS. RE49IW
A. Pursue a flexible        Significant differential     Auction mrket for                All bonofido rcquest for   Expand auction to Include   All current transaction
exchange rate policy and    betwen auction exchange    foreign exchange                   tranafer of profit. nd      service paymnt. on           to be included in
further lib elize the       rate aNd parallel rate.      functioning _oothly.             dividends to be mde          approved private external   foreign exchange auction
trade and exchange                                       All goode now evailable          eligible through the        borrowin. Introduce the    by June* 190.
sy tem,                                                  through the auction,             auction. Introdbce          third stage of reform in
F1 rat stage of trade tax       the second etage of          the trado tax and
rationalization complete.       refora in the trade tax      tariffs structure In the
Foreign exchange burc u         *nd tariff structure in      1990 budget.
established,                    the 1989 budget. Strem
line duty drawback and
euspension echem.
Abolisth import licensing.
TAX POLICY AM
AflIINISTRTION OF~
A. Indirect txtion -        Variation In effective       1988 budget includc              Introduce the seond         Undertake a joint review     Prepre and review with MA
rationslitr  and loser      protection remaine           firet stage reforms In           stage of reform In thb       with IDA of protection      propo  le for further
effective protection.       significant; substantial    the structure of sale             structure of salee taxee,   and unfaIr trade             change in special import
Broaden indroet tax         potential for                tax"e and itport                 Import duties, and          practices.  Introduce the   tsxse on boeor other
bae.  Establish sale.        increaeing indirect tax     dutie. Soe tariff snd            special import tau" In      third stage of reform        alcoholic beverages
na major revenue raising    col lction.                  sales tax exemptions and         the 190  budget.            in the structure of "eal     textiles. and
Instrument.                                              concesions *liminated.           Rationaxie valuation        taxe* and Import duttoi      ctgarettes.
baeis for indirect taxe     In the 190O budget.
and complet unification     Eliminate  mt Special
of tax rates for all        Import taxe and
teport. and doeetic         teporary adjutment
goods. Increase             tariffs. Further
taxation of care and        increase taxation of
petrol. Further reduce      care and petrol,
tax concessions.
incom  taxation. snd        further simplification       Rag of non-wage                  surcr Into tax bse"         be, rate, and bracket                                            x
rfom tho structure of       end loering of tax           rsunerationo                     (including untaxed al los-   Structure.
direct taxes to enhance     structure.                   inorporatd Into the              ances. in-kind benefit.,
vertical and horizontal                                  definition of taxable            and r l capital gaint),
euity, increase                                          inome. Marginal tax              adjueting exemptions,
compiance, and                                          brciketa brodened,               rate and bracket
rationalize incentives                                   Basic tax  xmptione              structure, and in
affecting work. eavingcs                                 incrased,                        reducing dividend Ine
and inveetmnt.                                                                           taxation.



Pae 2
ACTIOt TO  E8 SIWPORT8 BY THE SeOO STRU tAL AODASTMEW CrT              Note: Underlined actiona in the column marked
----- - --------------------------------------- - ------------------          a/ and b/ are conditions of second and
third trnahe reln"e respectively.
ACTIOS TO BE TAKNB (1988-19Ol)
O9JE1IVS                    KWV ISSUES                   ACTIOI  TWD4N PRIOR                       BWOS                         BEFORE                       BFR
TO SEPTE     1981                     JAMRY 199                    JANY     1990 a/             DO OF PROOAN
PERICO b/
Coepany tax                     Zapleent Initial *tp         Agree with IDA an            Prepare next phase of ta
to unify eorporate tax      further *teps to unify       reforms f*r lapleantatian
Reduc gawel and                 rate.                        co rote ta rPate  and        In 1191-42.
caree range of                                               lIplenmnt in 1990 budet.
eoapny too rate.
Initiate atudy of           Incorporate
Inveeteent taxation with    recomendtionr of etudy
a focu on dIvId nd,         of taxation of Investmnt
Interest and capital        In 1990 budget, Including
gea. taxation,               "eVison of tnvet_ant
unifIetion of company      code If nec eary. to
tax rate, trat_nt of        prwide IN  ditterted
capta l allowance",         Incentives.
lntere5t deduction., and
incentive for non-
traditional exports andI
thio  provided under the
Inveatmant Code.                                                                                  Ns
.I
Agre n  Ith MA on tax        aee *ith IDA on tax
proposalo in the 1989       p           In the 19W9
budget                      b t
C. Strengthen tax           Weal. tax administration     Crention of                      Reactivat  tea court and    Introduce unique             Continue with impleanettion
ndminietration.             and tax policy analysie      National Revenue                 appale _echabtim.            taxpayer nuhber systaa.     of thu atIon plan
capability. Applicatoen     Secretariat (N!S);               Adept hermonized tariff      Agree with IMA on a plan    recewandd  in the
of too laws In mett es       restrucuring of                 nomenclature. Initiate       of action for ltpleamnt-    Sale Tox Study.
arbitrary.                  Internal Rvenue (IM)             fes ibIlity study of          ng racmandations of
*nd Cueto_ (CETS)               replcifng sales tax ring     Sale. Tax Study by
ServIcea.                       systes with credit           August 11989. Start
system. Prepare work and   implementation of *ction
training progra. for 1989    plan by Octer 1989 for
acceptable to IMA.          introduction In the 1990
budget. Prepar* annua
work and training
progre_m  acceptable to
'0



- 53 -
AU   V
Pa-ge 3 o f 9
soclI      !   :tt                                s                        X
*  S 1 I |                     ;*SXi1|i          i        
* Ca
I t
It a 
Iigi -%.8 I                       I                               5
I~                L                            |  sf 
i  t      I



Page 4
ACTWS TO BE SUPTW BY THE SE1    STRUCTMtAL AOJU5TT CRWIT               Note: Underlined  ctions in the column mrked
------------------ ---------  */ and b/ are condition of eecond and
third tranche relece reepectively.
ACNTW  TO ab TM(B4 (100-1990)
OSWECIw                     IEt  1                     AcTIC  TAIM  FRIlOt                      bOas                        _8 018l
TO SW.i'S    19Wd                    JAMMAY 199                   JMARY 1990 .S OF PRWWM
b. Stra mline budgetery     LOA  of initial             I98 budget                                                  Sector minictries to be
pr_oce.                     Indicative allocttion.      prepred by lot                                              given Indicative lewel
lengthen the proce" of      anury. Sector                                               an  tentative eetoral
budget preprtlon.           inietrile  received                                        allocatieo  for 1990
tn tative  ectoral                                          budget and 190-9  public
cl loation, for 1989                                        Investment program (July
budget.                                                     199).
Announcemant of the 1969    Comncomnt of 1990           Com_ncemant of 1991 bdgt
budget as *gred with        budget preparation by       preparation by July 1990.
IDA.                        July 198. Announcnt
of 190 budget we agreed
with MA.
C.  hroec allocation        Allocation of recurrent     Budget manuala and draft         Ipleatation of budsgt    Culdeline  prepared for        budget manual finalixd for
of non_-wSe r errent        expenditures need to        guidelinec prpared for          manual in preparation of    other key sectors for        *Il key *ectore. ond weed
*etpendituret and of        be baeed on physical and    reurrent expenditure            1989 budget. Araement       allocation of recurrent      In the prepration of the
public Inveetment.          financial norme.             llocatiron  for helth          with WA on 1989             expenditure. Anreant          M199  budget.
education and                   recurrent budget.           with IDA on 1990
agriculture,                                                recurrent budset
allocatione.
Invetamnt plannlng          The 1988-90 public              Integrate the PIP Tack      Sector minictries to eat
capability In sector        inveetnt program eFrce  s a part of the                     up effectliv  planning
ainietrie  is wek. Ned   prepard by the PIP Tock            iNF Invetmnt Project        units to prepore
to rgularixe a ttuc of      Force.                          Analysis (IPA) division.    project profi le based
PublIc Investment Progree                                   Sector *trateglie to        on feastbilIty etudic
tack ferce,                                                 be updated by sector        In accordance with
ministries.                 eector strategics.
Upduted sector *tratei 
to Include public
expenditure lepficatione,
Ned to etrengthn            Project selection               Agreemnt *ith WA on         Agrmnt with WA on           Agemcnt with WA on the
procedure. criteria         comeitte established            1909-9  public              the 1990-9 pip.             1991-93 PIP.
and agency for project      to decide on projects           Inveetment progam.
celection. Allocation       for inclwuien in PIP.           Non-PIP exponditure not
of development expend-                                      to exceed lO  of total
Iture. esometim  directed                                   development expenditure.
to Iow return                                               for the duration of the                                                               iZ
invetmdnte.                                                 program.



Page a
ACTI6 TO BE SUPPORTED BY TME SECODO STRUC rtAL ADASTHT OREDIT            Natal Under ined ectione  In the column markod
----------~-------------------------------------------------------             */ and b/ are conditions of second and
third trench. rele*se reepct.ivly.
ACTIOS TO BE TAMP4 (19086-990)
fSJin IIE                    IEY ISE                      ACINS TAM  PiFtIOR                         EORE ORE                                                   6EFIIRE
TO SEMIem  19W                         JAUARY 1969O                 JANUARY IWo   /               D  OF PROWAI
P91t0W b/
D. Imrvew  eapenditure       Acc^_ontat General '         Draft plan prepared to           Initiate implementetion      Review pr"epred to            Implment roview  propoeals.
control m_chanleme ad        (CGA) office needs to        etrengthen CAO.                  of plan to strengthen        determine furthr need.
monitoring of budgetary      acquire appropriteo                                           CAO.                         of CAO.
aituatlon,                   eapertlee.
Mid-year rvies prered        MOP to prepare tale-
by NWP on 1e6 *ctuclo        yearly raviewe of
for no-wage rcurrent         rocurrnt epndltaree
eopendituree In health.      and PIP (nd-arch
education. nd                Vad end-Septebr).
agriculture, and proerm
of public inveetment.
Monitoring by NW of                                           IDA to receive quarterly
taeh floe dts and trendo                                      rport from the Budget
In revnue end                                                 Mivieon (M0W) In aereed
aspenditore rel_mem                                           format on  oeok floe
ne-d  to bo improed,                                          date, moeftary  urvey.
tra  In revenue                                                                                     VI
and *eapediturera
Inclouding PIP, and on
the overall budgoetry
altuation.
E. ieter. financial          6OE aceee_ to budgetary      Draft ouideline Dot              IPA to Incorporate           IPA to prepare teice-
discipline In                reem         set defined     SOE-Government financial         guideline  In the budget-    yoorly monitoring
6        r-Govrnmt reIatIon.   clearly nor Implemented    relation  prepared.              ary pnro, beginning          repore on on-lendiag to
eyeotmetical ly.                                              with 1969 budge.              bOE. (end-Merch and
end-Septber).
6TATE-OEW S41OWRISBEER
A. Iprove policy             60i   eetor pol ces on                                       Comlee studies on             Initiste Implementation      Complete impleomnttion of
fr*eno_k.                    prioinog  *tafflno, and                                       pricing, staffing. and       of recoomendtlono as r*comanatlon
porecent affect th                                            procuem   t utnomp of         areWd eith iA (April
efficieny of SO1.                                             SOaD and prepare etio"n       9).
plea.
"'0



ACTUNS TO b1E SiWPCR     BY TM S 00 STIRUCUAML AOAJ1E  CIT               Nott  t  lderlimed ectioe In the column mrked
-/ and b/ are candietimc  f *econd and
third tranche rolem" r.aectively.
ACTrINS TO bE TAM(  (1918-99O)
ISJET1VE                     Er iSSUES                    ACT0M6 TAX l POR                           #RR                           ERIE                         ifORE
TO SEPTSWEb 1468                         JARY 1986                   imp" 1990  G/               SQ OF PROQRAN
PIXiD  bt
8. Eliinate arrera  nd                                    Crag debt study                  Clear crag debt, of VRA.   Plan iaplemntation to           Plan toolen tation to
cross debt.                                               coeplted.                        GMC. and aO.                 continuo and be reflected   centinue  nd bo
Agre with MA on              In 1090 bud4tt.              reflected in 191
reconciliation and                                        budget.
financing plan for
remaining priority SOS..
Plan to be reflected In
1909 dudget and corporate
plane.
C. Reduce thc also of        SOlE *ctor is larg  and      Tan SOWE  at final               Covernant Interot In                                       Divet on additional ten
th* *etor.                   Inefficient ad a burden      atae of  icuidnation,            aa joint ventures to                                       SOEs In 1909 ond  9re
on the Covornent.                                             be gold,                                                   with DA on the 1990
divotiture p rom (March
1900). Co-pete
IMPIOmntation of agrcd1
19W0 diveetiture progra.
Tho coet af potential                                         Aree with eA on a            Allocate In FY 90 budget    Allocat- in FY91 budget
net tiabilities for                                           financing pachaeb to "et    an amount to be agree         rn.ourco to eupport
divestiture nde excessive                                     the coot, of diveetituro     with IA to oupport            further divetiture.
(debt *ettl_ont,                                               n 199.                      further divestiture.
ratIresent and
terolnation bnfit,).
Mtretorium on creation           Moratorium to regin in
of ne  SOEn In effet,            effect for the duration
of progra except as
agreed with DA. and
eubject to existing Inws.
0. Improve SOE               No oyotaatltc b"i for        Draft corporate plan for         Finalize 14 corporate plane  Sign upd d eornorte            onitor performnce
eficincy.                    monitoring and evalusting    11 priority SOn                  and 14 performnce            plane and perforuance         agregeento an  corporate
SOe performnee.              prepared. COCOBC                  agre.ente with priority     cgreement, for all 14         pIone.
performnce agreent               SOS..                        priolity So  and SEC to
signed.                                                       anltor and evaluate
impleente ton.
Hoot priority SOB                Account, for 8 priority      All priority S6E             All priority SOS
tccount audie d to 198           SOE. to be audIt d           account. audIted to          accoum. audited to 1990.
and game to 1966.                to 1987                      1#988.
O0



Page 7
ACTIS TO 8E SlPPiA   BY THE SEMON  STRUCMAL ADJJSTIT CEDIT               Notos: Under Iced action. in the colum marked
--- - ------- - ------- - -------------- - ----------- - --------------        m/ and b/  re conditiono of second end
third trancha reieae reap.ctivtly.
ACTUO6 TO hE TAKEN (195-1900)
OTVF                         i(EV ISSn                    ACTSICP  TAKEN PRSI6                      BEFORE                        FORE
TO SETE4S   1966                       JUl40W  199                  JANUARY 1990  E/  OF PRWiN
PitOD b/
CIVIL SSWICE RES
A.  mproe economic           Week in.titutional           E     lcn    Lialeo  Unit in     i  ono-ic Policy Unit         Finalais resteucturin
poliy ftrmulstion and        support for conomic    I FNC * teblW)6wed Nd                   to be etaffOd.               Of MP.
coordinatcon.                Policy cordination.          CCOS Secretriat to                overnment position on
*Bpedite econmic policy          iOPC cleerly articulited.
declioao.  Economic             FSrmation of
policy unit In MOF      i         nter-minlatWrll
*atablilhd. DCcision to          coordination comittee
oatabliIh National               betwe   NOF and NlPC.
Oevelop_nt Planning              Scgle implementation of
Co_mieion.  NW                   oranisational and
organizational *nd               staffing plan for MOF.
stafflng plnn propooed           ei n absorption of
for Ministry of Finance.         SAPSW Into "OP.
including aborption of
SAPSEC Into SiW.
D. Strengthn key             Miniatry of Flnanc, and      budgery  ad  Public                                            OranixOtion and
economic  magement           Accontat OGeera la           xnveaetmnt ProeraM To"                                          tffing plan, for Budget
function.                    ofice noe  to be             Forcee eetbI ished.                                            division,       and "WA                                                 I
etrenethnd.                  CPIUJ integrated into                                         I MPl eented.
Is..
C. Pay and Grading -         Liw pay rates; comprece_d    COQ/UKQOO  plan on Civil         Setiefactory progrea  In        plementation of            Iplementation of 1990
lmprove lncntive, and        differntiala.; elaborate     Service pay and grading          Implementing pay reform' .   199 pay reform;               pay reforo. with  aluqry
rationalile civil            grading  tructuar            completed.  Appointment          Total w ae bIll not to       satisfactory progrem  In    differeAtial. raold
*ervic.  oalarl             unrelated to Job             of projec  coordinator           *xca*d 8. percent of          comprehenolve evluation     subJect to agred celling
evaluation.                  and team for pay and             CDP In the 19809 budget,     of civil ervice pot.        on total wage bill.
grading reform.                                               Aeree on detailed pay
and grading *tructuro
and on budgetary
allocation for 1990.
Total age bill oIt to
eaceed 6.0 percent of
CDP in theO 19M budget.
ii'
' C



ACTIW  TO 6BE SIPIRTEOY TM SEC"  ST U1LRAL AD.LM1ET  AD1T                motel Underlin d *ctionc in the column mared
--- --------------------------------------------------------                   */    borendb r  eoWditineo f scond and
third tranche rel.aa respectively.
ACTIS  TO BE TAK   (19661990)
OS.08MdU        K6BO  28S                                 ACTION TAM0  iRM              i       E    J                            goo-                           Mai
To SoFt  1966                          JAW.R10  199                  Alm 190  .1/                80 OF PROOAN
P3t0W b/
0. Lffici.rg  - iprove     Overstaffing, Ick of         Almet 7,000 stff                 Full Implementaticn of        Full implemen"tstn of 89    Full ieplemantaion of
productvivty of thc         0A and monagemet review    rdeloyed In 190B.                  as rdeployaent proger.        redeplomenit prerm           1990 redeployment program.
civil morwal..               skills.                      190 public service               Sesomi-anal rewto  on         agreent an detai ld 90       DA to be given progrm
cenue Initiated.                 redeplyment to               targts (June 89) and         report In June 1990.
be prepared for review       Implamentation program.
by SAP Twa  and mA.
Comoletion of as cenu-.
L  Pereonnel  anagem nt -    Lack of permonnol date       The institutlonal                Prepare progra  to           Full Imlemetation of          Full Implementation of now
aitab    _ I IyI   t Of systama  and managmnst            aeemmont of OHS                  Introduce mrit syst*y .      the 1969 "rogram to           merit mytes.
for efficient personnel      Informalon system            completed. C       0/UMDA        (including Improved           Integrate personnel
nagant.                      Inadentt personnel           study recommended                performance appraisal        payroll and manament
manem et procss..            rcveIion of Civil                my-tam) and to interte       Informatin system.
Service legielatlon.             permnnel payroll and
Intnlve trainIng of              mangem nt informtion
MC  staff -- especially          system.
job Inspectors. Need d 
MM and PNS In post.
Compte revision of           Main administrativa          Now Civil Service Act
Civil Service Act,           instnutions rdnrafted.       *nd now administrative
insteutions to be fully
operational.
SE        L ACTI
A. Zepreo the food           Fertilser Is subsided      FPrti iImp mubidleom              Reduction of fertiliIer       Fro end-January. 1990.       Domesti  fertilizer
repe pollcy fr_ori.          a  distributed *ololy        reduced from 6  to               eubidy to 11.                ISA to extend private         disributien to be
by the Oovernnet.            40. Partial                      Initeato launching of        retail marketing of           completly In private
ItberolIztion of                private retail marketing      fertilizer to all            hand.
fertilizer disbrIbution          of frti IIeor to at          reglone. DEure that
In Volta aN Ibtern               leIat teo reglons.           sufficlent fertiller is
Regions. Import orders            Eure that  uttfcient        In stock In the
beIng placed for                 fertilizer (40.000 tone)     mrkiting system.
fertllzer  to ensure            t  In stock In the
tImly distribution,              marketing syWtem.
kV
O0
m 



Pag. 9
ACTl"  TO BE SJPPORTW 8Y THE SgiFO STRUCTLRAL AJSJJTI  CRTEDT         Note. Underin ed *ction- In the coluMn wored
__________-_______________________________________________--- ----------*/ and b/ are conditions of *cond end
third trench. releas respectively.
ACTOrl TO GE TAKEN (1986-1990)
OUCJTIVE                    KEY ISSUE                   ACr1O  TAXUd PRIOR                      as'                          bRE                           WOR
TO SEPT94U  198t                      JANARY 1989                 JANURY 1990                 EN DO OF PROWAN
PERIOD b/
S. Further laprove          The export tas on coc       Coo  producer price             Review firet ycer of        ZepIeaent  re d coco         Review third yecr of
incentivee for cocoa        diecourege  Coco            incresaed to 421 of F00         impleaentation of           producer price for           iwuespntation
producer.                   prduction and redues        price for the 1987/68           COCI08D Corporate Plan.      1989/90 and aree with       Of corporate pln.
foreign exchange            crop yer.  nnounced                                          DA on 1990/91 coco
earnings.                   price for 1988/89 crop                                      producer price,
year a 80h of F08 price.                                    Review and yr of
Corporate pian for                                          implementation of
COCOBOD prepared and                                        COCOWIO Corporate Plan.
performance agreeaent
aigned. h2 plantations
Offered for sale. of
which 8 have benn loged.
C. Reduce transfers of      Little Incentive for                                                                    Government to prepare end
budgetry reaourcee to       public  anufacturina                                                                    impleaant plan to phase
public manufacturing        entarpriee to improve                                                                   out budgetary transfer.
entorpriee.                 efficiency If they r_tin                                                                to new or exiating
dependent on public                                                                     pubtic manufacturing
reuarce.                                                                                entorpria. In five yre                                               V
(June 1969).
%0
I1h
Xol



IBRD 18112R1
0.4,.78f_                         S U KTN-'- '0'No. M0S 0.40
t,Ri..Ur.e
UP  ER                  EAST                          /4 M A 
-              j1 N\O   R   T   H   E  R/ N 0(                 \R    E      G    1
40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
1- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ S
f~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                            N
AiIm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
P   ,. Ik'
(Yofte ~       AR4 96



