Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2005 GH
               (Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated May 1, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2005 GH
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 1, 1989,  between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the
Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT   ASSOCIATION   (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Association  has  received  a letter, dated
November 23,  1988,  from  the  Borrower  describing  a program of
actions, objectives and  policies  designed  to achieve structural
adjustment  of  the  Borrower's  economy  (hereinafter  called the
Program), declaring the Borrower's  commitment to the execution of
the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in the
financing of urgently needed  imports  required during such execu-
tion; and
     (B)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Associa-
tion has decided,  in  support  of  the  Program,  to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by  making the Credit in three tranches
as hereinafter provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
               "'Project' means the  imports  and other activities
          that may be financed out  of  the proceeds of the Credit
          pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Develop-
          ment Credit Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
               "(c) Not later  than  six  months after the Closing
          Date or  such  later  date  as  may  be  agreed for this
          purpose between the  Borrower  and  the Association, the
          Borrower shall prepare and  furnish to the Association a
          report, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
          tion shall reasonably request, on  the execution of the
          Program referred to in  the  Preamble to the Development
          Credit Agreement, the  performance  by  the Borrower and
          the Association  of  their  respective obligations under
          the Development Credit  Agreement and the accomplishment
          of the purposes of the Credit."; and
     (c)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means  the  Standard  International Trade Classi-
fication, Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.  3),  published  by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986); and
     (b)  "Special Account" means any  of the accounts referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in  various  currencies equivalent to eighty-
nine  million  two   hundred   thousand   Special  Drawing  Rights
(SDR 89,200,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Program,
open and  maintain  in  dollars  up  to  six  special  accounts in
commercial banks  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, a Special Account
shall be made in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be March 31, 1991, or
such later date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal  amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a  rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
Page  3
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed  by,  or  in  the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the  currency  specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of  the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as  may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  January  15 and July 15
commencing July 15, 1999,  and  ending  January 15, 2029. Each in-
stallment to and including the  installment payable on January 15,
2009, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. (a) The Bank  of  Ghana is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower  for  the  purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be  taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Page  4
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction  to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the Bank of Ghana with responsibility for
the preparation of  withdrawal  applications  under the Credit and
for the collection  of  the  documents  and  other  evidence to be
furnished to the Association in support of such applications; such
withdrawal applications shall, to  the extent practicable, be con-
solidated so as to  apply  for  withdrawal of aggregate amounts of
not less than SDR 500,000 equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the  request  of  either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying  out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its  review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying  out the Program, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the expen-
ditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
         (i)   have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               the Special Accounts for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently   applied   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
        (ii)   furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
       (iii)   furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the  audit  report for the fiscal
               year in which the  last  withdrawal from the Credit
               Account was made,  all  records (contracts, orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
Page  5
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and  that  the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that a situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  PNDC  Secretary  for  Finance and Economic
Planning of the Borrower  is  designated  as representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          PNDC Secretary for Finance
            and Economic Planning
          Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
          P.O. Box M40
          Accra, Ghana
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                ECONOMICON                       2205 MIFAEP GH
                Accra
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  6
                   REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                   By /s/ Eric K. Otoo
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions  set  forth  or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of  the  Credit  may  be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in  respect  of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the execution  of  the  Program and to be financed
out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  included  in  the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any  successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC,  as designated by the Association by
notice to the Borrower:
     Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
      112         -                     Alcoholic beverages
      121         -                     Tobacco,   unmanufactured,
                                        tobacco refuse
      122         -                     Tobacco,      manufactured
                                        (whether or not containing
                                        tobacco substitutes)
      525         -                     Radioactive and associated
                                        materials
      667         -                     Pearls, precious and semi-
                                        precious  stones, unworked
                                        or worked
      718        718.7                  Nuclear    reactors,   and
                                        parts     thereof,    fuel
                                        elements     (cartridges),
                                        non-irradiated for nuclear
                                        reactors
     Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
      897        897.3                  Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                        platinum    group   metals
                                        (except watches  and watch
                                        cases) and  goldsmiths' or
                                        silversmiths'        wares
                                        (including set gems)
Page  7
      971           -                   Gold,         non-monetary
                                        (excluding  gold  ores and
                                        concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in  the  currency  of  the  Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except  that  withdrawals  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR  17,900,000 may be made on account
of payments made for such  expenditures before that date but after
January 1, 1989;
     (d)  expenditures for goods  procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than  the  Association  shall  have  financed  or  agreed to
finance;
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
     (g)  expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to SDR 29,800,000 for petroleum products.
3.   No withdrawal  shall  be  made  and  no  commitment  shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or  on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed  out of the proceeds of the
Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account and  the  total amount of such commitments
shall have reached:
     (a)  the equivalent of SDR 44,600,000, unless the Association
shall be satisfied, after  an  exchange  of  views as described in
Section 3.01 of this  Agreement  based on evidence satisfactory to
the Association: (i) with  the  progress  achieved by the Borrower
in the carrying out  of  the  Program;  and  (ii) that the actions
described in Schedule 3 to this  Agreement have been taken and are
satisfactory to the Association; and
     (b)  the equivalent of SDR 74,300,000, unless the Association
shall be satisfied, after  an  exchange  of  views as described in
Section 3.01 of this  Agreement  based on evidence satisfactory to
the Association: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
carrying out the  Program,  including  the 1989 state-owned enter-
prises divestiture program; and (ii) that the Borrower has reached
an agreement with  the  Association  on  a state-owned enterprises
divestiture program for 1990.
4.   If, after any  exchange  of  views  described  in paragraph 3
above, the Association  shall  have  given  notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved and  actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken  actions  satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, then the Association may,  by notice to the Borrower, cancel
the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                            Procurement
1.   Except as provided in  paragraph  2 hereof, contracts for the
procurement  of  goods  shall  be  awarded  through  international
competitive bidding in accordance  with procedures consistent with
those set forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of  the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in  May  1985  (the  Guidelines),  subject  to  the following
modifications:
Page  8
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such advertisements should be  placed  in  at least one news-
     paper of general circulation  in  the Borrower's country and,
     in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a notice in the  United Nations publication, Devel-
               opment Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical  journal   of   wide  international  cir-
               culation; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in  the Guidelines that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   (a)  Contracts for  goods  estimated  to  cost  less than the
equivalent of $2,000,000 each may  be  awarded: (i) in the case of
procurement of goods by  the  Borrower, its political subdivisions
or state-owned enterprises, on the  basis of the Borrower's or the
state-owned enterprise's procedures  which  have been reviewed and
found acceptable to  the  Association;  and  (ii)  in  the case of
procurement by private  entities,  on  the  basis  of their normal
procurement procedures.
     (b)  Contracts for petroleum  and petroleum products commonly
traded on the international market may  be awarded on the basis of
the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of such items.
3.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Association,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
such contract, two  conformed  copies  of  such contract, together
with the analysis of  the  respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of  the  advertising and tendering procedures
followed and  such  other  information  as  the  Association shall
reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Association,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of  funds  from  the Credit Account in respect
thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may
reasonably request to  support  withdrawal applications in respect
of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs  3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a  contract  are  to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special  Accounts, the copies of such contract
or the documentation and  the  information  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or paragraph
4 of this Schedule, as the case  may be, shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the  evidence required under paragraph 4 of
Page  9
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs  3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts  on  account  of  which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from  the  Credit  Account  on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (a)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   The foreign  exchange  auction  system  has  been expanded to
include service payments on approved private external borrowings.
2.   Changes in the  tax  structure  have  been introduced and are
reflected in the 1990 budget.
3.   Allocations for recurrent expenditures and the public invest-
ment program 1990-1992 are reflected in the 1990 budget.
4.   Performance agreements for all 14 priority state-owned enter-
prises have been updated and signed.
5.   The 1989 program of pay reform  for the civil service and the
1989 program of integrating the payroll and management information
systems have been implemented.
6.   The  cocoa  producer  price  for  1989/90  has  been  set and
announced and  the  cocoa  producer  price  for  1990/91  has been
proposed and transmitted to the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  required  during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
     (b)  the  term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an aggregate
amount equivalent to $30,000,000  to  be withdrawn from the Credit
Account  and  deposited  into  the  Special  Accounts  pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of a  Special  Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  in  the appropriate
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of   a  Special  Account,  the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
Page  10
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for Eligible
                Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of a Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into any Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit, less
the amount of any  outstanding  special commitment entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Program,  shall  equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the  Credit  shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall  specify  by  notice  to  the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be  made  only  after  and to the extent
that the  Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in any Special Account as of the date
of such notice will  be  utilized  in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of  a  Special  Account:  (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule;  and  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may  request;  or  (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible  or justified. Unless the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, no  further deposit by the Association
into any Special  Account  shall  be  made  until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  any  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
Page  11
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds  to  the  Association  made  pursuant  to  para-
graph 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for  subsequent  withdrawal  or for cancellation in
accordance  with  the  relevant   provisions  of  this  Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
