Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19997
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$30.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A THIRD SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Emergency Social Investment Fund)
PROJECT ID: P007106
LOAN NUMBER: 37070; 3707A; 3707S
January 13, 2000
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit for Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela
Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit= Sucre (S/.)
(Average Exchange Rates)
1994 S/. 2,197.78 =US$1.00
1995 S/.2,566.00=US$1.00
1996 S/. 3,191.34=US$1.00
1997 S/. 3,998.96 =US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAF              Andean Development Corporation
CARE             Cooperative for Assistance and Relief Everywhere
CONADE           National Development Council
FISE             Emergency Social Investment Fund
FODERUMA         Marginal Rural Development Fund
FONADES          Economic Solidarity Fund
GOE              Government of Ecuador
IDB              Inter-American Development Bank
IEOS             Ecuadorian Institute of Sanitary Works
IESS             Ecuadorian Social Security Institute
INNFA           National Juvenile and Family Institute
KfW              German Credit Institute for Reconstruction
LSMS             Living Standards Measurement Survey
MBS              Ministry of Social Welfare
MEC              Ministry of Education and Culture
MIS              Management Information System
MSP              Ministry of Public Health
MTRH             Ministry of Labor and Human Resources
NGOs             Non-Governmental Organizations
PAAMI            Mother and Child Feeding Program
PCNT             Advancement First National Census of Height
PROE             Employment Promotion Program
SATC             Spanish Agency for Technical Cooperation
SECAP            Ecuadorian Services for Professional Training,
SEDRI            Rural Development and Popular Advancement
SISVAN           National System of Nutritional Vigilance
UNDP             United Nations Development Program
UNICEF           United Nations Children's Fund
UPS              Social Policy Unit
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
Vice-President:        David de Ferranti, LCR
CMU Director:          Andrds Solimano, LCC4C
SMU Director:          Xavier Coll, LCSHD
Sector Leader:         Constance A. Corbett, LCC4C/H4D
Task Manager:          Evelyn Pesantez, LCCEC



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION   SUMMARY ....................................................i
Introduction.
Project objectives ...................................................i
Implementation experience and results ...................................................i
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned ...................................................   iii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                ..1.................................. 
A.  Introduction                                                                                     1
B. Project Objectives .
C. Achievement of Project Objectives                                 .2
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project                               .6
E. Project Sustainability                                     .7
F. Bank Performance .7
G. Borrower and Implementing Agency Perforance                              .8
H. Assessment of Outcome                                        .8
1.   Future Operations.8
J. Key Lessons Learned                                         .8
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ..............................                                            11
A. General Statistical Data ..............................                                          13
B. Supplementary Project Data .............................. 23
PART III: APPENDICES ...............................                                                  27
A.  Completion Mission Aide Memoire ..............................                                  27
B.  Borrower's Contribution .............................. 31
C.  Letter From Borrower .............................. 38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
THIRD SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
(Loan 3707-EC)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Social Development Project
in Ecuador (Social Investment Fund (FISE)), for which Loan 3707-EC in the amount of US$30 million
equivalent was approved on February 22, 1994 and became effective on June 2, 1994.
The loan closed as scheduled on June 30, 1998. It was fully disbursed; the last disbursement
took place on December 4, 1997. Other donors and lenders for the project included the US Agency for
International Development (USAID), the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the Andean
Development Corporation (CAF), the Republic of Germany, through the German Credit Institute for
Reconstruction (KfW), the Govemment of Spain, through the Spanish Agency for Technical
Cooperation (SATC), the Cooperative for Assistance and Relief Everywhere (CARE), and the
Government of Ecuador (GOE). Coordination was particularly close between the Bank and the IDB.
This ICR was prepared by Evelyn Pesantez, Operations Officer for Human Development at
Ecuador Resident Mission, with the assistance of Juan F. Sevilla (consultant). It was reviewed by Julie
Van Domelen, Ilona Szemzo, and William Mayville. Veronica Jarrin coordinated production of the
report. The Borrower's Contribution appears in Appendix B.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's completion mission in May 1998 and was
based, inter alia, on documents in the project files as well as discussions with FISE staff. FISE also
provided statistical data and commentary, which is reflected in the attached aide-memoire of the
completion mission.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
THIRD SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
(Loan 3707-EC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.     Social conditions in the Republic of Ecuador, which had improved in the 1970s, began to
deteriorate in the late 1980s and early 1990s in the wake of external economic shocks, with government
social sector expenditures dropping from 54.8% in 1980 to 39.6% in 1990. A study conducted by the
World Bank in 1994 found that 35% of Ecuador's population were living in poverty; 40% of the poor
lived in cities and 60% lived in rural areas. In 1989, the GOE took a first step to deal with the "social
emergency" by proposing to develop a "social fund," as an integral part of its social sector reform and
poverty alleviation plan. To this end, GOE sought Bank assistance (along with that of other donors) to
help bring it to fruition, Four years later, on May 12, 1994, a Loan Agreement for US$30 million
equivalent was signed in support of the newly established Emergency Social Investmnent Fund (FISE).
Project objectives
2.     The principal objectives of the Project were to support the start-up and operation of an
Emergency Social Investment Fund (FISE) and to assist the Government in its efforts to alleviate
poverty and compensate vulnerable groups unreachable through traditional social programs. The project
had two components: (a) support for subprojects (US$108.8 million base cost) requested by local
communities and approved by FISE for social infrastructure (education, health, social welfare and
sanitation), socioeconomic infrastructure (water supply, sewerage, roads, micro-irrigation, urban
upgrading and environment), social services (health, education and nutrition), institutional development
(community training), and productive community investments with social re-flows; and (b) institutional
support for FISE (US$9.2 million base cost), including personnel and other operating expenses, vehicles
and equipment, technical assistance, and training.
3.     The objectives were consistent with the Bank's country strategy, the goals and planning of the
GOE for social sector improvement, and past experiences with other Latin American social investment
funds, especially Bolivia.
Implementation experience and results
4.     The project took nearly three years to prepare, absorbing US$1.5 million, while the Government
tried to develop a suitable institutional framework. In March 1993, FISE was established as an
autonomous agency under the Office of the President, with a final disbursement date of December 1997.
FISE had received 18,161 applications for subprojects by May 1998, and signed 5,373 contracts totaling
US$128 million, for an average subproject cost of US$23,850, compared to an average cost of
US$40,000 initially expected. This total is over the project cost of US$120 million since it includes



additional contribution from other donors. FISE exceeded its percentage goals for servicing the most
impoverished groups: 78% of the total target population and 79% (US$101 million) of the total amount
of contracted subprojects were allocated to provinces in the two lowest poverty quintiles, compared to
the initial target of 70% (SAR).
5.     FISE was designed to be demand driven within a poverty-targeting strategy. The approved and
contracted subprojects generally corresponded to local demand. The highest allocation, US$84.8 million
(66% of total funds compared to 55% target), financed social infrastructure subprojects. The next-
highest allocation, US$40.5 million (31.6% versus 33% target) funded socioeconomic infrastructure.
Productive community investments with social reflows, at US$2.3 million, were below target (1.8%
versus 3%). The smallest amount, US$0.6, considerably below target, went to social service subprojects
(0.5% vs. 8% target). Educational infrastructure received the most funds (US$50.0 million); followed
by water supply and sewerage (US$24.5 million); sanitation (US$19.8 million); feeder roads and street
rehabilitation (US$10.6 million); social welfare (US$9.7 million); health infrastructure (US$7.3 million);
and other sectors (US$6.3). The number of beneficiaries was slightly over 4 million persons, for an
average of 770 beneficiaries per subproject.
6.     Targets for project approvals were exceeded between start-up and June 1996. For example, in
1994-95 monthly approvals reached averages between US$3.2 and US$4.5 million per month (versus
US$3 million target), reaching US$7.8 million per month at the beginning of 1995. The number of
approved subprojects per month reached averages of 179 and 240 (target of 75). Administrative costs
varied between 8.4% and 1 1.9% of disbursements. FISE's operations also generated a total of 264,660
months of temporary employment. The Mid-term Review in May 1996 assessed physical results
achieved by FISE as impressive, both in the Ecuadorian context and compared with other social
investment funds.
7.     After August 1996, as a consequence of political changes in the Government, lack of
appropriate programming of funds, allegations of financial irregularities, and delay in providing
government funds, FISE's operational performance declined noticeably. From August 1996 to May
1998, FISE registered 909 subproject applications, appraised and approved 952 subprojects, and
completed 1,274 subprojects. Despite these difficulties, average indicators of the total operational
period of 63 months approximated initial targets because of high initial approval averages: an average
of 94 subprojects were approved monthly versus a target of 75. Nevertheless, completion rates lagged:
77 projects were concluded per month versus a target of 82.
8.     FISE's activities were programmed to complement those of the line agencies in each sector. In
this context, FISE played an important role in financing social sector infrastructure during a time of
fiscal austerity, with about 79% of its funds going to education and health infrastructure in support of
investment programs in the corresponding ministries. Unfortunately, the ministries did not always
prepare adequately to operate the new infrastructure.
9.     The initial financing plan committed US$120 million to the project, including US$21.8 from
beneficiaries and subproject "sponsors." By May 1998, the total external financing committed to FISE
was US$124.6 million, exceeding the original financing plan by 29%. On the other hand,
beneficiary/sponsor contributions totaled only US$6.8 million, compared to the target of US$8.4 million.
The FISE program has continued in operation with the support of CAF, IDB, and KfW. The Bank
initiated preparation for a second project in support of FISE and collaborated with the IDB through
appraisal of a FISE II project. However, materialization of financing from CAF in addition to the IDB
loan made the additional Bank loan unnecessary at that time.
- 11 -



10.    Grassroots organizations were active during the project, submitting about 30% of all subproject
applications; however, in some cases the beneficiaries did not participate in subproject selection or
implementation. NGOs and small municipalities submitted about 12% and 10%, respectively, of
subprojects applications. Line ministries sponsored 45% of subprojects, most of them promoted by
grassroots organizations.
11.    The 5,373 contracted subprojects reached about 4.14 million beneficiaries, averaging 770
people per subproject. The 270 health infrastructure subprojects benefited approximately 1.53 million
people (an average of 5,680 beneficiaries per subproject). Other subprojects directly benefited about
2.04 million persons (an average of 433 beneficiaries per subproject). Fifty-three percent of the
subprojects benefited the general population, while 47% reached specific vulnerable groups. Among
these were children 6 to 12 years old, who received the highest percentage of subprojects (35.3%);
followed by children 2 to 5 years old (6.6%); elderly persons over 55 (0.7%); and other vulnerable
groups (1.3%).
12.    Severe fiscal constraints made it difficult for the corresponding ministries to consistently fulfill
their commitment to provide personnel to operate subprojects (in cases where this was relevant, such as
health centers) and raises some uncertainty regarding the sustainability of the results of some completed
subprojects. There is also concem about improving FISE' s support to strengthen and train beneficiary
communities to foster more community participation in administration, operation, and maintenance of
the subprojects. Other factors affecting sustainability included lateness of training components and the
slow response of FISE technical staff to social, institutional, and environmental issues.
13.    The Bank's preparation and pre-appraisal missions between July 1991 and May 1993 helped
provide the framework for FISE's initiation. Supervision missions and the Mid-term Review (MTR)
were carried out as planned in May 1996. FISE's unexpectedly speedy implementation meant that
issues raised during supervision and the MTR, such as the need to focus greater attention on subproject
sustainability and beneficiary involvement in subproject maintenance and operation, could not be
incorporated in time to have a significant impact on execution of the Bank-financed project.
Nevertheless, the key recommendations have been adopted under the second phase of FISE being
supported by other lenders and donors.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
14.    Both Borrower performance and the project's outcome are rated partially satisfactory. The
project did improve small educational, sanitary, health infrastructure, and other social services in many
of the country's poorest communities. It contributed to the long-term improvement of educational,
health and sanitary conditions of its beneficiaries, mainly children 2 to 12 years old and female
household heads. As a new institution, it succeeded in channeling important financial resources to
urgently needed social investments. FISE took advantage of technical assistance, as well as modem and
efficient administrative and technical procedures, such as existing poverty-targeting strategies, which
could benefit other public and private institutions, inside and outside Ecuador.
15.    Based on the perceived satisfactory outcome of the project in 1996, the GOE extended FISE's
operation to December 2001. FISE began a transition period to a second phase in 1996, but its
operations were virtually suspended during most of 1997 (para. 7). An IDB loan for FISE II became
effective in 1998. The objectives of the IDB FISE II loan were to: (a) support 2,750 small subprojects
in basic social infrastructure, (b) provide institutional support and strengthening for FISE, and
(c) strengthen the capacity of the communities and promote women's participation. The initial estimated
project amount is US$100 million, which would be financed with loans approved by IDB and CAF,
totaling US$80.15 million, in addition to GOE's counterpart contribution. Past experience shows that a



program of this type can only succeed if adequate subproject selection criteria and approval mechanisms
are in place and timely impact evaluations are carried out, government counterpart funds are deposited
on schedule, and financial programming corresponds to subproject approval ratios. The present
Government of Ecuador, which took office in August 1998 is strongly supporting FISE as an agency for
social investment.
Key Lessons Learned
*     To avoid costly and protracted preparation before starting a socialfund, it would be advisable to
decide on the institutionalframework, establish and staff the implementing agency prior to
detailed technical preparation.
*     The use ofa poverty-targeting strategy based on existing poverty maps should be strongly
encouraged in all programs targeted to benefit poor social groups.
*     Participation ofprivate contractors can help accelerate subproject preparation as well as
implementation. On the other hand, the benefits of rapid implementation must be weighed
against the risk of conflict of interest that could compromise subproject selection. In this project
the professional interest of private executing agencies caused them to act as unexpected social
promoters, without additional cost for FISE. They visited the most distant and impoverished
communities, discussed and selected subprojects with the local grassroots organizations and
formulated subprojects. In most cases they also executed them with the community's acceptance
and achieved satisfactory results.
*     Strengthening and improving grassroots organizational capacity to develop subprojects
contributes to improve all stages of the subprojects cycle. Community grassroots organizations
and urban neighborhood groups were active in selecting and promoting subprojects. Estimates
indicate that such organizations directly or indirectly promoted about 75% of all applications.
Training NGOs in subproject promotion and development is essentialfor their full participation
in socialfund projects. Experience with NGOs was less than satisfactory. NGOs submitted only
12% of subproject applications; only about 6% were executed by them, but with inconsistent
results.
*     Sustainability will be uncertain if the beneficiaries are not directly involved in monitoring and
maintaining their completed subprojects. Budget constraints in the Ministries of Health,
Education, and Social Welfare hampered their ability to meet their formal commitments to
provide appropriate personnel, resources and maintenance of social infrastructure in subprojects
funded by FISE. With decentralization of many aspects of social service delivery, responsibility
for maintenance is likely to devolve to local governments and communities.
*     Continuity of technical staff as well as of external technical assistance contributed to the
establishment and maintenance of consistent operating procedures in FISE -despite turnover
of managers caused by political changes.
- iv -



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
THIRD SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
(Loan 3707-EC)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Introduction
1.     Ecuador enjoyed an important period of economic growth and achieved improvements in social
welfare during the 1970s. Beginning in the 1980s, however, social sector expenditures as a share of the
Central Government budget declined steadily, from 54.8% in 1980 to 39.6% in 1990. Key factors
contributing to this drop include the debt crisis, the fall in oil prices, other adverse economic shocks, and
political pressures. By 1990, average per capita real income declined to its previous low of 1978. In
1994, a study by the World Bank concluded that 52% of Ecuador's population lived in poverty, of which
40% lived in urban and 67% in rural areas.
2.    In 1989, as part of a social sector reform and poverty alleviation plan, the GOE proposed the
concept of a social fund mechanism and sought Bank support. In March 1993, the Emergency Social
Investment Fund (FISE) was established as an autonomous agency under the Office of the President,
originally scheduled to end in December 1997 (later extended to December 1998, and December 2001).
On May 12, 1994 a Loan Agreement for US$30 million equivalent was signed in suport of the FISE
program, with a total project cost of US$120 million.
B.    Project Objectives
3.     The principal objective of the proposed project was to assist the Government in its efforts
toward poverty alleviation and compensation for vulnerable groups through support for the start-up and
operation of FISE. Specifically, the project supported the Government in: (a) establishing an efficient,
complementary, and demand-driven mechanism for delivering basic services and infrastructure to the
poor assisted by NGOs, community organizations, and local decentralized agencies; (b) channeling
additional resources to social assistance, basic infrastructure, and small-scale-productive activities;
(c) demonstrating transparent and efficient approaches to project selection, management, and
administration; (d) strengthening the institutional capacity of NGOs and grassroots organizations; and
(e) increasing beneficiary participation in poverty alleviation efforts. The project was the third in a
series of Social Development Projects presented in "Ecuador: A Social Sector Strategy for the Nineties"
(Bank Report No. 8936 EC), which included the First Social Development Project: Education and
Training (No. 3425-EC), and the Second Social Development Project: Health and Nutrition (No. 3510-
EC).
4.     The project had two components: (a) support for subprojects (US$108.8 million base cost)
approved by FISE in the areas of social infrastructure (education, health, social welfare, and sanitation),
socioeconomic infrastructure (water supply, sewerage, roads, micro-irrigation, urban upgrading and
environment), social services (health, education, and nutrition), institutional development (community
training), and productive community investments with social re-flows; and (b) institutional support for



FISE (US$9.2 million base cost), including personnel, other operating expenses, vehicles, equipment,
technical assistance and training.
C.    Achievement of Project Objectives
Support the start-up and operations of FISE
5.     The Bank's first disbursements and technical assistance allowed FISE to attain its operational
targets during the second semester of 1994, and to exceed them during 1995. From March 1993 to May
1998, FISE received 18,161 subproject applications, and signed 5,373 contracts for about US$128.2
million, with an average subproject cost of US$23,850, compared to US$40,000 initially expected.
(Toward the end of the period, FISE's commitments ran ahead of its total financing sources. FISE
eventually obtained additional financing to cover this deficit).
Assist the GOE in its efforts in poverty alleviation and compensation
6.     The Mid-term Review (MTR) conducted by the Bank, IDB, and CAF in May 1996, with the
participation of other major donors, rated FISE's poverty-targeting strategy as one of the most successful
not only in Ecuador but in Latin America as well. The MTR was carried out on time. Nevertheless, all
funds under the Bank loan had been committed by then. By May 1998, 78% of the total number and
79% (US$101 million) of the total value of contracted subprojects were allocated to parroquias (a
political unit comprising a number of villages) in the two lowest income quintiles, compared to the
initial target of 70% (Table 5, Figure B.2). These results confirm that FISE's subprojects did benefit the
most impoverished population groups unreachable by traditional social development mechanisms.
7.     Despite the success of the targeting strategy overall, actual geographic targeting differed from
the percentages envisaged, with the Sierra and Galapagos receiving more than targeted and the Coastal
and Amazon Regions receiving less. This resulted mainly from differences in the number of subproject
applications submitted by region, a common occurrence in projects that combine poverty-targeting with
a demand-driven operating methodology. (See Figure B 1)
8.     The total recorded number of beneficiaries of the 5,373 contracted subprojects was slightly over
four million persons, averaging 770 per subproject. The 270 health infrastructure subprojects benefited
approximately 1.53 million people (an average of 5,680 beneficiaries per subproject). Other subprojects
directly benefited about 2.04 million persons (an average of 433 beneficiaries per subproject).
9.     The beneficiary assessment, carried out by the consultants contracted by FISE in preparation for
the Mid-term Review, showed most subproject beneficiaries were below national average indicators in
instructional level, housing, employment conditions, access to basic services, and rural land property
distribution. Fifty-six percent of the subprojects benefited the general population in subproject areas,
while 44 percent benefited specific vulnerable groups. The largest target group was children 6 to 12
years old, who were beneficiaries of 35.3% of subprojects (mainly schools), followed by children from 2
to 5 years (6.6%), elderly over 55 years (0.7%), and other vulnerable groups (1.3%)) (Figure B3).
10.    According to the beneficiary assessment report, 60% of all parroquias located in indigenous
areas and 51% of the Afro-Ecuadorian population benefited from at least one subproject. In comparison,
77% of all non-indigenous parroquias also received at least one subproject. FISE served the indigenous
population on a larger scale than expected-even by local indigenous organizations.
- 2 -



Establishing an efficient, complementary, and demand-driven mechanism.
11.    The GOE created FISE in March 1993 as an autonomous agency under the Office of the
President to fulfill project commitments over four and a half years. The Bank loan (3707-EC) became
effective June 2, 1994 and closed June 30, 1998. FISE's life span was later extended by the GOE to
eight and a half years, until December 2001, within the framework of a subsequent project (FISE II).
12.    FISE developed an organizational structure, subproject cycle, MIS system, administrative and
operational procedures, and hired highly trained professional and technical personnel. Within a short
time, FISE became reasonably a well-managed and transparent institution. Between March 1993 (when
it began operations) and June 1996, FISE enjoyed its most productive period. During this span, demand
from the communities grew rapidly, and registered subproject applications reached 17,349, or 1.2 times
the 14,625 target. To cope with rising community expectations, FISE appraised and approved 4,993
subprojects, which was 1.7 times greater than the 2,925 target. The ratio between approved and
registered applications was 29%, compared to the target of 20%. This created unexpected pressure for
quick disbursement and strained quality assurance aspects of subproject appraisal procedures and
supervision mechanisms. In the end, FISE completed 3,594 subprojects and disbursed US$100.4
million-far above initial targets (Figure B 5).
13.   In 1994 and 1995, the indicators for monthly approved amounts (US$3.0 million target)
averaged between US$3.2 and US$4.5 million per month, with values of up to US$7.8 million per
month at the beginning of 1995. The number of approved subprojects per month ranged between 179
and 240 (compared to the target of 75). After the change of Government in August 1996, lack of
appropriate funds programming, allegations of financial irregularities, and delay in the delivery of
government counterpart funds, FISE's pace of operations slowed. From August 1996 to May 1998, the
number of registered subproject applications was 909, with FISE appraising and approving 952
subprojects (compared to 4,993 between project start and June 1996) and completing 1,274.
14.    Despite its operational difficulties between 1996 and 1998, FISE's level of operation was
substantial enough that during its 63 months of operation, average operational indicators approached
initial targets, given the high number of subprojects approved up to June 1996: 94 approved subprojects
per month versus 75 targeted. Its completion rate fell short of targets, at only 77 per month versus 82.
Nevertheless, FISE estimates indicate that execution of subprojects generated a total of 264,660 months
of temporary employment through May 1998, which was considered an important project outcome.
15.   In contrast to its speed in approving and contracting subprojects, FISE's financial management
and programming were slow and less effective. By mid-1996, FISE had committed some US$23.6
million to subprojects in excess of the financing that it had obtained by that time. Eventually, additional
counterpart funds from GOE and a complementary loan from CAF covered this shortfall. During the
last half of 1996 and the first semester of 1997, however, FISE experienced a serious financing and cash
flow problem. Administrative costs varied from about 10% of disbursements during the early years,
when FISE was most active, and 32-33% in 1997-98, when activity declined dramatically (compared to
a target of 8.1 %) (Table B 1).
16.    FISE's activities were intended to complement those of the line ministries in each sector.
Operational arrangements were based on formal agreements and consultations with these agencies to
minimize duplication of effort. Subproject approval required prior written agreement, as well as a
certificate from the agency, stating the needs and the agency's formal commitment to the operation and
maintenance of the completed subproject. The GOE's fiscal difficulties in social sector financing
resulted in FISE playing an important role in supporting infrastructure construction for the Ministries of
Public Education and Health, devoting about 79% of its funds to such subprojects. The respective
- 3 -



agency commitment for required operating personnel was often not met, however, and subproject
maintenance by these agencies was generally less than satisfactory.
17.    While FISE's geographical distribution was to be led by a poverty-targeting strategy designed
by FISE based on previous studies on poverty distribution in the country, the selection of subprojects
was intended to be demand-driven. Consequently, the approved and contracted subproject distribution
by category reflects beneficiary communities' priorities. The highest allocation, US$84.8 million
(66.1 % versus the 55% target), went to the category of social infrastructure subprojects. The second
highest allocation, US$40.5 million (31.6% to 33% target), funded socioeconomic infrastructure. A
lesser amount, US$2.3 million (1.8% to 3% target), financed productive community investments with
social re-flows, and only US$0.6 million (0.5% versus 8% target) was allocated to social services
(Figure B 4). The highest demand was for educational infrastructure and equipment (US$50 million),
followed by water supply and sewerage (US$24.5 million), sanitation, (US$19.8 million), feeder roads
and street rehabilitation (US$10.6 million).
Channeling additional resources
18.    FISE proved to be an effective vehicle for channeling GOE resources and international funds to
social investments in primary education, health, sanitation, and others. The original financing plan
estimated a total project cost of US$120 million, including US$21.8 million from beneficiaries and
sponsors and US$20.7 million from other donors (Table 7 B). By May 1998, total funds committed to
the FISE program from all sources was US$124.7 million, excluding contributions in labor and materials
from beneficiaries (Table 7 B). Committed external financing totaled 29% more than originally planned.
In contrast, domestic contributions (including Government counterpart of US$10.9 but excluding
beneficiary contributions) totaled US$17.7 million, representing a shortfall of US$16.1 million.
Beneficiary contributions, which were not recorded in FISE's accounting system (since they were often
in kind rather than in cash) represented an additional US$6.8 million.
Transparent and efficient operation ofproject selection, management, and administration
19.    From its start in March 1993 to June 1996, efficiency and transparency were FISE's
distinguishing characteristics. The Mid-Term Evaluation, contracted by FISE in 1995, noted that "FISE
can be qualified as a successful trial of public administration modernization... .within a public
administration discredited by corrupt acts, FISE is an exception." The MTR of May 1996, conducted
jointly by the Bank, IDB, and CAF, commented that: "the transparency in FISE's decision-making
represents a model with reference to the needed reform of public sector procedures." In the same vein,
"An efficient institutional and administrative organization, the development of a management
information system, technical procedures and design, a defined subprojects data bank and a wide social
mobilization around the program have had impressive results both within the country context and
compared to other social investment funds." Unfortunately, the performance was not sustained. After
August 1996, under a new Government administration and a new project director, allegations of corrupt
practices were lodged. Investigation revealed that no Bank funds were involved (all Bank funds were
fully committed and 96% disbursed by this time). While difficult to prove or disprove on the basis of
firm documentation, the allegations were specific enough to warrant concern with respect to the future of
the program. The change of Government in February 1997 brought a new director to the FISE, who,
though not accused of corruption, did not provide strong technical or managerial leadership. At the
same time, much of the professional and technical level personnel was maintained, allowing the
institutional capacity and knowledge of procedures to ensure transparency, which had been built in
FISE's first two years, to be substantially sustained.
- 4 -



20.    FISE's performance was not uniformly efficient. For example, while 85% of beneficiaries
reported that FISE subprojects met their priority needs, evaluation of the social and institutional setting
and capacity for subproject implementation was not begun until 3,000 subprojects had been approved.
Serious weaknesses occurred in carrying out the environmental evaluation for subprojects through 1995.
Despite formal inter-institutional coordination agreements, weak coordination persisted between FISE
and the Ministries of Education, Social Welfare, and Health. This often led to a discrepancy between the
number of personnel and the budget assigned by the ministries, which slowed the completion of some
civil works and affected the operation of some investments.
21.    FISE's supervision of subprojects was also problematic. Rapid subproject approvals resulted in
excessive responsibilities for some inspectors and supervisors, compromising quality control (Table
B 2). The priority given to speed also led to delays and/or errors in meeting procedural or legal
requirements.
22.    Following the MTR, FISE acted to remedy many of its problems. Nevertheless, its actions were
generally too late to have an impact on outputs of the Bank-financed project. On the whole, given the
chronic general weakness of the public sector in Ecuador and the chronic fiscal crisis, all donors agreed
that FISE generally performed well as a social emergency fund in the country context and that living
conditions of the poor were improved in ways not possible without the project., despite the shortcomings
mentioned above, therefore, the FISE's implementation performance is rated generally satisfactory, and
its achievement of the project's objectives is rated partially satisfactory.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of NGOs and grassroots organizations
23.    In response to FISE's initial promotion efforts, grassroots organizations, acting as sponsoring
agencies on behalf of beneficiaries, presented about 30% of the subproject applications, surpassing the
20% target. NGOs and small municipalities presented about 12% and 10%, respectively, of subproject
applications. Although most education and health projects were requested by grassroots organizations,
without the respective ministries' intervention, MIS methodology registered these applications as
sponsored by the Ministries of Education and Health, respectively. Thus the figures understate the
requests made by the grassroots organizations; the true number may be as high as 75% of all
applications. The beneficiary assessment found that grassroots organizations, especially in the Sierra
region, actively participated in the community subproject identification and appraisal follow-up for
water supply, social sanitation, and productive subprojects.
24.    As anticipated, most local communities had limited or no capacity to formulate and implement
subprojects, relying instead on intermediary organizations. This role was often played by unexpected
partners: private contractors, who visited the distant communities, selected the subproject together with
local organizations and community leaders, and formulated, submitted and, in most cases, executed the
project. This procedure generally was fast and effective, judged by the results of the Second Beneficiary
Assessment. Based on a quantitative analysis of contractor type, estimates are that close to 85% of the
subprojects followed this pattem.
25.    Although the project design provided for training for grassroots organizations and NGOs to
strengthen local community planning skills, implementation of such activities began only at the end of
1997, too late to have an impact on the groups' capacity during the project period. While the cost of the
planned training was a small share of total project cost, the activities were nevertheless important to
ensure full achievement and sustainability of the development objectives. FISE's tardiness in beginning
its implementation represents an important deficiency in FISE's performance.
-5-



Increasing beneficiary participation
26.    Beneficiary participation in the subproject cycle can be judged on the basis of the 1996 Second
Beneficiary Assessment. The assessment reports the participation of about 50% of beneficiaries at the
initial community meetings, when needs were identified and subprojects prioritized. During the next
stage, i.e., project formulation to approval, only the community leaders intervened on behalf of the
ultimate beneficiaries. During execution, up to 64% of the beneficiaries in the lowest poverty quintiles
of the rural areas participated in subprojects by contributing labor for which they were paid. Overall,
35% of beneficiary workers were paid for their work during construction (as high as 71% in sewerage
subprojects); the remainder provided their services as part of their contribution to financing subproject
costs.
27.    Local maintenance committees were responsible for administration of operation for about 60%
of the completed subprojects (82% for water supply systems). On average, 37% of the beneficiaries
paid maintenance charges, 44% contributed with labor (versus those who were paid), and 20% with
materials, while 55% expressed willingness to pay for maintenance.
28.    Of the beneficiaries surveyed, 86% said FISE's subprojects met their priority needs. The
majority of beneficiaries (61%) considered the project "very useful"; although 43% said it was "a partial
solution." FISE's intervention was rated "very good" or "good" by 59% of the beneficiaries, while 23%
rated it "fair," and 18% "deficient" to "very deficient." Beneficiaries believed that subprojects for water
supply, schools, and daycare centers had brought about "significant improvements" in their standard of
living.
D.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors not generally subject to Government control
29.    The weak capacity of local organizations and NGOs to formulate and execute subprojects was
offset by the quick response of small contractors to FISE's promotion efforts. This led to a "technical
alliance" between very poor local communities and these private contractors for formulating subprojects
that would address the communities' needs.
30.    These associations between local communities and small executing agencies developed and
submitted subproject proposals at a much faster rate than expected. FISE recorded averages of 519
applications per month during 1995 and 700 during 1996-much higher than the anticipated 150.
FISE's attempt to satisfy this demand contributed to the programming difficulties discussed above.
Factors generally subject to Government control
31.    Protracted project preparation, which lasted 3 years and cost US$1.5 million, was caused by
lack of consensus in the Ministries of Labor, Social Welfare, and the National Development Council
(CONADE), on an appropriate institutional mechanism for the fund.
32.    The transition to new Govemient administration caused tumover of almost all managerial staff
between August 1996 and February 1997, which seriously affected FISE's operational continuity and
efficiency. Delays and shortfalls in the delivery of GOE counterpart funds in FY 1995 and, more
acutely, after FY 1996, slowed FISE's operations. By May 1998, the GOE had provided 91.2% of its
contribution commitment to the project.
-6 -



Factors subject to FISE control
33.    While FISE's energetic response to the unexpectedly high level of demand for subprojects was
commendable, it should have refrained from approving subprojects and signing contracts that exceeded
its capacity to finance them. Lack of appropriate programming of its commitments led to its financial
and cash flow difficulties. Finally, new subproject approvals were suspended during the second
semester of 1996, but by then, FISE was facing serious financing shortfalls. Its deficits were eventually
covered when additional external loans and grant funds became available in 1997. (Table B 1).
34.    Public allegations of irregularities in 1996 regarding FISE's contracting procedures seriously
damaged the institution's credibility. Nevertheless, by May 1998, although the allegations were still
officially under review (as part of the general audit of the August 1996-February 1997 government),
FISE had already taken necessary corrective actions.
35.    On the positive side, despite turnover of management, adequate numbers of the qualified and
experienced technical staff remained throughout the many political changes and helped to maintain
FISE's institutional knowledge and operational procedures.
E.     Project Sustainability
36.    FISE was established as a temporary ("emergency") institution, with a US$120 million
financing plan, initially to be in operations through December 1997. The GOE extended FISE's
operation to December 2001, based on a perception of its overall effectiveness. New financing of about
US$100 million was obtained. The current Government of Ecuador, which took office in August 1998,
is expected to support and maintain FISE within its social investment strategy. This extension of FISE's
life span, permitting it to continue community training activities that started late in project execution,
could enhance the sustainability of subprojects by improving communities' capacity to operate and
maintain them. There is a continuing interest in improving FISE's support for community strengthening
and training, to ensure stronger participation of communities in subproject administration, operation, and
maintenance.
37.    Nevertheless, subproject sustainability is uncertain, despite the positive conclusions of the
Beneficiary Assessment of 1996. As with most social infrastructure in Ecuador, publicly financed
maintenance of completed subprojects is negligible. Operating funds were occasionally eliminated after
subproject execution, and in a few cases, their personnel assigned by ministries to operate subprojects
were removed for budgetary reasons.
F.     Bank Performance
38.    Bank performance during preparation was satisfactory and supportive of GOE's efforts to
establish the basis for FISE's initiation. Early supervision missions took place each semester, but
slowed in 1995 (when Bank loan funds were fully committed) to only once a year, for a total of 103
staffweeks of supervision effort, compared to 145 staffweeks originally estimated. It should be noted,
however, that in the last two years of project execution, Bank staff resident in Ecuador played an active
role in monitoring FISE operations on a sustained basis, in addition to formal supervision missions.
Missions made a critical and thorough review of the project's implementation, procedures,
achievements, and shortcomings, and suggested, among others, important changes in the contracting
procedures, in line with the loan agreement. In May 1996 (when 96% of the Bank loan had been
disbursed), a joint mission of the World Bank, IDB, and CAF prepared a Mid-term Review Report. It
contained favorable evaluations of FISE's poverty-targeting, transparency, decentralization, and
- 7 -



operational achievements, and also made specific recommendations for a transition period to a second
phase of operations that could commence during the second semester of 1996. A fifth supervision
mission, in May 1997, resolved long-standing disbursement issues, stated financial and administrative
requirements prior to the Bank's project close, and assessed preparedness of the organization for a
potential second loan, especially related to social and community participation. These supervision
missions played an important role by focusing attention on key performance issues and helping FISE to
resolve project implementation difficulties (although they were not able to correct all of FISE's
operational deficiencies). Overall, Bank performance is rated satisfactory.
G.    Borrower and Implementing Agency Performance
39.    Preparation of the project started in 1988, lasted about 3 years, and cost US$1.5 million.
Progress was slow under the Ministries of Labor and Social Welfare, until preparation was transferred to
CONADE in August 1992. FISE was established in March 1993. The Loan Agreement was signed in
May 1994.    FISE's performance was strong with respect to establishing an efficient, transparent
funding mechanism and institutional capacity early on, its rapid response to beneficiary demand, its
development, and application of all operating procedures. Its expertise was used subsequently to help
organize other investment funds in Paraguay, Argentina, Guatemala, Haiti, Jamaica, Armenia,
Cambodia, and India. Nevertheless, these achievements are partially offset by its lack of appropriate
funds programming, the Government's delay in delivery of counterpart funds, and later management
changes, followed by public allegations of irregularities.
H.    Assessment of Outcome
40.    The project's outcome is rated partially satisfactory for the results achieved in the period during
which the bulk (98.6%) of World Bank loan disbursements took place (1994 to mid-1996). The project
was successful in assisting the GOE in improving small educational, sanitary, and health infrastructure,
as well as other social services in most of the country's poorest communities. It contributed to the long-
term improvement of the educational, health and sanitary conditions of its beneficiaries, who are mainly
children 2 to 12 years and female household heads in these poor communities. The project's
achievements show that an efficient new ("emergency") institution can channel important financial
resources to meet urgently needed social investments. FISE took advantage of technical assistance, and
developed, on its own, modem and efficient administrative and technical procedures and innovative
programs, including poverty-targeting strategies that can in future benefit other public and private
institutions, both within and outside Ecuador. The project's outcome would have been better if political
interference and financial difficulties had not negatively affected FISE's operations and credibility after
mid-1996.
1.     Future Operations
41.    FISE began the transition to a second program phase in 1996, and operations of this second
phase commenced in mid-1997, with financing from the CAF, IDB and GOE. Additional financing
from the Bank was deferred because of substantial financial commitments from other lenders and
donors. However, a second loan in support of FISE may be proposed as part of the Govemment's
strategy to mitigate the social impacts of the ongoing severe economic crisis.
J.     Key Lessons Learned
-8 -



     To avoid costly and protracted preparation before starting a social fund, it would be advisable to
decide on the institutionalframework, establish and staff the implementing agency prior to
detailed technical preparation.
*     The use of a poverty-targeting strategy based on existing poverty maps should be strongly
encouraged in all programs targeted to benefit poor social groups. FISE 's use of such maps
enabled it to surpass its target in reaching the poorest income quintiles.
*     Private contractors may have incentives that can benefit project implementation. On the other
hand, the risk of conflict of interest that could compromise subproject selection is a factor. In
this project, the professional interest of private executing agencies caused them to act as
unexpected social promoters, without additional cost for FISE. They visited the most distant and
impoverished communities, discussed and selected subprojects with the local grassroots
organizations, and formulated and expedited approval. In most cases they also executed them
with the community's acceptance and achieved satisfactory results.
*     Strengthening and improving grassroots organizational capacity to develop subprojects
contributes to improve all stages of the subprojects cycle. Community grassroots organizations
and urban neighborhood groups were active in selecting and promoting subprojects. Estimates
indicate that about 75% of all applications were directly or indirectly promoted by them.
*     Training NGOs in subproject promotion and development is essentialfor theirfullparticipation
in socialfund projects. Experience with NGOs was less than satisfactory. Only 12% of
subproject applications were submitted by NGOs, while only about 6% were executed by them,
and with inconsistent results.
*     Sustainability will be uncertain if the beneficiaries are not directly involved in monitoring and
maintaining their completed subprojects. Budget constraints in the Ministries of Health,
Education, and Welfare occasionally prevented them from maintaining their formal
commitments regarding assignment of appropriate personnel, resources and maintenance of
social infrastructure in subprojects funded by FISE.
*     Continuity of technical staff, as well as external technical assistance, contributed to the
establishment and maintenance of consistent operating procedures in FISE -despite turnover
of managers caused by political changes.
-9-






PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
A. General Statistical Data
Page
Table  1:  Summary  of Assessments ............................................................ 13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ............................................................                                                                               14
Table 3: Project Timetable ............................................................                                                                                        14
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Estimated and Actual by Category: . ............................................................ 15
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Performance and Project Operation ............................................................   15
Table 6:  Studies Included  in Project ............................................................ 18
Table  7:  Economic  Costs, Financing, and Benefits ............................................................                                                              19
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants ............................................................                                                                               20
Table 9:  Compliance  with  Operational Manual Statements ..................                                                .......................................... 21
Table  10:  Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs .............................................................                                                                       21
Table  11:  Bank Resources:  Missions .............................................................                                                                           21
B. FISE Project Data
Table B  1:  Financing  and Disbursements, by  Year ............................................................                                                              23
Table B  2:  Quality Assurance Indicators, Targeted and by  Year ............................................................                                                 23
Figure .B  1:  Distribution  of Subprojects by Region ............................................................. 24
Figure B  2:  Distribution  of Subprojects by Income  Quintile ............................................................. 24
Figure  B 3:  Distribution  of Subprojects by Priority  of Beneficiary  Target Group  ..................................                                        ................ 24
Figure B  4:  Distribution  of  Contracted  Subprojects by  Categories .............................................................                                            25
Figure B  5:  Number and  Value of Subprojects processed, by Stage of Project Cycle .........................                                                .................... 25
- 11 -






A. General Statistical Data
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substantial         Partial          Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                                           Fl
Sector Policies                                          E
Financial Objectives                                                                         E]
Institutional Development                                E
Physical Objectives                    E
Poverty Reduction
Gender Issues                                                              El
Other Social Objectives
Environmental Objectives                                                   E
Public Sector Management                                 El
Private Sector Development
Other (specify)
B. Project Sustainability         Likely           Unlikely         Uncertain
C. Bank Performance             Highly          Satisfactory       Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                           El
Preparation Assistance                                   E
Appraisal                                                E
Supervision                                              [
D. Borrower Performance           Highly          Satisfactory       Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                                                                E:
Implementation                                           E
Covenant Compliance                                      El
Operation (if applicable)                                El
E. Assessment of Outcome          Highly          Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory        Highly
Satisfactory                                         Unsatisfactory
- 13 -



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                        Purpose                 Year of approval        Status
1. Rural Development Project.         Longer term effort to reduce poverty and  FY 91         Ongoing
Ln. 3390-EC                        promote socio-economic development in
selected rural areas.
2. First Social Development Project -  Improve quality and effective delivery    FY 92        Ongoing
Education and Training,            of basic education and training services.
Ln.3425-EC
3. Second Social Development Project    Expand and strengthen basic health  FY 93             Ongoing
Health and Nutrition.              services, including nutrition and basic
Ln. 3510-EC                        sanitation.
4. Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian     Improve the quality of life of poor rural   FY 98       Ongoing
People's Development Project.      indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian
Ln. 4277-EC                        communities by providing improved
access to land and water resources.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                       Date Planned               Date Actual!
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)               N.A.                      September 1990
Preparation                                              May 1993                  May 24, 1993
Appraisal                                                September 1993            September 1993
Negotiations                                             December 1993             December 1993
Board Presentation                                       February 1994             February 22, 1994
Signing                                                  May 1994                  May 12, 1994
Effectiveness                                            April 1994                June 2, 1994
Mid-term Review                                          February 1996             April 21, 1996
Project Completion                                       December 31, 1997         May 20, 1998
Loan Closing                                             June 30, 1998             June 30, 1998
N.A. = not applicable
- 14 -



Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Estimated and Actual by Category:
Category                Estimated      Actual
(US$)       (USS)              Cumulative Disbursements, by Year
1.     Subprojects                    23.3         25.0                    Tota Disbursem-s: Apprasal Estimatevs. Actual
(a)    Subprojects (through end of    15.0         12.6                  350                       29.6    30 0
1994),                                                            300              283___          =
(b)    Subprojects (1995)              6.0         12.4              .8 200       15.6.'
(c)    Subprojects(1996)                1.8         0                |         t   *0
(d)    Subprojects (1997)              0.5          0                  1
5.01
2     FISE consultants (as defined     2.3          2.6                         FY 95    FY 96    FY 97    FY 98
in paragraph 2 (c) below)                                            ....... Apprasal Estin-e   -     Actual
J
3     Incremental FISE operating       0.7          0.7
costs (as defined in paragraph
2 (d) below)
4     Technical                        0.9          0.4
5     Vehicles, office furniture and   0.3          0.1
expenditures, equipment
underl 00% of local Part B. I
(c) of expenditures the
Project
6     Refunding of Project             1.5          1.2
Preparation Advance
7      Unallocated                      .0          0.0
TOTAL                          30.0         30.0
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Performance and Project
Operation
Indicator                              Objective                 Target           Actual
A. CAPACITY
- 15 -



Indicator                           Objective                Target          Actual        %
Amount of financing committed (to FISE, not  Measures FISE's ability to       98.2            127.1        129
including beneficiary and sponsoring agency  attract resources.
contributions)   (US$ million).
Total FISE disbursements   (US$ million)    Measure FISE's capacity to        94.2            124.7        132
channel resources.
Amount and number of subprojects from 1993 to  Measures the stock of
June 1996:                                  subprojects in each stage as an
indicator of current and future
pipeline capacity.
Presented to FISE   (No. subprojects)                                        14,625          17,349        119
Appraised:       (US$ million)                                                195.0           121.7        62
(No. subprojects)                                           4,875           5,195        106
Approved:        (US$ million)                                                117.0           117.4        100
(No. subprojects)                                           2,925           4,993        171
Concluded:       (US$ million)                                                68.3            80.0        117.0
(No. subprojects)                                           3,198           3,594        112
Amount (US$ M) and number of subprojects,
July 1996 to May 1998:
Presented to FISE: (No. subprojects)                                          8,625            812          9
Appraised:       (US$ million)                                                115.0           24.4         21
(No. subprojects)                                           2,875            812          28
- Approved       (US$ million)                                                69.0            25.5         37
(No. subprojects)                                           1,725            952          55
- Concluded:     (US$ million)                                                40.3            30.3         75
(No. subprojects)                                           1,886           1,274         68
B. QUALITY
Contract change orders as a percentage of   Evaluate the soundness of FISE     30             13.50        45
number of subprojects in execution.         subproject evaluation and
accuracy of unit price database.
Percentage of subprojects canceled or suspended  Measure quality of appraisal   5             6.20         124
and contractor performance
Number of subprojects in execution per FISE  Ensure adequate staffing levels   40             24.70        62
inspector (Zone Chief de zone)              with regard to capacity to
monitor execution.
C. EFFICIENCY
- 16 -



Indicator                           Objective                Target          Actual        %
Subprojects appraised monthly/FISE evaluator.   Measure efficiency of Projects
Department Staff
(US$ million)                                    0.4             0.20         45
(No. subprojects)                                   11              9.50        86
Subprojects approved per month.            Measure the ability of FISE to
translate demand into viable
subprojects
(US$ million)                                    3.0             2.06         69
(No. subprojects)                                   75              98          130
Amount (US$ million) disbursed on subprojects   Measure execution capacity                  0.6 to 4.6
per month.
Average time (days) elapsed per stage in    Evaluate Efficiency of
subproject cycle:                           subproject cycle and detect
bottlenecks in the areas of:
Registered - Appraised                                                        15.00          330.00        300
Appraised - Approved                                                            -             45.00         -
Approved - Contracted                                                         20.00           121.00       600
Percentage of subprojects with delays in    Measure the efficiency of         20.00           62.00        310
execution.                                 subproject monitoring and FISE
executing agencies/contractors
D. IMPACT (Poverty Targeting)
- 17 -



Indicator                              Objective                Target           Actual         %
Percentage of(l) number of registered, (2)    Measure FISE's ability to           (1) 20           (1) 33        165
number of approved, (3) amount of subprojects   directly reach beneficiary        (2) 15           (2) 18        120
sponsored by grassroots organizations         organizations.                      (3) 10           (3) 37        370
Percentage of contracted projects (amount) by  Measures relative FlSE's
income quintile.                              impact on the poorest regions.
(%/6)           (%/6)
I (poorest)                                                                         40               42
2                                                                                   30               37
2                                                                                   20               18
4                                                                                   10                2
5                                                                                    0                1
Percentage of approved subprojects by priority  Measure FlSE's impact in
ranking:                                      financing priority types of
investments.
1                                                                                   55               78           42
2                                                                                   35               12           34
3                                                                                   10               10          100
Percentage of approved subprojects by priority of Measure FlSE's ability to reach
beneficiary category:                         targeted vulnerable groups.
I (infants 0-2 yrs., pregnant women)                                               (n/a)              I           -
2 (lactating women, children 2-5 yrs.)                                                               15            -
3 (children 6-12 yrs., women 18-55)                                                                  81           -
4 (youth 6-18 yrs., women > 55 yrs.)                                                                  2            -
5 (elderly men)                                                                                       I
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study                   Purpose as Defined at               Status                  Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
1. Beneficiary Assessment     Receive constructive and unbiased  Completed            Key Information used in Mid-Term
feedback on the impact of the    (August 1995)          Evaluation
subprojects on the beneficiary                          Basis for design of improved
community.                                              second program of FISE.
2. Impact Evaluation          Detect changes in overall living  Completed             Key Information used in Mid-Term
conditions and explore specific  (December 1995)        Evaluation.
aspects by type of project or                           Basis for design of improved
beneficiary                                             second program of FISE.
- 18 -



Table 7 A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate                       Actual
(US$ 000)                          (US$ 000)
Item                       Local      Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign      Total
Costs      Costs                   Costs       Costs
1. FISE INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
Higher level salaries and fees               4,880           0       4,880                               9,861
Support level salaries                         983           0        983                                   0
Vehicles and Equipment                          31         647        678                                1,644
Operating Expenses                           1,605         201       1,806                               4,694
Technical Assistance and Training              967         424       1,392                               2,650
Subtotal                                     8,467       1,272       9,739                              18,849
II. FISE SUBPROJECTS
Infrastructure                              71,864      23,590      95,274                              99,108
Social Services                              5,101       4,035       9,136                               3,972
Institutional Development                    1,088           0       1,088                                  0
Small Investments Operations                 3,263          0        3,263                               1,505
Subtotal                                    81,136      27,625     108,760                             104,585
III. PROJECT PREPARATION PPF                 1,200         300       1,500                               1,223
TOTAL                                       90,803      29,197     120,000                             124,657
Table 7 B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate                       Actual
(US$ millions)                     (US$ millions)
Source                     Local      Foreign      Total       Local      Foreign      Total
Costs      Costs                   Costs        Costs
IBRD/IDA                                    20.9         9.1        30.0                                30.0
Cofinancing Institutions                    24.4        11.1        35.5                                35.3
Other External Sources                      15.1         5.6        20.7                                48.4
Domestic Contribution                       29.1         4.7        33.8                                17.7
Total financing amount as recorded in FISE's                                                           124.7
accounting system.*
Beneficiaries/sponsors contributions (not                                                                6.8
accounted by FISE
Total                                       89.5        30.5       120.0                               131.5
* Beneficiaries'/sponsors' contribution not recorded under FISE's accounting system; contributions tracked in FISE's
Operational Information System.
Table 7c: Economic Costs and Benefits
Project Costs:   Please refer to Table 7 A for detailed costs.
Project Benefits:  The project helped to alleviate poverty by:
(a) Providing basic social and physical infrastructure and services to 4.14 million recorded
beneficiaries.
(b) Generating 264,660 worker-months of short-term employment.
(c) Promoting the participation in subprojects of, on average, 50% and 64% of beneficiaries in the
design and implementation stages, respectively.
(d) Effectively targeting mobilized resources to attend the lowest income population - 97.4% of
subprojects were allocated to the three lowest income quintiles (Table B4).
- 19 -



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section   Covenant  Present   Original    Revised                    Description of
type     Status   fulfillment  fulfillment                covenant
date        date
Loan          3.01 (a)    05         C                              Project in compliance with FISE's Operational
and Administration Manual.
3.01 (b)    04        NC                              FISE's annual counterpart funding amounts
3.01 (c)    05         C                              Consultants qualifications satisfactory to the
Bank
3.02 (a)     10        CP                             Procurement of goods, works and consultants
3.02 (b)    09         CD                             Data base of standard regionalized unit prices of
works, goods and services.
3.02 (c)     10        C                              FISE: procurement of any subproject goods or
service documents to the Bank.
3.03 (a)    03         C                              Proceeds of the Loan to Subproject Agencies.
3.04       09        CD                              MIS operation and maintenance
3.05 (a)    09         CP                             Monthly Progress Project Reports to the Bank.
3.05 (b)    09         CP                             During Project Implementation Annual Report
3.06 (a)    09         C                              FISE Annual programming review of Project
Implementation with the Bank.
3.06 (b)    09         CD                             Project implementation Mid-term Review.
3.07       09        CD                             Contract technical assistance for the carrying out
of surveys and studies
3.08       05         C                             Define strategy in 1997 regarding the closure or
transformation of FISE
4.01 (a)    09         CP                             FISE maintain records and separate accounts.
4.01 (b)    01,09      C        06/05/96              For each semester of each fiscal year have the
records and accounts audited by private auditors.
4.01 (c)    03,09      C                              Expenditures for the Loan account FISE
6.01 (a)    09         C        06/02/94              FISE MIS
6.01 (b)     10        C       06/02/94               FISE Technical brochures for subproject type
6.01 (c)    05         C        06/02/95              Administrative and Operational Manual
Present Status:
C=covenant complied with
CD=complied with after delay
CP=complied with partially
Covenant types:
1.=Accounts/audits                                           8.=Indigenous people
2.=Financial performance/revenue generation from             9.=Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                                10.=Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3.=Flow and utilization of project funds                     11.=Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4.=Counterpart funding                                       allocation
5.-Management aspects of the project or executing agency     12.=Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
6.=Environmental covenants                                   action
7.=Involuntary resettlement                                  13.=Other
- 20 -



Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Fully Complied with for World Bank funds.
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                            Actual
Project Cycle
Staff-Weeks       USS '000
Preparation to Appraisal                 131.7            360.5
Appraisal-Board                          26.6              65.0
Negotiations through Board Approval       10.2             27.6
Supervision                              100.0            223.6
Completion                                 3.0              5.3
TOTAL                                    271.5            681.9
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of     Date    No. of    Days    Specialized    Implem-    Develop-              Types of Problems
Project Cycle  (Mo.!  Persons    in         Staff Skills    entation     ment
Yr.)              Field    Represented     Status     Objectives
Identification    07/91    2        6     A, C               n/a          n/a      n/a
Preparation    12/91       1        5     A                  n/a          n/a      n/a
Preparation    12/92       6        10    A, L, M            n/a          n/a      n/a
Pre-appraisal   05/93      7        11    A, B, L, M         n/a          n/a      n/a
Appraisal      10/93       8        10    D, L, M            n/a          n/a      n/a
Project        05/94       6        5     A, E, F, K, M       S           S        n/a
Launch
Supervision 1   10/94      6        10    A, B, C, D, E,      S           S        Major increase in demand; low
F                                       efficiency of supervision staff;
more staff required; limitations in
direct contracting.
Supervision 2   03/95      5        17    A, C, E, F, G       S           S        Demand much higher than
expected; lack of agreement on
local shopping procedures and on
evaluation manual for productive
subprojects.
Supervision 3   05/96      5        19    A, B, G, H, I       S           S        WB disbursements much faster
(Mid-term                                                                          than expected (96%); counterpart
Review)                                                                            funds much lower than committed;
tardiness of training components.
Supervision 4   05/97      3        5     A, J, K             S           S        WB loan almost fully disbursed
(99%); lack of appropriate funds
programming; delay of GOE funds;
allegations of irregularities of GOE
and measures taken by FISE; new
management training.
Completion     05/98       2        0     A, M                S            S       n/a
A= Mission Leader/Task Manager, B= Operations Officer, C= Subprojects, D= Indigenous Issues, E= Procurement /Civil Work,
F= Monitoring and Evaluation, G= Architect-con, H= Info. Spec, I= Anthro/Partic, J= Tech/Social Aspects, K= Financial
Admin., L= Consultant, M= World Bank Staff
- 21 -






B. Supplementary Project Data
Table B 1: Financing and Disbursements, by Years'
93 - 94      1995        1996         1997        1998       Total by
Source
Committed Financing, by Source:
Source:                                        (US$ million)
WB                           30.0                                                          30.0
IDB                          29.6                                                          29.6
USAID                                                  4.8                                  4.8
Others bl                                              0.3         0.2                      0.5
KfW                                        6.9                                              6.9
CAF                                       30.0                    10.8 c/                  40.8
CARE                                                   1.3                                  1.3
GOE                                        1.3         1.6         0.0          8.0        10.9
Total by Year                59.6         38.2         7.9         11.0         8.0       124.7
Cumulative Total             59.6         97.8       105.7       116.7        124.7
FISE Disbursements:dl
Actual, by year              21.6         53.3        32.0         13.5         4.3       124.7
Cumulative                   21.6         74.9       106.9        120.4       124.7       124.7
Memoranda:
Annual Target                             48.0        73.0                                121.0
AdministrativeCostsas%of    n/a           10.2        15.5        32.7         31.8
annual disbursements
a/ Does not include beneficiary or sponsoring agency contributions.
b/ Includes UN, UNICEF, Government of China, AECI, Japan, etc.
c/ Allocation to cover cover FISE's overprogramming of commitments under a CAF loan totaling US$45.0 million Remainder
was to finance the second phase of FISE.
dl Includes disbursements for subprojects and administrative costs.
Table B 2: Quality Assurance Indicators, Targeted and by Year
INDICATOR                    Target         1995        1996         1997       1998a'
No. Subprojects per Internal Inspector:
Infrastructure                               40           55.5        24.5          4.5         4
Others                                       40          154.0        33.5          8.0         8
No. Subprojects per External Inspector:
Equipment/Social Assistance                   3            2.6         4.5          1.6         2
Infrastructure                                3            2.8         2.2          1.5         1.4
Productive                                    2            1.9         1.5          1.2         0.8
- 23 -



Figure B 1: Distribution of Subprojects by Region
Valueof Projects by Region                                         Nanbwe of Projects by Rnyion
80,0                                                               3,000
70.0                                                               2  0 _   ._  2,fiOO0_
60.0                                              - __
_                   _._                                           2,000                                    _I
10.0            |_1  -
0.0  -                                                                  E iU 
73.5   T  46.4       7.6        06        1282                      3,039      1945       378   r             5,373
Sierra    Coast    Amazon  Galapagos   Total                         Sierra    Coast    Amazon  Gaa,pagos   Total
FM RLar     43 1   0      14 0   3 4  .     04.1      60.5            Rira      1,756      648       205         2        2,611
*Urban    30.4        32.5       43         05        676           mUrbas    1,283       1,297       173        9       2,762
Figure B 2: Distribution of Subprojects by Income Quintile
Value of Sibprojects (US$rnillions)                                    Niember of Subprojects
60.0    53.4                                                      2,500
47.6I
50.0.                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,000
40.0     U15
30.0 j                     23.8           1' 00                                               1,009
20.0[
20.0                                 2 5       0.8      I0                   i          L      I        110       50
1        2         3        4         5                                              12  3     4         5
Income Quintile                 InromeQuirntile
|                    In~~~~~~~~~rrorne Quint ilej
Figure B 3: Distribution of Subprojects by Priority of Beneficiary
Target Group
eo.o* _.                                         .           -                        - 
80.0~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~0
70.0                                                                                            3,145
60.o                                                    [
60.0
40.0 ]1,745
30.0
20.0                                                                               40426                         6
10.0.                                                                       15           13          126       25
0.0  St -     -                                                            -     -~~~~~~~1 2  14  1 Gen.1
____ ___   ____   ___ ____ ___                     P o pi4                                                -            pop.
USS millions   0.4    85    0.3   4              9719            No.Subprojets  15                 3 4        26      5      745
Priority of Beneficiary Group                                        Priority of feneficiary Group
Beneficiary Group (by priority category):
1:    Infant children, 0 - 2 yrs.
2:     Children, 2 - 5 yrs.
3:     Women, 18 - 55 yrs., *Children, 6 - 12 yrs
4:     Youth, 6 -18 yrs.
5:     Men and Women older than 55 years
- 24 -



Figure B 4: Distribution of Contracted Subprojects by Categories
Value                               [Nuciber
100.0 -                                                         5,000
80.0                                                           4,000 -
60.0                                                           3,000
400  -                                                         2.000
20.0                                                           1,000
Social    H-ath  Education   Socio-    Small                    s oial    Fooalth   Education            Smali
rInfrastruict                Econo)mic Produictiv              Infrastruict                    EcSonroomic Productive
[USSmilion   84.8   |03          0 3       40 5      2.3          Num,ber   4,419       21        240        653        40
Figure B 5: Number and Value of Subprojects processed, by Stage
Value (US$ million)                                                    Niinb&r
80 -                                                            4,000
60                                                              3,000
40   .2,~0000
20t                                       }                      10  -
0                                                                  0.
1995     t996     1997    1998 a/ Avg.Yrl9Y                        1995     1996     1997       1998 a/ Av.Yrly
Target                                                            Target
1 Apprased     60        14        18       5        30            E3Appraised   2,880     970       693      222      750
*Approved      52        9        21        5        18            *Approved    2,733       416      771       177     450
1o Concluded    31       47        7        5         11          |0oncluded    1,643    2,126       20       207      350
of Project Cycle
- 25 -






PART III: APPENDICES
A.    Completion Mission Aide Memoire
MISION DE CIERRE
INFORME FINAL DE EVALUACION DEL PROYECTO (ICR)
FONDO DE INVERSION SOCIAL DE EMERGENCIA (FISE)
ECUADOR
CONVENIO DE PRESTAMO BIRF 3707-EC
MAYO 20-22, 1998
AYUDA MEMORIA
Una misi6n del Banco Mundial (BIRF), compuesta por la Ing. Evelyn Pesantez (Jefe de Misi6n) y el Dr.
Juan Sevilla (consultor), se entrevist6 con el Director Nacional y el equipo gerencial - tecnico y
administrativo de FISE, entre el 20 y 22 de mayo de 1998. Los objetivos de la misi6n se cumplieron asi:
Obtener de FISE una evaluaci6n retrospectiva de su implementaci6n y el compromiso de la instituci6n a
los objetivos delproyecto. De las reuniones sostenidas con la misi6n, se desprenden las siguientes
observaciones iniciales.
a.  FISE inici6 y mantuvo sus operaciones respondiendo a la demanda de solicitantes, cuya
situaci6n de pobreza fue verificada durante el proceso de evaluaci6n de las solicitudes.
b.  La demanda de sub-proyectos excedi6 considerablemente las estimaciones iniciales utilizadas
para dimensionar a FISE y sus recursos. La credibilidad que se gener6 en las comunidades
con las acciones y procedimientos del FISE en sus primeros afios de operaci6n fue una de las
principales razones del incremento de la demanda.
c.  La utilizaci6n de la matriz de focalizaci6n permiti6 a la instituci6n asignar las prioridades de
procesamiento y aprobaci6n de sub-proyectos, dentro de un marco de selecci6n tecnica.
d.  El FISE se constituy6 en una instituci6n de alta productividad, con personal tdcnico
especializado y directivo de completa dedicaci6n y capacidad. Los cambios de gobierno
afectaron estas caracteristicas. Adicionalmente, el organigrama estructural que se ha adoptado
en preparaci6n a la segunda etapa de FISE ha introducido nuevos niveles directivos, que de
alguna forma ha reducido la agilidad y el enfoque polifuncional del trabajo en equipo.
e.  El papel de los contratistas dentro de la promoci6n social ha sido cuestionado. En
retrospectiva, se anota que este mecanismo permiti6    que gran parte de los contratistas
asumieran un rol de agentes sociales,  al entablar una relaci6n estrecha con comunidades
pobres y bastante alejadas, y recibir la aceptaci6n de dichas comunidades como condici6n de
procesamiento del subproyecto. Para contrapesar las fallas de este  mecanismo, se
utiliz6 el sistema de costos del FISE que fij6 los precios tope de las adjudicaciones. Sin
embargo de lo anterior, no se utiliz6 una metodologia sistematica de evaluaci6n social para
definir con la comunidad su necesidad mas prioritaria.
f.  La coordinaci6n con los ministerios de linea e instituciones puiblicas ha tenido resultados
variables, que dependi6 del interes y la capacidad de las instituciones involucradas. Ejemplos
positivos de coordinaci6n fueron los entablados con la Secretaria de Saneamiento Ambiental,
CONADE, y BEDE.
- 27 -



g.  Segun los estudios realizados durante la ejecuci6n de FISE I, las obras construidas por el
proyecto cumplieron mayoritariamente con las condiciones tecnicas y son consideradas de
buena calidad.
h.  El incumplimiento en los aportes locales del Gobierno del Ecuador y fallas en la planificaci6n
de las necesidades de fondos del proyecto motiv6 que entre fines de 1995 e inicios de 1996 se
iniciara un deficit importante de financiamiento, que la instituci6n esta tratando de remediar
hasta la fecha.
i.  La atenci6n dada por el FISE al fortalecimiento de las ONGs y organizaciones de base fue
practicamente nula. La participaci6n de las ONGs en los sub-proyectos no fue satisfactoria; en
la mayoria de los casos las comunidades no las consideraron como sus representantes, y
predomin6 el interes institucional de la ONG por encima del servicio a la comunidad. Por
otro lado, sin embargo, la participaci6n en los sub-proyectos de las organizaciones populares
de base, en especial las de mujeres, fue determinante y exitosa.
j.  La participaci6n de los beneficiarios en la operaci6n y mantenimiento de los sub-proyectos,
una vez concluidos, ha variado de acuerdo al tipo de proyecto y a la regi6n. En la mayoria de
los casos falto la capacitaci6n temprana y oportuna para permitir sostenibilidad en la totalidad
de los proyectos.
2 Brindar a FISE la guia que requiera para la preparaci6n de su contribuci6n al ICR. La misi6n hizo
entrega a FISE de ejemplos de  prestatarios de otros paises, explic6 sobre el objetivo y contenido del
ICR y se puso a la disposici6n de la instituci6n para posibles dudas que tuviera el  equipo a cargo de
preparar la autoevaluaci6n delproyecto. Se acord6 que FISE hara entrega al Banco Mundial de dicha
autoevaluaci6n antes del 4 dejunio de 1998.
3.  Recopilar informaci6n estadistica requerida para el Informe Final de Evaluaci6n del proyecto (ICR).
En base a lo solicitado por la misi6n, FISE hizo entrega de informacion estadistica. Se acord6 que FISE
entregara al Banco, hasta el 25 de mayo de 1998, algunas tablas que requieren revisidn respecto al
tiempo de ejecuci6n.
Finalmente, y en seguimiento a lo acordado en la ultima visita de supervision, se anota que la
recuperaci6n de documentaci6n que estaba pendiente respecto al PPF- 148 EC, ha quedado solventada,
una vez que UNICEF, el Ministerio de Bienestar Social y el Ministerio de Trabajo y Recursos Humanos
hicieron entrega de los documentos que permitieron a FISE contabilizar los montos pendientes.
- 28 -



La misi6n deja constancia del efectivo apoyo recibido para la consecuci6n de los objetivos de esta visita
y agradece la cooperaci6n brindada por el Director Nacional y el personal de FISE.
Quito, 22 de mayo de 1998
fXrJorkTlyiXro Flore$                z ~~~~~~~Itiln. lFvclyn Pesanutez
Vireclto{enal         ~~ Jefe de Misi6n
FISEi                                              BANCO MUNDIAL
- 29 -






B.  Borrower's Contribution
Fondo de Inversion Social de Emergencia
FISE
,F. I ,s C
INFORME DE CIERRE
Banco Mundial - 3707-EC
- 31 -



INFORME DE CIERRE
CONVENIO DE PRESTAMO BANCO MUNDIAL (BIRF 3707-EC)
1. ANTECEDENTES DEL TERCER PROYECTO DE DESARROLLO SOCIAL
Los indices de pobreza en el Ecuador son bastantes altos. Estudios y estadisticas revelan que
aproximadamente el 48% de la poblaci6n urbana y el 85% de la poblaci6n rural vienen en pobreza,
equivalente al 63% del total de la poblaci6n, el 30% esta al borde de la indigencia; sin servicios basicos,
sin infraestructura minima, y sin posibilidades de emprender en actividades productiva en pequefia
escala.
Existen elevados indices de desocupaci6n y subocupaci6n en las ciudades y en el campo, abismos en la
calidad de vida urbano y rural, diferencias en niveles actuales de obtenci6n de servicios y en
perspectivas de progreso.
En el documento elaborado por el Banco Mundial denominado Staff Appraisol Report (SAR) se
describen ampliamente las razones de estas situaciones por la que atraviesa el pais. El 26 de enero de
1994 se termina la elaboraci6n de este documento, en el que se establecen los lineamientos para la
ejecuci6n del Tercer Proyecto de Desarrollo Social en el Ecuador; y que el FISE sera la Entidad
encargada de la ejecuci6n del proyecto.
2.      EL FONDO DE INVERSION SOCIAL DE EMERGENCIA
Con el objeto de desarrollar acciones complementarias a las actividades que efectua el Estado, a favor de
los grupos de mayor nivel de pobreza en zonas urbanas y rurales en donde no han Ilegado las redes de
servicios sociales, el Gobierno Ecuatoriano en marzo de 1993 crea el Fondo de Inversi6n Social de
Emergencia (FISE) como una instituci6n aut6noma, temporal, de coordinaci6n tecnica y financiera
adscrita a la Presidencia de la Republica del Ecuador.
El 7 de octubre de 1993 mediante Decreto Ejecutivo No. 1140-A publicado en el Registro Oficial No.
298 se establece que el FISE terminara sus actividades el 31 de diciembre de 1997.
El 30 de Octubre de 1996, mediante Decreto Ejecutivo 265 publicado en el Registro Oficial No. 61 del 5
de noviembre de 1996, se amplia la vigencia del FISE hasta el anio 2001.
3.     SECTOR DE INTERVENCION
Para el cumplimiento de los objetivos del Fondo, se han definido cuatro sectores de intervenci6n:
infraestructura, servicios sociales, desarrollo institucional y pequefias inversiones productivas.
3.1        Proyecto de infraestructura
Financia proyectos de construcci6n, mejoramiento y mantenimiento de infraestructura
social en salud, educaci6n, saneamiento ambiental, obras de uso comunitario y centros de
- 32 -



capacitaci6n que sirvan de soporte para el desarrollo de actividades econ6micas o
productivas por parte de los grupos sociales en situaci6n de pobreza.
3.2        Proyectos de servicios sociales
Financia proyectos que beneficien a la poblaci6n en situaci6n de alto riesgo, de menores
ingresos y vulnerables, focalizados por el FISE, que por sus especificas circunstancias
especiales es muy dificil satisfacer sus necesidades basicas y mejorar sus niveles de
ingresos. Se pone especial enfasis en la atenci6n inmediata a los grupos sociales en
situaci6n de pobreza.
3.3        Desarrollo institucional
Este componente articula acciones de las Organizaciones No Gubemnamentales, y los
proyectos de posible financiamiento son: Comites de Gesti6n y Mantenimiento y Gerencia
Social.
3.4        Pequefias inversiones productivas con reciclaje social.
Constituye inter6s del FISE financiar proyectos productivos, cuyos beneficiarios sean
empresas asociativas de hecho o de derecho, pre-cooperativas y cooperativas, mediante la
dotaci6n de activos fijos y de capital de operaci6n. Los fondos que regresan deben ser
invertidos en proyectos de infraestructura en la misma comunidad.
4.     SISTEMA OPERATIVO DEL FISE
La operaci6n del Fondo de Inversi6n Social de Emergencia contempla un ciclo de proyectos que parte
de la promoci6n de su oferta y de sus actividades, continua con la recepci6n de los proyectos sobre la
base de la demanda de los grupos beneficiarios y de la evaluaci6n ex-ante con la aplicaci6n de criterios
de programacion, selecci6n, priorizaci6n y evaluaci6n de los recursos de los beneficiarios de los
proyectos y de los ejecutores, para concluir con la ejecuci6n misma de los programas y proyectos, el
seguimiento y supervisi6n de las diferentes fases realizadas.
4.1        Refuerzo a las politicas de los sectores
Ha sido objetivo del FISE mejorar las condiciones de vida de los grupos mas pobres del
Ecuador; respondiendo a las necesidades expresadas por grupos que no han sido atendidos
por lo programas tradicionales de asistencia social existentes, poniendo enfasis en el
enfoque de genero y cuidado ambiental en la determinaci6n de los proyectos. Estos
objetivos se han materializado en gran medida, ya que el FISE en su vida operativa
institucional ha desarrollado una intensa actividad, habiendo aprobado proyectos por un
monto cercano a 100 millones de d6lares que ha significado para la poblaci6n marginal del
pais el acceso a mejores niveles de vida y avances en areas de educaci6n, salud basica y a
disponer de servicios vitales como agua potable, alcantarillado sanitario, caminos vecinales,
puentes, centros de capacitaci6n, guarderias, albergues; generando fuentes de trabajos
temporales, directos e indirectos, convirtiendose de esta manera en un soporte basico para
la reactivaci6n econ6mica del pais.
Con miras a lograr la eficiencia y evitar la duplicaci6n de esfuerzos, el FISE no ejecuta
directamente los proyectos, sino que actua como responsable de la revisi6n tecnica,
- 33 -



financiera e institucional de los mismos y controla su ejecuci6n, cuya responsabilidad esta a
cargo de las organizaciones promotoras.
4.2       Criterios de focalizaci6n e intervenci6n
Para asegurar que estos beneficios Ileguen a la poblaci6n objetivo el FISE ha adoptado una
estrategia de identificaci6n de areas de pobreza en tres etapas. en la primera, el tipo de
proyectos elegibles para el funcionamiento del FISE incluye salud primaria y servicios de
educaci6n, infraestructura basica tales como agua y alcantarillado, proyectos de apoyo a la
producci6n; y el respaldo para inversiones en pequefia escala de las propias comunidades de
base, las mismas que tienen que tener una orientaci6n hacia la satisfacci6n de las
necesidades de los mas pobres ubicados en los quintiles uno y dos. en la segunda etapa se
identifican beneficiarios prioritarios, tanto a nivel agregado como tambien dentro de cada
tipo de proyecto, por ejemplo mujeres, nifios y poblaciones etnicas especificas. Finalmente,
el FISE dispone de un sistema muy estricto de focalizacion cuyo instrumento es un
documento elaborado por el Banco Mundial "El Mapa de Pobreza" para proveer una
objetivizaci6n geografica de las zonas prioritarias de pobreza principalmente llegar a
aquellas donde el FISE aun no ha intervenido y asi evitar la asignaci6n de fondos hacia
zonas menos necesitadas.
5.     RELACION CON LOS FINANCIADORES
La acci6n del FISE ha sido posible gracias al apoyo del Gobierno Nacional, mediante el respaldo de su
gesti6n frente a los organismos intemacionales de credito, tales como Banco Interamericano de
Desarrollo, Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento, Banco Mundial, USAID, CARE, KfW, AECI, y
cooperaciones de paises amigos como Holanda, China, Jap6n, etc., y tambien porque cuenta con una
organizaci6n tecnica, institucional y administrativa eficiente, con transparencia en la toma de decisiones
y un avance en el proceso de descentralizaci6n de sus propias actividades.
El cambio de funciones encargados del seguimiento del Programa por parte del BIRF, provoc6 una
discontinuidad en el proceso, ya que cada uno tenia criterio diferente al planteado inicialmente.
Otro factor que repercuti6 en la ejecuci6n del Programa es que el Banco lleva dos proyectos
relacionados con saneamiento basico ambiental como es el FISE y el FASBASE, y nunca se pudo lograr
una unificaci6n de criterios a cerca de cuales politicas se debe seguir, si la de la Divisi6n de Pobreza o
de Saneamiento Ambiental dentro del Banco.
6.     PRINCIPALES BENEFICIOS DEL PROYECTO
6.1    Focalizaci6n
El FISE dirigio su acci6n a los quintiles mas pobres. En los quintiles I y 2 se concentr6
aproximadamente el 80% de los montos aprobados, seguin el estudio de DyA, el 60% de
las parroquias calificadas como indigenas fue atendida por al menos un subproyecto, se
aprobaron 1.554 subproyectos de parroquias calificadas como indigenas, por un valor
equivalente al 29,4% de los recursos aprobados por el FISE.
6.2    Transparencia
La transparencia en la toma de decisiones del FISE represent6 un modelo de referencia
para el necesario proceso de reformas del sector puiblico. Gracias a los procedimientos
- 34 -



tecnicos en los que se basa, la existencia de prioridades y de mecanismos para
establecerlos, han logrado desalentar las presiones en la asignaci6n de recursos, asi como,
irregularidades en la construcci6n.
6.3    Presencia en todo el territorio nacional
El FISE logr6 un notable avance en el proceso de descentralizaci6n de sus propias
actividades, pues practicamente todas las funciones centrales referidas al ciclo de
subproyectos han sido transferidos a las Oficinas Regionales.
7.     RIESGOS DEL PROYECTO
7.1           La coordinaci6n interinstitucional
Dentro de este entorno el desenvolvimiento del FISE fue complicado por la falta de
capacidad de coordinaci6n interinstitucional.
Si partimos del hecho que el FISE cuenta con Convenios Interinstitucionales con todos
los Ministerios y Organismos Nacionales, rectores de las actividades correspondientes a
las lineas de inversi6n del Fondo, es entonces natural pensar, que aquellos instrumentos
y compromisos interinstitucionales deben ser puestos en practica, pero la realidad es
que la infraestructura construida con fondos FISE no es monitoreada por la entidad
rectora de cada sector, asumiendo asi la corresponsabilidad de velar por la inversi6n del
Estado.
7.2           Contraparte local
La contraparte local financiada con recursos del Gobierno a traves del Ministerio de
Finanzas, por incumplimiento y fallas en la planificaci6n de las necesidades de fondos,
puso en riesgo la normal ejecuci6n del proyecto, cuyas consecuencias se reflejaron en
demoras en los pagos a los ejecutores de los proyectos.
8.  IMPACTO DEL PROYECTO
La opini6n generalizada tanto de los beneficiarios, como de solicitantes, asi como del mismo FISE, es de
que la instituci6n es eficiente en comparaci6n con las demas instituciones estatales.
El analisis de eficacia no da lugar a tanto optimismo, pues el caracter de obras de corto plazo y de poca o
ninguna globalidad de los proyectos FISE, con que hasta ahora se han manejado los proyectos, no
apunta a erradicar la pobreza sino tan solo a paliar alguno de sus efectos.
De entre los pocos impactos que han sido cuantificados es el de la generaci6n de empleo es el mas claro,
pues se ha generado trabajo para trabajadores calificados y no calificados de la construcci6n. Sin
embargo, estos grupos no constituyen la poblaci6n-meta.
- 35 -



9.     CONCLUSIONES
Efectuando un analisis de los objetivos planteados en el Convenio de Prestamo BIRF-3707-EC para la
ejecuci6n del Tercer Proyecto de Desarrollo Social y su grado de cumplimiento, tenemos los siguientes
resultados:
Objetivos y caracteristicas del FISE.
9.1   Objetivo General
El FISE persigue como objetivo fundamental financiar programas y proyectos que se generen en la
demanda de la poblaci6n (rural y urbana marginal) y se orienten a suplir las necesidades basicas de
los grupos vulnerables, especialmente de la poblaci6n mas pobre, complementando los proyectos
regulares y especiales que desarrolla el Estado.
9.2   Objetivos especificos
Elevar las condiciones y la calidad de vida de la poblaci6n en situaci6n de pobreza.
Indudablemente la dotaci6n de los servicios de agua potable, de alcantarillado, de aulas escolares,
de centros de salud, contribuye a que las carencias de las pobres disminuyan.
Focalizar las zonas y los grupos en situacion de riesgo, buscando cubrir sus carencias de
bienestar.
El FISE dirigi6 en acci6n a los quintiles mas pobres, sin embargo y tambien es claro que la
modalidad de atenci6n a la demanda favorece mas a los que conocen la existencia del FISE, a los
que tienen capacidad de preparar una solicitud viable y a los que cuentan con alguien que les ayude
Ilegar al FISE. De hecho, tambien es reconocido que las comunidades rurales mas pobres y
apartadas, son las que menos posibilidades de acceso tienen.
Construir un mecanismo de recepci6n de las demandas de la poblacion no atendida por las
instancias estatales y la canalizaci6n de las soluciones para esta demanda.
Con la organizaci6n institucional y administrativa, el FISE desde su creaci6n hasta el mes de mayo
de 1996, ha procesado 17.266 subproyectos dejando una cartera de 14.000 subproyectos de los
cuales financi6 4.934 subproyectos.
Lo indicado lleva a la necesidad de disefiar en el interior del Fondo, estrategias que permitan
implantar una planificaci6n racional para la recepci6n de subproyectos, ya que los 9.000
subproyectos no ejecutados crean un efecto negativo en las comunidades solicitantes.
Impulsarprocesos de auto-apoyo en la comunidad en general, estimulando suparticipaci6n y
organizaci6n.
Las evaluaciones indican la necesidad de mejorar la relaci6n de la instituci6n con las comunidades
beneficiarias debido a que en la mayoria de los casos la soluci6n a las necesidades se realizan con
proyectos standard que hace que la participaci6n de la comunidad sea casi nula.
- 36 -



Estimular laparticipacion en la gesti6n deprogramas yproyectos porparte de las organizaciones
populares, de las empresas asociativas y cooperativas, de la empresa privada, de las
organizaciones no gubernamentales y de entidades locales y seccionales descentralizadas.
La atenci6n dada por el FISE, a este item fue practicamente nula. La participaci6n de las ONG's en
los subproyectos de infraestructura no fue satisfactorio, en lo que se refiere a proyectos productivos
fue un fracaso total. Por otro lado, sin embargo, la participaci6n de los subproyectos de las
organizaciones populares de base, en especial las de mujeres, fue exitosa.
Impulsar la descentralizaci6n de las acciones tendientes a combatir la pobreza, canalizando la
participaci6n y elfortalecimiento de las entidades locales y seccionales.
El FISE ha logrado un notable avance en el proceso de descentralizaci6n de sus propias
actividades.
La acci6n del FISE puede y debe complementarse con las otras entidades actoras de proyectos
sociales con el objeto de fortalecer asi la descentralizaci6n y potenciar los limitados recursos del
Fondo.
Priorizar el gasto social en los sectores y zonas geograficas con mas altos indices de pobreza en
funci6n de lafocalizaci6n geografica yfuncional del FISE.
Existen algunas deficiencias en la asignacion regional de los recursos, pero es importante recalcar
que la focalizacion es una de las experiencias mas exitosas de ubicaci6n de recursos seguin el nivel
de pobreza. el FISE dirigi6 su acci6n a los quintiles mas pobres del Mapa de Pobreza.
- 37 -



C.    Letter From Borrower
9 PresiJencia de la 'J(spdbtwa  del                                       AKor
jfondo de 3nversion SOizl de Cmergencia
FlSE-GG-374-98
Quito, 1998.10.08
Ingeniera
Evelyn Pesantes
Oficial de Operaciones
BANCO MUNDIAL
Ciudad
De mi consideraci6n:
En atenci6n a su oficio DH-FI-226, adjunto al presente remito el resumen
de comentarios del FISE en relaci6n al Informe Final del Proyecto (ICR)
(Prestamo 3707-EC)
Atentamente,
-I-
Dr- Ing. Teodoro Abdo S.
GERENTE GENERAL
FISE
cym
Av. Gaspar de Villroel y caib El Sol, (esquina) . Teffs 253.960 * 2544006  254407 * Fax: 253-959 Ouito - Ecuador
GuaUYqu                       Portoviejo                      ca                           Lola
. g de Odubre y Pkhiod a         Av. Pedro Goal 1011 y       Av. GH RanmIrz Dkvas         BSalivar y Coltn (es5ta)
Edif. Bano del Pldh,cha Svo.piso    Garmis MIono Edif. Chan ler. piso    y A-Onnas eq.) s3er. piso  Edftio Aya 4to pco
Tsfl.: 0G32273 Fax: 04-322778  Telh.: 05-43771S * 056437719  Telh.: 07-861067 * 070962M  Tele: 07-577276 t77 - 07-577279
Fax: 05-652176         07-8a3963 - Fax: 07-807360
- 38 -



