Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZxA'  c7£7- :c-c
Report No. 12436-EC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ECUA 3R
THIRD SGCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
JANUARY 26, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12436 EC
Type: SAR
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units  =    Sucre (S/.)
S/. 1.00        =    US$0.000535
US$1.00         =    S/. 1,868
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
CONADE                     National Development Council
FISE                       Emergency Social Investtnent Fund
FODERUMA                  Marginal Rural Development Fund
FONADES                    Economic Solidarity Fund
GOE                       Government of Ecuador
IDB                       Inter-American Development Bank
IEOS                      Ecuadorian Institute of Sanitary Works
(Instituto Ecuatoriano de Obras Sanitarias)
IESS                      Ecuadorian Social Security Institute (Instituto
Ecuatoriano de Seguridad Social)
INEC                      National Institute of Statistics and Census
RiEM                      National Institute of Labor
INNFA                     National Juvenile and Family Institute
LAC                        Latin America and Caribbean Region
LSMS                      Living Standards Measurement Survey
NEC                       Ministry of Education and Culture
ivS                       Ministry of Social Welfare
MIS                       Management Information System
MSP                       Ministry of Public Health
MTRH                      Mnistry of Labor and Human Resources
NGOs                       Non-Governmental Organizations
PAAMI                     Mother and Child Feeding Program (Programa
de Asistencia Alimentaria Materno-Infantil)
PROE                      Employment Promotion Program
SECAP                     Ecuadorian Services for Professional Training
SEDRI                     Rural Development and Popular Advancement
PCNT                       First National Census of Height (Primer Censo
Nacional de Talla)
UNDP                       United Nations Development Program
UNICEF                    United Nations Children's Fund
UPS                        Social Policy Unit
USAID                     United States Agency for International
Development
SISVAN                    National System of Nutritional Vigilance
(Modulo Nacional del Vigilancia Alimentario
Nutricional)
This document has  restricted distributon and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oficlal duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ECUADOR
THMRD SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SNUMMARY  .              .....................  i
1. INTRODUCTION ................................1 
2. ECONOMIC SETTING AND SECTORAL CONTEXT ..1...... 
A. Economic Setting ............................ 1
B. Poverty in Ecuador ........................... 3
C. Social Conditions: Indicators, Accessibility and Quality ...... 4
D. Institutional Setting .........   ................... 5
E. Social Expenditure and Fincing ....... ........... 9
3. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY AND RATIONALE FOR BANK
INVOLVEMENT .........                                         10
A. Government's Strategy  .........  10
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement .........  11
C. Lessons from Experience .........  12
4. THE PROJECT .... ...... 14
A. Origin of the Project ..........  14
B. Framework of the Emergency Social Investment Fund  ..... 15
C. Project Objectives  .........     .................. 16
D. Detaied Description ........      .................. 16
5. PROJECT IMPLENiENTATION  .........              ............ 19
A. Implementation Arrangements .................... 19
B. FISE Organizational Structure and Functions .... ....... 19
C. Participatory Aspects of FISE Interventions ..... ....... 20
D. Major Participants in the Sub-Project Cycle  .... ....... 21
E. Identification of Target Population  ....... .......... 21
F. Sub-Project Promotion, Identification and Preparation  ... 22
G. Sub-Project Appraisal and Approval ......    .......... 23
H. Sector Coordination       .......................... 25
I. Sub-Project Contracting, Execution and Supervision .... ... 26
J. Monitoring and impact Evaluation .................. 27
K. Envirommental Impact ...........        .............. 30



6. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENTS  ........                 ..................... . 30
A. EtimtedCostsandF inaningPlan ................ 30
B. Procurement ............................... 33
C. Disbursement  .............................. 37
D. Accounts and Auditing   ........................ 39
E. Reporting, Mid-Term Review and Supervision  .......... 39
7. BENEFITS AND RISKS   .......................... 41
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .... 42
ANNEXES
Annex A: NGOsinEcuador ........................... 44
Annex B: "Social Funds" and Other Financing Mechanisms   ....            ... 52
Annex C: FISE's Relationship with Other Bank-Financed Projects .... 57
Annex D: FISE Executive Decree   ....................... 62
Annex E: Eligbility Criteria ........................... 70
Annex F: Training and Technical Assistance   ................ 76
Annex G: Outline of Operational and Administrative.Manuals ....          .... 81
Annex H: Structure and Functions of FISE  .................. 85
Annex I:  FISE's Sub-Project Cycle  ...................... 88
Anex J:  Poverty Targetn  Strategy of FISE  ................ 90
Annex K: Sector Coordination Matrix  ..................... 99
Annex L: FISE Performance Indicators .................... 103
Annex M: Beneficiary Assessment and Impact Evaluations   ..           ...... 106
Annex N: Detailed Project Costs  .         ......................  112
Annex 0: Procuremnent Review ......................... 116
Annex P: Disbursment Forecast ..........                .............  118
Annex Q: Mid-Term  Review ........................... 120
Annex R: Bank Supervision Requirements ................... 125
Annex S: Documents Included in Project File  ......            .......... 128
Tbis report is basa d on the fndins of an Apprial mission which visited Ecador during
Sepmber 20-Octber 7, 1993 comprised of Messrs/Mmes. J. Van Domden (Mission
Leader, LA4HR); T. Carroil (Community Development Specast, Consltant); A. Godinez
(Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, Consultant); J.P. Faguet (Socia Fund Implemenaion
Speciist, Resident Mission/Bolivia); A. Artaza (Operations Assistant, Consultant); M.
Mena (Summer Intern, LA4HR); M. Rieth (Institutional Speaist, Bank Office/to); A.
Gonzalez (Adnistrative Secretary, LA4HR); and A. MacLean (Administation and Finance
Specialist, Consultant) who travel to Quito prior to the mission. Prior contibutions to
project preparation were made by E. Javier (Economist, LA4HR); S. Gohari (Operations
Officer, LA4HR); and M. Mercado (Social Statics, Monitoring and Evaluation Speciaist,
Consultant). Assistace in the production of the report was provided by J. Fernandez
(Senior Staff Assistant, LA4HR). Division Chief: J. Schweitzer (LA4HR); Director. P.-C.
Loh (LA4DR)



ECUADOR
TRIRD SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Bonrower:           Republic of Ecuador
Beneficirwy:        Emergency Social Investment Fund (FISE)
Amount:             US$30.0 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayments in 20 years with five years of grace at
the Bank's standard variable rate.
Project Objectives:   The principal objective of the proposed project is to
support the start-up and operations of the Emergency
Social Investment Fund (FISE), to assist the
Govermment in its efforts in poverty alleviation and
compensation for vulnerable groups presently
unreached by traditional mechanisms. The project
would support the Government in: (a) establishing
an efficient, complementary and demand-driven
mechanism for delivering basic services and
infrasucture to the poor utilizing NGOs, conmunity
organizations and local decentralized agencies; (b)
channeling additional resources to social assistance,
basic infrastucture and small-scale productive
activities; (c) demonstrating transparent and efficient
approaches to project selection, management and
administration; (d) strengthening the mstitutional
capacity of NGOs and grassroots organizations; and
(e) increasing beneficiary participation in poverty
alleviation efforts.
Project Description:  The proposed project would consist of (a) support for
sub-projects (US$108.8 million base cost) approved
by FISE in the areas of social infrastructure, socio-
economic infrastructue, social services, institutional
development, and productive community investnents;
and (b) institutional support for FISE (JTS$9.2
million base cost), including personnel and other
operating expenses, vehicles and equipment, and
technical assistance and training.



- ii -
Expected Benefits:    Benefits of the proposed project would be: (a)
alleviating poverty through a combined effect ot
improvements in the access to and quality of basic
social and physical infrastructure, social services,
trdining and investments in productive community
activities along with short-term employment
generation for low-skill workers; (b) s rengthening
the capacity of NGOs, grassroots organizations and
decentralized agencies to prepare and implement
projects, (c) promoting the participation of
beneficiaries in the design and implementation of
programs oriented to their expressed needs, and (d)
mobilizing and effectively targeting additional
resources for urgently deeded social investments
essential to poverty alleviation.
Risks and Safeguards: Risks facing the proposed project relate to: (a)
political interference and bureaucratization which
would compromise FISE's autonomy, credibility and
effectiveness, (b) potential shortfalls in counterpart
fmancing, which has proved to be an endemic risk in
Ecuador, (c) problems with sub-project quality in the
field, and (d) lack of coherence and coordination
with other activities. To address the risk in (a),
FISE has been established as an autonomous agency
under the Presidency, with transparent and efficient
operating procedures. To address (b) the Bank will
monitor closely the meeting of counterpart
commitments. Features to address (c) include on-site
supervisors to be contracted as part of sub-project
costs, independent sub-project quality reviews,
impact evaluations, and intensive oversight from
donor agencies through the establishment of an ad-
hoc International Review Board. To address (d),
FISE has incorporated sector norms into its appraisal
criteria, and has entered into signed coordinating
agreements with key sector ministries specifying sub-
project review procedures.
P,verty Category:    Program of Targeted Interventions



- iii -
(US$ million)
Estmated Costs aI              Local    Foreign    Total   Percent of Base
Project Component
FISEW Instittonal Support        7.99       1.22     9.2              7.7
FISE Sub-Projects
Social Infrastructure          42.97      16.41    59.38           49.7
Socioeconomic Infras.          28.71       7.18    35.89            30.0
Social Services                 5.10       4.04    9.14             7.6
Institutional Development       1.09       0.00     1.09            0.9
Productive Comm. Invest.        2.00       1.26     3.26            2.7
Subtotal Sub-Projects           79.87      28.89   108.76            90.9
Project Preparation (PPIF)       1.20       0.30     1.50             1.3
Total Base Cost                 89.07      30.41   119.48           100.0
Physical Contingencies h/      0.09       0.02     0.11
Price Contingencies b/         0.38       0.03     0.41
TOTAL PROJECT COST cI           89.54      30.46   120.00
v7nancing Plan                 Local    Foreign    Total  Percent of Total
Government of Ecuador            9.2        2.8    12.0          10.0
USAID/GOE                        2.9        1.6      4.5         3.8
IBRD                            19.9        9.1    30.0         25.0
IDB                             20.7        9.3    30.0          25.0
UNICEF                           0.1        0.0      0.1         0.1
UNDP                             0.1        0.0      0.1         0.1
Govanment of Spain               0.6        0.2      0.8         0.7
Beneficiaries & Sponsors        19.9        1.9    21.8          18.2
Other Donors                    15.1        5.6    20.7          17.3
TOTAL FINANCING                 89.5       30.5   120.0         100.0
Estimated IBRD Disbursement            FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98
Annual                                 6.0  11.5  8.5  3.4  0.6
Cunive                                 6.0  17.5  26.0  29.4  30.0
Economic Rate of Return: n.a.
if Total may not add due to reouing.
k/ Physical and Price Contingencies apply only to FISE ltitional Support Component.
rI Net of taxes and duties



- iv -
ECUADOR
Third Social Development Project
Basic Soclo-economic lndicators
Data         Year
A. GENERAL COUNTRY DATA:
1. Toa Area (thousands of square kilometers)                             284
2. Total Population (millions)                                            10.8          1991
3. Urban Populdon as a percentage of total population                     57            1991
4. Population in Capital City
as a percentage of Urban                                              21            1990
as a percentage of Total                                              12            1990
S. GNP per Capita (US dollars)                                          1,000           1991
6. Average aa        infation (perentage). 1980-1991                      38
B. POPULATION DATA:
1. Cnrde Birth Rate (per 1.000 populadon)                                 30            1991
2. Crude Death Ratk  er 1,000 populaton)                                   7            1991
3. Total Fertilt Rate (births per woman)                                   3.7          1991
4. Women of Childbearing Age as a percentage of All Women                 50            1991
5. Married women of childbearing age using contacepion (percentage)'      53            1989
6. Maternal mortality (per 100,000 live births)                           156           1988
7. Average Annual Growth of Population, 1991-^000                          2.1
8. Age Strucire of population (eret_ ge)
14 and under                                                          38.9          1991
15-64                                                                 58.9          1991
D. HEALTH DATA:
1. Life Expectancy at Birth (years)
OveHall                                                              66            1991
Female                                                               69            1991
Male                                                                 64            1991
2. Inant Motality Rate (per 1.000 live bifths)                           47            1991
3. Maternal Morality Rate (per 100,000 live births)                      156           1988
4. Under-s Morality Rate (per 1,000 live births)
Female                                                               56            1991
Male                                                                 62            1991
S. Population per Physician                                              980           1990
6. Population per Nurse                                                  620           1990
7. Birth attended by health staff (per tage)                             27            1985
8. Babies with Low Birth Weight (percentage)                             10            1985
9. Access to Safe Water (percentage of population)'                      70
Urban                                                                87
Ruml                                                                 49
10. Health Expenditures as percentage of total government                 11            1991
expenditures
E. EDUCATION DATA:
1. Total Adult Iiteracy Rate (percentage)                                14            1990
of which Female                                                       16           1990
2. Pnimay School Enrollment (percentage of age group)                    97            1970
of which Female                                                      95            1970
3. Primary pupi/teacher ratio                                            38            1970
4. Secondary School Enrollment (percentage of age goup)                  22            1970
of which Female tpercevntge)                                         23            1970
5. Total Tertiaty Educaton Emolment (percentage)                         20            1990
6. Education Expenditsmas percenitage of tDtal goverunemenexpenditures    18.2         199
Nata mcride women wlws busbands prctce co_mton.
Sorces: Wold Developent Report 1993: Investng in  lh, Washington D. C., Tne World Bank-Oxford Univ. Press, 1993.
a SoW adctors of Development 1993, Washington D. C., Tle World Bank-Johns Hopkins Univ. Press, 1993.



THIIRi SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
SrAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. !NTRODUCTION
1.1   The development chaenges facing Ecuador today stem from the
econ-mic crises of the 1980s, when extemal shocks from falling oil prices
and the ensuing debt crisis called into question the prevailing strategy of
rapid expansion in the size and scope of the State. The need for economic
stabilization and structural reforms, combined with a growing concern over
how best to address chronic and pervasive poverty conditions, compelled the
Administration that took office in 1992 to put forth a new agenda. The
Jovermnent's strategy seeks an increasing emphasis on sound economic
management and poverty alleviation, structural changes in the role of the
State, and a greater reliance on private sector-led growth. While reformng
the public sector is a long-term process, the need for addressing basic needs
and poverty alleviation is immediate and made all the more pressing by the
short-term social costs of several of the economic stabilization and adjustment
measures.
1.2  In response to this situation, in March 1993 the Government created
the Emergency Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversidn Social de
&mergencia-FISE) as an autonomous ageny under the Office of the
President. FISE is designed as a temporary, demand-driven mechanism to
tact and target additional resources to benefit low-income groups.
Patterned after the successful experience of social funds in other countries in
the region, FISE would finance small-scale projects covering basic social and
physical infrastucture, social services, and productive support which take
advage of the full range of implementing agencies in Ecuador, including
NGOs and grassroots organitions, regional and local authorities and
decentalized public agencies. The proposed project would support the
operations of the Emergency Social Investment Fund with a World Bank loan
of US$30 million, as part of FISEs US$120 million total program through
1997. In addition to financial support, the Ban's role is catalytic in bringing
international experience to bear on the design and operation of FISE and in
leveraging additional funds through coordination with other external donors.
2. ECONOMIC SETTING AND SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Economic Setting
2.1 Ecuador enjoyed a period of significant growth during the 1970's and
achieved notable improvements in social welfare. An oil boom and the
massiv external borrowig that this made possible, led initally to increased
prosperity. Gross domesdc product grew by an annual average of 9% and



-2 -
real per capita income almost doubled in ten years, placing Ecuador among
the middle income countries. The Govermment's size and involvement in the
ecoe tmy increased substantially, including an expansion of subsidies and
service delivery.
2.2  In the 1980s, the debt crisis and the fall in oil prices strained the
Government's ability to continue this strategy. Budget deficits fueled
inflation and economic growth declined to an average of two percent per
annum, representing an erosion in real per capita income. Sporadic attempts
at stabilization and structural reform yielded limited results. There were
important improvements in the trade, finance and tax strctures, but little
progress was achieved in reforming the public sector, and there was
significant deterioration in the institutional capacity of the government to
manage the economy and deliver essential services.
2.3   Since the late 1980s, public frustration has grown with the failed
attempts to rmestablish economic growth, the Government's inability to meet
the basic needs of the population, the deterioration in publicly-provided
services and the general decline in living standards. Successive stabilization
programs have yielded impr .ements in fiscal policy, lower inflation, and
improvements in the external accounts, but reversals in policy due to political
pressure or adverse economic shocks often nullified the initial gains.
2.4  In 1992, a new Administration took office on a platfbrm to reduce
inflation and modernize the economy. Knowledge about the success of
reform efforts elsewhere in Latn America and the perception that Ecuador
was filing behind its neighbors are believed to have played an important part
in the outcome of this election. The new Administration immediately
intrduced a comprehensive stabilization and reform package: the Plan
Macroeconomico de Estabilizaci6n: Inicio de la Refonna. Among the
principal stabilization measures taken, the Government raised the domestic
price of petroleum derivatives by 115 percent and electricity tariffs by 120
percent, cut public expenditures and employment, targeted 14 public agencies
for elimination, and devalued the sucre by over 30 percent. The Government
attempted to mitigate the program's initial impact on the poor by maintaining
subsidies for small users of electricity, expanding targeted food and nutrition
programs and approving a 12 percent increase in the minimum wage.
Results of the stabilization policies have thus far been encouraging: the public
sector deficit has been reduced, foreign exchange reserves have recovered
and inflation has decline to its lowest level in five years (slightly above one
percent monthly). The Government is sustaining discussions with the IMF
with a view to establishing a Stand-By Agreement.
2.5   To complement the stabilization measures, the Government has
outlined a far-reaching structwal reform agenda, which entails a basic
redefinition of the role of the state, switching to private-sector led
development while S   ing the public sector's ability to provide basic
public services. The basic elements of the public sector reform program



- 3 -
include: further reduction in subsidies for pLt.'c services, moderization and
downsizing of the public sector, privatization and decalization. Some
measures have aready been taken. Congiess has approved several nuw laws,
including: a comprehensive Budget Law that will greatly increase fiscal
control; a Modermization of the State Law that will provide the legal basis for
the public sector reform program; and an amendment to the Hydrocarbons
Law which will allow domestic petroleum and energy prices to flly reflect
border prices. The Government Alas accelerated trade and financial market
liberaiation and streamlined foreign investment regulations. Given
Ecuador's record of fragility of stabilization and reform efforts, particularly
in the face of growing social unrest, the challenge to the Government will be
to undertake these strctural reforms without a weakening of resolve. At the
same time the Government must strive to ensure that the benefits of growth
are equitably distributed and that the general conditions of poverty,
exacerbated during the "lost decade" of the 1980s, are redressed.
B. Poverty in Ecuador
2.6   Poverty has been historically widespread and income distribution
highly skwwed in Ecuador. Due to different definitions of poverty, it is
difficult to point to its precise magnitude and, consequently, estimates of
poverty cover a wide range. The latest nationwide poverty study (1990),
carried out by the National Institute of Labor (INEM) uses a basic
consumption basket approach which concluded that 48 percent of the urban
population and 85 percent of the rural population live in poverty, equivalent
to 63 percent of the total population. In the rural areas, the poorest groups
include landless laborers, women and particularly female headed-households,
and the indigenous population. All of them suffer from limited access to
education, social infrastructure and productive assets. With few alternative
earning possibilities, they are particularly vulnerable to economic downturns.
Rural-urban migration increased dramatically as a consequence of widespread
rural poverty. In urban areas, fmale headed-households, working minors
and the un- and under-employed have been identified as particularly
vulnerable groups. Poverty is higher among workers in the informal sector-
small frmers, smaUll manufactring workers, street vendors, craftsmen and
domestic workers- which employs 36 percent of the economically active
population.
2.7    While some benefits of the oil boom of the 1970s reached the poor,
mostly through increased but highly unequal access to social services,
poverty has increased over the last ten years. Sustained inflation and low
economic growth have caused average per capita real inomes to decline to
their 1978 levels. Salaries as a share of national income have declined
significantly, representing a shift of employment from the formal to the
informal sector and a rise in un- and under-employment. There has been a
lawe influx of nual poor into both urban centers and the environmentally
file Amazon region in searh of jobs and land. A December 1992 study



by the National Institute of Statistics and Census (INEC) determined that the
purchasing power of the typical urban poor family has been reduced by little
over a half during the last decade. While the general decline during the late
1980's is apparent, there is little analysis of the specific effects of
stabilization and adjustment measures on the poor, nor an assessment of
which groups were most affected. Elimination of subsidies, changes in
relative prices, reductions in public sector employment, and general demand-
restrictive policies produced both direct and indirect effets, but the
magnitude of the impact on the rurl versus urban poor, or workers in
various sectors, has not been explored. Tb define further the dynamics of
poverty in Ecuador, including the effects of macroeconomic policies, the
Bank has initiated a Poverty Assessment, scheduled for completion in FY95.
C. Social Conditions: Indicators, Accessibility and Quaity
2.8   Despite major improvements in social welfare indicators during the
1970's, chiefly in basic health and education, social conditions remain
precarious, especially in rural and urban slum areas, and among women and
children. The overall health status in Ecuador still rak among the lowest
in Latin America. Infant mortality, which was reduced by half in the 1970's,
is still high (47 per 1000 live births in 1991) and its range of 20 in selected
urban areas to 150 in small rural communities further reflects striking
regional and income disparities. Maternal mortality of 156 per 100,000 live
births in 1989 is among the highest in Latin America. High fertility rates
exacerbate maternal mortality and, combined with early age marriage,
especially among indigenous groups, and limited use of modern contraception
in the mral areas, has led to a population growth rate of about 2.6% (2.8 in
rural areas), well above regional averages.
2.9   Malnutrition is a maJor contributing factor to the county's high rates
of mortality and morbidity among infants, young children and mothers.
Energy-protein malnutrition, anemia and goiter are the most pressing
malnutrition problems. The most recent national nutrition survey (1986)
indicated that the prevalence of chronic malnutrition among children under
the age of five was 55 percent, and that the preva.ence of acute malnutrition
was 4 percent. Survey data show that there are marked regional variations,
with chronic and overall malnutrition generally higher in the Sierra
(highlands) than in the Costa (coastal areas), and that the prevalence of rual
malnutrition is about double that in urban areas.
2.10 Poor health status reflects limited access to basic health care, safe
water and sanitation services, and education. Only about 50 percent of the
population has adequate access to basic health services. An estimated one-
third of all children are not fully immnunizd. There also exists a sectorl
bias towards curative care over preventative health care, health promotion
and education activities and an inadequate targeting towards mral and urban
poor populations.



-5 -
2.11  Ecuador has achieved relatively high levels of coverage with its
educational services, with the exception of pre-school. Net eErollment in
primary education is greater than 90%, but enrollment ratios are lower in
rural ama and in marginal urban areas, where children in general do not
receive an adequate foundation of knowledge and skills, repeat grades and
evenually drop out of school. Average repetition rates are high at 21
percent for the primary level, with the situation in schools serving the poor
even more critical. Some observers believe that no more than half the
children from low-income areas achieve a fulI primary education.
2.12 Low educational quality is in part due to a shortage of educational
input and inadequate infastruture. In particular, there is a serious shuortage
of textbooks in public schools with the result that most time is taken up
copying text rather than teaching. In addition, there are shortages of
teaching materials -maps, blackboards, teacher's guides, etc.- inadequate
maintenance of schools and serious overcrowding in some urban schools.
Educational opportnites are less accessible to the indigenous populations,
who typically suffer language barriers, problems of inter-cultural adaptation
and some degree of discrimination.
2.13 Water and sanitation indicators show poor coverage, particularly in
rural areas. Only 45 percent of the rural population have access to safe
waer and 38 percent have sewerage coverage. While coverage is higher in
urban areas, urban growth has outstripped the ability of public investments to
keep pace with the overwhelming increase in demand for services and
infrastructr and as a result, coverage levels have decreased. Only 69
percent of the urban population had access to drinkg water in their houses
in 1987, down from 75 percent in 1982; and only 53 percent had access to
adequate sewage facilities compared to 62 percent in 1982. Secondary cities
have least been able to keep pace with urban growth. The percentage of
fmilies without potable drinking water was over twice as high in
municipalites with 25,000 to 50,000 inhabitants than in Quito and Guayaquil.
On a micro-level, there are considerable deficiencies in water and sanitation
facilites within health centers, schools and other public service
infrastruce, thereby increasing overall health risks. Gaps in water and
sanitation services tend to mirror the poverty contours of the country: two-
thirds of those not covered by water or sanitation services belong to the
lowest-income groups.
D. Instittional Setting
2.14 Social services in Ecuador are provided by central ministries, regional
and local goverment agencies, the for-profit private sector, and non-
governmenl organizations (NGOs). While the public sector has been
directly responible for the provision of most social services, NGOs have
become more active in low-income areas and among vulnerable groups.
"--   se't',ntnli7ation of the Dublic sector progresses, local



governments bave been playing an increasingly important role in the
provision of selected social services and infrastucr. This span of agencies
across sectors, geogmphical regions and areas of expertise and intervention
presens a major challenge of coordination for the Government. Risks of
dispersion of efforts, duplication of actions and lack of clarity in setting
overall priorities in such a complex institutional environment abound.
2.15 The Publi Sector. Responsibility for overall coordination lies with
the National Development Council (CONADE). In conjunction with the
Ministry of Finance, CONADE oversees the annual exercises in preparing
plans, progrms and budgets of the different sector ministries. In addition,
CONADE issues a consolidated multi-year development plan which highlights
general policy directions and priority programs. While this represents an
important step in improving coordination, these exercises have had limited
impact on real resources flows, particularly given the high degree of
earmarked funds in the past. To strengthen the presence and power of the
social sector ministries, in November 1988 the previous administration
established the Frente Socwl (in complement to the Frente Econ&uco)
comprised of CONADE and the ministries of social welfare (as head), health,
ducation and labor. The goal was to raise the profile of poverty alleviation
in the Government's agenda and to develop complementary objectives,
strategies and ivestment programs. While the former has in some measure
been achieved, the latter has been difficult to translate into operational terms.
2.16 The Govenment has a multitude of ministries, agencies and programs
involved in the provision of social services, both at the central and local
levels. At the centrl level, in health, the main agencies include the
Ministry of Public Health (MSP); the autonomous Ecuadorian Social Security
nstitute (IESS); the Armed Forces Health Service and small programs under
the responsibility of other public agencies. Public sector programs reach
only an esfimated one-third to one-half of the population and have tended to
be biased towards curative rather than preventative services, particularly the
IESS. In nutrition, various programs are managed by the sector ministries
in the areas of health, education, labor and social welfre and the National
Juvenile and Family Institute (INNFA). In general, programs have tended to
be scattred, poorly targeted, with limited coverage and impact, and almost
all restricted to the distribution of subsidized food according to changing
stocks each year. The education sector is highly centralized, with the
Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC) responsible for primary and
secondary education. Vocational education, including training programs for
intbrmal sector workers, is under the Ecuadorian Services for Professional
mining (SECAP), affiliated with the Ministry of Labor and Human
Resources (MTRH). In soial welfare, the main agencies responsible for
providing genemal social assistance are the Ministry of Social Welfare (MBS)
and INNS, wbich carry out a mixtre of small programs devoted to the
protection of handicapped persons, the elderly, children, women, indigenous
populations and other vulnerable groups. The MBS also carries out a
progam through its Sub-Secretarat of Rral Development to impmve the



productive capacity of the rural poor through a series of integrated ural
development projects.
2.17 At the sub-entral level, regional entities and municipalities carry out
the bulk of investments in wat supply and sanitatioen, although at the
central-level, the Ecuadorian Institute of Sanitary Works (IEOS), an affiliate
of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development, has responsibility for
planning and norms in the sector and provision of infrstrcre for the rural
population. In general, the sector suffers from severe institutional
deficiencies and overlapping responsibilities, resulting in negligible cost
recovery and large losses. In addition to water and sanitation, municipal
governments together with regional development corporations and provincial
councils provide a great deal of the basic physical infrastructure needs
(secondary and feeder roads, bridges, drainage and other public works) of
low-income communities, both urban and rural. In general, resource
constrains of the last ten years have slowed expansion of basic infrastructure
and reduced mainenamce sharply.
2.18 Institutional Capacity. The major public insfitutions in the social
sectors face common institutional constraints to meeting poverty alleviation
objectives. These constrains include: (a) overly centralized, complex and
antiquated oranizational structures and operating procedures, (b) difficulties
in recruiting and maintaining adequate technical staff given the prevaiing low
saries, (c) limited capacity to plan programs and make resource allocation
decisions, (d) inability to execute budgets due to weak management and
administrative capacity and burdensome rules and procedures, and (e)
inadeqate attendon to locally-generated initiatives and, relatedly, beneficiary
participation. The Government has undertaken to address many of these
issues both in the public sector as a whole as well as within specific sector
ministries through externally-financed institutional development efforts.
Nevertheless, institutional capacity will continue to pose serious constraints
on poverty alleviation in the short-term, as it is expected that these reforms
will take several years to become system wide and of a depth to yield
significant results.
2.19  Non-Goenmtal Organzations. NGOs have become increasingly
importat actors in basic service provision and poverty alleviation (see Annex
A for details on NGOs in Ecuador). Defined as developmental intermediary
organizations that work with and channel resources to the poor, estimates of
the mnmber of NGOs in Ecuador are on the order of 500 to 600. While
some charitable organizations have existed for over 100 years, the rapid
growth and prominence of NGOs in the country has developed in the past 30
years, with a marked increase over the last ten years partially as a
consequence of the worsening socio-economic situation and the contraction of
government social expendiures. According to a recent UNDPtAttentiwv
inory, the majority of NGOs define themselves as multi-sectoral (32%),
while half operate exclusively in social fields (education, health, and
"improvements in living conditions"). Though concentrated in the areas of



- 8 -
Quito, Guayaquil and Cuenca, the geographic reach of NGOs is extensive
and in certain isolated rural areas, NGOs provide a defacto substitution for
the State in the provision of social services and infrastructure. Nonetheless,
it is clear that there remain many poor zones where neither NGOs nor the
Govermnent reach. As 'he number and capacity of NGOs has increased,
several networks have been established to share information, coordinate
activities and seek a united effort to negotiate relations and policies with the
State.
2.20 In addition to the intermediate type of NGOs described above,
elements of the Catholic Church hold considerable importance in the
delivery of social services and assistance. In fact, some of the social
programs of the Church, such as supplementary school lunches, or children
at risk, have a wider coverage than that of the government agencies.
Moreover, in the most remote areas, the Church is often the only local
organizational presence and has served as a catalyst in bringing basic services
to the population.
2.21  An additional type of non-governmental organization of importance in
the institutional setting of Ecuador are grassroots organizations, which are
comprised of the beneficiaries themselves. Such organizations include
community groups, women's groups, urban neighborhood groups and
indigenous organizations (comunas). In the past, these groups have had
virtually no access to nor support from traditional channels of development
assistance. However, experience has demonstrated the importance of
beneficiary participation in the design, execution, operations and maintenance
and ultimate sustainability of poverty alleviation efforts. Like the more
traditional NGOs, these organizations have grown considerably in number
and strength in the last ten years. For instance, one study puts the number of
women's organizations in Ecuador at 1,500. Quito alone is said to have
about 100 women's groups engaged in productive activities. In rural areas,
most women's organizations have been promoted by intermediary NGOs,
originally for more traditional type projects (embroidery, knitting) but more
recently for production and marketing of basic food items, and also for
training in health and nutrition.
2.22 The overall implementation capacity of NGOs and beneficiary
organizations varies greatly and remains largely untested. While difficult to
generalize about such a heterogeneous group, the demonstrated strengths of
NGOs in Ecuador include: (a) use of participatory approacnes to and
beneficiary invwovement in implementation of development programs, (b)
knowledge ox local context, especially in rural areas not reached by
Grovernment programs, (c) orientation to poor and specific vulnerable groups,
and (d) concern with exercising a 'demand-pull' on government services and
with making demands for good governance. These strengths tend to be
tenapered with shortcomings in the areas of limited coverage, lack of
efficiency in economies of scale, little or no impact on wider policy issues,



-9-
spotty monitoring and evaluation procedures, and in many instances, weak
management and administrative structures.
E. Social Expenditure and ESnancing
2.23 About two-thirds of social service expenditures are financed by the
Government. The remaining one-ird is financed by direct household
expenditures -mostly in the upper-half of the income distribution- on private
education and health. These figures do not include financing which is
channeled through NGOs, for which there is very little reliable information.
The resources for public social expenditures are mostly (about 80%) provided
through the Central Government budget, although some public sector
agencies, such as IESS, SECAP, IEOS and the universities have access to
other resources, including earmarked funds. Internal generation of resources
through cost recovery and user fees is negligible, firther impeding efficiency
and equity.
2.24 ITrends in Expenditures. After the oil-driven public spending boom
of the 1970s, overall government investment and expenditures declined
markedly over the last decade, a trend which was even more acute m the
social sectors. Social sector expenditures as a share of the Central
Government budget (not including autonomous institutes) declined steadily
from 54.8% in 1980 to 45.8% in 1985 and 39.6% in 1990, and as a share of
GDP from 11.4% in 1980 to 7.7% in 1990. This fail in social spending was
not uniform. Education expenditures fell sharpest, by about 40%, and its
share in GDP declined from 5.3% to 3.2%. The level of public health
spending, already low by comparison with Latin American counties of
similar income, remained at a stable share of GDP - about 1.9 percent - until
the late 1980s, but declined to 1.4 percent of GDP in 1990. Expenditure
cuts combined with short-falls in revenue collection severely affected vanous
earmarked social programs within several of the social sector ministries and
agencies. By 1990, real government social expenditure per capita was about
65 percent of its 1980 level. This drop in public spending has had an impact
on the coverage and quality of service delivery. Salaries have eroded,
creating recruitment and performance disincentives, and the financing of
essential inputs and maintenance has been vitWally eliminated. Moreover,
the lack of counterpart financing for social investments has hampered the
execution of numerous externally-financed projects.
2.25 Inidence of Expenditures. In general, public expenditures in the
social sectors have been poorly targeted and subsidies have tended to favor
middle and upper income groups, although the itensity of this effect differs
between sectors. Govenment expenditres on housing, social security and
health have been the most regressive due to lower global coverage and higher
unit costs than expenditures on education, sewerage and water. Similarly, in
the case of subsidies, the smaller subsidies were found to be more
concentrated in the low-income group while the larger subsidies were more



- 10-
concentrated in the middle and high-income ranges. Despite the generally
poor record in targeting social expenditures to the poorest groups, it appears
that public social expenditure does have some effect in redistributing income
to the poor in the sense that, on the whole, expenditures have been slightly
less unequally distributed than the overall income distribution.
2.26 Earmarked Funds and "Social Funds". In addition to the plethora
of agencies involved in the provision of social services, there exist several
lines of financing often referred to as so-called "social funds". During
project preparation, an evaluation of fifteen funds was carried out. The term
"social fund" is misleading in most cases, since several are actually line
items in ministry budgets to provide counterpart resources to externally-
financed projects. Moreover, a number of these funds are either defunct or
were never enacted due to legal or operational difficulties. The majority
receive (or were to have received) funds from earmarked sources of revenue,
such as oil receipts, payroll taxes and the like. The practice of eannarking
has been virtually abolished, a trend which will be reinforced with the
enactment of the new Budget Law. Of the funds currently operating, three
finance rural development projects, two support nutrition and child
development, two are oriented to micro-enterprises, one is for urban
environmental sanitation and one supports urban infrastructure in Guayaquil
(summary descriptions are provided in Annex B). Most of these funds are
located within sector ministries and are quite small in size or limited to
selected geographical areas. Many of them have experienced financial and/or
operational difficulties.
3. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY AND RATIONALE FOR BANK
INVOLVEMNT
A. Government's Strategy
3.1   The Government's overall reform agenda seeks stucral changes in
the role of the state, a greater reliance on private sector initiatives, and
continued emphasis on sound economic management to lay the foundations
for economic growth. At the same time, the Government must strive to
ensure that the benefits of growth are equitably distributed within and
between current and future generations. The Government will have to
withstand pressures that threaten to derail the reform program, including an
accumulated backlog of unaddressed social needs resulting from the economic
downturn and stabilization efforts of the last decade, coupled with the
prospect of further cuts in public employment and subsidies as the
Government moves into its program for modernization of the State.
3.2   Within this context, social sector reform and poverty alleviation are
high on the Government's agenda. The details of this strategy were put forth
in the Government's Action Plan for 1993-1996, called "Agenda for
Development", announced early this year by CONADE. The general thrust



- 11 -
is to concentrate public spending on programs that tend to benefit mainly the
poor (basic education, maternal and child health, nutrition) particularly in
rural and marginal urban areas, and to rely more on local groups and NGOs
in the delivery of services. By encouraging a wider participation of the
private sector, NGOs and beneficiary organizations, the Government hopes to
increase the impact of its social programs, improve its ability to target the
poor and stretch coverage of basic services and infrastructure. To
complement this vision of a more agile and responsive system, the
Government aims to modernize the traditional social sector and poverty
alleviation-oriented ministries, over the medium-term, through sustained
efforts in institutional strengthenirn and structural reforms, many of which
are supported through externally-tuanced programs (including two Bank
projects). Complementary to these efforts, as put forth in the Agenda for
Development, the Government created the Emergency Social Investment
Fund as a temporary institution to attract and target additional resources to
priority programs in benefit of low-income groups.
B. Rationale for Bank Iolvement
3.3   The Bans country assistance strategy for Ecuador is designed to
support the implementation of the Government's structural reform program.
The strategy has three broad objectives: (a) improving the coverage and
quality of basic services targeted to the poor, (b) supporting public sector
reform and institutional strengthening as the Government embarks on the
redefinition of its role, and (c) creating the necessary conditions for private
sector-led growth.
3.4   }bverty Alleviation and Social Sector Strategy. A more stable
macroeconomic framework together with incentives for greater employment
creation and productivity gains in the private sector set the basic foundations
for eliminating poverty over the medium and long terms. These efforts must
be combined with more targeted social expenditures to address the immediate
critical conditions of vulnerable groups and to develop the capacity of human
resources over the medium term. The basic elements of this strategy are
developed in 'Ecuador - A Social Sector Strategy for the Nineties" (Bank
Report No. 8936-EC) and include: (a) giving priority to social sector
progams as the instrument for poverty alleviation; (b) establishing efficiency
and equity in public social expenditures; (c) strengthening public sector
decision-making and management; and (d) enhancing the effectiveness of
social programs. The Bank strategy supports the Governmenfs proposals for
the social sectors and includes in its core lending program a set of projects
for poverty allviation, including the on-going First Social Development
Project: Education and Training (No. 3425-EC), the recently-launched
Second Social Development Project: Health and Nutrition (No. 3510-EC) and
the proposed Third Social Development Project: Social Investment Fund. In
addition to the financial support to the proposed project, the Banks role is
ioaflt". in hrinoino international exnerience to bear on the design and



- 12 -
operation of the FISE and in levelaging additional fuids through coordination
with other extemal donors.
3.5   Relationship to Other Bank-Flnauced Projects. In addition to the
on-going projects in the education and health sectors, the Bank's targeted
poverty interventions include the Rural DevelopEnent Project (No. 3390-EC)
and, in the area of basic infrastructure, the Municipal Development and
Urban Infasucture Project (No. 3285-EC). Support for the development of
sector strategies through the Bank-financed projects m health, education,
ural development and urban infrastructure would serve as crucial guidance
for FISEs priority interventions. By financing social infrastructure and
social services, the proposed project would support activities that are
mutally reinforcing, and complementary to other operations that have
medium-term objectives of structural transformations in each sector. The
proposed project would provide a much-needed window for a demand-driven
mechanism which presents a new style of operating for the public sector.
Sector coordination mechanisms would prevent overlap at the operational
level (see Annex C for details on the relationship of the proposed project to
other Bank-financed projects).
C. Lessons from Experience
3.6   The design of the proposed project takes into account the Bank's
experience with other social sector and poverty alleviadon projects in
Ecuador, and the emerging lessons learned from the design and
implementation of similar social fund projects within and outside the Latin
America and Caribbean region:'
3.7   The most frequent observation about implementation of Bank-financed
projects in Ecuador is the need to assure that the Government meet
counterpart funding obligations. This issue has been raised with the
Government during preparation of the proposed project, not only in terms of
the eventual counterpart financing needs of the proposed operation, but in
terms of the overall social sector portfolio and the need for the Government
1     The pnncipal references include the audit report for the Bolivia Emergency Social
Fund (Report No. 8449, 1990), and staff appraisal reports for social fund
operations in Bolivia, Honduras, Jamaica, Guatemala, Zambia. Other references
include: Bolivia's Answer to Poverty, Economic Crisis, and Ad4ustment - The
Emergency Social Fund, World Bank Regional and Sectoral Studies, 1992;
wFondos y Progans de Compensacion Socal - Experiencdas en America
Latina y el Caribe,' Pan-Amn Health Orgmization and World Health
Organization, Washington, D.C., 1992; Socdo-Economnc Development Funds: A
Guideine for Desin and Implementation, African Development Bank, United
Nations Development Progran, and the World Bank, Febnzary, 1991; and Socal
Action Progms and Socal Funds: A Review of Den d   ImplemetatIon in
-   Sub-Sahara Afrca, by Alexandre Marc, et al, Poverty and Social Policy



- 13 -
to continue supporing the on-going efforts at restructuring key social sector
ministies. As such, Government compliance with outstanding counterpart
commitments will be rigorously monitored during project implementation.
Risik of eventual shortfills in counterpart financing for the proposed
operation itself have been reduced by the Government's up-front allocation of
resources from local currency balance-of-payments support funds to finance
the start-up phase of FISE. In addition, the new Budget Law should help to
ease this problem. The proposed project includes agreements specifying
required annual counterpart resources, with perfornance reviewed each year
with the Government (see para. 6.2).
3.8   Additional lessons from experience in Ecuador highlight the
imporance of ensung management and administrative capacity, fostering
beneficiary participation in design and implementation of poverty alleviation
efforts, providing sufficient technical assistance and training, and setting
project goals at levels commensurate with perceived capacity of executing
agencies. The proposal of a social investment fund is itself a response to
these various implementation constraints experienced in traditional sector
ministries. At the same time, specific design features of the proposed project
address these issues, as described in Chapter 4.
3.9 Lessons from other social funds are beginming to emerge and have
influenced the conceptual foundation, design and operations of more recent
funds, including FISE. During the preparation and start-up phases of FISE,
the Government of Ecuador has received substantial technical assistance and
advice from current and former staff of other social funds in the region,
including visits to several of these to share on-site experiences and adapt
successful systems and methodologies to the Ecuadorian context. In addition,
peer reviewers within the Bank include staff with in-depth experience from
similar projects both inside and outside of the region.
3.10   At the conceptual level, the following lessons from experience are
most relevant: (a) appropriate integration of a social fund as part of a
country's poverty alleviation strategy and overall economic reform program.
A social fund should be considered only one element of a much broader
poverty reduction strategy. Moreover, a social fund's operation should
reinforce the Government's economic policies, as expressed in reliance on
private sector contractors, efficiency in the use of resources, and openness to
the broadest range of potential service providers; (b) while the overall
objective of a social fund needs to be clearly framed, experience shows that
social funds can serve a number of purposes simultaneously. For instance,
temporary employment generation and immediate social assistance objectives
are not necessarily inconsistent with imestments that have a longer-term
impact on poverty alleviation. Moreover, social funds tend to generate
important ancillary benefits, whether or not expressly stated as fundamental
objectives. These include contributing to decentralization of service delivery,
building the capacity of grassroots organizations and other implementing
-,--n,-,ti hrninn WGC6s into a more cooperative and coordinated



- 14 -
relationship with the State, and providing a model of efficiency and
operational capacity which may influence other public sector actors; (c) the
lesson from experience as to the temporary nature of most social funds is not
conclusive. Usually established as a temporary mechanism, the experience is
not yet sufficiently mature to provide guidelines as to the eventual fate of
social funds. In the case of the only fund to technically close thus far, the
Emergency Social Fund in Bolivia, in fact an important medium-term niche
was found for its successor, the Social Investment Fund. In general,
flexibility is called for in determining the future direction(s) of a social fimd.
3.11 Some of the principal lessons learned in the design and operation of
social funds, which have influenced the preparation of the proposed project,
include: (a) the importance of structural autonomy and freedom from political
interference; (b) the desirability of financing small, technologically simple
projects with substantial community involvement; (c) the need for
tansparency, which can be furtiered by an efficient and complete
management information system, standardized reporting on the project cycle,
contracting of independent evaluations of quality and impact, and getting
open feedback directly from sub-project beneficiaries; (d) the need to attact
high caliber staff by maintaining a non-bureaucratic environment and paying
competitive salaries to induce higher productivity, (e) the importance of using
some monitorable, albeit simple, form of poverty targeting; (f) the
involvement of both decentralized agencies and NGOs/grassroots
organizations in sub-project implementation; (g) a simplified procurement
process can be successfully applied for small and widely dispersed sub-
projects in order to further efficient and rapid sub-project implementation and
invite community participation, provided an effective system of quality
control supplies the necessary checks and balances; (h) strong supervision
mechanisms, both by the social fund during sub-project cxecution as well as
donor supervision of the social fund itself, are a prerequisite for success; and
(i) a social fund must work with line ministries and must adopt established
sector strategies and norms; however, mechanisms for sector coordination
should be agile enouigh not to compromise the independence nor the
efficiency of a social fund.
4. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Project
4.1   The preparation of the proposed project is an outcome of Government
initiatives to address the social consequences of the economic crisis of 1980s
and, since 1988, the continuing Bank dialogue in the context of the "Social
Strategy for the Nineties". In 1989, the Frente Social, (pam. 2.15), identified
six priority programs coveing literacy, emergency employment, informal
sector, nutrition, rural development, and water/environment. Progress on
these areas, however, was spotty and pursued through difftrent channels for
specific geographic areas. The concept of a social fumd mechanism was an



- 15 -
original part of the Govermnent's strategy and the Government sought Bank
support to develop the design of the proposed operation.
4.2   The preparation activities for the present Project were initiated under
two teams working concurrently in the Ministries of Labor (INEM) and
Social Welfare (FONADES and UPS) to alleviate the effects of the
adjustment measures on the poor and to design a support program in
technical assistance for strengthening social sector management and policy
development. Under the new Administration, preparation activities were
transferred in August 1992 to CONADE, in part as a result of the serious
institutional and operational constraints posed by attempting to establish this
type of mechanism within either sector ministry. In a move to increase its
autonomy and operational flexibility, in March 1993, FISE was established
by Executive Decree No. 584 (Annex D) as an autonomous agency under the
Office of the President. The establishment of FISE as such reflects as well
the renewed emphasis on stabilization and reforms and the President's
concerns about the impact of these policies on lower-income groups.
B. Framework of the Emergency Social Investment Fund
4.3   Organizational Framework. In the context of the Government's
strategy and taking into account the above lessons from experience, the
Government established the FISE as a temporary, autonomous institution
under the Office of the President. The FISE is managed by a Board of
Dir -tors (Consejo Administrativo) chaired by the President (or his chosen
delegate) and is composed of seven members: the Minister of Finance and
Public Credit, the Minister of Social Welfare (as the designated head of the
Fernte Social), the General Secretary of CONADE, two representatives of
NGOs, one representative from the private sector, and the Coordinator of
FISE. The composition of the Board allows for transparency and, above all,
integration of FISEs policies and operations within the Government's overall
poverty alleviation strategy. FISE's Coordinator is included in the Frente
Social and participates in the Government's Cabinet.
4.4   Scope and Objectives of FISE. As delineated in ti1e executive
decree, the objectives of the FISE are, inter alia, to improve the living
conditions of the poor; respond to needs expressed by groups unserved by
current programs; promote self-help processes in communities and stimulate
community organization and participation; orient social expenditures to the
poorest areas of the country; and, promote decentralization through the
participation of NGOs, popular organizations, local authorities and
decentralized agencies. In the interests of efficiency and in keeping with the
Govermment's desire to reduce duplication of effort, FISE would not directly
execute projects, but only serve as a conduit for the technical review,
financing and monitoring of sub-projects executed by the full range of
implementing agencies operating in Ecuador. To focus FISE's efforts, a
range of eligible sub-projects was identified covering the priority areas within



- 16 -
health and education services, basic infrastructure, institutional development
and support to small-scale productive activities. To ensure sufficient impact
and scale, a target program of US$120 million was established through the
end of 1997. The Executive i)ecree describes FISE as a temporary agency
with a closing date of December 1997 (para. 5.25), as included in Annex D.
C. Project Objectives
4.5   The Bank would support the start-up and operations of FISE, with a
view to assisting the Government in its efforts in poverty alleviation and
compensation for vulnerable groups presently unreached by traditional
mechanisms in the areas of social assistance, social and socio-economic
infrastructure and small-scale productive activities. More specifically, the
Bank would support the Government in: (a) establishing an efficient,
complementary and demand-driven mechanism for delivering basic services
and infstructure to the poor utilizing NGOs, community organizations and
local decentralized agencies; (b) channeling additional resources to social
assistance, basic infrastructure and small-scale productive activities; (c)
demonstrating transparent and efficient approaches to project selection,
management and administration; (d) strengthening institutional capacity of
NGOs and grassroots organizations; and (e) increasing beneficiary
participation in poverty alleviation efforts.
4.6   Bank support would consist of two components. The first component
would finance sub-projects approved by FISE in the areas of social
ifmrastructure and socio-economic infrastrcture, social services, instiutional
development and productive community investments (as further described in
pam. 4.7 below). The project would finance a representative portion of
FISEs overall portfolio. The second component would consist of
institutional support for FISE, including personnel and other operating
expenses, vehicles and equipment, and technical assistance and training for
FISE (as further described in paras. 4.8 and 4.9 below).
D. Detailed Description
4.7 First Component: FISE Sub-projects (US$108.8 million of base
cost). FlSEs portfolio consists of five categories of sub-projects, including
social infrastructure, socio-economic infrastrucure, social services,
institutional development and productive community investments. Sub-
projects are expected to average US$40,000, with an execution perind limited
to under one year. FISE has established indicative targets by amouit per
category, as given below. Eligible sub-projects within each category, include
the following (see Annex E for detailed sub-project description and eligibility
criteria):



- 17 -
(a)   Social Infrastructure (55 percent of total sub-project
amount). Defined as infrastructure related to social services
for which economic benefits cannot be quantified, this category
includes construction and rehabilitation of civil works and
provision of equipment for sub-projects in education (pre-
primary and prinary schools and training centers), health
(health centers, health posts, and dispensaries), social welfare
(day care centers, orphanages and shelters, urban
passageways), and sanitation (latrines, community bathrooms
and washing facilities, urban neighborhood drainage and
canals);
(b)   Socio-economic Infrastructure (33 percent), is defined as
infrastructure which delivers economic as well as social
benefits and includes cost-benefit analysis. The category
includes construction and rehabilitation of civil works for sub-
projects in water supply and sewerage, economic infrastructure
(tertiary and feeder roads, micro-irrigation and drainage),
urban upgrading (street rehabilitation and improvements,
retaining walls,), and environment (erosion control);
(c)   Social Services (8 percent). These sub-projects include
financing for selected equipment and materials, training
services and other inputs for programs in health (vaccination
campaigns, vector control, micro-nutrient and other nutriton
supplements, community pharmacies, epidemic control, and
training programs oriented to health promoters, midwives,
community health and hygiene, and latrine use), educatdon
(pre- and primary school educational materials - excluding
textbooks-, informal training programs oriented to community-
based production and skill upgrading), and nutrition (school
greenhouses and garden plots);
(d)   Productive Community Investments with Social Reflows (3
percent). These sub-projects would finance pilot activities
carried out by community groups, NGOs and cooperatives
which require an element of repayment by beneficiaries,
including the acquisition of infrastructure, equipment and
materials to support small-scale productive investments in
agriculture and agricultural processing, L mindicrafts, artesanal
fishing and small-scale manufacturing. As an innovative
approach for increasing incentives for repayment and fostering
local decision-making over resource use, each sub-project
would specify a community project to be financed out of the
repayments. Moreover, this allows for the translation of a
group investment which generates income for its members,
into a public good for the community at large;



- 18 -
(e)   Institutional Development (1 percent). Sub-projects would
finance technical assistance and training for the establishment
and consolidation of community operations and maintenance
conunittees to ensure the sustainability of FISE infrastructure
sub-projects.
4.8   Second Component: FISE Institutional Support (US$9.2 million of
base cost). In keeping with the Government's objective of creating an
efficient mechanism to channel resources to the poor, FISEs overhead
(administrative and operating expenses) is estimated at about 6 percent of its
total program of US$120 million, which is well within the range of overhead
expenses of other social funds in the region and far below the administrative
costs of analogous experiences in Ecuador. To ensure administrative
efficiency, FISE overhead expenditures will be programmed and monitored
as one of its institutional performance indicators (para. 5.20). In the event of
shortfalls in reaching its program target, absolute expenditures on overhead
would be adjusted to maintain to the extent possible the target of 6 percent.
The proposed project would finance a share of the personnel and operating
expenses of FISE. In ligh. of the definition of FISE as an exceptional and
temporary agency, its application of non-civil service salary levels and
employment conditions, and the contractual basis of employment, FISE
higher-level professional and technical personnel are considered consultants
to the Government, hired on fixed-term personal service contracts and
exempt from civil service rules and benefits (para. 5.4). Salary levels would
be sufficient to recruit high caliber staff and recruitment procedures would
ensure transparency. Given the above, all such higher-level personnel
expenses are considered incremental and declining financing rules are not
applicable. The component would also finance expenses related to initial
installation and equipping of FISE central and regional offices, including
vehicles, office and computer equipment and furniture.
4.9   The institutional support component would include technical assistance
and training activities designed to improve FISEs operational capacity, and
would allow FISE to contract various professional services in keeping with
FISEs mandate as a small and agile agency. Technical assistance would
focus on iInproving the efficiency of internal systems (management,
administration and finance), designing and operating a management
information system, refining poverty targeting methods, improving criteria
and methodologies for the appraisal and supervision of sub-projects, and
establishing standard unit cost and procurement systems. Training activities
would be designed to improve work group cohesiveness and technical
consistency among FISE staff and to enable them to share information and
experiences with other social funds in the region. In addition, FISE would
contract external agencies to carry out semi-annual external audits and
procurement of selected goods and equipment. The effectiveness of FISEs
operations would be exmined through annual surveys of quality control,



- 19 -
to independent agencies to ensure the objectivity of the results. Finally, the
component would finance technical assistance to assist the Government in
deternining arrangements fir the closure or transformation of FISE. A brief
description of technical assistance and training activities required is presented
in Annex F.
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. hnplementation Arrangements
5.1   The proposed project would be implemented over a period of four
years. FISE would have overall responsibility for project implementation.
Due to FISEs legal status as a direct dependency of the Presidency, a
subsidiary contractual arrangement between the Borrower and FISE is not
necessary.
5.2   FISE would disburse funds on a grant basis for sub-projects in social
infrastructue, socio-economic infrastructure, social services, institutional
development and productive community investments. FISEs operating
procedures, including criteria and systems for appraisal, approval,
contracting and monitoring of sub-projects are presented in its Operational
Manual. All administrative and financial rules and procedures of the FISE
are contained in its Administrative Manual (see Annex G for required
contents of mamnals). Prior to negotiations, FISE submitted revised versions
of its Operational Manual and Administrative Manual (para. 8.1 (a)),
incorporating recommendations made during appraisal. Furthermore,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that any changes to the
approved manuals that could affect the execution of the project would not be
made without prior Bank approval (para. 8.2 (a)). As a condition of
effectiveness, FISE's 02,dtonal Manual and Administratve Manual,
satisfactory to the Bank, will have been approved by its Board of Directors
(para. 8.3 (a)).
B. FISE Organizational Structure and Functions
5.3   The organizational structure and functions of the FISE are set forth in
its intemal norms (normas internas), which were approved by the Board of
Directors as a condition of appraisal. FISE's Board of Directors (see pam.
4.3) sets overall policies, approves the anmnal work program and budget and
provides management guidance. To keep operations agile, the Board of
Directors delegates responsibility for sub-project review and approval, as
well as internal FISE contracts and acquisitions, to the Approval Committee
(Comits de Aprobaciones) comprised of one of the NGO representatives, the
privat sector representative, the Secretary General of CONADE (or
designated representave) and the Coordinator of FISE. The Director of the
T 1   T        _       lk. ciatrmartyr tn thP rnmmittes qnd sdtiviket the



- 20 -
Committee members on execution of the FISE decree and intemal
regulations.
5.4 The internal regulations set forth the organizational structure of FISE.
FISE's structure and functions, as presented in Annex H, is in line with other
successful social investment funds in Latin America. FISE is managed by a
Coordinator nominated by the President. The Coordinator is supported by a
Sub-Coordinator and the Departments of Fund-Raising and Prgrmming,
Administration and Finance, Projects, Supervision, Data Processing and
Legal Affairs, as well as an Internal Audit Unit. Given the proposed scale of
operations, it is expected that FISE would need about fifty-five professional
and technical level staff at the height of its operations. In order to recruit
qualified personnel, FISE would offer salaiy levels sufficient to retain
professionals with private sector skills. The staffing plan has been prepared
as a function of FISEs cxpected workload and standard staff productivity
ratios comparable to those used in similar social funds. In addition to its
own staff, FISE plans to subcontract externally a number of supervision tasks
and professional services. FISE would open small regional offices (34
professionals) in Cuenca, Guayaquil and Portoviejo, in order to decentralize
elements of the sub-project cycle and improve FISEs effectiveness in
promoting demand from more remote, low-income communities and in
supervision in these regions. During negotiations, assurance was provided by
the Government that FISE management level positions (para. 6.10) would be
staffed satisfactorily to the Bank (para. 8.2 (b)).
5.5   The organizational structure and functions of FISE are oriented to
managing FISE's sub-project cycle. This sub-project cycle is presented in
Annex I and includes the following principal stages: identification and
promotion, appraisal, approval (both by FISE Approval Committee and
external financing agencies), contracting and execution.
C. Participatory Aspects of FISE Interventions
5.6   As set forth in the Executive Decree, one of the objectives of FISE is
to promote community organization and participation. Participatory aspects
in the context of FISE can be understood in four dimensions: (a) the
generation of local, community-level demand for social investments that
adequately reflect community needs and aspirations; (b) the contribution of
bencficiaries during the implementation of sub-projects; (c) the maintenance
of infrastructure and continued operations of facilities so as to ensure the
susainaility of FISE sub-projects; and (d) the combination of these three
elements (which are interrelated) would result in an increa  in the rapacity
for self-help and management of local beneficiary groups. Each element of
the sub-project cycle wil seek to promote and monitor these participatory
aspects, as highlighted in the following description of the sub-project cycle.



- 21 -
DI Major Parficipants in the Sub-Project Cycle
5.7   The major participants in the sub-project cycle are: (a) the
beneficiaries, or the population groups or communities who benefit directly
from FISE sub-projects in terms of income, employment, health, education
and training, nutrition and other services; (b) the sponsoring agencies
(solicitantes), that is, public and non-profit private organizations such as,
decentralized public sector institutions, municipalities, county and provincial
councils, NGOs, and grassroots organizions (see Annex A for description
of NGOs vis a vis FISE) that are responsible for presenting sub-project
proposals to FISE for financing; (c) the community witness (testigo de
honor), defined as a representative of the beneficiary community who signs
the sub-project contract in order to verify any counterpart resources to be
given by the community, to testify to the community's acceptance of the
project, and to promote more effective participation and supervision by the
beneficiaries duing sub-project execution. In most urban neighborhoods and
rural communities in Ecuador there are social structures in place which
designate community representatives who could serve as witnesses, though
the form of these structures varies: (d) the esecuting agencies, or the
agencies and contractors selected to execute and implement FISE sub-
projects. In some cases, the sponsoring agency and executing agency are the
same, such as for training projects sponsored and executed by NGOs. In the
case of civil works, all sub-projects would be executed by either private
sector contractors or the community directly for small, self-help works; and
(e) FISE inspectors and external supervisors, that are responsible for
sbupervision and quality control during the execution of FISE sub-projects (see
paras. 5.19-5.20 below).
E. Identification of Tlget bpulation
5.8   One of the principal objectives of FISE is to reach the poor and
vulnerable groups with basic social infrastructure and services. To ensure
that benefits reach the intended population, FISE has adopted a three-pronged
poverty targeting strategy. First, the type of sub-projects eligible for FISE
finacing, including primary health and education services, basic
infrstructure (like latrines, feeder roads, standpipes for water supply, etc.),
and support for small-scale productive community investments, by their
nature tend to be oriented to the needs of the poor. Second, priority
beneficiaries are identified, both at the aggregate level as well as within each
type of sub-project, for instance, women, children, and informal sector
workers (Amex J presents sub-project and beneficiary priorities). And
finally, FISE will use a poverty map to provide a geographic targeting of
priority poverty areas, and to avoid leakage of benefits into wealthier zones.
5.9   Basis of Geographical  1getng. The principal instrument for
geographical poverty targeting to be used by FISE consists of a Consolidated
Poverty Man pmrared by the Social Policy Unit of CONADE in April 1993



- 22 -
as part of project preparation activities, and will be complemented by a
poverty map currently being developed by INEC. The CONADE map
synthesizes the information contained in eight distinct poverty maps
developed in recent years based on indicators of income, nutrition, access to
basic services, and living conditions. The map ranks Ecuador's 170 cantons
(average population 56,300) according to poverty and population size. To
render the poverty map operational for FISE, a reference resource allocation
per canton was developed based on a weighting of a composite poverty
coefficient and population levels. These indicative references have been
aggregated at the provincial and regional levels as well. For example, it is
estimated that 45 percent of FISE resources will be assigned to the Coastal
Zone, compared with its overall population share of 50 percent, while the
Amazon Basin region would receive 11 percent of FISE resources compared
with its population share of 4 percent (see Annex J for poverty coefficients
and reference resource allocations).
5.10 The more geographically disaggregated the poverty indicators, the
more accurate the identification of poor beneficiaries. To further
operationalize the use of the poverty map, FISE bas used the same composite
poverty map to create poverty groupings at the panoquial level, with each
parroquia receiving a 1-5 poverty ranking which is then entered into the MIS
system, allowing FISE to track overall resource allocations to the poorest
areas. For instance, FISE has established indicative targets of 45 percent of
its resources to go to the poorest quintile parroquias, 25 percent to the
second quintile, 15 percent to the third, 10 percent to the fourth and 5
percent to the least poor quintile. Additional inputs to guide FISEs activities
to its taet population include results of the 1990 Census, which contains
data on basic service coverage, as well as maps indicating sectoral coverage
in education and health at the national level and urban and sanitation services
at the municipal level. The project would finance technical assistance to
refine FISEs poverty targeting mechanisms as new data is made available.
F. Sub-Project Promotion, Identification and Preparation
5.11 The first step in the sub-project cycle involves stimulating demand
from sponsoring agencies and poor regions. Sub-project promotion would oe
undertaken through the Projects Department and FISE Regional Offices.
Given the importance of building a solid pipeline of sub-projects early on and
ensuring effective coverage across types of sub-projects and regions of the
country, FISE's promotional strategy includes: (a) the preparation and
presentation of informational materials, including a brochure oudining FISE,
a "Guide for Project Presetation" and summary formats to be widely
disseniinated to public and private oranizations; (b) a more targeted effort to
initially involve key organizations with experience and capacity, including the
most important NGOs, in order to stimulate a demonstration effect and build
credibility; and (c) a series of regional workshops in priority zones to detect
wnctih;tinna1 emaeitv and train regional and local institutions in preparing and



- 23 -
presenting sub-projects, as well as enlisting their cooperation in assisting
weaker community groups to present proposals.
5.12 FISE would focus particular attention on specific vulnerabie groups --
women and children and indigenous populations -- who are disproportionately
represented among the poor and who often remain beyond the reach of
traditional development assistance efforts. Recognizing the difficulties in
generating demand for sub-projects from groups that historically have been
marginalized, FISE will contract technical assistance to refine its targeting
strategy and develop promotional materials (publications, radio and television
spots) to reach such groups. Using its targeted promotional strategy, FISE
would identify potential sponsoring agencies and beneficiary organizations
and would assist in the development of sub-project proposals specifically
oriented to these groups (see Annex A for a description of the structure and
coverage of indigenous organizations and women's groups). While it would
distort the operating procedures of FISE to earmark specific levels of support
to any type of beneficiary, monitoring and evaluation activities would assess
FISEs effectiveness in reaching these specific groups. (see para. 5.23 (c)).
5.13 The promotions staff will provide initial screening of sub-project
proposals to ensure that they correspond with FISE sub-project classifications
and priorities in terms of type and location, and to verify that they are ready
for the appraisal process. As a result of FISEs initial promotion efforts, as
of September 15, FISE had approved a total of 105 sub-projects for an
amount of US$2.3 million, the content of which was reviewed during the
appraisal mission.
G. Sub-Project Appraisal and Approval
5.14 The Appraisal Process. As reflected in the Operational Manual, the
basic elements of sub-project appraisal include a four-part analysis:
economic, technical, institutional and social. A site visit by Projects
Department staff would accompany all sub-project appraisals. Criteria for
sub-project appraisal have been developed based on the experience of other
social funds in the region. Appraisal would cover the total sub-project,
including up-front agreement on counterpart contributions from beneficiaries
and sponsoring agencies. For all sub-projects, assurance of appropriate
operations and maintenance arrangements, where applicable, would be
required prior to formal approval:
(a)   The technical citeria for sub-project appraisal would be
developed specifically for each sub-project type based on the
existing norms available from the respective sector ministries
and other public agencies to ensure sectoral coherence and
compatibility. Technical appraisal would confirm that the
;n^eletur   vvw -<i m*%tanr rzhrimzits ara fcninestant in



- 24 -
scale, quality and content with the proposed activities of the
sub-project and that implementation is technically feasible;
(b)   Economic analysis would be undertaken to determine
economic rate of return in cases where applicable (roads,
urban water supply and sewerage, urban upgrading, revolving
funds) or cost-effectiveness in the case of sub-projects for
which quantitative economic analysis does not apply (health,
education and nutrition services, latrines and other social
infrastructure, training programs, institutional development).
FISE would develop ranges for cost per beneficiary and cost
per unit delivered based on field experience. The economic
analysis is underpinned by strict budget controls on sub-
projects costs. The establishment of a unit cost data base,
including productivity esdimates for activities related to
infrastructure, will serve as the foundation of the economic
analysis process. Economic analysis would include the
application of cost recovery policies, including mechanisms
and target levels, according to each applicable type of sub-
project. Guarantees of the financing of all recurrent costs
generated by FISE investments are required;
(c)   Social analysis would assess the degree of participation of the
community and potential beneficiaries in the preparation,
execution and operation and maintenance of sub-projects. In
addition, the social assessment would identify social
structures/organizations in the community that could play a
role in sub-project execution and supervision. During the site
visit, participatory aspects would be confirmed by FISE
Projects Department staff, including the designation of the
community testigo de honor (para. 5.19);
(d)   Institutional analysis would gauge the capacity of the
sponsoring and/or executing agency to ensure successful
implementation and sustainability of sub-projects, and would
confirm any necessary counterpart contributions; and
(e)   Environmental analysis would be undertaken on any project
where an environmental impact is possible (water and
sanitation systems, for instance), even though, given the naure
of FISEs portfolio, no significant impacts are anticipated.
Environmental stadards are included in FISE's technical
criteria. These environmental criteria were developed with
technical assistance from the IDB during project preparation.
5.15 FISEs Operational Manual sets forth the general parameters for
_-. _..A  _..^   44  fj- ^Aaph  t,nf abnmih        cti   %vand these



- 25 -
its projects staff in the field. As such, FISE will develop technical brochures
for each type of sub-project, to be presented to the Bank's satisfaction as a
condition of effectiveness (pan. 8.3(b)). These technical brochures would
include a summary of: (a) the relevant technical aspects, including technical
specifications, norms for the size and scale of various types of infrastructure,
and a description of the necessary components of each type of sub-projects;
(b) economic aspects, including the specification of target ranges for cost per
beneficiary, cost per relevant unit, acceptable internal rate of return results,
and cost recovery and tariff levels where appropriate; and (c) social and
institutional aspects, including identification of specific types of participation,
institutional arrangements, or level of social organization necessary for a
particular type of sub-project. The Bank will review the brochures for the
adequacy of their environmental criteria. The development of these technical
brochures by FISE's Project Department is being supported with technical
assistance.
5.16 Approval Procedures and Bank Review. Once appraised, the
Approval Committee would have formal responsibility for approval,
rejection, or revisions to sub-project proposals. Following approval by
FISE, sub-projects would be submitted for clearance from external financing
sources. Taking into consideration the nature, size and expected number of
sub-projects and the demands on Bank supervision, the following review
limits would be required for all sub-projects financed by the Bank: an ex
ante review (prior to contract signing) of all sub-projects over US$100,000
(estimated number for Bank review about 40), and random ex post review
for sub-projects under US$100,000 (estimated number about 570). FISE
would submit summary project data sheets, acceptable to the Bank, for all
sub-projects to be financed by the proposed project. During negotiations,
agreements to these review arrangements were reached with the Government
(para. 8.2 (c)).
H[. Sector Coordination
5.17 An important element of the appraisal process involves sector
coordination to avoid duplication of efforts and to ensure adherence to sector
priorities and norms. The FISE has explicit guidelines, as stated in the
executive decree, to finance sub-projects that do not come under the coverage
of existing programs and projects of the sector ministries and other public
agencies. In practice, the coordination mechanisms of FISE cover several
levels. At the most general level, coordination is furthered by the presence
of key representatives on FISE's Board of Directors, including the Secretary
General of CONADE and the head of the Fhente Social (the Minister of
Social Welfare), and correspondingly, the presence of CONADE in the
Approval Committee. Moreover, the types of sub-projects, eligibility criteria
and technical appraisal criteria all follow the sector priorities and norms as
established by the respective sector ministries (see para. 5.14 (a)).



- 26 -
5.18 Coordinating mechanisms at the operational level are also built into
the sub-project appraisal process. Given the wide range of agencies involved
in social programs, these mechanisms are tailored to each sector of FISE
activity. FISE has submitted a matrix outlining the coordination and
consultation arrangements for the various types of sub-projects (see Annex
K). in some cases, where sector responsibility is dispersed, regional and
local consultations are preferable, as with rural roads and urban water supply
sub-projects. For most sub-projects, however, FISE has signed formal
coordination agreements with the relevant sector ministries. These
agreements specify that the sector ministry would designate a liaison person
for FISE to facilitate the consultation process, and that FISE shall submit
sub-projects to these ministries for their technical observations, stipulating
that the sector ministries are given ten working days to respond.
Observations from the ministries are included in the materials presented for
sub-project approvals (to the Board of Directors as well as financing
agencies). All coordinating arrangements will be carried out prior to
presentation of a sub-project to the Approval Committee.
I. Sub-Project Contracting, Execution and Supervision
5.19 Upon approval of a sub-project and selection of an executing agency
or contractor, a multi-party agreement vould be signed by the FISE, the
sponsoring agency, and the executing agency or contractor. In an innovative
arrangement for a social fund, a representative of the beneficiary community
would bear witness to the terms of the contract (testigo de honor) as a means
of ensuring community acceptance and increasing the effectiveness of
beneficiary supervision during sub-project execution. All parties to the
multi-party agreement must have legal personality, with the exception of the
beneficiary community (thi exception being applicable only if the beneficiary
community is not itself handling any sub-projects funds) and the sponsoring
agency which, if lacking such personality, must enter into such agreement
through a duly authorized agent. In all cases where a testigo de ho"or
witnesses the agreement on behalf of the beneficiary community, such
witness shall be acting as agent for the community pursuant to a power of
attorney, valid under local law, from the members of the beneficiary
community. A standard multi-party contract satisfactory to the Bank was
presentd during negotiations (para. 8.1 (b)). Executing agencies and
contractors would present appropriate guarantees, including performance
bonds in the case of private sector contractors carrying out civil works, as
outlined in the Operational Manual. Upon presentation of appropriate
guarantees, FISE would disburse a mobilization advance, followed by
monthly disbursements based on work completed, confirmed during site
visits. To increase effective controls on sub-project execution, contingencies
are not included in sub-project costs. Subsequent changes in volume or price
(not likely due to short time frame of sub-project execution) are handled
through separate "ordenes de cambio" or change orders.



- 27 -
5.20 Monitoring and supervision during sub-project execution is designed
as a three-tier system. The FISE would contract on-site technical supervision
(supervision externa) financed as a percentage of sub-project cost and
estimated not to exceed five percent. Terms of reference and sandard
contracts for this supervision are contained in the Operational Manual. PISE
would also monitor sub-project execution through the inspectors of its
Departnent of Supervision, and staff located in FISE regional offices.
Supervision would involve monthly visits to sub-project sites to validate
advance of works and to authorize additional disbursements. As a final level
of quality control, FISE would contract local experts to conduct random
surveys and physical audits of the quality of both the sub-projects and the
supervision systems in place.
J. Monitoring and Impact Evaluation
5.21  Management Information System. The establishment of a
management information system (MIS) allows for effective monitoring of the
sub-project cycle and overall performance of FISE. With technical assistance
and inputs from other social funds, FISE is currently installing a computer-
based MIS which will permit FISE to track its project pipeline and resource
flows, using modules in the following areas: promotion, appraisal (including
a regionalized unit price data base), legal and contracting, supervision,
poverty targeting, fund-raising, and administration and finance. On-going
monitoring through the use of FISE's MIS would provide information on the
direct impact of FISE in terms of delivery of services and infrastructure.
The MIS system would fiurnish indicators on the number and location of
beneficiaries and the nature and extent of benefits received, such as infbrmal
sector workers receiving training services, community members with
improved access to health care, primary school children with increased access
to classrooms and materials and months of unskilled employment generated.
Due to the demand-driven nature of FISE investments, such impact indicators
cannot realistically be set ex-ante. Economic data on delivered units yf
infrasructure and services would allow for basic cost-effectiveness
assessments. The structure and content of the MIS system was reviewed
during appraisal and found satisfactory to the Bank. The Department of Data
Processing would prepare standard reports on all aspects of FISE operations.
As a conditon of effectiveness, the Management Information System,
sadsfactory to the Bank, would be implemented and operational (para. 8.3
(c)).
5.22 Performance Indicators. FISE must justify its creation as a new and
exceptional institution designed to function with a level of efficiency and
transparency beyond that of existing Government agencies. The emphasis on
effective management and institutional performance of a social fund reflects
one of the fundamental lessons learned in the experience of other social funds
in the region. To this end, a series of institutional performance indicators
tL-__1L.- c_ *_A     TC A_ 16 ,;h cat mninitnrah1e targetq of canacitv.



- 28 -
efficiency, quality and impact. These indicators are presented in Annex L.
During negotiations, agreement on these performance hxdiWators was reached
with the Government and initial anmal targets were established for FISEs
1994 program (para. 8.2 (d)). Thereafter, targets will be reviewed and
tevised annually as part of FISE's annual prograing exercise (pam. 6.16).
5.23 Benefciary Assessment and Impact Evaluations. To measure the
impact of FISE sub-projects in terms of improvements in the socio-economic
conditions of beneficiaries, and to evaluate participatory aspects of FISE
interventions, surveys and studies would be contracted extemally for the
following activities:
(a)   Beneficiary Assessments. These assessments develop
qualitative information based on interviews with beneficiaries
regarding their perceptions of and relationships to FISE sub-
projects. The elements to be explored in the beneficiary
assessment include: beneficiary satisfaction, beneficiary
participation, institutional development, and suggestions to
improve FISEs interventions. The methodology would follow
that used successfully in two other Bank-supported social fund
projects (Bolivia and Zambia). In addition to its usefulness as
an evaluation mechanism, beneficiary assessment would serve
as a management tool for making adjustments in FISE
procedures and would provide an important element of
transparency in the direct feedback from FISEs target
population. Two beneficiary assessments would be carried
out, one in 1994 and one in 1995, covering an estimated fifty
communities;
(b)   Household Surveys. Annual household survey data would
allow for systematic, long-term monitoring of impacts in terms
of access to services and improvements in the standard of
living of FISE beneficiaries. Using statistical controls, key
social indicators would be compared between households
benefitting from FISE investments and non-beneficiaries, and
tdme. Comparisons can be generated pre- and post-sub-
projects in selected areas. The use of a stdardized, national
monitoring tool makes it possible to contime to measure
changes in impacts beyond the life of the project. FISE wuuld
contract with the Govermnent agency carrying out household
surveys to perform intensive sampling in areas of FISE sub-
projects to generate sufficient baseline data. Analysis of the
data, including the design of methodologies to study selected
indicators, would be contracted to private research groups or
universities. The baseline data would be collected in 1994,
with a second round of over-sampling planned for 1996;



- 29 -
(c)   Complemer"ry Studies. Short-term studies would be carried
out by research and other institutions within the country to
assess specific aspects of FISE impacts. Topics identified
during project preparation include: (i) evaluation of FISE's
success in reaching and working with indigenous communities,
(ii) impacts on women as beneficiaries of FISE investments,
with specific attention to the appropriateness of promotion
efforts, sub-project classifications and appraisal criteria in
responding to needs of poor women; (iii) an evaluation of the
impacts of FISEs institutional development sub-projects in
improving the capacity of NGOs and community organizations;
(iv) a study of the results of sub-projects in the area of
productive community investments to analyze the impact of the
anticipated social reflows; and (v) a survey of operations and
maintenance performance in a given period following FISE's
intervention. These studies are programmed for 1996-97 to
provide sufficient scale and experience in order to draw solid
conclusions.
5.24 A description of the beneficiary assessment and the impact evaluations
are provided in Annex M along with an implementation plan. Impact
evaluations would be contracted by FISE through technical assistance in
order to preserve the transparency and independence of such evaluations. A
etailed action plan for impact evaluations, including timing, focus,
methodologies, draft terms of reference and implementation arrangements,
was presented during negotiations (para. 8.1 (c)).
5.25   The Temporary Nature of FISE. As stated in the Executive
Decree, FISE was designed to be a temporary mechanism for providing
social compensation. To define the lifetime of FISE, a modification of the
Executive Decree was introduced which specifies that FISE would be closed
by December 31, 1997. While this 'sunset' clause establishes a reasonable
time frame for FISE to complete its target program, given the experiepce of
other social funds in the region the Government may wish to extend or
transform the agency as it approaches the closing date, depending on the
experience of FISE itself and the overall social objectives and strategy of the
Government. This strategy would be based on a consideration of FIFE in
reaching its target population, in effectively appraising and executing small
investments, and in strengthening the role and capacity of NGOs and
grassroots organizations in development efforts. Moreover, the experience of
FISE would be compared with that of the remaining 'social funds' within
sector ministries to form the basis of a coherent strategy for ratonalization
and consolidation of these types of funding mechanisms if necessary. In light
of the political calendar, with a national election scheduled for mid-1996, the
final outcome of FISE would be decided by the next Administration. To
inform this decision, the results of the Mid-Term Review (para. 6.17) would
be available as of mid-1996. The final outcome of FISE would be
A*tfm;A hefh nnns-- i ---II .o and-~ a n"A lisa &,cnsidrationsc of the



- 30-
Goverunent, in consultation with FISEs extenal donors. The project would
finance technical assistance and a semiiwar to assist the Government in
defining a strategy for FISE within the context of its overall social policy and
sector strategies. At negotiations, agreement was reached that the
Government must define its strategy for the closing of FISE during the first
quarter of 1997 (para. 8.2(e)).
K. Environmental Impact
5.26 The proposed project has been assigned a "B" environmental
classification. Overall, the project is expected to have a positive
environmental impact, with direct environmental benefits accniing from
erosion control efforts, small urban drainage works, and rural feeder road
improvements to control degradation of the sunrounding land. Sub-projects
with potential environmental impacts, including water supply and sanitation,
latrines and micro-irrigation, would focus principally on labor-intensive
rehabilitation of small-scale infrastructure. For new systems, all sub-project
proposal would include appropriate environmental safeguards. To control for
all potential environmental impacts, FISE has received technical assistance
from the IDB during the preparation phase to incorporate environmental
criteria, including compliance with environmental laws and regulations, into
the sub-project appraisal criteria (see para. 5.14(e)). This ex-ante screening
mnechanism will be monitored during Bank supervision of FISE, including in
its review of individual sub-projects, and an evaluation of the mechanism is
included in the terms of reference of the Mid-Term Review (para. 6.17).
6. PROJECT COSIS FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENIS
A. Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
6.1   Project Costs. The total project cost, expressed in January 1993
prices, is estimated at US$120 million, net of taxes and duties. The foreig
exchange costs amount to US$30.5 million, representng about 25 percent of
total project cost. Summary costs by component are shown in Table 6.1
below and a detailed cost table is presented in Annex N. Total funds
allocated to financing of sub-projects (average sub-project cost US$40,000)
represent about 91 percent of total project cost. The share of funds assigned
to each type of sub-project is considered indicative, with revisions possible
based on implementation experience. Physical and price contingencies have
been estimated only for the FISE institutional support component. No
contingencies have been calculated on sub-projects since specific sub-projects
are yet to be identified, and any increase in individual sub-project costs
would be administered through change orders (see para. 5.19) and absorbed
by the fund allocated to sub-projects, reflected as a reduction in the overall
-1mh- -C -.1.nnP   -.ll#-A              0V1IV%V%^Vf #.% =tn   64wr lsit f



- 31 -
Table 6.1: Summary Cost Table
(US$ '000)
Local      Foreip        Tota     % of Ba           of Foig
FISE,slutioaal Suppot
Salaries. Fees & Pem. bs.                         s.mr             0       5,m            4.7                 o
Vehicles and Equipment                               30          622        652           0.5                9f
Openting Expenses                                 1.457          183       1,640          1.4                ll
TIch. Assist. & Tining                              931          415       1,346          1.1                31
Subtotal Ins. Support        7.994         1.220      9,214          7.7                13
FISE SublProje4b
Social Inlmstnctute
Education                                        22,653        8,773      31.426         26.3                28
Health                                            8.375        5,112      13,486         11.3                38
Day Care Ceetss. Sheltsrs, etc.                   4.602        1.711      6.314           5.3                27
Sanition                                          7.341          816       8,157          6.8                10
Sabtoal        42,971       16,412     39,383          49.7               28
Soco-Economlc Infractur
Saninion                                          9,788        2,447      12,236         10.2                20
Support to Produedve Acivities                    13.704       3,426      17.130         14.3                20
Urban Rebabiition                                 3.263          816      4,079           3.4                20
Environmeta                                       1.958          489      2,447           2.0                20
Suboal         28.713        7,178     35,891          30.0               20
Soci S&
Prevendve Healtd Cane                               848        3,393      4.242           3.6                S0
Helth, Nutritoni  & HygiLve Tl.                   1,175          131       1,305          1.1                10
EducationSupport                                  1.392          348       1,740          1.5                20
Non-Thtmal Psduci wThining                        1,305            0       1.305          1.1                 0
Food Supplemendion                                  381          163        544           0.5                30
SublOW          5,101        4,033      9,136          7.6'               44
lisUttkna Deveopnezt
Suength. O&A M. Comnimes                           1.088           0       1.088          0.9                 0
PrYdie  Com _m13y bsnstm                           2,001        1.262      3.263           2.7                39
Subtol Sub-Projeca          79,874       28.887    108,761          91.0                27
ProjectPrepaato (PPF)                              1,200         300       1,500           1.3               20
TWal Projet Ba  Cost                              89,068        30,408    119,475        100.0               24
Physical Continencies a/                             90           24        114
Pice Contecies u/                                   384           27        411
Tblal Pte Cost b/                                 89,541        30,459    120,000
at Psi'yeal and Ptrc COUngeti ctes apply onLy to FMSE i   suppott component--
b/ Net of lbas and Dudes.



- 32 -
US$9.2 million, or 8 percent of total project cost. Of this amount, FISE
overhead, defined as personnel and operating cost,, is estimated at US$7.2
million, or 6 percent of FISEs total program. Training and technical
assistance ielated to FISE institutional support would account for US$1.3
million.
6.2 Financing Plan. The proposed loan of US$30 million equivalent
would finance 25 percent of the total project cost over the projected four-year
implementation period. The financing plan is shown in Table 6.2.
Beneficiaries and sponsoring agencies would provide an estimated 20 percent
of the total cost of sub-projects tiough on an individual sub-project basis this
percentage would vary depending on the type of sub-project, the resources
available from the sponsoring agency, and the situation of the beneficiary
community. Beneficiary communities would provide the bulk of their
contribution in the form of donated labor and local materials. The
Government of Ecuador has already made available US$4.5 million in local
currency funds from balance-of-payments support (through USAID). The
GOE would commit an additional US$12 million over the lifetime of the
proposed project, bringing the Govermnent counterpart share of the total
program to 14 percent. During negotiations, assurances were provided by
the Government on the provision of a specified amount of counterpart funds
each year during project execution consisting of: US$4.0 million in CY1994,
US$4.0 million in CY1995, US$3.0 million in CY1996, and US$1.0 million
in CY1997 (para. 8.2 (f)). The actual disbursement of counterpart funds will
be confirned through the external audits and monitored during the annual
reviews of FISE. Other identified co-financing includes US$800,000 from
the Government of Spain (committed), US$0.2 million in technical assistance
from UNDP and UNICEF (committed), and a US$30 million loan from the
Inr-American Development Bank (under preparation). Additional support
from various donors, some already identified in FISE!s fund-raising strategy,
would be requiiBd in the amount of US$20.7 million, or 17 percent of total
project costs, to reach FISEs target program. It was agreed with FISE and
major identified co-financiers during appraisal that cross-default clauses
between the Bank'- legal documents and cofinancing agreements would not
be necessary. The rationale for this agreement is that any eventual shortfall in
fund-raising would reduce the ultimate number of sub-projects to be financed
but would not endanger FISEs functioning nor the benefits accrued from
Bank-funded FISE sub-projects. Furthermore, cross-default clauses would be
impractical at this point given that a significant share of possible cofinancing
is as yet uncommitted and in some cases unidentified. The overall financing
share of overhead expenses (personnel and operating expenses) for FISE is to
be distributed 40:40:20 between the Bank, IDB and the Government. The
IDB and the Bank would share the financing of FISE higher level personnel
(paallelly, not jointly) which are beyond the levels able to be financed by the
Government; and the Govermment would cover support-level staff.



- 33 -
Table 6.2: Financing Plan
(US$ million)
TObWl            COF                                        GOEt   Beae      Other
Cost    GOE    USAD    IBRD        [B      UNICEF   UNDP    of       &       Donon
Spain Spount
I= - bIasutuu               9.7     1.3      0.7      4.2      3.3       0.1    0.1   0.0       0.0        0.0
FMSE - Sub-ProjecB        108.8    10.7      3.8     24.3      26.7       0.0    0.0   0.8    21.8        20.7
Socia bfllnuc              59.4     5.8     2.1      13.3     15.1       0.0    0.0   0.4    11.9        11.3
SoCIa-IEComic              35.9     3.5     1.3      8.0       9.1       0.0    0.0   0.4      7.2        6.8
Inft-
Soci Survlces               9.1     0.9     0.3       2.0      2.2       0.0    0.0   0.0       1.8       1.7
kudbdonal                   1.1     0.1     0.0      0.2       0.3       0.0    0.0   0.0      0.2        0.2
Dminpmm
PW&zCd" Communiy           3.3      0.3     0.1       0.7      0.0       0.0    0.0   0.0      0.7        0.6
pqojet preparation (PPP)    1.5     0.0      0.0      1.5      0.0        0.0    0.0   0.0      0.0        0.0
TOTAL                      120.0    12.0     4.5     30.0      30.0      0.1    0.1   0.8    21.8         20.7
Fkancog Shae              100.0    10.0      3.8     25.0     25.0       0.1    0.1   0.7    18.2         17.3
B. Procurement
6.3    Procurement of civil works, goods and services subject to Bank
financing would be carried out in accordance witi Bank guidelines. The
GOE has recently enacted a new procurement legislation that confirms the
precedence of Bank procurement guidelines over local legislation. However,
the new legislation requires that specific provisions be included in loan
agreements for addressing areas of conflict. Such provisions are now
routinely included in aU loan agreements with Ecuador and have been
eWpanded in this case (following a precedent under Loan 3052-EC) to
streamline Ecuadorian internal review procedures which have proven to be
sources of considerable procurement delays. To simplify administration,
FISE would seek to apply to the extent possible the same rules and
procedures described below for its entire portfolio. Procurement
arrangements are summarized in Table 6.3.
6.4    For sub-projects financed under the proposed project, sponsoring
agencies would be responsible for procurement and would follow Bank
guidelines. In the case of local competitive bidding, to simplify both the
reviewing and the bidding processes, FISE would provide sponsoring
agencies with a package of basic documents, including a description of the
procedures to be followed and standard bidding documents. FISE submitted
a draft of this package for negotiations (para. 8.1 (d)) and the content was
agreed upon between the Bank and the Govemment during negotiations (para
8.2 (g)). Prior to signing the sub-project contract, FISE would ensure that
procurement procedures to be followed are in compliance with the agreed
procurement arrangements. For goods and services contracted under FISE



- 34 -
institutional support, FISE would be responsible for procurement following
Bank guidelines.
6.5   Civil Works. No international competitive bidding (ICB) is expected
for the proposed project because of the small size of civil works contracts
and the scattered location of implementation. FISE's internal regulations
limit maximum sub-project size to below US$250,000 equivalent, with
average sub-project size estimated at US$40,000. Local competitive bidding
(LCB) procedures, acceptable to the Bank, would apply to civil works
contracts valued above US$100,000, with a total expected amount of US$3.0
million representing sixteen percent of the civil works sub-project amount to
be financed by the Bank. Civil works contracts valued below US$100,000
would be awarded through local shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank,
with an expected aggregate amount of US$11.5 million. While sponsoring
agencies would always be encouraged to seek out three price 4uotations, it is
recognized that due to the nature or FISE sub-projects local shopping
procedures may not be feasible in many cases, particularly for very small
civil works. Therefore, for sub-projects below US$25,000 a system of direct
contracting would be applied, with appropriate safeguards which have been
found successful in other social funds in the Region (para. 6.6 and 6. 10).
Direct contracting would be allowed only up to an aggregate amount of
US$3.6 million of Bank financing. Direct contracting and local shopping
procedures are justified because of the preponderance of small-scale,
technologically simple, labor-intensive sub-projects, most of which would
entail rehabilitation rather than new construction. Most works would be
carried out in scattered and often remote areas. Moreover, given the wide
range in types of sub-projects and the dynamic nature of a social fund's
pipeline, packaging groups of sub-projects for procurement purposes would
be unlikely. Under these circumstances, in most cases contractors would not
be interested in bidding or even preparing price estimates for civil works.
6.6   Tb support the application of reference prices to control direct
conhtcting, FISE is implementing a data base system of standard
regionalized unit prices, based on the successful experience of similar Bank-
financed projects in LAC, that would serve as a reference for sub-project
costing and procurement. During negotiations, agreement was reached on
independent review and updating procedures for the unit price data base
every tbree months and that FISE would promptly change such prices, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, as recommended by such a
review (para. 8.2 (h)). Technical assistance under the FISE institutional
support component of the proposed project wuld finance the contracting of
exatrnal support services to carry out this work. As an additional safeguard,
PISE would keep a data base on the number, amount and location of sub-
projects for each sub-project contractor or/and executing agency as part of its
management information system.



- 35 -
Table 6.3: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
PROCUREMENT MEIHOD/I
LCB     Other /2   N.B.F/3   Totat
FLVSInstitutional Support
Salaries and Fees                -.-        2.3         3.6     5.9
-.-      (2.3)       -.      (2.3)
Vehicles & Equipment             -.-        0.3        0.4      0.7
---      (0.3)       -.-    (0.3)
Operating Expenses                .         0.7         1.1      1.8
*        (0.7)       ---    (0.7)
Technical Assistance & Trng.     -.-        0.9        0.4       1.3
(0-9)       ---    (0-9)
Sub-Ial Institutional Support      -.-        4.2        5.5      9.7
(4.2)       -.-    (4.2)
FISE Sub-Projects
Civil Works                      3.0       15.1       63.5    81.6
(3.0)     (15.1)        ,    (18.2)
Equipment & Goods                1.0        4.3        18.2    23.5
(1.0)      (4.3)        .      (5.3)
ech. Assistance & Tlaining       -.-        0.8        2.9      3.7
(0.8)       -       (0.8)
Sublbtal Sub-Projects             4.0       20.2        84.6   108.8
(4.0)     (20.2)        ,    (24.3)
Project Preparation (PPF)         0.2         1.3        -.-      1.5
(0.2)      (1.3)        ,      (1.5)
T1lAL                             4.2        25.7       90.0   120.0
(4.2)     (25.7)       -.-   (30.0)
1/ Figures in parentheses are the amounts estimated to be financed by the Bank.
Z  Under FISE Institutional Support includes consulting services, prcured following bank
guidelines, for FISE personnel (the term "Salaries- is not meant to suggest that such
personel are anything other than consultants), technical assistance and training, limited
internationa bidding for vehicles (US$160,000) and computers (US$100,000), local shopping
fDr radios and commmication equipment (US$40,000), and FISE operating expenses,
including rent, travel, and utilities for which procurement procedures would not be
applicable, and mnnor office supplies which would be purchased folowing local shoppig
procedures. Under FISE Sub-Projects, includes for civil works, local shopping for sub-
projects valued at under US$100,000 (aggregate amount US$11.5 million) and direct
contrating for sub-projects valued at under US$25,000 (aggregate amount US$3.6 million);
for euipmt and goods, local shopping for sub-projects under US$50,000 (aggregate
amount US$4.3 million); and for technical assistance and training related sub-projects,
prorement followirng Bank guidelines for consultant services.
3/ Not Bank financed, including parallel cofinacing and other donor support, Govemnment
countpa  financing and an esmated 20 percent of sub-project value provided by
beneficiarie and sponsoring agencies.



- 36 -
6.7   Equipment and Goods. Goods and equipment to be procured under
the FISE institutional support component include vehicles (8), computers and
office equipment. Under sub-projects, goods and equipment to be procured
include basic construction goods (in the case of self-help sub-projects), tools,
spare parts, basic machinery, fiurniture, and basic goods and equipment
needed for health centers, schools, shelters and inputs to productive
community investments. Packages of goods and equipment above
US$200,000, where ICB procedures would be applied, are not anticipated for
the proposed project. For goods and equipment for sub-projects costing
between US$50,000 and US$200,000, LCB procedures acceptable to the
Bank would be carried out. Total LCB purchases under sub-projects are
expected to amount to US$1.0 million and would be carried out by the
sponsoring agencies based on the guidelines in the procurement package
presented by FISE (para. 6.4), reflecting Bank guidelines. Local shopping
procedures acceptable to the Bank would apply to procurement of goods and
equipment below US$50,000, with an aggregate amount of US$4.3 million
for sub-projects. Under FISE institutional support, total Bank-financed
purchases for goods and equipment are expected to amount to US$300,000.
Limited international bidding (LIB) procedures would apply to vehicles
(estimated value of US$160,000) and computer equipment (estimated vlue of
US$100,000) whereby FISE would seek bids from all international suppliers
with service facilities in Ecuador. Local shopping procedures acceptable to
the Bank would apply to all purchases of equipment and goods under
US$50,000 (radio and communications equipment and other small office
equipment).
6.8 Consultant Services and Training. The project would allocate about
US$4.0 million to training and consultant services (sub-projects and
institutional support combined). The selection and appointment of
consultants would be done in accordance with the August 1981 World Bank
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, including the contracting of FISE
higher level professional and technical personnel. The legal documents will
provide that measures be taken to ensure that such consultants serving FISE
would in no way be considered civil servants.
6.9 Categories Not Applicable to Procurement Arrangements.
Standard procurement arrangements would not apply to FISE operating
expenses (rent, utilities, travel, e-tc.. though minor office supplies would be
purchased using local shopping), nor would they apply to expenditures not
financed by the Bank.
6.10 Bank Review. Bank review procedures for sub-projects are provided
in para. 5.16. In addition, to ensure compliance with agreed procurement
arrangements, the Bank would require prior review of all LCB civil works
contracts, LCB contracts for goods and equipment above US$100,000, and
all LIB contracts. As such, prior review would apply to an estimated
seventeen percent of Bank financing for sub-projects. Under FISE
institutional support, Bank prior review would be required for all consultant



- 37 -
services (firms and individuals) and taining contracts with the exception of
FISE fixed-team professional staff contracts. Prior review for such a large
number of individual consultant contracts which by their nature have
sUndardized terms of refrence and qualifications and pre-determined salary
ranges would require an excessive use of Bank supervision resources to little
advantage. As such, prior review would be required only for FISE
management positons.2 All other fixed term staff contracts would be subject
to random ex-post review. To ensure effective operations and compliance
with the procurement arrangements of the proposed project, Bank
procurement reviews would be carried out every six months during execution
of the proposed prject. Terms of reference for the procurement reviews are
provided in Annex 0.
C Disbursements
6. 11 The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of about
four years, to be completed by June 30, 1998 (Closing Date). This time-
fame corresponds to an anticipated completion of FISE sub-project approvals
by December 1996; sub-project activities fully disbursed by June 30, 1997;
FISE closed on December 31, 1997; and an estimated additional six months
for the delivery of the final audits and reports, the supervision of which
would fall under the responsibility of the Office of the President. The
disbursement profile presented in Table 6.4 (and provided in fiuther detail
along with the disbursement schedule in Annex P) is shorter than the profile
for LAC projects in the social sectors, but is in line with the Bank's
experience in social funds in the region.
Table 6.4: Estimated IBRD Disbursement
Estimated 1BRD Disbursment FY94  FY95  FY96  FYg7  FY98
Annual                   6.0   11.5   8.5   3.4   0.6
CuMuae.                  6.0   17.5  26.0  29.4  30.0
6.12  Disburements wowd be made against the following categories of
expendiures: (a) FISE Sub-Projects: 100 percent of disbursements on sub-
projects approved according to FISEs sub-project eligibility and appraisal
criteria, with the following cumulative annual limits agreed upon during
negodations: US$15.0 minion by the end of CY1994, US$21.0 million by
the end of CY1995, US$22.8 million by the end of CY1996, and US$23.3
million by the end of CY1997; (b) FISE Personnel and Operating
2 FISE ma_agemet level positions include: Coordinator, Sub-Coordinator, Department
Director, Legad Advisor and Inteunal Auditor, and Department Sub-Directors, 25 specified
in the Lan Ageement, Schedule 4, Section II, Para. 2.



- 38 -
Expenses: 100 percent of eligible expenditures (listed in Annex N) incurred
by FISE. Indicative annual limits have been estimated at: US$1.7 million
by end of CY1994, US$2.5 million by end of CY1995, US$2.9 million by
end of CY1996, and US$3.0 million by the end of the proposed project.
These annual amounts would be reviewed annually and adjusted depending on
the ting and level of parallel cofinancing available for these expenditures.
(c) FISE Vehicles and Equipment: 100 percent of foreign expenditures,
100 percent of ex-factozy local expenditures, and 80 percent of local
aependitures for other items procured locally. And (d) FISE Training and
ecbhnical Assistance: 100 percent of expenditures.
6.13 Documentation of Expenditures. Withdrawal applications for (a) all
sub-projects and (b) for goods under FISE institutional support with a
contract value of US$100,000 equivalent or more would be supported by full
documentation, with such contracts of less than US$100,000 equivalent and
disbursements of expenses not undertaken by contract would be made on the
basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). For consultant and technical
assistance contracts under FISE institutional support, full documentation
would be required, with the exception of contracts for FISE fixed-term
pro1bssional staff below management levels (para. 6.10), where SOEs would
apply. Supporting documentation for all SOEs would be maintained by FISE
and made available for review by Bank staff. The statements would be
audited as part of the semi-annual audits. A Special Account would be
opened at the Central Bank of Ecuador, with an initial deposit of US$2.0
million, corresponding to the average four-months expenditures under the
proposed project, and two months of expenditures during peak disbursement
periods. The Government's agreement to the above arrangements for
disbursements was confirmed at negotiations (para. 8.2 (i)).
6.14 Repayment of PPF and Retroactive Financing. The advance for
project preparation (PPF) in the amount of US$1.5 million equivalent would
be repaid from the proceeds of the loan. Retroactive financing of up to
US$3 million would be sought to finance both (a) equipment (computers,
vehicles) purchased as of May 25, 1993 following Bank guidelines; and (b)
financing for sub-projects which conform with FISE eligibility criteria and
appraisal procedures, as agreed upon during appraisal, and approved by
FISEs Approval Committee after October 7, 1993. In the event of delays in
loan signing, these dates would be changed to reflect a limit of one year prior
to the date of signing. Retroactive financing is essential to build operational
capacity of FISE and to allow the agency to reach an optimal level of sub-
project execution in order to complete its target program of US$120 million
within the lifetime established for FISE. During appraisal, UNDP offered to
provide bridge financing to FISE of up to US$3 million for such expenditures
with the understag that this would be repaid through retroactive financing
frm the Bank upon loan effectiveness. The provision of this bridge loan
reflects the unavailability of Government resources (prior to FISE inclusion
in the national budget in 1994) and represents essential additional financing



- 39 -
during the start-up period. These agreements were confirmed during
negotiations (para. 8.2 (j)).
D. Accounts and Auditing
6.15 FISE's Department of Finance and Administration is responsible for
the overall financial management of FISE and is supported through a
computer-based MIS system covering financial and administrative aspects of
operations as codified in FISE's Administrative Manual. FlSE will maintain
separate accounts for the Bank's contribution to the proposed project, and
will ensure that the system is sufficiently robust to track and reconcile
expenditures by financing source. External audits would be performed on a
semi-anmnal basis tbrough the contracting of external auditors acceptable to
the Bank. The external audit would cover all project accounts, the Special
Account and all disbu sements made against Statement of Expenditures.
Draft terms of refere ce for the external audit were submitted to the Bank
prior to negotiation. (para. 8.1(e)). During negotiations, assurances were:
obtned that audits would be conducted by an independent private auditor
acceptable to the Bank and would follow terms of reference in accordance
with appropriate auditing standards, as approved by the Bank; and that FISE
would submit the audit reports to the Bank within four months after the close
of each semester (para. 8.2 (k)). All audit reports would certify that the
fmds were used for the purposes for which they were provided and that
procurement of all contracts was carried out in accordance with agreed
guidelines. . Given problems of delays usually experienced in auditing in
Ecuador and due to the exceptional nature of the institution, FISE has been
allowed by the Controller General's Office to contract such services
independently. The Controller General's Office will continue to exercise its
normal functions of internal audits of FISE.
E. Reporting Mid-Term Review and Supervision
6.16 Reporting Requirements. FISE would submit to the Bank standard
monthly information reports according to an agreed upon format, and based
on information from FISEs MIS system. In addition, the Government would
(a) submit each year for Bank review FISE's annual report, ratified by its
Board of Directors, no later than March 1 of the following year and (b)
submit a final report and evaluation of the outcome of the proposed project
no later than six months after the closing date. Annual reports would contain
key progress indicators of FISE together with reporting on technical
assistance and training efforts, the results of monitoring and impact
eWaluation studies, and findings from the semi-annual procurement reviews.
The annual reports would have to demonstrate sufficient progress acceptable
to the Bank. Based on the conclusions and recommendations of the anmual
reports, FISE would conduct an anmal programmiDg exercise, including the
~%               E    i:na tnrqn adinstinents to its distribution of



- 40 -
sub-projects by type and location, and revised cash-flow projections. An
annual program, reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank, would be
prepared at the conclusion of every annual programming exercise and would
subsequently be carried out by FISE. The Government's agreement to these
reporting requirements were obtained during negotiations (paras. 8.2 (1) and
(m)).
6.17 Mid-Term Review. The Bank, FISE and other external agencies
would cany out a joint Mid-Term Review to evaluate the performance of
PISE (paras 8.2 (m)). This exercise would be scheduled for the first months
of 1996. The Mid-Term Review is designed to evaluate the experience of
FISE, both at the operational level as well as in the context of the
Government's overall social policy and related programs. The scheduling of
the Review allows for a full two years of operational experience, including
initial results of the beneficiary assessment and other monitoring and impact
evaluation tools. The Mid-Term Review would be carried out prior to the
annual programming exercise of 1996 to permit immediate incorporation of
recommendations. Moreover, results of the Mid-Term Review would be
available during the change in Administration in mid-1996, and as such
would inform the strategy to be adopted by the following Administration as
to the ultimate institutional arrangements for the financing of social
programs. Draft terms of reference of the Mid-Term review are provided in
Annex Q. Terms of reference would be finalized in consultation with FISE
and other external donors.
6.18 Bank Supervision and Donor Coordination. Due to the demand-
driven nature of FISE, the large number of sub-projects to be reviewed, the
newness of the institution, and the importance of transparency, intensive
supervision is required by the Bank. This is in keeping with the experience
of similar social funds in Latin America, which depending on the size and
level of co-financing arrangements have required between 30-60 staffweeks
of Bank supervision annually. Arrangements to reduce the costs of this
supervision will be explored, including joint supervision missions with other
donor agencies (specifically the IDB), effective use of the Bank's Resident
Mission in Quito, and the contracting of local consultants to review selected
aspects of FISE operations. Standard reports and provision of information
from the MIS would simplify monitoring of FISE progress and allow for
immediate feedback of Bank recommendations to FISE. An estimated 2-3
supervision missions would be required annually. Annex R provides details
on Bank supervision requirements and strategy.
6.19 International Review Board. Supervision of FISE operations will be
strengthened through effective donor coordination. To this end, during
appraisal agreement was reached with the principal donors of FISE, including
USAID, IDB, UNDP and UNICEF, as to the establishment of an ad-hoc
International Review Board comprised of representatives from each donor
institdon. The objectives of the Review Board are to share information
reuardine FISE onerations. review and coordinate on the vrorammine of



- 41 -
FISE activities, assess institutional performance, promote fund-raising among
the donors, and to raise the transparency of FISE vis a vis the intenational
community. The Board would convene in Quito on a semi-annual basis, the
timing of which would overlap with supervision missions.
7. BENEFITh AND RISKS
7.1   Benefits. The proposed project would generate substantial benefits
for the poor through the more than 2,700 sub-projects expected to be
financed by FISE in the prowvision of basic social and physical infrastrcture,
social services and tainig. These sub-projects would deliver immediate
benefits in terms of generation of employment and income and improvements
in the access and quality of basic services and infrastructure, as well as
longer-term benefits in terms of improvements in the living conditions and
productive capacity of the poor. The proposed project would sengthe
FISE in its ability to effectively target, appraise and monitor efforts oriented
to poverty alleviation, and would assist the Government in mobilizing
additonal external financing in support of its reform objectives. In addition,
the proposed project would have an important insdtuonal effect in: (a)
strengthening the capabilites of NGOs, grassroots organizations and local
authorities to prepare and implement projects, (b) in demonstrating the
relevance of beneficiay participation in poverty alleviation efforts, and (c) in
providing an efficient and effective model of public sector implementation
capacity.
7.2   Risks. Risks facing the proposed project relate to: (a) political
interference and bureaucratization which would compromise FISE's
autonomy, credibility and effectiveness, (b) potential shortfalls in counterpart
financing, which has proved to be an endemic problem in Ecuador, (c)
despite thorough sub-project appraisal criteria, potential problems with sub-
project quality in the field, and (d) lack of coherence and coordination with
other activities. To address the risk in (a), PISE has been established as an
autonomous agency under the Presidency, with adequate institutonal checks
and balances and transparent and efficient operating procedures. To address
(b) the Bank will monitor closely the meeting of counterpart commitments in
the social sectors in general, and assurances will be obtined at negotiations
to cover the remaining countrpart financing requirement of the proposed
project. The proposed project contains several design features to address (c),
including on-site supervisors to be contracted as part of sub-project costs,
independent sub-project quality reviews, impact evaluations which include
direct feedback from sub-project beneficiaries, and intensive oversight from
donor agrncies through the formation of an ad-hoc Intrnational Review
Committee. And finally, to address (d), FISE has incorporated sector norms
and technical specifications, where available, into its appraisal criteria, and
has entered into signed coordinating agreements with key sector ministries
specifying sub-project review procedures.



- 42 -
8. AGREEMENIS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.1   During negotiations, the Goveniment furnished to the Bank: (a)
revised version of its Operational Manual and Administrative Manual (para.
5.2); (b) standard multi-party contract for sub-project execution (para. 5.19);
(c) an action plan for impact evaluations, including timing, focus,
methodologies, terms of reference and i,.plementation arrangements (para.
5.24); (d) a package of basic procurement documents, including sample
bidding documents and a description of procurement procedures for LCB
(para. 6.4); and (e) a draft terms of reference for the external audits (para.
6.15).
8.2   During negotiations, agreement was reached between the Bank and the
Government that:
(a)   any changes to the approved Operational Manual and
Administrative Manual that could affect the carrying out of the
project could not be made without prior Bank approval (para.
5.2);
(b)   FISE management level positions (pam. 6.10) would be staffed
satisfactorily to the Bank (para. 5.4);
(c)   sub-project Bank review arrangements would be carried out as
specified, including standard sub-project information sheets
(paras. 5.16 and 6.10);
(d)   selected institutional performance indicators would be used,
with specific targets of FISE performance established for 1994
(para. 5.22);
(e)   during the first quarter of 1997, the Government must define
its strategy for closing FISE (para. 5.25);
(f)   the Government would provide the necessary counterpart
funds, including specified annual amounts (paras. 6.2);
(g)   standard bidding documents and LCB procedures fox small-
scale works anr1 goods acceptable to the Bank could be used
for procurement under the project (para. 6.4);
(h)   independent review and updating procedures for the unit price
data base would be carried out every three months and that
FISE would promptly change such prices, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, if so recommended by such
a review (para. 6.6);



- 43 -
(i)  the Government would carried out specified disbursement
arrangements, including the establishment of a Special Account
in the amount of US$2.0 million (pam. 6.13);
(j)   eligible expenditures and amounts for retroactive financing
were confirmed (pam. 6.14);
(k)   semi-annual audits would be conducted by an independent
private auditor acceptable to the Bank and would follow terms
of reference in accordance with appropriate auditing principles,
as approved by the Bank, and would be submitted to the Bank
within four months after the close of each semester (para.
6.15);
(1)   FISE would undertake the following reporting requirements:
(a) submission of monthly information reports from the MIS
system, based upon an agreed format and content; (b)
submission for Bank review of FISE's annual report, of a
format and content acceptable to the Bank and approved by its
Board of Directors, no later than March 1 of each following
year and (c) submission of a final report and evaluation of the
outcome of the proposed project no later than six months after
the closing date (para. 6.16);
(m)  project implementation would include annual programming
reviews and a Mid-Term Review to be conducted in early 1996
(pars 6.16 and 6.17).
8.3   Conditions of loan effectiveness include:
(a)   FISE's Operational Manmal and Administrative Manual,
satisfactory to the Bank, would have been approved by its
Board of Directors (para. 5.2);
(b)   the presentation of FISEs technical brochures to guide sub-
project appraisal, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.15).
(c)   an initial Management Infornation System, satisfactory to the
Bank, would have been implemented (para 5.21);
8.4   Recommendations. Subject to the above conditions and assurnces,
the proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IBRD loan of US$30.0
million to Ecuador.



- 44 -                       Annex A
ECUADOR
Third Social Development Project
Social Investment Fund
NGOs in Ecuador
1.    Non-govermnental organizations have become increasingly important
actors in basic service provision and poverty alleviation in Ecuador. As in other
countries, the term NGO encompasses a wide variety of organizational types
characterized by a diversity of objectives, structures and functions.
Developmental intermediary non-governmental organizations that work with and
channel resources to the poor, but do not fonnally represent them, are most
often identified as NGOs. However, other important non-governmental actors
include local community-level organizations comprised of the beneficiaries
themselves, second and third level popular organizations, religious organizations
(in the context of Ecuador, particularly elements of the Catholic Church but also
evangelical organizations), indigenous organizations, and the international PVOs
(Private Voluntary Organizations) with headquarters in the US or Europe.
2.    Historic Background. While some of the charitable organizations in
Ecuadot have existed for over 100 years, the prominence of NGOs in the
country has developed over the past 30 years. The first impetus during the
sixties was the agrarian reform and its aftermath of peasant organization among
the refbrm beneficiaries. These were supported by a number of community
development promoters, generally under the sponsorship of progressive elements
of the Catholic Church and of other religiously-inspired groups.
3.    During the oil boom of the 1970s, two factors explain the rapid
expansion of the NGO sector: (i) the increasing need for social analysis and
support services resulted in a professionalization of the social sciences in
Ecuador, and increased the demand for consulting capacity in policy-oriented
research; and, (ii) the dynamic transformations of the Ecuadorian society brought
with it ever stronger critiques of the style of modernization. Advocates of social
change found the scope offered by the traditional spectrum of political parties
inadequate and many formed new groups that resulted in NGOs with a strong
policy advocacy focus.
4.    During the decade of the 1980s, a further expansion of the intermediary
universe was accompanied by a gradual shift in strategy. As a consequence of
the worsening socio-economic situation and the contraction of government social
expenditre, NGOs focused on the provision of services to rural and urban poor
communities, mainly in the form of small farmer development and
nicroentrprise support to the informal sector. Toward the end of the 1980s
women's organizations have become active in development work and specialized
NGOs such as CAM and CEPAM were formed to promote programs for urban
women. External aid agencies interested in mitigating the social cost of



-45-                         Annex A
adjustment and of poverty alleviation outside of governmental chanels have
provided the bulk of the financing for such NGO programs.
5.    These developments during the past decade were accompanied by
important changes within the intermediate NGO sector: (i) the heavy ideological
emphasis calling for "alternative" developmental models has given way to a
much more pragmatic, professional style of work. This has led in many cases to
increasing tensions witiin NGOs and often to a split into two or more dissident
organizations; (ii) a new style of highly technical NGOs arose, able to offer
competitive salaries and a certain job security to professionals, especially in the
fields of environment and microenterprise. These organizations include
Fwadacion Natura, Fwdagro. Grupo Esquel and Insotec. This trend also
represents a certain specialization among NGOs, with sectoral focus on or
serving certain beneficiary groups, such as women, children or invalids.
6.    The latest development appears to be the formation of NGO consortia
and networks, promoted in great measure by external agencies, interested in
inter-NGO consultation and cooperation. The largest network is CEOP with
some 40 member organizations. There are two microenterprise consortia, one
association of voluntary charitable NGOs, SEGESVOL, and an incipient
organization of enviromnental NGOs. There is a grouping of over 90
organizations at different levels working with children -the Fhro de ONGs y OPs
por y pam la inancia. In general, while individual NGOs are reluctant to join
formal associations, there is more wiUlingness to participate in information
ewxcange and ad-hoc joint planning activities through workshops and seminars.
Intermediy Developmental NGOs
7.    The term NGO is most commonly used to refer to developmental
intermediary organizations that work with and channel resources to the poor, and
includes voluntary organizations with a charitable focus as well as research and
advocacy organizations. There are no complete lists of surveys of intermediary
NGOs m Ecuador. Various sources estimate their number between 500 and 600.
A recent inventory, published by the UNDP in conjunction with Alternaiva in
Quito (based on a survey) lists 323 developmental NGOs. Mariana Mora, in a
paper commissioned by the project preparation team under the previous
gernment in 1991 enumerates 130 organizations that could collaborate with the
FISE, using criteria of being non-profit, legally registered, working with base
groups, assisting marginal and most needy populadons, and having operated
development projects for at least two years. (The original inventory was the
work of Monica Hernande2).
8.    In the UNDP Alternativa survey, the majority of the NGOs represented
were registered with the Ministry of Social Welfare. Three-quarters of NGOs
were established during the 1980s, with almost half registered between 1986-
1990. The majority of NGOs define themselves as multi-sectoral (32%).
Nonetheless, if one adds up the number of NGOs predominanty operating in
education (22%), health (17%), and "improvements in living conditions" (10%),
almost half of the universe can be said to operate in the social field. As for the
Lg....L.. ,- 1WI  &.; U, Ars,t UqA wnrlr with mw;fir digadvanttared



- 46 -                       Annex A
groups (children, youth, etc.), 25% (80 NGOs) work with the rural poor,
slightly less than 20% (61 NGOs) work with the urban poor, and 17 % (56
NGOs) reported working with non-specified clientele. In terms of geographic
coverage, NGOs are fairly equally divided (in number) between levels, with
one-third of national scope, one-third working at the regional level and one-third
oriented to the local level. The largest concentration by far is in Quito (53)
followed by Guayaquil (31) and Cuenca (16). With respect to provincial
coverage, the five principal provinces of NGO activity are in Pichincha (53)
followed by Chimborazo (31), Guayas (26), Imbabura (25) and Azuay (20). In
general, NGOs do represent an important organizational presence in poor areas,
but there are many poor zones, particularly in isolated rural areas, where NGOs
do not reach.
9.    There are no reliable data on NGO budgets and the financial resources
mobilized by NGOs in Ecuador. In the UNDP Altemativa survey, NGO annual
budgets exhibit a wide variation. About one-third of the NOOs that reported
financial information had annual budgets of under 20 million Sucres (under
US$10,000) while a bit less than one-third had annual budgets between 50
milion and 200 million Sucres (US$25,000 - to US$100,000). Mariana Mora
reports that 30 large NGOs accounted for US$17 million in 1990, or an average
of US$566,000 per organization for 1992. It was forecast that the combined
budgets of these NGOs would double. Overall estimates for 1992 put NGO
resources at US$50 million and of this amount, a minimum of US$10 million
allocated for social infrastructure. These estimations do not include the budget
of the large international PVOs with programs in Ecuador, such as CARE or
Catholic Relief Services. A very small share of NGO financing comes from the
Government. Of the US$215 million worth of external cooperation negotiated
by the Government for the period of 1989-92, less than 6% was destined to
NGOs, or about US$3 million per year.
Other Types of NGOs
10.   Religous Organizations. In addition to the intermediate type of NGOs
described in the previous paragraphs, elements of the Catholic Church hold
cons.derable importance in the delivery of social services and assistance. In
fact, some of the social programs of the Church, such as supplementary school
lunches, or childcen at risk, have a wider coverage than that of the govermnent
agencies. Moreover, in the most remote areas, the Church is often the only
local organizational presence and has served as a catalyst in bringing basic
services to the population.
11.   Local Level Groups. In rural indigenous areas, the predominant form
of organization are the comunas, a traditional system of self-government
(cabildo) legalized under the Ley de Comunas of 1937. Originally comunas
managed jointly held land resources but in recent years there is a tendency for
individualization. However, labor contributions for community enterprises,
especially small infrastructre works are still common (mingas). Some sources
estimate the number of indigenous communities at over 2,000, of which the
Sierra region accounts for about 1,600 groups. The province of Chimborazo had
the most comunas (aver 500), while in all of the coastal region there were less



- 47 -                       Atmex A
than 300. The total estimated population encompassed by the comunas is
680,000 with ree-fourth in the Sierra.
12.   A second type of rural local-level orgnization is the cooperative, which
in contrast to the comuna is more important in the coastal provinces. Of the
1,900 cooperatives registered in 1991, more than 1,000 are on the coast, with
Guayas alone accounting for over 500. The membership of cooperatives is
estimated at 78,000 household. Depending on the number of members per
family, cooperative members represent a population between 400,000 and
500,000 individuals.
13.   Urban neighborhood groups (organizaciones barriales) have grown
rapidly, especially during the 1980s. Most of these groups are informal and
unstable, with relatively few registered. Many urban groups begin as land or
housing associations in new squatter settlements. As neighborhoods consolidate,
there is a differentiation into groups of renters and owners. Indigenous urban
groups are important in the sense that they mediate links with the rural
communities and provide access to labor markets. The leadership of urban
neighborhood groups is younger and better educated than in rural areas and there
is more willingness to negotiate with NGOs and government agencies on
infrastructure and social service projects.
14.   Urban migration has also given rise to more women's groups. The
Oficina Nacional de la Mujer, now transformed into DINAMU in the MBS, is
charged with legalizing such groups. Estimates put the number of women's
organizations as high as 1,500. Quito is said to have about 100 women's groups
engaged in productive activities. In rural areas, most women's organizations
have been promoted by NGOs, originally for traditionally type of projects
(embroidery, knitting) but more recently for production and marketing of basic
food items, and also for training in health and nutrition.
15.   Rural Worker's Unions are a relatively new type of local level
organization. Between 1980 and 1991 their number increased from 60 to over
900. Guayas had the largest number of unions with 150, followed by Manabi
(20); and lTnghuragua (90); and Pichincha (85).
16.   Second-level popular representative organizations (Organiwiones
Populares de Segundo Grado) are particularly active in rural areas, and include:
(i) campesino communites (especially self-governing groups in traditional
indigenous areas); (ii) agricultural and marketing cooperatives; (iii) agricultual
associations (generally informal groupings of artisans or users of common
natura resources). While the Ley de Comunas of 1938 and the Ley de
Cooperativas legally regulates the first two types, there is no legal framework
for the third type. The status of these organizations is often not clear and their
relatons with the constituent base groups is precarious. Nonetheless, their
coverage is important. There are an estimated 63 cawpesino associations, unions
or federations, roughly one per canton. A map showing the coverage of these
organizations also exists, superimposed on the country's principal poverty zones.
Hinfrinwatelv there seems to be an inverse relationshiD between the level and



- 48 -                       Annex A
cantons where the linkages with modernizing forces are strongest, where the
agrarian struggles have been most intense and where there is the most presence
of state programs are the areas with the highest level of popular organization.
17.   Third-Level Popular Organizations. While some of the national
federations of rural organizations, such as FENOC have been active for several
decades, the movement to establish formal assemblies and federations, especialy
among indigenous people in Ecuador, is relatively recent. In the Amazon
region, the most notable are the Federacion Shuar and FOIN in Napo province
and OPIP in Pastaza. There are now 15 registered third-level federations. One
of the most notable of these organizations is Maquita Cushunchig (MCCH), a
church-related national organization of urban and rural artisans. Its membership
is made up of 174 base groups and 45 second-level associations. This federation
runs a network of 13 central stores, 399 community stores, 11 mills, and 130
handicraft production groups, working in 15 provinces.
18.    A further example of a third-level organization is the recently created
indigenous federation, CONAIE, which represents nine ethnic "nationalities" and
about 70% of the indigenous population of the country. While the national-level
ethnic organizations see their main role in political advocacy of indigenous rights
and cultural identity, especially control over land resources, some of the regional
federations (ECUARUNARI in the Sierra, CONFENIAE in the Amazon region
and COICE on the coast) act as intermediaries to state agencies, international
donors and NGOs to secure funding for development projects. In some regions,
such as in part of the tropical rainforest, no projects can be implemented without
the agreement and active involvement of the ethnic federation that acts as de
facto territorial authority.
Relations of NGOs with the State
19.    While the wide variety of NGOs does not lend itself to easy
generalization, the relationships of NGOs with the State in Ecuador can be
characterized as "coexisting". In contrast with some other Latin American
countries, the attitude of NGOs vis-a-vis governments has been critical but
seldom antagonistic. During the 1970s, many NGOs pretended to become
radical "alternatives" to the State, especially in their relationships to the popular
sectors. This attitude, fuelled also by some external donors, has given way to
two current modes of operation: the first is partial substitution, in which NGOs
attend to the needs of certain social groups not covered by govermnent
programs. These could be communities in geographically isolated areas or
vulnerable populations such as orphans, children at risk or the disabled.
Temporary substitution occurred during the 1987 earthquake and the more recent
cholera epidemic when NGOs assumed important relief and emergency roles.
20.   The second mode is complementing regular government services. This
has led to occasional joint ventures, in which NGOs have been contracted by
state agencies to perform certain specific services. For example, CESA, one of
the oldest and most prestigious NGOs has worked out on ariangement with the
Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF) in which CESA contributed 25% to each



- 49 -                       Annex A
while the BNF was in charge of managing the credit portfolio and keeping the
accounts. More recently, several state agencies have initiated programs that
explicitly seek NGO involvement. FODINFA, the children's fund at INNFA has
channeled about 60% of its resources through NGOs. DINAMU's programn for
rural women has 40 out of 89 projects carried out by NGOs. In the
microenterprise field, CONAUPE, a special credit program for the urban
informal sector with IDB financing, has collaborated with 24 NGOs in which
NGOs are mainly responsible for training, supervision, quality control and
institutional strengthening of credit groups. PRONADER, the World Bank
supported rural development program, was designed to promote participation by
NGOs, especially in the community fund component (FODECO).
21.   In general, these incipient NGO-State relationships are still characterized
by a certain degree of mutual distrust. State agencies want NGOs for specific
short-term implementation tasks while NGOs generally seek longer-term more
complete involvement in projects, including identification, design and
monitoring. Governments are reluctant to pay for NGO overhead or
administrative costs and often seek to bypass intermediary NGOs by contracting
directly with popular organizations. Nevertheless, there is experimentation to
find complementarities, especially at the regional and local levels, where
informal ad hoc collaborative arrangements are more frequent.
Strengths and Weaknesses of NGOs
22.   The overall implementation capacity of NGOs and beneficiary
organizations varies greatly and remains largely untested. While difficult to
generalize about such a heterogeneous group, the demonstrated strengths of
NGOs in Ecuador include: (a) use of participatory approaches to and beneficiary
involvement in implementation, (b) knovledge of local context and willingness to
experiment with alternative technologies which can be ecologically sustainable,
(c) orientation to poor and specific vulnerable groups, and (d) concern with
exercising a 'demand-pull' on govermnent services and with making demands for
good governance. These strengths tend to be tempered with shortcomings in the
areas of limited coverage, lack of efficiency in economies of scale, little or no
impact on wider policy issues, spotty monitoring and evaluation proceddres, and
in many instances, weak management and administrative structures. NGOs
generally do not evaluate and learn from their projects and remain largely
unaccountable to their beneficiaries. They have difficulties in developing longer-
range institutional goals and plaw.
23.   The World Bank has sought to promote strategic planning among Latin
American NGOs, including NGOs in Ecuador, through training in planning
methodologies and exchange of experiences. The new FISE has a potential to
help to strengthen the capacity of the NGO sector through its institutional
development sub-projects and by challenging NGOs to put their experience to
work on large numbers of concrete, high impact projects. Perhaps the FISE can
also stimulate NGOs to move into areas and among households of extreme
poverty where they may not have been working previously.



-50-                         Annex A
Which Types of NGOs are Most Important for the FISE?
24.   Community-level grassroots organizations are anticipated to be important
clients for FISE. As FISE was conceived as a demand-driven rather than
centrally planned institution, the ability of local communities to formulate and
implement development projects is crucial to FISEs success. While some
grassroots organizations, especially urban neighborhood groups, are skilled in
self-help activities, most local conmnunities have a linited capacity, especially
the poorest in remote areas who are FISEs primary concerns.
25.   The next type of NGOs of interest to FISE are the so-called intermediary
development organizations with experience in the delivery of social services and
in the strengthening the capacity of community organizations in self-help. FISE
itself cannot work directly with individual comnurnities beyond processing their
project proposals. Therefore FISE has to rely on intermediary organizations at
both the project formulation and implementation phases. In cases of basic social
ifrastructure decentralized sectoral agencies can act as intermediaries, but in
small productive projects and where participation and sustainability are key
requirements, NGOs generally have comparative advantage over state agencies.
Indeed in some remote areas and among the most marginal populations, private
voluntary organizations are the only support structures in place.
26.   Second and third level membership organizations (often not even
classified as NGOs) are especially important to FISE. They represent and are
accountable to their constituent base groups (like an association of cooperatives),
and hence can assume the functions of intermnediaries vis-a-vis the FISE, with a
greater assurance of the genuiness of the demand.
27.   The fourth type of NGOs FISE would need are those specialized in
applied research, social surveys and human resource development. These
NGOs, unlike the types listed above, do not generally engaged in direct
assisamnce to the poor, but can provide specific services to the Fund in tasks such
as poverty and beneficiary assessment and traiing.
Inita FISE/NGO Relations
28.   During earlier phases of gestation of Ecuador's social fund, the
relationships between the Government, as represented originally by the ministries
of Social Welfare and Labor, and subsequently by the Frente Social and the
social policy unit of CONADE and between the NGO community were cordial
and promising. The Bank was intent to get NGOs in Ecuador involved early in
the process of designing as well as establishing the criteria and methods of
operation of the new social fund. To this end, staff members of several
research-type NGOs were contracted to write background papers as part of the
preparation under the PPF, several workshops were held (mostly among the
larger intermediary and policy advocacy NGOs with headquarters in the principal
cities), and by mid-1992 a much larger number of NGOs were encouraged to
organize themselves into regional committees for the purpose of carrying on a
dialogue about ways and means of collaborating with the Fund, as it was being
designed. These incipient linkages and consultations were disrupted when the



- 51 -                      Annex A
Government decided to place the FISE directly under the Presidency and when a
new management team was appointed.
29.   However, by the time of the Appraisal Mission (September 1993) the
situation had improved. Clearly, much of the mutual misunderstanding was due
to the lack of definition and clear information about FISE's purposes and
parameters of eligibility and operations. The newly assembled staff of the
Projects Department has a pragmatic attitude about the usefulness of NGOs for
Fund purposes. They have initiated a vigorous promotional campaign which
involved local NGOs, church organizations and second level grassroots
organizations. Proposals from a few national-level NGOs are being processed.
In the first batch of 52 approved projects only three are from NGOs and one
from a peasant's organization, but among the projects in the pipeline at various
stages of processing, the proportion of NGOs is higher.



- 52 -                          Annex B
ECUADOR
Third Social Development Project
Social Investment Fund
'Social Funds' and Other Funancing Manis for
Social Progrms
1.    There exist several lines of financing often referred to as so-called "social
funds". During project preparation, an evaluation of fifteen funds was carried
out. The term "social fund" is misleading in most cases, since several are
acually line items in ministry budgets to provide counterpart resources to
externally-financed projects. Moreover, a number of these funds are either
defunct or were never enacted due to legal or operational difficulties. The
majority receive (or were to have received) funds from earmarked sources of
revenue, such as oil receipts, payroll taxes and the like. The practice of
earmarking has been virtually abolished with the enactment of the new Budget
Law. Due to legal, administrative, and above all budgetary difficulties, many of
these funds exist on paper only. The following is a summary of the orientation
and status of each fund.
Name of Fund                          Acronym      Date of Signature
1. Marginal Rural Development Fund          FODERUMA            May 1978
2. Intgral Rural Development National Fund    FONADRI          October 1981
3. Urban Development Fund of Guayaquil         FODUR          September 1981
4. Emergency National Fund                     FONEN            May 1983
3. Environmental Sanitation National Fund     PONASA           August 1984
6. National Program of Microenterprises         PNM               1986
7. Micro-enterprises Development Fund         FODEME            June 1986
8. Housing Financial Fund                       FFV             July 1986
9. Childrns Development Fund                  FODINFA           May 1988
10. Ecuadorian Childrns Nutrition and         FONNIN          February 1989
Pwtion Fund
11. Employment Promotion                       PROE            August 1989
12. National Corporation for the Support to  CONAUPE           August 1989
Economic Popular Units
13. Social Development Fund                   FODESO           August 1988
14. Economic Solidarity Fund                 FONADES           August 1988
15. Community Development Fund                FODECO              1991



- 53-                         AnnexM
Non-operational ftunds
2.    FODESO and FONADES are not funds but actually line items in
government budget. They are the local counterpart financing of the Bank and
UNICEF resources devoted to preparation of the FISE.
3.    FONEN was established to address local, regional or national
emergencies and disasters, and was intended to be implemented by the Ministry
of Social Welfare. Its financing source was going to come from tariffs levied on
a 35 per cent reduction in exonerations to non-first-need imports. However, the
Ecuadorian Government ratified the Cartagena Agreement's non-tariff-
exonerations regulaton. Tis measure caused FONEN to become paralyzed
because of the lack of resources.
4.    FFV was created to finance the purchase, construction and rehabilitation
of housing. The Central Bank has been in charge of its operation, and in 1989
its budget was US$30 million, financed by a USAID credit and the National
Final Program. FFV was intended to work only in towns with more than
2,000 inhabitants. In 1989, there was a severe reduction of government
counterpart resources to the fund. Moreover, administrative and coordination
problems between the two Central Bank offices responsible for carrying out FFV
made even more difficult its implementation. FFV is virtually paralyzed.
5.    FONADRI was legally established within the Ministry of Social Welfare
to finance integrated rural development projects included in the National
Development Plan. Its coverage was clearly specified: Quininde, Loja,
Guamote, Puerto Hilachone, Cafiar, Santa Isabel, Jipijapa, Pastocalle, Valdivia,
and lTes Postes. However, FONADRI has actually never existed. The
Monetary Board and the Ministry of Social Welfare itself (Secretariat of Integral
Rural Development, SEDRI) were to be its main sources of financing, but due to
legal and budgetary problems FONADRI has never received a single dollar.
FONADRI is still an empty line item in SEDRI budget.
6.    FODERUMA was created vithin the Central Bank with the objective of
fostering integrated rural development by offering small credits to poor r'ural
communities. It worked flnctionally until 1984 when it was considered the
most important social fund in Ecuador. In May, 1991 the current Ecuadorian
Monetary Law was enacted and FODERUMA was stripped of its authority to
manage and grant credits. As a result, FODERUMA was unable to receive an
US$12 million European Economic Community (EEC) financing package,
second disbursement of the Bolfvar Program. During its operational stage,
FODERUMA's funding used to come from the Central Bank itself (the Monetary
Board), IDB (until 1988) and the EEC. The scale of its programs were
generally small, and its 1990 budget was US$3 million, first Bolfvar Program
disbursement. Although its performance had been sufficient, FODERUMA was
concentrated almost exclusively in traditional agricultural activities: corn, potato,
onion, garlic, and cattle. Its geographical coverage was national.
FODERUMAKs record of repayment never was good and the agency had
moderate administrative problems in its interaction with the rest of the Central
__._r_ t__ __ ___ _ __ __ J-q&      f^wt   _ _:.1%     .--     2_:_.



- 54 -                        Annex B
However, FODERUMA has not financed a single project since 1991. With 65
employees, it is fully concentrated on credit recovery operations, and over 50%
of its granted credits are considered irreclaimable. The Govenment has recently
taken steps signaling the closure of FODERUMA.
7.    PROE was established to enhance income by means of financing social
ifstructure programs. ft was expected to be the employment promotion
instrument of the Sccial Front and was established as a budget item in the
context of initial preparation activities of the proposed FISE project. Receiving
its financial resources from the government budget, both the Ministry of Labor
(Ecuadorian Services for Professional Training, SECAP) and the National
Institute of Labor (INEM with its Emerging Employment and Social
Development Program, PEEDS) are in charge of its operation. The former is
responsible for providing training, the latter for providing placement or creating
temporary jobs. Administrative coordination between these two executive uits
is almost nonexistant. SECAPs task is to train those persons who have appLed
to PEEDS for a job. So, in order to function, PEEDS sends all its appLicants to
SECAP and registers each sent group (typically 14-18 people) as part of its
activities and performance. In 1993, with 14 employees, PEEDS has
implemented only one project and created 30 temporary jobs. PROE suffers
from noticeable financial problems. In 1993, with a programmed US$220,000
budget, it received in June the first disbursement of less than a half the presumed
amount.
8.    FONNIN is a multisectoral fund (health, education, training) which
focuses on nutritonal and antenatal programs. The Social Front (Ministries of
Education, Health, Labor, and Social Welfare) is responsible for its operation.
Its coverage is national, and it is targeted to children under 6 years old. A tariff
of 0.5 percent on the value of non-oil and non-agricultural exports (fob) is its
principal source of financg. FONNIN works through the Community Network
for the Assistance of Children Program (Red Comuitaria) which eahed an
esfimated coverage of over 180,000 children through four progams: child
nutrition (60 percent of FONNIN resources), family health (30 percent),
education (5 percent), and popular training (5 percent). Community Network is
a cross-sectoral program dealinZ with child development services. It works with
and receives resoures from the Ministries of Social Welfare, Public Health, and
Labor (Ecuadorian Populau ThWinig Service, SECAP). Community Network is
currently being re-structurated by the Ministry of Social Welfare, and its
functioning is suspended emporarily.
9.    FODDNFA was created to finance assistance programs for children.
Operational only in the last two years, it is actually the fund-raising office of the
National Juvenile and Family Institute (INNFA). With a staff of fur, it
accounts for more than 80% of INNFA budget. In 1992, FODINFA got US$15
million and US$20 million in 1993. FODINFA has never been a social fund.
Although it was legally conceived as a social financing mechanism, PODINFA
does not receive, approve, finance or implement any project. Its functions are
exclusively those of INNFA fimd-raising and financial administration office.
Orifinal FODINFA functions have been transported to the regular 1NNFA
.... .   - ... -  _] _- o'i --   ^



- 55 -                        Annex B
anuWal profit of the Central Bank, BEDE, private banks, credit cards, and money
exchange offices.
Funds with operational relevance
a) Rural development
10.   FODECO was established under the Ministry of Social Welfare (SEDRI)
to help finance small-scale projects submitted by groups of farmers or NGOs for
technology transfer or training activities, as well as economically feasible
productive projects (at the village or community level) as part of the Bank's
Rural De%elopment Project (9437-EC). FODECO promotes strengthening of
small farmers' associations in legal, technical, managerial and organizational
mnatters through financing productive and sustainable rural enterprises. Local
farmners' organizations, assisted by project staff and the staff of NGOs are to
identify, implement and manage the projects (see Annex C for furfther details).
b) Microenterprise
11.   CONAUPE's objective is to assist individual microentrepreneurs to
improve their productivity by means of credit and technical assistance.
CONAUPE works with NGOs in the provision of training, and with financial
institutions (commercial banks) in the provision of credit via an IDB-financed
credit line. CONAUPE is located in the Ministry of Social Welfare but it has its
own admrnistrative unit. Activities of CONAUPE are concentrated mainly in
Quito, Guayaquil and Cuenca.
12.   PNM has its own executive unit called UNEPROM, which is in charge
of exactly the same functions of CONAUPE but oriented to the informal sector
and at a smaller scale. Its 1993 budget (US$250,000) comes from USAID and
UNICEF. With a staff of 14 people, UNEPROM implemented in 1993 seven
projects resulting in credit for 350 microentrepreneurs.
13.   FODEME supports the informal sector of the economy by means of
financial and technical assistance programs. The Ministry of Labor is '
responsible for its implementation. FODEME is financed by the central
goverrnent budget, and the returns yielded by repayments of its credits. Its
coverage is national.
d) Environment and urban development
14.   FODUR is focused on Guayaquil only and finances urban infrastructure
works in marginal zones. It obtains 50 per cent of the interest yielded by public
sector accounts, either national of abroad, with the exception of the Sate Bank
and the National Financial Corporation (CNF) accounts, as well as resources
from Central Bank lending.
15.   FONASA was created to finance environmental sanitation programs in
urban marginalized areas. It is located in the Ministry of Housing and the
Ecuadorian Institute for Sanitation Works (IEOS) is resvonsible for its



- 56 -                        Annex B
implementation. FONASA has been fraced out of IEOS's budget, an
earmarked revenue from oil.



- 57 -                        Annex C
ECUADOR
Third Social Development Project
Social Investment Fund
FISE's Relationship with Other Bank-Fianced Projects
1.    The objective of this annex is to demonstrate how the FISE complements
the objectives and activities of other Bank-financed projects and thus contributes to
a coherent social program financed by the Bank. The annex also identifies where
activities in other Bank-financed projects strengthen the impact of FISE sub-
projects and where there is potential for overlap. At an operational level, FISEs
sector coordination mechanisms provide a filter to avoid possible duplications of
efforts.
2.    The World Bank currently finances four projects in Ecuador with activities
of relevance to FISE:
(a)    Rural Development Project, a US$84 million loan which finances a
US$112.7 million project implemented by the Subsecretary of Rural
Development of the Ministry of Social Welfare, effective since
October 1991;
(b)   Social Development I: Education and Taining, a US$89 million
loan which finances a US$118.7 million project executed by the
Ministry of Education and the Ecuadorian Vocational Training
Service, effective since June 1992;
(c)    Social Development II: Health and Nutrition, a US$70 million loan
which finances a US$102.2 million project implemented by the
Ministry of Health, effective since May 1993;
(d)   Municipal Development and Urban Infrastructure Project, a
US$104 million loan which finances a US$300 million project
implemented by the Development Bank of Ecuador (BEDE) and
municipalities, effective since July 1991.
3.    In general terms, the Bank-financed projects in Ecuador share many
conmon denominators with the FISE. First of all, the beneficiary population and
the geographic areas in which the projects operate were chosen using poverty
targeting criteria in order to direct project benefits to low-income groups. Also,
the projects promote the decentalization of public sector service delivery within
each respective ministry or sector. The government employees who work at the
local level will therefore serve as excellent resources for FISE in sector
coordination and in the identification and evaluation of sub-projects, given their
knowledge of the ongoing programs and needs of the surrounding communities.
Finally, the projects also promote strong community participation which will serve
as a conduit for FISE sub-project demand as well as a means of raising community
awareness of priority needs.



- 58 -                        Annex C
4.    For the FISE to be an effective social sector initiative, it must complement
the activities of existing social programs and help expand the coverge of their
service delivery, while taking care not to dilute its impact or that of other projects
by duplicating actions. For the evaluation of infrastrcture sub-projects,
monitoring on-going activities of other projects in a particular area can be
accomplished relatively easily. Most of the activities and sites for civil works
financed under the other Bank pr3jects have been 'pre-selected', such that any
duplication of effort is readily detectable in preliminary checks. Risks are greater
for duplication of activities in social services sub-projects. In these areas, the
established mechanisms for the coordination of activities between FISE and the
social sector ministries (health, education and social welfare) will play a crucial
role (see Annex K on sector coordination).
5.           Furthermore, active sector coordination can help determine where
the Bank-financed projects can provide support to FISE and improve the
effectiveness of FISE investments. For example, the projects can provide FISE
with necessary technical norms and provide typologies of projects which will aid in
sub-project forWlation and evaluation. The projects can also provide FISE with
unit cost and standard package information which meet sectoral norms.
6.    Rural Development Project (PRONADER): The Rural Development
Project aims to reduce poverty and promote socio-economnic development in twelve
rural areas of Ecuador, benefiting a rural population of 375,000. Within these
selected areas, FISE can complement project activities with PRONADER in the
following areas:
(a)   Irrigation and Flood Control--the irrigation and flood control works to be
constructed or rehabilitated within the project are much larger structures
and more complex than those contemplated by FISE. However, FISE
irrigation sub-projects could include complementary works on small canals
in PRONADER areas. Also, PRONADER's irgation training component
could provide izseful technical assistance to FISE on organizing beneficiary
traimng for water user's associations in irrigation sub-projects.
(b)    Post-harvest Processing and Marketing: PRONADER finances the
rehabilitaton and improvement of twelve regional processing and marketing
centers and five existing town markets and fairs. These improved
facilities, once established, could provide commercialization support to
FISE productive community investment sub-projects.
(c)    Rural Roads: PRONADER finances the civil works for the construction of
new roads, and the upgrading and maintenance of existing access roads.
Maintenance and small-scale civil works would be contracted directly to
communites or firmers' organizatons. Larger works wold be handled by
private sector contractors or through provincial councils, and the longer-
term initenance of these works would be responsibility of the provincial
councils. However, because the project finances only a pre-selected list of
roads, FISE could finance any remaing demand for the improvement of
access roads and construction of small bridges in the project ars.



- 59 -                        Annex C
(d)   FODECO: The Community Development Fund (FODECO) established by
the project finances small local projects submitted by groups of
beneficiaries for technology transfer or training activities (Line 1, max.
US$5,000), as well as economically feasible marketing and productive
projects at the community level (Line 2, max. US$20,000). Groups of
marketing and beneficiaries and small farmers organizations can apply and
must provide 10-20% of project costs. NGOs are encouraged to help
beneficiary organizations present projects. In contrast to FISE, FODECO
has a demonstration and training objective and the majority of FODECO
activities are designed to support technology transfer and other productive
activities directly related to the project. Because FISE productive
conmunity investment projects finance activities similar to FODECOas
Line 2, which finances larger-scale post-harest processing and community
marketing projects, close coordination must exist between the FISE and the
MBS/SSDR for snall productive projects in the PRONADER areas
7.    Social Deelopment I: Education and Tlraing. The Social
Development I project has two principal components: (i) urban basic education,
whose objective is to improve the quality and effectiveness of primary school
education in poor urban areas; and, (ii) adult education and taini  which would
improve and extend the services of SECAP, the Ecuadorian vocational training
service, especially with regard to training programs directed to the poor.
(a)    Urban Basic Education: The project will establish fifty-five school
networks within the marginal areas of twenty-five urban centers and reach
345,000 primary school children (out of a total primary school enrollment
of 1.84 million). Quality improvements include i cture works
(expansion or rehabilitation of 55 hub schools and repairs on primary
schools within the networks) and provision of textbooks and educational
materials. Because these repairs will affect oniy those schools that pertain
to the networks, FISE's interventions in education infrastructe can exted
to those schools hot associated with the networks (or with those of IDB in
the mral areas). Also, FISE could finance any additional infrastructure
activities and equipment not foreseen under the project.
(b)   Adult Education and Training: SECAP's Popular Taining Progam,
which will be strengthened under the project, is designed to boost the
earnings of the beneficiares through training, and to promote and advise
microenterprises on improaing their productivity and profits. FISE would
therefore coordinate with SECAP in the evaluation of its sub-projects for
non-formal productive trainig to determine SECAP's taining activities in
that conummity and surrounding area. FISE would focus on
complementary training programs, particularly those carried out through
local NGOs.
8.    Social Development II: Health and Nutrion. The Social Development
II project bas three components with implicatons for FISE: (i) basic health care,
(ii) nutrition and (iii) water and sanitation.
(a)   ITe basic health care component will orgnz about 40 health areas of the
195 total health areas in the counry, reaching about 2 million beneficiaries.



- 60 -                        Annex C
Infrastucture to be financed includes: (i) constructing and equipping about
75 new health subcenters, 8 new health centers, and 5 metrpolitan centers;
(ii) rehabilitating and equipping about 130 exising health subcenters and 9
health centers; and, (iii) rehabilitating and equipping about 12 existing local
hospitals. Geographic areas and site selections have been determined for
infrastructe development for the first two-year phase, and hence FISE
could finance sub-projects not covered in those areas Because future
irucure sites have yet to be determined, FISE will coordinate closely
with the Ministry of Health to deternmine the feasibility of constructing and
equipping health facilities in areas to be reached in the second phase of the
project. Also, within the health areas, local service delivery and outreach
activities will include the participation of NGOs and local organizations.
Thus, FISE could finance any complementary activities, such as
vaccinations, community health education, etc., in coordination with the
MSP and through the participation of NGOs.
(b)   The nutrition component provides for the training of health care workers in
nutrition education, the development of mntrition-related messages and
materials, equipment and materials for growth monitoring activities, and
implementation of food supplement and micro-nutrient provision. FISEs
interventions in these aweas, as in the basic health outreach, could include
financing NGOs to carry out different nutrition activities either not
previously provided in the area or which complement those already
provided, and should be coordinated through MSP.
(c)   The watr and sanitation component is one of the more risky in terms of
possible duplication given that responsibility for water and sanitation
projects in Ecuador is quite dispersed. The herlth project is financing pilot
projects of decentralized service delivery to rural areas in six provinces,
with the coordination of activities in each p':ovince falling under IEOS or
CRM, who will either execute the activitiSs or subcontract them out to
NGOs or othee capable local organizativ,ns. The communities to receive
the services will be chosen by variouw' criteria, including the size of the
community, its health profile and, more importantly, its expressed demand
for the project. Activities to be implemented include the construction of
new water supply systems, upgrading of existing water systems, the
construction of latrines, and operation and maintenance. FISEs financing
of NGOs and other local groups within the pilot project areas could
complement the objectives of these pilot projects. FISEs involvement
should therefore be coordinated in these six provinces through IEOS,
CRM, and MSP to achieve this complementarily.
9.    MunIipal Development and Urban Infrastrctu  Project. The
Municipal Development and Urban Infrastructure (PDM) project has two
coponents with implications for FISE: an urban infrastruture component and a
recently approved rural inftastructure (based on an amendment to the legal
agreemens expanding the scope of the project).
(a)   The insuct  component, which is 91% of the PDM project cost,
finances inetments in construction and rehabiLitation of public
infrast       (eg. water, sewerage, roads, etc.) and community facilities



- 61 -                         Annex C
(e.g. markets, parks, etc.), by those municipalities and municipal
enterprises which meet certain institutional and financial eligibility criteria
that will demonstrate their capacity to operate and maintain the
infrastruture and pay the debt service to the BEDE. The criteria for
project evaluation includes economic-financial, technical, and
environmental, as well as the demonstration by the municipalities,
enterprises or communities involved as to the project's priority and
acceptance. Once approved, the projects can be executed by the same
institution or can be subcontracted.
(b)   In addition, US$10 million of the loan has been directed to mral proincial
councils, municipalities and municipal enterprises (using the same eligibility
criteria) for water and sanitation projects, as well as roads and irrigation
projects. The sub-project investments will be financed 50% by community
support plus either loans effected with the Pilot Project funds or own funds
from various sources, and 50% by donation from the Pilot Project.
10.   There is little risk of duplica!ion of imnestments by FISE and the PDM
since the sub-project profile is quite different, as are target beneficiaries Of the
nine types of investments eligible under PDM, four are shared with FISE (water
supply, sewerage, storm drainage and roads). However, the average size of the
eight investments in PDM's first year plan is US$6 million, compared to FISEs
average sub-project size of US$40,000. Moreover, FISE is excluded from
financing investments in non-poor neighborhoods, while PDM does not specify
inter-urban tareting criteria. By virtue of the size, PDM investnents are
evysioned for major urban infrastructure works, while FISE would finance small-
scale investments in poor neighborhoods, precisely the areas unlikely to be reached
by other municipal imnestments.
11.   Where coordination between the two projects is critical is on the policy
side. FISE differs in its objectives from PDM. PDM would not finance
inestments in municipalities unable to meet financial perfonnance targets. The
majority of the non-performers tend to be the poorest municipalites with the least
institudonal capacity - precisely the target areas of FISE. Risks of distortions are
gready reduced by the small-scale nature of the financing, the importance of the
poverty alleviation objectives of FISE, its use of grant financing (and therefore not
increasing the indebtedness of financially weak municipalities), and the adherence
to sector norms as specified in PDM, includig the application of liftline tariff
systems for the poor. FISE will coordinate closely with the PDM, via the Banco
del Estado, to ensure that the risks of overlap and distortions to PMD's fiscal
objectives are minimized.



-62-                   An= D
ECUADOR
Third Sodal Developmn Project
FISE Decree
W' 584
Sixto A. Ourtn-BailIn C.,
PRESIDENTE CQNSTITJCONAL DE LA REPULIBUCA,
CONS rDzRANDO:
Quit is C2nst tuc1dn Politica del Estado garantiza oI derecho de
code pers.ona a cu n'.rel de v1da que aesgure la salud, la
eduoacidn, la allmentacdn, *I vestido, la vjvjenda,  la asiscen-
cla m4dics y loa aerviolos sociales necesarios;
Quo debZe modernlzarse  el E3Cado en  lae  gestldn de provectos
socie2e., mediante unc  efoctiva d1strlbuc.idn de funcIonr:s  entre
los sectozos  ppdblioo  y privedo, aprovech.ndo la *.xperiencls
Insti cuo anal y huwana  de  las organlzaclones  de  la  socledad
c0 v.11,    quoe Ose hayan   onsti tuldo o0 ae constf tuJran para la
reailiacidin de rfr.yaovos de? caricej- social;
Oue es neioosar.ie  sol eionar o*PCr4r=mexjtk  los problemas ma
srudos  efe   l ,-.f ,.wla_,    u*Zo  .* es'peciaj7ente  en lax
02t:.cU'd-.07  5' .grUpp4.j h.u-nams *n io.' qua cc  ha  .Lnc.nsi Le.cado  2
.S ruac -Qn de PobPe-.c.jt
Qt-e cc  ladEspcnsabl  .concar COn& un mooowlsmo  gue permit.
L-2nalizar rocursos Internos y e.xcer.aos  zaoi   Jos &#ccorej uid
aece* i cAdos de 7e pobloold:z de ura menera .agll r eof.!aa; y,
Quo e-  deber  del  Ertado  aignar .'-, recursos necesarlos pare
aaender a los jeccores mis depralmdos del pals.
La uso de las atribucfones que lo confiere e1 Decreto Supremo No.
3732 publlcado en .2 RegIsvro Oficlal No. 5 dl 17 de agoato de
297.9,
DECR ETA:
Art. 1.- Cr6ase el Fondo de In`ersIdn Social 4. Eazergencla, en
adelante den ominedo FISE. como un mecanfwe=o temporal de
coordinacldn t4cnce y financiera,  eue fkncoinari   en
la Presldenoia de  2l Ropdblica, y ser de.cencralizado
edminisctra CIyeen c.. 
Amc. 2. - Los obJeVIc avo  del FISE son los isguien too:
a)   M.forar las condiciones Y 1J calidad de -i'de de la
pcN.,bl& acIdn on altua&2dn de rlobr*xa;



- 63-                  AmD
P';LES3IUV4:ClA Dr. LA Rt3'UIT.IC%
b)   Indentificar, priorizar y localizar las  zonas y
los  grtupos en situaciones de riesgo y emergencia,
buscendo las alternativas apropiadas pare cubrir
sus carenclas de blenestar;
c)   Receptar las demandas de la pobacoidn no atendida
por las instancfias  estatales.  y  der soluciones
apropiadas pars su satisfacci6n;
d)   Impulsar  procesos  de auto-aporo en la comunidad,
estimulando su organizaio6n y participaci6n;
e)  Estimular la   participacidn  en  la  g estion  de
prograemas   y   proyectos   por   parte  de or-
genizzaciones  popul ares,    de    las    empreSsas
asociativas y cooperativas delI sector Pritrvado. de
las organizaciones no  gubernaxentales  y  de en-
f'Idades locales y secoionales desentralizadas;
f)   ZMpulsar Ia descentrral.zacidln de l]a. acci.nes ten-
dien tee  a ccmba tir  la roirez.,  a  trea .-s de la
partic.lpaccln y  el   foi-talec.iento  de  las en-
Udadezs localec-3' se.cif¶n1..
s)   Priorizar   l'  6ast '  slcla'  e.i  los  grupos
pobThcoi,aales  do lao zonagra'riica   con  m4s
altos indice  cde pobreza; Y.
h)   Actualizar lo0  die gndsticos de pob<resa.  tento en
t6rminos de los grupos afectados como de las areas
en que ella se presenta. para lograr eficiencia en
la ejecuci5n de .acci ones.
Art. 3.- Habrg un Consejo&Admxnis .trativo  del Fondo.  presidido
por el Presidente de. la Repablica, o en au ausencia por
su delegado, e integrado por los siguien tee miembros:
El Ministro de Finanses Y Cr6d.ibo Piblico;
El Ministro de Bienestar Social;
El Secretario General del CONADE9;
- El Coordinador del FMSE;



- 64 -                Annex D
PREStDENCIA DE LA RE?UBLIC.A
i'c' Pr esentantee de organfirmos  no z7g,b7rnd4Oen-
t:eles, tno PCX' la cOsta y cal paiL.'s. r otro pr la
Sierra sy e?t Orie..te.  de.iArza.oz pov e.1 Presidente
de la Reptiblic'a; y,
Un re,Presentante ne l aiudade.nie deslgnadc par la
Presidente de la Repiblica.
Los mencionados  t lnistros y el Secretario &wnora1  del
CO VA DE  podrdn  nombrar represent-antes  alternos per-
manentese,   los  mismos  gue  deberdn  contar  con   la
aprobeci6n previa del Presidente de la Repdblica.
Art. 4.-  Son funciones del CunseJo:
a)   Deflnir las politicas de funclonamlento del FISE:
b)   Aprobar el presupuesto anual r el plan opera tivo;
c)  Aprober  la  iniclacidn  de  tradmtes para obtener
pr6stamos internacionales;
d)  .Aprobar laeSnorma; internas del FISE dentro tle los
primeros 30 dias de su funcionamiento y las que
posteriormente fu- ren necesarias;
e)   Conocer y aprobar lee Infornea que trimestralonent&
I& pro-sente el Coordinadar; y,
f)   A prober   los  contratos r prdct2cas de auditorle
e.xterna,  que pudieran ser exvigidc's  en  convenlos
IntelrnaciConal es.
Art. '5.  El  Coordlnaedor.  de  libre n'nt.ibRsriento y remocidan del
Presidente de la Repablioa.  tendrd las sig'ulentes fun-
clones:
a)   Cumplir las deliziones del Conse,Io Admtnistrativo;
b)  S5uscribir nombramienvtos y firmar contratos:
c)   Nombrar y contratar al personal;
d)   Realizar todos los Actos que el Consejo le delege;
Y.



-65 -                    Annex D
PRESIDENCIA DE LA RUMLICA
e)   Actuar  como Secreterlo del Consejo Adxiniftr qtCJvo
del FISE y como miembro gin  votoa.  del  Gabinete
Ministerial Ampliado.
Art. 6.- Son recursos que Integran el Fondo:
a)   Los aportes del presupuesto del Estado:
b)   Los  crdi tos ye  coricedid:s,  cuyo  produc to sea
asignado al Fondo por dioposici6rd   del  Presidente
de la Repdblica;
c)   Las dcnaciones que se reciban;
d)   Los  preOstamos3  que  sean  otorgadoz con e' objeto
especifico de alimentar el  Fondo  aos  cuales  se
scmeterdn  a las condicloI7es jue swe establezcan en
cad ft corzarata de pr6stamo.; y..
--!   Otras recursos que sa obtengan pare  alcanzar los
obJetivos 'ue persigue el FrSE.
Art. 7.- Para  el nanejo ,>resupuestario  se  abrird una cuenta
auxlliar  ade  la  Cu ente Corriente (Unice  dcel  T-soro
NMacioanal  baJo  la  denoa1nacicfn de. "PFondc' d.- Tversidn
Social de Emergencie". H.,ibrd subcuentas que  identifi-
quen el ori gen de cada partida de ingresos.
Art. 8. - A   la   terminecic5n   del mecaniasmo  de  coordiinacl6fn
denominado FISE, serd nombrada una comf dl in   Para  l a
liquidecidn  del mismo.   Los xiembros de la Comisidn
serdn nombredos por el Presidente de la Repc)b2ice.
Art. 9.- De la ejecucl6n del presente  Decreto  gue  entrard  en
vigencla a partir de la fecha de su promulgaci6n, en el
Registro  Oficial,  encargase  a  todos  los  linistros
Secretarios de Estado.
edoa, en el Palacio Nacional, en Quito., a 19 de marzo de 1.993.



66-                  Annx D
PltE3JDB4C3A DE LA REPUBLIC.%
(PdaIne de firmas que corregponde al Decreto Ejecutivo sabre 2a
creacI(3n dcl 'Fondo de Inversidn Social de Exergenca., FrSE').
';';7~~~~~~~~~~1
S_/~~1 Yr PO  Ar<RrtOUS
JosJ Gallardo Romxufo RI badeneirs Trav-errs-sar
HINMISTO DE DEFSA NACIONAL         miNTsTRo PE FrivANzAS Y *.FEDr:TO
P'JsLrco
Eduardo Peiff TrivirAo             Pe      e   Torres
Hf IrSTRO DS EDCICACIOLV    m.ITISTRO iS OsRAS PUisLICAS
/'JCUMRS/                        Y (R:NICAC OAtEs
Al edo Corral Borrero               ilarleno               a
MIfiSTRODE TRABAJO  Y           J/   t$TRO ylA  ICULTURA
FZJurizo NZur
STASDE IJDUSTR AS,           MIAIST.g;  E"tERGIA Y NIZIMS
Cc Io. rNTEGRACroaVPSCA



-67 -                An= D
PR£S1DENCL VE LA EVPUBLCA
(Pdgrna de f.zrmas -que correap*3nde I Deore r o EJectut1 o cobre
ore¢fidn del "Fondo de Invergldn Social de Mnersenc a FISt £. 
b    e/t^?lo Iferrera           tfrXJAguoCei
I1I/ffMT3C DE 5WD PtPBLICA,   MZNXS.VR    B 3).3  RCIAL
.' ENCARGADO
/
*
Fzanoi.4o74lbornez aaares           ios Vehra Rodriguez
IIINISTRO t2 DESAAROLLO tJRO       JI¢ISTDO DE I VFOPtIA C1ON
Y  VVZZENDA                     Y TURI.O



-68 -                    A=40X D
N' 1140-A
Sixto Durdn 8alidn
PRESIDENTE CONSTITUCIONAL DE LA REPULICA,
CONSIDERANDO:
Quo M&diants Docroto ljecutivo No. 584 publioado en ci  aeg±stro
Oftioial No. 164  de 24 de marzo de 1993, to ereado Ei Fonda de
rnver.vft Social de lmzrgencia (FISE);
Qu*  wae *l oficaz  funciona&mento  del )ondo  es   nbcesario
modificar las funoionee del Coordinador y determ±nar con claridad
la permanncoia del meCanismo de coordinaci6n t6cnica y financier&
denominado FISS; s,
In  *e4roicio do 'as atribucions'c quo lo --onfiwer  la Conatituci6n
y la ley,.
D E C R 3 T A:
Art. 1.- Am6ntaze doo inciwc &I Art.  1 del Deoreto  EJecutivo
go. 884 con *I siguient, texto:
"E1 Fondo do Inverei6n Socla3 do Emersoncis durard
hasto el 31 de diciembre de 199?; sue reoulraTo fec-
tivoe *obrantoo alimentar6n el PreeupuqARto del Zt.do y
sue  bienes  muebles serdn traspadoe a la 5ocretar1a
General de la Administraci6n Pfiblioa.
La extinoi6n del VISE no dar4 lugar a que su personal
demando lndemnizaci6n alguna".
Art. 2.-  Aum&ntats. un inciso al Art.  t con ol ci. lozint  texto:
"E1 Coordinador del FISE podrA designar una persona quo
actue como Subcoordinador, el cual tendri los deberes y
responuabilidade  eastablecidos  en  la  correomndienlt
r*slamentaci6n lnterna dl Fondo".



-69-                   Annex
wag~~~  a  M
pKIEIA 3S L& nWRL
Art. 3S- D  .la  eJecucit5n  4de1 proente  Decerto gue .ntrD4,S'
k'egizr deade la fecha de au promulgaoi6n on.et-.eais
Oticia1l onoirgaae a la Ministra de Bioneiter tazb Soi
Dado, en el Palaclo Niaconal, en Quito, a 7 de octtubre de 1993.'
S      *U       16C.
PREz  S      4STITUCIONAL DE LA REPUBt.ICA
Monts    tt  tifia Martinez
MINISTRA DE BUENSTAR SOCIAL
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-70 -                                        Amu E
ECUADOR
Third Socal Development Project
Socal Investment Fund
Eligibility Crteria*
° (Global criteria such as exclusion of investments finaciable by other sources and geral pov  targen
caitia are implicit to al categories)
1. Soecl Infrastucture
SubP"roject 73We                       Speial Conditions            &ncficiare
a) Component: Education
i) Co0us ton In Edocation: Construction,       Priority on rehabilitation and   Cbildren of pre-
expansion and  habilitaton of pro-schools and  expansion. New school            and primuy school
primary schools                                construction eligible only for   age in priority
schools managed by NGOs and     zones
grassroots organizions that
ptesent sufficient guarantees of
their operation, or public schools
with prior nomination of
incremental staff and their
inclusion in annual Government
.________ ________ ________ ______ _   B udget.
ii) School Equipment: Basic furnitur, desks and  The facilides would have to be in    Children of pro-
blackboas fbr pm-schools and primary schools    operation. Fnancing of office   and primary scbool
furniture, laboratory equipment  ae in priority
and equipment repairs not eligible.  zones
List of equipment must adhere to
basic package under norms of
, MEC    ___
iii) Conictin of Trulning Centers:             Only applicable to non-profit NGO   Tralnees from
Co _srct  and rehabiitdon of trainihs centers of   and grassroots organizations-  tar  populat
non-wmal educadon                               maned tainit facilities that     eaphicall  by
could gua_ente operations and   poverty level and
maintenance. New construction is  by occupation
excluded. Appraisal would
include type, coverg and profile
of training courses and
beneficiaries
hv) Equimen for Trahnng Facilities: Purnitu     Only applicable to non-profit NGO   Tlminees from
br traini  cents of non-lbrmial educadon to be  and grassroots organization-    taget populatin
maagd by non-ofit NMOs and community            managed training facilities that are   geographically by
i operation and could guarntee  poverty level and
condtuity after FISE financirg.  by occupation
Appraisal would include type,
coverage and profile of trainiW
courses and beneficiaries.



-71 -                                         Annex E
Sub-Project 3pe                         Special Condtons        i      eneflcioes
b) Component: Health
v) Constucton In Health: Constucion and         The facilities would have to be in    Populaton treated
rehabilitation of pentive medicine facilites    opemtion. New constction         at health centets in
lincludiz health posts, health centers and      allowed for NGO and government-  priority zones;
dispensaries                                    managed facilities with guarantee    specific focus on
of operating coss and personnel,    pregnant women
including personnel slots and    and children uwder
financing of incremenal staff    6 years old
included in annual Government
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _B_ Budget.
vi Equipment for Healt FaciHtles: Furnitute and   The facilities would have to be in    Population  ated
basic medical equipment for preventive medicine  operation. Equipment only       at health centers in
facilities                                      accotding to the Ministry of     priority zones;
Health norms.                    specific focus on
pregnant women
and children under
6 years old
c) Social Welfare
vii) Constrcton of Day Care Centers and         The facilities would have to be in    Within target areas,
Sheltes: Construcion and rehabilitaion of day care   opeation. New construction  children, elderly,
facilities, nurseries, children's shelts, orphanages,    when an NGO or grassroots  handicapped.
and homes for the elderly                       organization guarantees the      working mothers
___________________________  eequipping and opeations.
viii) Equipment of Day Care Centers znd         The facilities would have to be in    Same as above
Shelters: Frnitre and basic equipment for day   operation.
care  cilities mnuseries, children's shelters,
.orphanags, and homes for the elderly
ix) Pedesran Access: Construction and           The constuction would be carried   Community
rehabilittion of steps, foot bridges, and crossings to   out only in permanent settlements    membets within
imptove pederian access                         and on public land.              priority zones
d) Componenti Sanitation
x) Latrines: Construction of latrines in marginal  Beneficiries would have to own  Community
urban and rural areas                           the land on which the latrines   members within
would be constructed, either    priority zones
through an escritura or an acta de
la conwdad. Construction
would have to be coupled with a
training prgrm  in use and
___________________________________  m a in ten ancc                   _ _  _ _  _ _  _
xi) Community Sanit  Farthies: Construction or   Thete would have to be an       Community
tehabilation of public bathuoms and community   operatng water supply and        members widtin
latries                                         sewerage system attached, if     priority zones
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _  _   _  _   _    ~ ~   ~~~~~~ap -ropriate
xhi) Pubtlc Laundries: Construction and         New constructions would have to    Commuity
rehabilitation of laundries for public use      have management guarnteed by     members within
an NGO or grassroots             priority zones
organiztion. Facilities would
have to be located on public land.



-72 -                                       Annex E
Sb-Project 1ype                       Special Conditions          Eenefidayies
xiii) Rai Gutters and Cals: Construction and  Must follow public health       Community
rebabilition of gutters and canals in marginal  sumdards regarding standing water   membets within
urban aweas                                   sources.                        priority zones
2. Socdo-Economlc Infrastructure
Sub-Project ape              |        Spedia Conditionts          Beneficiaries   l
a) Componenlt: Ssnitatlonl
xiv) Wat  Supply: Constction, mehEiitation    Cost weovey raquird according   Communityl
and exmsion of war supply systems,           to tuiff levels established by  members witlLin     l
including water collection, basic treatment and  local sector agency. Materials  priority zones
distribution (excluding house connections),   must comply with technical
standpipes, and hand or motorizd pumps in    norms. FISE would not finance
rural areas                                   drilling equipment, house
connections or meters.
xv) Sewerage: Construction and rehabilitaion of   Community would have to have    Community
sewerage facilities (including means of basic  a water supply system in      members within
treatment) in urban areas and higher-density  operation. Cost recovery        priority zones
rural zones                                  required according to tariff
levels established by local sector
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  agency.                       I__  _ _ _ _ _ _ _
b) Component: Support to Production
xvi) Road Rebabilitadon and Up-Grdlug:        The road must be open to public   Community
Rehabilittion and upgrading of tertiary and   access. The sub-project would  members within
feeder roads (characized by having permeable   have to have an acceptable    priority zones
surSces), including protective works, small   economic return. Civil works
bridges, and drainage                         must require no use of heavy
b_____________________________            _  machinery.
xvii) Mcro-Irrton: Construction and           Priority on rehabilitation of  Community
rehabilitation of small-scale canals and irrigation   existn systems and imvestments   members within
systems, including community reservoirs      complementary to productive     priority zones,
community sub-projecs Sub-    particularly small-
projecs would have to be       scale agricultural
coupled with training programs    producers and their
and technical assistance by an  fanilies
NGO. Beneficiaries would have
to be organized in committees
that guarantee the operations of
the system. Maximum avrage
hectare size of beneficiaries
specified by region. Access to
water confirmed by INERHI as
well as existence of chemical
analysis of water.



-73 -                                       Annx E
Sb-Projea 7pe                         Specal Conditions          i&neclones
c) Component: Rumal and Urban Upgai
xviii) Labor-ntenlve Stredt Rehablbitation:   Priority on roads used by       Communt
Street rehabilitaton using stones and other labor-  collective public tanwsport. Only   members within
ntintsive technologies in mrginal urban and   pricipal toads eligible. A water   targed
rura areas                                    supply sym would have to be    neighborhods
already in openno. No asphalt
or paved roads ligible.
xix) Retailng Wal: Construction and           Sub-projects would bave to be   Wlthin priority
nrhabilition of walls and fences to protect fom    economically viable and benefits   zones, populations
erosion and flooding in critcal urban and rural    accrne to public areas.    threatned by
areas                                                                         erosion and
flooding
d) Compoueat: Enviroment
xx) Small Works of Soil Conseration,          Sub-projects would have to be   community
Eroson Control and Reforestation:             implemented on public land.     members within
Stablization, rebabilitation, improvement and  Any economic benefits would be   priority zones
consolidation of soils through reforestation of  used to operat, maintain, or
critical areas                                expand areas. FISE would not
Ifiace seedlings or nurseries.
3. Sodal Services
3.1 SocIl Services: Health
S roJect 13qpe                        Special Condons             Beneficiaes
a) Component: Preventiv medline
i) Immunlxation and Vector Contol:            FISE would not finance medical    Community
Implemension of immunization and vector conrl   pesonel or inflastructue. Only    members within
programs                                       ueas with insufflcient bealth and    pdority zones and
sanitadon facilities eligible, and  priority popglations
only for diseases which are    accoling to type
p.incipal causes of morbidity and    of health program
mortality in the area. 71rget
population would have to be
clearly delimined; FISE would not
finance natonwide progams.
ii) Food Supplements for Populatlon at MA of    The taoget populaton would have    Community
Malsourshment: Povision of ntrition           to be clearly identified, with  members in priority
suppleme   r popua  at risk                   growth moniorring required.     znes and priority
Priority ibr aras with insufficient   populations
prventive medical services.     according to type
VISE would not finae food      of health program
supflemeats, only complementry
_______ _______ _______ _______ _______ ____  expenditumes.
iiH) Conmunity Pharmaces: fEquipment nd       OpeRtions and mainnance must   Community
sUpplies for pharmacies opemtu in public or   be _uarecd by an NGO or         membem in priority
commun  aeas                                  grassroo organization. Cost     zones
recovery and plan for resupply
.                  ~~~~~~~~relulw._



- 74 -                                      Annx E
Sub -Prject 2Ype                      Special Condions            Beneciaries
b) Component: Healtb, nulton and ygiene traning
iv) Hieah, Nutrition and Hygiene Tfraing:    The taget populadon wuld have    Tainees, both
Excution of training programs related to health,    to be clearly idendfied.  raNing    individual and
mutrition and hygiene, including the use of latrines,   of pubic sectr empVlyees not  groups, with a
oriented to commwnuniy health promoters, traditional  eligible.              special emphasis on
midwives, and pregnant women                                                 glassroots
ornizations
3.2 Social Services: Education
Sub-Project l3pe                     Special Conditions           Beneficiaries
8) Component: Ilh£i  In Produdive Activities
v) Trahiing to Organized Productive Sectors:  The turget population would have    I ahiee  both
The implementaion of training programs and   to he clearly identified and the  individual and
courses in skill development and technical subjects   potential impact of training  groups, with a
related tO productive activities carried out by the  dmonstaed. Sub-projects must   special emphasis on
target population                            be executed by either NGOs or   grassroots
gmssroots organizations.       organizadons
b) Component Support for Schols_
vi) Support for Schoos: School supplies and  Only public, NGO or commumty-   Childdrn of pre- and
teacig materials (excluding textbooks) for pre-  manaed schools eligible.    primary school age
and primary schools                          Materials would have to conbrm    in priority zones
with norms and standands of MEC
as part of the basis package of
materials Desiaton of person
responsibl for care of materials a
_____________________________________ _ '   . requirement
3.3 Socal Services: Nutrition
Sub-Pmject rype ca C ndWoI   Beanefciais
a) Compo:eW Support for Food Production___
vii) Support for Pobod fdudn: Supply of       Mmun land would have to be     Cumnitmity
mateias, tools, inputs and tamining for wUhool  commlmal or swbool property  member.s and
garden plots and greenhoues.                  Thchncal assistance would have   school aged
to be ensured through initial  children
growig season. Sub-projeticipang in sub-
must be executed by eidter     projects
NGOs or gassroots
-'____            --_   orGav-- - ,..                                         ..io.  ._ ____



- 75 -                                    AnnexE
4. Institutional Development
SW-Projects         |        Specia Conditions                Bendiaries
a) Component: Community Operations and Maintenance Committees
I) Maitnab   and Operational  The population would have to be    Community committees and
Commitees: flning and          clearly identified, with special  beneficiaries of the related social
technical assistance fbr the   emphasis on infsucture sub-    infastructure
esaients and operitions of    projects financed by FISE.
community committees in cha-.e   Eligible executing agencies
of the opeaons and madtenane.  include prive contactors, NGOs
ndsructure facilities health,   and specialized public agencies.
education, water, sanitadon,
micro-rriation. etc.)
5. Small Productive Community Investments With Sodal Refow
Sub-ftect lype                Special Condtions                 Benefidiaries
a) Small Productive Community Investment with Social Re-flows
i) SuaU Product  Commuity   Sub-projects would bave to be      CoUectve enterprises,
Invltments with Social Re-     oriented to an oqanized group,  cooperives. and members of
iw: Fnacing for the purchase   managed by an NGO or            community prduction goups
of _nayinety, equiment, raw    grassroots organization, and
material, tools, and other inputs   coupled with techical assiae.
iw implementing group          Sub-projects would have to
productive activities in       demonstrate economically
ridut , livestock, fishing,    viability. For each sub-project,
and ha osnft                   the beneficiary community would
designate a community project
(infastucture or a social
services) to be financed out of the
repament stream (the so-alled
social reflow) from the productive
community investment.



- 76 -                         Anmex F
ECUADOR
Third Social Development Project
Social Investment Fund
Trnng and Technical Asistance
1.    Objectives: The technical assistance and training activities are designed to
strengthen the operational capacity of the FISE and to improve the quality of its sub-
projects. Technical assistance would also allow FISE to contract external services,
in keeping with FISEs mandate as a small and agile agency. The proposed training
courses would provide the necessary tools to ensure that all FISE staff work from
the same skill base and form a coherent and consistent work group. Finally, the
technical assistance and training component would provide FISE staff the
opporunity to replicate and build upon the experiences of similar social fimds in
other Latin American countries.
2.    The principal objectives of the technical assistance and training component
are to provide support to FISE to: (i) define internal systems and procedures which
will provide the necessary inputs to FISE staff to strengthen magement decision-
making, financial administrton and sub-project quality; (ii) improve the
methodologies for the promotion, evaluation, monitoring and supervision of sub-
projects, and to train FISE staff in the use of these methodologies; and (iii) evaluate
FISEs impact on the wel1ire of the beneficiary community and improve its capacity
to reach the target groups.
3.    The activities within the technical assistance and training component can be
divided into four broad categories: (i) institutional development; (ii) administative
and financial management; (iii) sub-project development; and (iv) studies to evaluate
the impact of FISE. Training provided to beneficiary community committees and to
NGOs is considered through specific institutional development sub-projects.
4.    FISE Institutional Deveopment.
(a)    Legal Expert: 0.5 person/months (p/m) of local TA. FISE will
contract a local expert to analyze the legal aspects of FISE
operations, particularly with respect to PlSE's contracing procedures
vis-a-vis local regulations, and to provide support to FISE's Legal
Department.
(b)    Management Expert: 0.5 p/m of local TA. FISE will contract
local management consulting services to provide direct support to the
FISE director, to develop intemal procedures which stenthen FISE
management's capacity, and to promote a more effective use of the
management information geerted by the MIS.
(c)    Institutional State  Expert: 3 p/m of international TA. The
FISE will contract an international expert in the opeion of social
investment &fnds who, thrugh a series of visits, will provide



- 77 -                         Annex F
FISE, based on experience in similar Funds. Specifically the expert
will work closely with Department directors to improve methods of
promotion, evaluation and monitoring of sub-projects, to strengthen
FISE's fund-raising capacity, and to identify areas for specific
technical assistance.
(d)    Vist to funds Abroad: FISE will sponsor 6 trips to other Funds
in Latin America for FISE directors to tap directly into the on-going
experiences of these Funds.
(e)    FISE Personnel Internal Seminars: Given FISE's decentralized
activity and the necessity for integrated actions of staff within
departments and among the different departments and geographic
areas, FISE will host internal seminars to improve the coordination
of its activities and the dissemination of information within FISE,
and to encourage the interchange of ideas and recommendations for
improved operation.
(1)    Computer Users Traing: Local courses will be offered to FISE
staff to improve their computer skill and train them in the software
used in FISE operations.
(g)    Seminar on FISE's Future: Given FISE's designation as a
temporary institution, technical assistance would be contracted and a
workshop/seminar conducted in to explore the future role of the
FISE and develop a phase-out plan or the definition of permanent
institutional arrangements according to a timetable agreed upon
during negotiations.
5.    FISE Administratve and Financial Management.
(a)    Fida l Administration Advisor: 1.5 p/m of international TA.
FISE will contract an international consultant to provide general
support to the Administration and Finance Department in financial
management and budget preparation, and to address specific areas as
identified by the Financial Director. Pbtential areas of assistance
include methods for facilitating disbursements, improvement of
procedures to provide necessary financial information more
efficiently, and the identification of methods to improve financial
control and ensure smooth cash-flow management.
(b)    Fiacal System Design: FISE will hire a local firm to design and
install a financial system and accounting package which meets the
requirements established by the FISE for effective financial
management of its operations.
(c)    MIS Dedgn Expert: 3 p/mi of international TA and I p/m. of local
TA. An essential tool for FISE operation and management, the MIS
systematically generates basic information on key variables to aid in
decision-making and detailed technical information for the permanent
monitoring of the distinct sub-projects. The MIS will also serve as a



- 78 -                         Annex F
expert in MIS design to refine FISEs current MIS through the
identification of key variables to be monitored, the updating of
administrative records (forms) for sub-projects, and the creation of a
user-friendly database fonnat which will generate reports to meet the
needs of PISE directors. FISE will also hire a local systems
operation technician who will follow-up the work of the international
consultant and provide assistance to FISE in the daily operation of
the MNS.
(d)    External Audit: FISE will hire local firm(s) to produce semi-annual
(nine) external audits of the Project, as required by the Bank.
(e)    Procurement Consulant: 0.5 p/m of international TA. FISE will
hire a procurement expert to design sample bidding documents
satisfactory to the Bank and to ensure that FISE's procurement
procedures meet Bank standards.
6.    FISE Sub-Project Development.
(a)    Design of Sub-Project Prototypes: 6 p/m of local TA. FISE will
hire local experts to develop prototypes of FISE sub-projects which
will serve as models for future sub-project formulation. These
models will help FISE promotion by giving beneficiaries the
necessary tools to design sub-projects, and will aid FISE evaluators
perfbrm their evaluations of sub-projects by standardizing sub-project
designs and technical specifications where possible.
(b)    lecnical Brochures: 12 p/m local TA. To formalize the sub-
project evaluation process, FISE evaluators will employ technical
brochures which provide evaluation criteria (technical, economic,
social and institutional) for each type of project to be financed by
FISE. FISE will hire a team of local consultants with expertise in
each of the project areas to develop the quantitative and qualitative
parameters to be included in the brochures.
(c)    Stadard Cosfing System: FISE will hire a local team of
consultats to develop a system of standard costs of sub-project
inputs which will guide sub-project evaluation. The consultant team
will also assist the Departnent of Projects review the variables to be
included, complete the first round of data collection, and update the
costing system on a regular basis.
(d)   Tlcical Quality Cotrol/Psical Audits: 5 p/m local TA. The
FISE will contract local professionals in engineering and social
projects on an annual basis to review the quality of a sample of civil
works and social projects. This random samplig of sub-projects
will provide fedback to stegthen the effectiveness of FISE
supervisor and will identify areas requiring stricter supervision.
(e)     /B          AlysI: 2 plm of international TA. To better
prioritiz the sub-projects it will finance, FISE will refine its
mpthnMn1iewi fir rnt/honefit and cost effectiveness analvsis. FISE



- 79 -                          Annex F
will hire an intemational consultant to give 4 seminars to FISE sub-
project evaluators from the Projects Department to develop and
implement a computenzed system to measure various parameters.
The consultant will also train the sub-project evaluators in the use of
the system and in the interpretation of the results.
(fl    NePo"   Targetg  Expert: 5.5 p/m of local TA. The selection and
evaluation of FISE sub-projects is based on poverty targeting
criteria. The poverty targeting method currently employed integrates
several poverty maps and is disaggregated to the "canton" level.
The FISE will hire a local expert to help the Projects Departnent
improve its poverty tageting method by disaggregating the
consoidated poverty map to the 'parrc-quial' level, which will
produce more precise indicators of impoverish areas by which to
prioritize sub-projects.
(g)    Supervison bchnques: 7 p/m of international TA. FISE will hire
2 p/m of international consultants to develop improved supervision
methods for FISE's social and infrastructure projects, including
systems of payment and control of civil works, and criteria and
procedures for charging fines, etc. FISE will also hire international
consultants to conduct trainig courses in improved supervision
methods to FISE supervisors who will then be able tG disseminate
these methods to the supervisors contracted under the sub-projects.
The courses will be conducted for the following areas: (i) 2 p/m for
infrastrcture projects; (ii) 2 p/m for social projects; and (iii) 1 p/m
for productive community investments.
(h)    Social Services Project Evaluadon: 1 p/m of international TA.
FISE will contract an international expert to train the sub-project
evaluators from the Departnent of Projects in techniques to evaluate
social services projects.
(i)    Social Analysis in Project Evaluation: 1 p/m of local TA. FISE
will contract a local expert in social analysis to develop and test
parmneters to measure beneficiary participation and other social
criteria for FISE's ex-ante project evaluation. The consultant will
also assist FISE ewaluators appraise the institutional capacity of
NGOs and other intmediary organizations in promoting local
participation and train them in other social analysis techniques for
project valuation site visits.
(I)    Data Coleion Tdlques: I p/m of international TA. FISE will
hire an international consultant to train the evaluators from the
Department of Projects in data collection methods to conduct the ex-
ante sub-project evaluations.
(k)    Wrkshop  for Promotion Among Inigous Groups: FISE will
hire local consultants to develop a promotional strategy which will
help PISE promoters better reach the different indigenous
3- 0..A-,. :_  m.%nmitante unll alen tlpeion



-  80-                         Annex F
promotional material and techniques to help FISE promoters conduct
twelve workshops with third-level indigenous organizations.
(1)    Consultat for Promotion Among Women: I p/m of local TA.
FISE will hire a local consultant to evaluate FISEs effectiveness in
creatng and responding to the demand of women's groups. The
consultant will make recommendations to FISE to improve its
promotion strategy among women and will identify women's
organizations and NGOs which can provide support to FISE in this
area.
(m)   Support to NGOs, Inte diary and Grawroots Organizatons:
2 p/m of local TA. FISE would commission a study to determine
the institutional development needs of NCOs, intermediary and
grassroots organiations in the context of FISE operations. The
study would include a rapid survey of sponsors and implementors of
PISE sub-projects to establish the present and potential demand for
services to strengthen the institutional capacity of FISE's "partner"
organiations, i.e. project formulators, project implementors, and
suppliers of essential support services to FISE beneficiary groups.
The study will also identify and evaluate the services available to
these organizations in institutional development areas such as training
for maintenance of physical facilities, training in project formulation,
management, finance and accounting, etc. The FISE will use the
results of this study to develop an institutional development program
to NGOs, intermediary and grassroots organizations. US$70,000 is
budgeted for this program.
7. Shudies fc EvWaluate the FISE. (Refer to Annex L)
(a)    Beneficir Aessment: In order to receive constructive and
unbiased feedback as to the impact of the sub-projects on the
beneficiary community FISE will contract an NGO, university, or
local consultant team, to conduct two beneficiary assessments, to be
completed by year-end 1994 and 1995, according to the methodology
described in Annex M.
(b)   Impact EvWutido: FISE will hire consultants to carry out imact
evaluaions and complementary studies, according to the
methodology described in Annex M.



- 81 -                    Anne  G
ECUADOR
Third Socidal Deveopment Project
Ouine of FTSE Opational Mamnal
and AInIstratI-e 1Manua
1. Decreto
2. Normas Internas
3. Ong
4. Flujograma de procesamiento de proyectos
5. Delicin de actoies
6. Sistemas de focalizacidn
7. Cooidinacidn interinstitucional
8. lpos de proyectos
9. Criteios de elegbilidad
10. Estratga de promoci6n y difusi6n
11. Criteios de evaluacion
12. T6rminos de garanta de opemdc6n y mantenimient
13. T6rminos de contrataci6n
14. Modelo de contWo de ejecuci6L. y financiamie X de proyectD y obra
15. Criterios de seguimiento y supervi6n
16. Sistenas de garantias
17. Sistenas de reajuste de precios
18. 'lansferencia de propiedad de los proyectos
19. Anemos
19.1 Formalaios de: a) Solicitud
b) Evaluaci6n
19.2 Descripci6n de los sistemas: a) De costos
b) Adminisadn y finam
c) De sguimeno



-82-                   Ann G
MANUAL ADMINISTRATIVO Y FINANCIERO
RESOLUCION
I.NORMAS GENIERALES
A. OBJETIVOS
a1. OSTYVO GNtMRAL
OL OBJX1WIVO ESPECIFIC09
. AtSPOWSAVILMO
a4. CONTROL
S. BASE LEGAL Y FUNCIONES
bi. SASE LEGAL
bt2 FUNCIONIS
C. ESTRUCTURAORGANIZATIVA Y FUNCIONES
1. OEFINICICN
A. ORGANIGRAMA
B. FLUJOGRAMA DE POYEOT0S
2. MANUAL DE FUNCIONES
A. CONCWJO ADMINISTRATIVO
B. AUDITORIA INTER4A Y EXTERNA
C. EL COMITE DE APROBACIONES
D. EL COOROINAVOR
E. DEPARTAMENTO LEGAL
F. r.PT. DE PROCESAMIENTO DI DATOS
G. IR. DC CAPTACION DC RICURSOO Y PROGRAMACION
M. DIR. DE ADMINIGSTRACION Y FINANZA8
1. DIR. DE PROYECrOS
11. PROMOONIOI
12. IVALUACON
J. SEGUIMIENTO
K. DELSQACIONES ROGIONALIS
kI. GUAYAGIL
k2. CUENCA
Ill. REGULACIONES INTERNAS E INSTRUC-IVOS DE PROCEOIMIENTOS
ADMINISTRATIVOS
1. WORMAS PARA LA RECEPCION, REGISTRO Y CIRCULACION INTERMA DE
PROYECTOS COMUNICACIONES Y DOCUMENTOS RECIDIDOS
2. NORMAS PARA LA ELAB0RACION, REGISTRO Y ENVIO DE-
COMUNICACIONES Y DOCUMENTOS HACIA FUERA DE LA INSTITUCION
3. NORMAS PARA LA COORDINACION DE LAS DIRECCIONES
A. REUNIONES 0 CCOROINACION SEMANAL
D. SEMINARIOS INTEFINOS
C. OTPos EVENTO8 8OBRE TEMAS EPUC)COS;C-



-83-U -G
4.     MA  PARA EL E10  UN SISTEMA DE AdCiHVoB0-
5. NORtMAS PARA EL USO DE EQUIPOS INSTITUCIONALES
A. LLAMADAS INTERNACIONALES Y PAX
B. EQUIPOS De COMPUTACION
C. EQUIPOS oe FOrOCoPIADC, FOrOORAPIA Y OTROS OE
CARACTER AUDIO VISUAL
D. SALAS OR REUNIONES
E. VEHICULOS
S. NORMAS PARA LA ADQUISICION, REGISTRO Y CONTROL DEACTIVOS riwos
7. NORMAS PARA LA AOQUISICION, REOISTRO, CONTROL Y USO DE SUMINISTROS
S. SISTEMA DE VIAT1COS Y O.TROS GASTOS INSTITUCIONALES
A. NACIONAL
at. QUAYAQUIL CUENCA Y GALAPAGO$
AL CAPIrALES OE PROV?NCtA
A?AZ OTRAS CIUCACES
O. INTERNACIONAL
IV. NORMAS DE PROCEDIMIENTOS CONTASLES, FLUJOGFAMA DE
OPERACIONES Y ESTADOS FINANCIEROS
1. OBJETIVOS
2. DESCRIPCION DE FUNCIONES DENTRO DE LA OPERACION CONTABLE FINANCIERA
A. CICLOS DE IOENTIDAD
B. DESCRIPCION D0! FUNC IONES
b 1. otRCrOMw oe ADfOmisTRAoCON V rFiANZAS
1h2. CNTAOOR GENSRAL
bl. ASISTENrt Ot CONTAWILJfAD 1
M4. A*IStENrt 0 GOtTAUILLDAO 2
. JEFE 0f AOMIMISAACAON
b. ASISTERC Of AOCUISICIO6ES
D7. JPE Of FUENTES Y PR£tPUt8sTOS
W0. SECRArANIAS
b0. COPFERtS
btO. MENSA.VROS
3. PROCEDIMIENTOS CONTABLES FINANCIEROS
A. INrRODUCCION
S. PROCEOIMIENTO CONTABLIS FINANCIEFOS
h I. DIRfCCON 0D S69tJIHTO
bN. UNlOAD CE CONTASIUCAD
113. UNJOA 06 ADOCMINWRtfACION
D4 UNIAD Of. PUINTES Y PRISUPUZ3TOS
4. FLUJO DE OPERACIONES
A. FLUJWORAMA DE OPERACIONES
D. DESCRIPCION DE FLUJOORAMA D! OPERACIONES
I1. OiICCOION 0 UNlOAD 01 O0IGIN
b2. OIRIOCION 06 ItN?QRACSox Y Is1EMAS
W. u0cCCIoUt 0f An*OW1JTAIIaOON V PINA4ZAO
a4. OICciON gIccunvA
N. UODAO Of COtabLjopa.



-84 -
AM= G
5. DOCUMENiTO$ REPOATES YtESTA008 FINANCIER08
A. BASICOS
a1. COMPRO5ANTES OE INGRtE8O, ZSRESO Y NOTAR CONTABLES
.2. MAVQRI8 POR CUtM?AS
8. OIAtIIOS
a4. OALANCE Of 9UMAS Y SALOO
ad. PLAN OC CUINTAS
1. ASTADO8 PiNANC1EROS
b t. CStAOOS OE INGRtOS Y 5Gf!CSOS POR PUCETC OE PINANCIAWIt4INO
bl ESrAOO De INGSaESS Y eGReSoS CONSOLIOAOOB
D3. ALANCE GENERAL
b4. ESTAOO DE EJECUCaoN PR!UPUESTARtA
b8 ESTADOO AJUSrAOQO POR IMPLACION
C. ESTAOQS COMPLEMENTARIC08
ci. SAWOS SANCAAtOs OtARtO8
.L FLUJO DE CAIA E4ECUtAOO
03. fLUJO 0! CAJA PROYECrADO
04. ESTADO DE D3MISOLSOS POP. PcQYE!TO
@6. ESTAOO t 09EUSOLSOS 0E PRoYECTO
Ai ESTAOO DC OCUMI"OLSOS POR PROYrCrO Y FUENTES
e7. ESTADO 0D 09SIASOL9OS POR CONVErNIO 0 PUENTES
O6. ESTADO DE ELJECUCJN GLOBAL 08 FUENTES



An=H
- 85 -
ECUADOR
Third Social Developmant Projec
Soca Investment Fud
Structure and Fundons of FE
AdministrativeI
Council
Project Approval
Committee
Coordinator
FSdub-Coordinator
Internal              .                External
Audit                                   Audit
FunduRaising  Admlnistra-                     .         Data
and   .   tlon and      Projects   Supervsion   Processing       Legal
Programlng    Finance    Department  Department                   Departmont
Department    .partuent
Promotion    Evaluation
Division      Division



- 86 -                       Ane H
1.    The Fund-RaWsing and Programming Department would be in char
of the relationship between FISE and its financing sources, including he GOE.
The Deparment would contact and negotiate financial assistance directy wih
either donors or lenders, and provide all te informaton and reports on FISE as
stipulated. It would also coordina and control all the general informaton
available to current or potential sources, and be responsible for monitoring
FISE's disbursements schedule.
2.    The Admitratin and Fuiance Department would carry out all do
finncial and administrative operations of FISE. It would be in charge of tfe
accounting plan of FISE and all its financial balances. It would control the flow
of fluids, bank accounts, deposits, disbursements. The Department would be
responsible for fomrmlating budgets, pro ing FSE outlays and responding
to all observaions of internal and external audits.
3.    The Projects Department would consist of two divisions: (a) The
Piromotion Division would have overall responsibility for generating a sufficlant
pipeline r ' sub-projects, programning distribution between categories of sub-
projects, identifying target populations and maintaining FISE's poverty target
sysms, carrying out outreach and promotional activities at the national, regional
and local levels, and designing and implementing strategies to reach specific
vulnerable groups (including indigenous populations and women). It would
infonn the Coordinator and applicants at least once a month about the status of
sub-projects. Where possible, it would provide technical assistance to weaker
applicants in die formulation of their sub-project proposals; (b) the Evaluatio
Division would design and maintin the standard unit cost system and appraisa
procedures for each sub-project It would carry out fte echnical, economic,
social, institutional and environmental appraisal of sub-projects including site
visits to sub-projects. The Department would ensure that the period betn the
approval of a sub-project and the signatre of its contract never exceeds dthe
weeb. It would also keep up-to-date the Sub-Project Evaluation Guidelines
(Gufa de Evaluacidn de Proyectos).
4.    The Supviion (Sepiimiento) Department would carry out the
verificaton and spevision of the sub-projects being executed, and authorize the
payment of disbursements per sub-project. It would be able to hire extrnal
supervisors and arrnge the supervision control of each sub-project I would
control perfomace delays in the schedule of sub-projects implementation and
coordie all the regional appoited representaives. It would also coordiae
with the Legal Department regarding cancellation, termnaton and changes in
conras.
S.    The Data Processing Department would be responsible for infmaton
flows of FISE. bt would determine the technical specifications and mininoa
requirements of the compute equipment to be acquired, and be in charge of
maing recommendations to the Coordinator and the Project Approval
Comm_tee regarding the up-dating of the computer system ,. The implementaton
nd maintace of a managment infmation ystem would be the prnmay
responsibilit of this departmeat, and It would train FISE staff and external users



-87 -
in i use, It would Issue sandard rport on lhe genera perfonnance of FISE
and the sigation of the sub-projects for use both inside and outside FISE.
6.    Ihe Legal Depit wod be Jn chargp of all legal aspects and
procedre of MISE, inludin te preparation ad mrvision of concts,
agreemets   ea s oc., and would give legal advice to FSE depatmes
dtoughout he su-roject Cycle.



-88-                        An= I
ECUADOR
Tbkd Sodal Devdopui  ced
ElSE's ab-Ptbject eCyle
Targeting Strategy                                               1 Rerto as
Powrty Map-s
Eecutive Agents
0 ±               -~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~map
Government                   2 IdentficatIn of
Promoon                      Organizations                      Fields of Interest
and NGO'S                        NGO', Public *
(i)_________                         Organtlonsz and.
lnsitutional                     Executive Agents
Development
..j~~projects
Receptlon
and Registradon
IA1Ass  ~Ient6 Oetermination of
0          |                                                             Prioity and
N.              1                                                    Amount to be
InlUal                                                         Financed
_  Assessment.
7 Reiew d
0          Ie'                                                          Sub-prolect
aOta EtY
'Ex-ante                                                      Evaluadon:
Evaluaton                                                        Economic
Finncial
Socia
Institutional
Envitonmental :.
Visitation
(3j,                                                        Report



-89                       A
An= 
Project                            |                  8 Reception of Reports and
Approval                  )         i                       Approval of Sub-projects
Committee                                               9 Confirmation or 0isapprv
Yz   Approval of             of International Financial
. Y                              Intemational              Sources
_______                      funds            10 Enabling Documentation
Contracts                                              First disbursement
and Agreements
11 Execution of Sub-project
Imp lementatlon
According to its Schedule
12 Quantitative and
Qualitative Control of
Sub-project according to
0,     J                                                       the Approval Report
Performance Reports and
Delivery/                                               Approval of Payment
Recvepron                                               Orders
Recepation                                         13 Provisional or Definitive
Delivery/Reception
and Final Disbursement
14 Ex-post evaluation
Ex-post                   .                           Impact Evaluaton
Evaluaton
-by Sampling



Annex 1
- 90 -
ECUADOR
Third Socia Development Project
Poverty Targeting Strategy of FISE
Poverty Targeting I FISE
The itifian of target beneiies is central to ensuring that FISE effectively
fulfills its mandate in  ching poor communities. This Annex provides background on the
constuction of the poverty targeting system of FISE and illustrates the application of the
methodology used at the canton level.
UPS Consolidated Poverty Map
FISE will use geographical poverty targeting as the principal mechanism in identifying
potential beeficiaries. To this end, during project preparation CONADE's Social Policy
Unit developed a Consolidated Poverty Map based on eight existing poverty maps:
(1)  "Deteoaton in Living Standards", L. Breihl, E. Granda, A. Campafla, L.
Yepez, R. Pez and P. Costales (CEAS 1990);
(2)   Peasants, Cantons and Development, M. Chiriboga, R. Landf and J. Borja
(Ministry of Social Welfare 1989);
(3)  -Income Distdbution and Poverty in Rural Ecuador 1950-80, C. Luzuriag and
C. Zuvezas (USA[D/USDA 1979);
(4)  "Poverty Map"' P. Amrta (Social nftastructe Fund, Mmnistrf of Social
Welfare 1990);
(5) 'Strategic Framework for Urban Development Strategy in Ecuador', A. Romero,
A. Jarrfn, P. Rourk, M. C6rdova and 0. Bankfleld (USAID/URBANA 1990);
(6)  'Poverty Map', L Laspina, D. Pefiaherrera, F. Carasco and P. Andrade
(MTRH/INEIBID/C1ESE 1989);
(7)  'National Module - 1982", W. Freire, , Bacallao, P. Cawrasco
(CONADE/UNICEF/OPS/OMS 1992);
(8)  Fint National Census of Height', W. Freire and J. Bacallao
(UNICEF/OPS/OMS/ 1992).
These maps use a variety of indicators, weighting methodologies, data sour  and
covage (urban, rural or national). A composite index was developed at the canton and
parrquia level to snthesize the information contained in each map. The index rank these
units based on their relative distribution [Composite Index - (maximum value - canton



Anon J
- 91 -
mdicator)/(nuaximum value - nmnimum value)], with lower indices representing poorer
cantons.
Resource Alocation Weightlng
The composite index developed in the Consolidated Poverty Map provides a
geogaphical orientadon for FISE. To determine target resource alloaton, a methodolegy
was used which calculated a 'corected poverty index' in which a higher index number
represents a higher relative poverty level. The reve population share of each canton (and
parroq") was then mnltiplied by the corrcted index to derive the redative shae of FISE
resources which should be assigned to each canton (or, aggating, at the powvincial and
regional levels), as follows:
Ii   = Corrected Poverty Index
for i -19 2. ..........  170 cantons
Pli    Correction Factor
= Ii[SUM(i)/170]
nii   =Pi/P
where ni = percentage share of natonal popWlaon in each canton
P - Canton populion
P = Naional population
ni' = ni*Fi    ni'  = pecentage share of canton population corcted for povety
criteda
ni" = ni'/SUM(ni')   ni' = canton share in FISE budget corected for poverty
crteria
With SUJM(ni') < 1; and SUM(ni) = 1
To illustrate, using this methodology the Coast area of Ecuador would receive only
45% of FISE resources, while its popuion is 50%. Similady, the Highlands region would
receive 44% against its populaton sare of 46%. Due to t  higher reaive pwve  levels
(at the regional level), the Amazon region of Ecuador would receive 11% of FISE resources
against a population share of 4%. The differences between popuatn share and resoure
allocations grow more pronounced as the level of anaysis is furdie   to the
provincial, canton and panoquW  levels. Fo instance, the province of Sucumbios in the
Amazon regin is allocated MISE resoures four tmes its populton share due to the bigh
lev  of poverty of the province. The resource allocations at the caton lev  are prvided in
the folwing tables.
Povety dification the MIS System
To dmplify trkng of FI's performance in reaching the po   ommunitie In
Ecuador, groWp nng is appLied at fte paoquua level using the cmposite index and
populaton stistcs. Panoqulas have been grouped into quintiles, wth panquas contdaing



AnJ
- 92 -
the 20% poore popuaion in the country reedvinS a "I* duoad_,       o forth Thbs
sytm allows each sub-project prposal to radeve a povty Ug in do MIS Wynto
identify proposas from pzioity areas These ndcalor will be usd to ad a-aft o
peformance target (i.e., FISE woud assIp 30% of s am ss= to th pnoqu
designated as '1).



93_                                         Anne= I
ECUADOR
Thlrd Social Devdopmea Project
Paverty MUgetlui strateg  at FMS
01dina Cm         _s scoodng to Po i Tdm and Popula.__
ur.  -            .  Phi 
*  $.  |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t ibd                                              Nz                   _:s C_   , fpus  
* I"             I AAm                C.*n                  31          1.3          1.24%                       I%
2  S.4n              024           4.17         M111.14%                     0.311
3                    M"             2.6         4.      a      0.4           0.3
4                    0.3a           3=          17.960           a%s^*
spdS                  am            I3.                        a,"            0.%
a                    am             11          Is=           QT%       t     .14%
7 Saui                 3           2I=           4CS          0044%            a%
aWs.'"               0.1             *          17.160        0.61 60.19%
__1  _      2   r                                    0* 023Ut   *  t.tS4       21106          0.Z;    a.
stwo   2                Voia10 0utU            0.61           1.64       71.316         QM7%           0.66%
I* CJIm               062                        2;.477        a21%           0a%
12 CQW                0.                         Il3 1n        (L1% a.211A
13 Eaad               *0.            M.6         12            0.I0%          MM6%
14 S.t.l              0.St           1.66        22044         0.3%           C25%
is C*t"               0.4s          2*W          912           0.1A           0.13%
1 Sum            3 tsw            1l                      am.            1*         am            0.321A         0.34%
17 a2 0.                                         27M           0.2%           a0.%
Is Cum                 041          I4M          am4           da             0191%
19 u?                 0.73           1.3?       22..           0.3s1          MM2%
ISuu            r _ 4 Cmdi         20?U:          r        .0 1,.                   64            0.173%         0.5%
21 3*,u                a0             7S6       1t.1St         0.16%          a24%
21                     0.65 (k      t.4         -13.164        0.1416         W.1
23 Mm                  027           370         14.04         0IM             Qm%
24 &Qm r                             1.92        214s6         0Q.3¶1         an%
*S _             S    1Cd          25 LSMiP 014                         23         10t 6           1.3%          1.M%
25  Smntm a1                         1*4         20.           0.21%          0.09%
27  PhW                m21           Al76        1 4           0.1%           0.4Q%
30   quia              a2m           1!7         t2.           a 3s           0.2C%
I Urn            6 OW*             31 M.     s ,. Q                     1.4        16.77T          1.71O         1.t5
33 MAui                036           2.64        46.63         0.5%           *.6%
3t                     Az            am          4731s           M%16         1.2%
Si C1w                 02                         140          Q010%          C0.516
35 ciwdd                331                     13.0. Q0.41                  024%
W3      u              015           6.?         26.t          0.2            1.64%
3? 0.u                 0.            2.4         3.10t          a2             e2%
38 P_ mowqa            0.4           2.           1464         0.0%           WM
23    pe               0.44          2.2          7.01             %          0464%
al am      r     7 1100            4                      0mmom  O.     122        160             1.6           1.64%
4I A,eM                0.            1t          11314         at"            016%
4  AM                  057 as 05717               63'          0%             0.64%
4   acOn               a0m           27s          406          *.0*%          MM
d4" 6 Chu46                          2.17         2.76         0.64a%         0.03
44  Uaxb               as5           112         2&M           0.2%           MZ2%
4  H.4Aqd              0.39          1.4         27S           0236A          0.2%
47 MM           Q         Q          1*?          4,JSt        MMQ            C
4  P%s                 0.7S           t*         514           GM5%           0.4%
S3 PNg.                042           1.61        1M2           0.11t  t0m6%
51 S-oin               0.74          1*          so6 02911                    02. %
52Zzrm                 0.5           1*2         22.6          OZ16           0.25%
53LASAI                0.4?         1.13-         466$         0.45%          0*1%
2 Cao               Smddo A         5srd                  0.m           156        1712.6          0.216         1.37%
go   ehm               OM            2.          21*5s    E MV%               0.36
so i.                  0.4"  A       2.3         16s.           0.316         OMa
U sAr tum              0.5           lie 2.2                   0.24%          023%
2 am             I *A              s G qA                 0.77          130       1.sM2           1.41Q6        11.6
W  6amiuMI             0Q51          16          16s=          0171A          016%
1 i aid                012           19          t1214          .1316         0.14%
- aIS                  0Q1     19 S              4.=           Q47            CLM%
P  Oaidb               0.4           2           SIM2      C     96%          lt2%
as Cu0um               a4            11          6t5n          Q.4            OA%
10   8td                             lim tAi    Oa34                          Q..
or ap                  0Q            11          2554          0.26           0M%6
66Ma~a                 0.7                      122.36          1.39%         0.92%
70 NU*                 0.54          1.6         23.166        025%           a.2%
71 Pauda               0.4           2.2         11.191        0.12%          0.14%
72 PisCaW              CM           236          31.46         0 .3%          *W60%
73 5mn                 am            1.82        65            0.%            074%
?  Suaw*'m,            .n            12          335           Q0%            Q0%
7S S.bm                ON            tJ7         60t1          06%            Q^.%
76 S.Lugf              04            am          27V.34        O.%            0Q27%



94-Ann  I
tr UdS-aft          am§         in        4u8t2-       Qt4Sf        Q## i
73 Yagd             ad          tS4       su           Q70%         MGMf
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  WU                           9      Omls S JASO                         Om%         OM
t  Jkf        la Iml_.m    1£ mo                   Q6          1J7      11R48          t.2S        I.t
81 tM4 nAno         an     i    14t       21x            M%         1.:M5 
82 C8h Q*t          0Q                    33    s t u               CL6O
- 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 Ph .  r                                    I     103      Isi      Q    tale%MW
as t.cuW            OA9         24        tt7S8        0a14         at"
1 9i   1t Afe         ~~~~~s1 LA*          *As         t.4tr    td4M           tSte        12t0#
*   ST Cam              lOA         1.41      29.3W         Q31%        a
89C4x               CL           4        IA=            IS%  Q    Q
so C       lwwf     Qffl        IM         SAN          QI*%1       QtOS
-                     St~~~~~~~~$ Es*d     Q44         IVr       1axgt        Qt9%         6236
92 GavM             QS7         1t3        tJV         CLIt         0.2t
23 Mum9             0.78        I.=       1=11A         Q9%         Qt14%
OA QUS047    2 ^13                        337    S      MW          *11
*~~~~~~~~pw                         Om          II$ QS  alQO4           Q18%        aO17
*                                   "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g S&W  012      2S                      0.26% QtgMa7
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s a 9t 90                             OA          248         96M          410%       a 
Wi;aWz    -            °2         tv        tQ254         QttS6       a1teXA
Slt Ph      t       am          lm.4a                   O7      Q    LCS os
i ¢10   U  t"         ~~~~~~1Ct  &ih      0Q11         1.49        &W4t        QW%         W9%40
2 Om  ~~~t12QS LuM    10   twpd.49                               1Q'471    a .0            0
tC3 a"      t       &9           2.0        9.QA        QJIS    *     Qt%-
1o4 pso W* Q          446    2 27    Q                    24f f a     M
lag QUMS            am      1     -r    2s'             l            1.726
led utoAn             S    Q3  tJ9         23.45    Q    2%          a
7C9 Paw"            QA Om8 lia242                       *QtS%        019%
inl aaSs             0.483eo                            M9           Q:A 
112 Ch              QL47        2.:       115%6         t2tf        t.A
113 BCamln           C. Q                   4=            4W          ,0
114 17rbA.                       IV422     23M0t        Q25%         Qv%
;is Jipqo           du           td 9    1871=    a       l%         Q
117t awd            am          142       13.t7         Qt996        1.146
lie Mdua            anG          1n7       37."0        QAB%         a"7
lie Paj             O.^t8       217        42.4d$       aA96         MMS
120 P       *  *   Q 44         22t        28           Q30%        0.37
12zRtd        Q      5t    *      m    2 Xt             aim          029
in S<bs      s      OA2         in         SO=    Q      L            am
123 Suwo            a,"4        2-V       lCo01  .       .10%       t.3
124 regig           am4          *A        31.7M        Q=s6         d%
t2  24 s  "p        0Q4          2m        3,k=t        Q3W          Q4
3 oiwo    t    4 M    A2  inQt                     M7           M l   2&,M    .         31         MW% s
t27 GAW             Qt2         1at1                    01138  *   t"ae
120  lnhdn k'h  0     43                   it2C         011S   are6%
129 Pa               Mws         xx         72t         QCLC6        Qt1
120 USdag            MW          2S,        &Am         QalS6        WM3
t3t Su"             as8          2dS       14;          dit          Q226
*       ~~~~3 W-nl      is Ne          t32 TO                3U         XI&        3&747        Q:17%       QLW
I3  Qpiw024                      41I7    3 ,lio         04           QQ1% Q
t34  0do            0Q24         4tT       19.4S9       Q211%        0.45
1t5 a Cho            0tS         W          4J4         am%          atI7fA
t3 = La"*           &"          21W IO1Q90              QIt%         1.45%
137  0Qr            QOm         IC0        tA74         0.21S        a"S
138  s               Q21         4.7d       4J79        QC5%        QtS61
3              Is Putf=       139 P_W               Q4         liS       3SA4          Q37V6       Q5%
140 MA              Q54          tJS        &W4         tCLW         Q5%
I ow          17 PtiA         14t Qm        t      t4           .149  IAt4   9         4Z%mo
t<. Caw       Q      48          2.17       U           QA           GA
t44 Pof PA           a                     13.718    Q   .10%   Q Ox
t4S Run*x           AN          -1.t8      AQ            .8      Q .31%s
14S S.Ownla         an           1.32      M=4Y         tM           t4%6
*         ~~~~147 1=  A-M       .1S         Omo                      CO aco% LW
I  *k         IG s TAV        14S Ag                W    9 t    AS      2vr,M          2tV%        tM
14J an              do9          IA5       15.418       MIGNA        Qt3S
I=3 *Mc             QO          2s1        152          417%Z        Q=%



9-   -S -J
15-4* P    -    -   .47      2.13     37.69                -
1t             Se Q .         .17      253         _4"6 b1
la                Meg       20.0       4.18       am
IN                           la 0. h 357   C .46  0.094% 
181   w           0.4        2.06     17.010      M19%       GIs
4 tasm       5            l  C_ m            0.4       1.6       3.#        0i%        am51
In                CAl        1.64 41. a            01%       GM%
16 Sz             0.5        1.75      5318       0.t        05%
3 oi.        3t &mwfm    1660 LqsAge        2a         3.67     41.2W         4%       0A*%
IS comi           0.12       gm        4.02       0.061      a"1
7 PAswu           0.04      2S         414        06%        am
141 4hJdw         0.0       1429      18.C7?      0.2C%
Is 8eaMS          am         3m   S     .441   a 0%          CAM
11 C0 _(          0.17       gm        S04        0Q%        01%
1TaPAIS                                     4?        2.47    0.am                  10
Rsscurc. AflocWAta  accoidiag !o Pimvin
.  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pp
No.      vinc      No.  P.gion   .    Tohl Pop        f       %  Pup Distri-  S
I Azay             1 Sim                  56.090        5Z%            537%
2 Ibihg                                  1SS,08          1.V%         1.81%
3 Car   .                                18347           1.96%         2
4 Cari:hi                                141.482         1.4%          1.%
3 Coopd                                  26324           289%          4%
6 Chin                                   3642           3.81%          S.A3%
7 EIOro            2 Cost                4125?2          4.31%         137%
a EsM .966                               30.26           3M%           334%
9 GLmy                                 2515,148         25.2%         2144%
10 1tahma           I S4n                 2SA459         Z77%           3.11%
11 Lola                                   384.896        4.4%           4.14%
12 Los RIs          2 Coda                s52,5           551%          5.31%
13 Mabru                                1,031.927        10.78%        11.24%
14 Marmia$          3  Orit                84216          US8%          2.19%
15 Napm                                    97,3t7         1.%           3.43%
16 Pasomu                                  418a1         a44%           0.44%
17 PieF             I Si                1,75828          18.35%        11Z0%
18 Tu      r xh                           361,960        3.78%       !    61%
19 ZwZora,Ch.       3 O'rn                 66%167         069%          1.51%
*  GaWpagn          4 Ciu]smapga            9,785         0.10%         0.09%
21 Sucunbi          3 Oerr                 76.9e2         0.0%          3.47%
TOTAL                                9.571,570      1::.0%         100.00%
PAasozm Aflocatic &WAcctd   to PAS!=
;        . No.                       P,gios         ToP1POPo    Diat%            p    %istgl    S
I                    Siera             4,401,418       45.98%         44.16%
2                     Cam              4,7,834          M0O08%        44.70%
3                     Od                 366.533         3.96%        11.056
4                     Gimpwsss             9.785         0.10%         0.;-
TOTAL                                9.571.570      1.0M0%         1O0%



- 96 -                   Anne I
ECUADOR
Third Social Development Project
Prioridzadon of Beneficiaries
Priority    Children       Women          Men         General
1.       Infants 0-2      Pregnant
yeats             Women
2.       Children (2-5    Lactating
years)            mothers
3.       Children (6-    Women (18-55
12 years)         years)_
4.       Youth (6-18    Women (older
years)           tban 55)
5.                                                 Elderly (men
and women
older than 55
6                                      Men (Older
than 55)



- 97-                               Ane=  J
Prioritialon of Projects
Project Type                              Priority
Socal Infrastucture
Schools                                                    1
School Equipment                                           I
Training Centers                                           3
Equipment for Taining Facilities                           3
Helth
Medical Dispensaries                                       1
Medical Equipment                                          1
Health Centers                                             1
Equipment for Medical Centers                              1
Social Welfare
Shelters                                                   1
Equipment of Shelters                                      1
Day Care and Shelters                                      3
Equipment for Day Care and Shelter                         3
3E      :        C                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
SPedesian Access                                           2
M|cro-      n                      sanitation
Retaining WalI
mSanity Facilities                                        3
Emmdries for Pubanc Use                                    2
Gutters and Canals             _2
Soio-Ecoomc bh vto
Water Swply                                                I
Seweae                                                     2
Road Repair and Upgrdiiu                                   3
Micro ittwn                                                2
Labor-Int osve Street Rehblitaion                          3
ReWf Walls                                                 3
Small Wobds of Soil Conservation,                          3
Ewosion CoMol and RelfxesWon



-98 -                                Annex J
Soda SeescI
immunizton                                               I
Fumiation and Disinfiction                               3
Food Supplements or Population at Risk of                1
Malnutrition                           __._                   _
Community Phanracies                                     2
Programs of Disease Ptevention                           2
Taning Prgrams for Midwives                              I
TYainitg Prgms Related to Health,                        I
Nutrition and Hygiene
Crnmunity Health Promoters                               2
Traiing to Organized Productive Sectors                  2
Trining of Labor Force                3__
Teaching Material                                        3
Garden Plots and Greenhouse                              2
nioual Development
Mainteance and Operational Committees                    1
Prodactive Community hwetmeats
Farming                                                  3
Fisheries and Aquaculture                                3
Handicrfks                                               3
Agroindustries                         .                 3



-99-                          Annex K
ECUADOR
Third Social Dvelopment ProJect
Social Investment Fund
Sector Coordination Matrix
1.    The following matrix highlights sector coordination arrangements for
FISE, including idenification of the lead agency in each sector, the source of
technical norms and coordination mechanisms for each type of sub-project.
Formal coordnaon mechansms consist of a signed agreement between FISE
anl the sector ministry which sets out an officW no objection procedure.
Operational mechansms entail consultatons with agencies to enStie there is no
duplication of efforts and for cases where technical advice is required during
sub-project appraisal.
Sub-Project           Agen  with          Scurce of   FM
Classfcation          Sector Responsibit   Tenical   Coordwintion
Norms      Medianisms
Sodia[ nfisrnmtrure
Education            MEC                 DINACE    Fomal: No
objection MEC
9pM99n:
Provincial level
directorate of
MEC, DINACE
Health               MSP                 MSP        Fornal: No
objection MSP
Provinial level
directorate of
MSP
Other: Day CA&       MBS                 MBS: Day   Fonral: No
Care       objection MBS
Division    Ogeron   N/A
Shelters       MBS                 N/A        Ehm: No
objection MBS
Qpeati : N/A
Pedest. Access   Munciaities       N/A         Fonnal: N/A
Municipal                      Opeational:
entise                         Consultion
Other local                    widi urban
government                    authorities
Latines              MUDH                IEOS       Frma: No
objection MUDH
.___________    _______    (via IEOS)



-100-                             Annex K
Sub-Project              Agen-  with Sector    Source of   FISE
Classication            ResponsIDlty           lbcbnlcal   CoordInatIn
|____________ .____._____    Nonns                          Mechanism
Sodo-Economlc
hfrct~ure
Water Supply           IEOS - Rural areas    IEOS         Frm: BdE ar
EMAP - Quito                      sub-ptojects in
ETAPA - Cuenca                    urban aueas
EPAP-G - Guayaqull                      A:
Other municipal,                  IEOS - Ru
provincial or regional            ams
enrprises                         EMAP - Quito
ETAPA -
Cuenca
EPG - Guayaqul
Odhr mucipal,
provicia or
regional
enterprises
Sewee                  Same as Water         N/A          Same as Water
Supply                             Supply
Road Upgrading         (dispersed)           MOP          Foma:  NIA
Operational:
councils,
mnunicipalities
lrfigafion             MAO (pending          INERH        &Mal: MAO
creation of praposed    (pedn      (pending ceato
Nationa Coun  of    creation of   of proposed
Wer Resources)        proposed    National Council
National    Of Wter
Counil of   Resouc)
water       09rg0w:
Resoun:")   ,IRM
CEDEGE, other
regional
deveopmet
agencies (case by
case)
Urban and Rural        Municipalities        N/A          Fora BdE fo
Upgrading (including                                     sub-projec  in
street rehabsiao                                        urban aras
r i  wll and                                             Operond
canals)                                                  Municipalites
Enviromnent            (dispersed)           N/A          Fua: N/A
Operadon:
MAO, NEAN,
NGOs (cae by
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___ ._ _ _  case   basis)



-101 -                          Annex X
Tbcdnde     Coo_dinaIo
Noms        Me_:hn1n
Realth                MSP                  MSP        FDmal: No
objection MSP
Consulaion with
proii
directors of MSP
and NGOs
Education Suwo        MEC                  MEC         Egma1: No
objection MEC
Q2DnaI
Consulation
with pwvial
directors of
MEC
Nos-Faud              N/A                  N/A          bm_l: N/A
Pmdw Tg                                                  -Po_l:
(case by case
basis with sector
head, SECAP,
NGOs)
Nuidoan               MSP                  MSP         Frmnal: No
objecdon MSP
ProvncW
diinctors of
MSP, INNPA,
NGOs (case by
I_______  case basis)



-102-                            Annex K
Sub-Project             Agcy wih Sector    Sore of   FISE
ClhaDsatlon             R _espomlity         Technical   Coordinton
Norms       Mechanlms
Productive Community
Inveutments
Agriculturw/rocessing   MAO                 N/A           _n_al: N/A
MAO,
PRONADER,
etc. (case by
case basis)
Fishing               MICIP                 MICIP        Formal: N/A
Onr=fional:
Consultaon
with MICIP
Handicrafts            Min. of Labor         N/A         Forml: N/A
ftsrdo-1:
Min. of Labor,
UNEPROM,
SECAP,
CONAUPE, and
other projects or
agencies attached
to Min. of Labor
(case by case
basis)
Institutiondl Deve!.
Strengthening of O&M    N/A                 N/A          Case by case
Committees                                              basis with sector
head or NMOs.
MEC-- - 1nigy s r  EdrFAton anm Cuture
DINACE - Naional Depatmeat of School Construction
MSP - Ministry of Public Health
MBS - Miisay of Social WIfre
IBOS - Ecuatoran Institute of Sanitary works
EMAP - Municipal Enteprise for Potable  ater
ETAPA - Municipal Enterprise for ble:phone, Water and Sewerge
EPAP-G - Public Enrprise of Guayaqul
MOP - Ministry of Public Worbs
NERHI - Ec riaon  Instiute of Wter Resourtes
CEDEGE - Commission for the Development of the Guayas River Basin
MAG - Minsy of Ag*cult  and Livestock
FODERUMA - Fund for Marginal Rural Development
PRONADER - National Rural Development Program
MICIP - Misty Of Fshing
UNEPROM - Exeuiv Uni of the national Prognm of Micoenterprise
SECAP - EcUadorian sevices for Prosional Traing
CONAUPE - National Coporation for the Support tO Economic PopuIar Units
BdE - Ste Bak
MUDH - Minity of Urban Development and Housing



- 103 -                            Annex L
ECUADOR
Third Social Development Project
_ Sodal Investment Find
SE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
(Actual annual targets to be established during the annual programming ercise)
Capacity (Mesures of Stks to Date)
Indicator                    Objective                  Tkrget            Actual       %
Amount of financing          Measre FISE's ability to    Cumulative:      Cumul.:
committed (to FISE, not       attract resources          Year:            Year:
including beneficiary and
sponsoring agency
contributions)                                                                                 l
Toul FISE disbursements       Measure FISE's capacity to    Cumulative:   Cumul.:
channel resources          Year:            Year:
Amount and number of sub-     Measure the stock of sub-
Projects:                     projects in each stage as an
indicator of current and
future pipeline capacity
ll                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Year!
-Presented to FISE:                                     Year/Monthly:    Monthly:
Amount
Number
-Appraised:
Amount
Number
-Approved:
Amount
Number
-Concluded:
Amountl
Number
Qualt
Indicator                   Objective                   .let             Actual%
__________             ~~~~~Duff.
Contact change orders as a    Evaluate the soundness of    Monthly:
percentage of number of sub-   FISE sub-project evaluation
projects in execution       and accuracy of unit price
data base                                                          l
Frcentage of sub-projects   Measure quality of appraisal  Monthly:
cancelled or suspended      and contractor performance   Cumulative:
Number of sub-projects in   Ensure adequate stafflng   Monthly:
execution per FISE inspector   levels with regard to
(je de zona)                capacity to monitor
execution



- 104 -                            Annex L
Efcecq (Measures of Flomw to Date)
Indicator                    Objective                  Tu .et            Actual%
Duff.
Sub-projects appraised/FISE    Measure efficieony of    Monthly:
ealluator                    Projects Department staff  Amount -
Number -
Sub-projects approved        Measure the ability of FISE   Monthly:
per month                   to translate demand into    Amount -
viable sub-projects
Number -
Amount disbursed on sub-     Measure execution capacity    Monthly:
projects per month
Average time elapsed per     Evaluate efficiency of sub-    Monthly:
stge in sub-project cycle:  project cycle and detect
bottlenecks in the areas of:
-Registered-Appraised       Promotion/Appaisal
-Appraised-Approved         Apprval                     (In days):
-Approved-Contracted        Contractig
Paceutage of sub-projects   Mewure the efficiency of    Average%
with delays in execution     sub-project monitoring and
FISE executing
agencies/contracs                       _ 
Percentage of FISE          Measure the administrative    Year:
adminisive costs per total   efficiency of FISE
disbursed                                               Cumulative:
Impact
Indicator                    Objectve                   Thset             Actual          %
Diln.
Percentage of (1) registered  Measure FISEs ability to  Amount(2):
and (2) approved sub-projects  directly reach beneficiary  Number(l):
sponsored by grassroots      organizations              Number(2):
o izadons                                               _ 
Percentage of apprved sub-    Measure relative FISE's
projects (amount) per poverty  impact on the poorest
category:                    regions                    Cumulative %:
-2
-3
-4
-5



- 105 -                           Amex L
Indlcator                   Objet_                      Ibet            Actual -
Percentage of apprved sub-    Measure FlSEs impact in  Year:
projects (amount) per priority  financing priority types of
type:                       investments                Monthly:
- I
-2
Percentage of appwved sub-    Measure FISEs ability to
projects per priority          h target groups
beneficiaries:                                         Year:
-1                                                    Monthly:
-2
3
-4
Percentage of total         Measure FISE's ability to  Year:
sponsoring agency and       leverage resources and
community counterpart (per    commitment
value of approved sub-                                 Cumulative:
projects)
Peretage of total           Measure equity of FISE's
sponsoring agency and       ability to leverage resources
community coupart (per    and commitment
value of approved sub-
projects) generated per
poverty zone:                                          Year and
Cumulative:
- 1
Sponsoring agec and
Community
-2
Sponsoring agenqc and
Community
3
Sponsoring agency and
Community
4
Sponsoring agency and
Community
5
Sponsoring agency and
Cosm munity__                  _   _  _  _   _  _    __   _   _  _    _   _  _   _



- 106 -                       Annex M
ECUADOR
Third Sodal Development Project
Social Investment Fund
Beneficiary Assessment and Impact Evaluations
1.    To measure FISE's success in achieving its objectives and improving
the living conditions of its beneficiaries, two types of evaluations are
proposed: a beneficiary assessment, to evaluate participatory aspects, and a
program of impact evaluation, comprised of a household survey and
complementay studies.
Beneficiary Assessment
2.    The principal objective of the beneficiary assessment is to provide
FISE with the necessary inputs to improve its interventions to the target
population and to determine the relationship between FISEs methods of
project promotion, appraisal and supervision, and the level of satisfaction of
the beneficiaries. The beneficiary assessment employs qualitative techniques
(group interviews and site visits) to collect information about the
beneficiaries' relationship to the project and their perception of the project's
benefits. The beneficiary assessment therefore will provide FISE with an
important element of transparency, since it is the target population directly
who provides the feedback to FISE in the evaluation.
3.    The elements to be determined in the beneficiary assessment can be
divided into four categories: i) beneficiary satisfaction, ii) beneficiary
participation, iii) institutional development, and iv) suggestions to improve
FISEs interventions. In the latter category, the beneficiary assessment will
provide an institutional evaluation for FISE which will serve as a
management tool to adjust FISE's internal procedures, specifically with
respect to the effectiveness of its promotion, appraisal and supervision
procedures. The following list presents examples of issues to be addressed
under each category of the beneficiary assessment:
4.    Beneficiary Participation. To measure forms and levels of
participation, the following types of questions would be explored: (a) If
FISEs intervention is encouraging support toward projects with strong
support from the beneficiary communities in the project design, execution
and administion; (b) If the sponsoring institutions are encouraging the
implementation of projects with significant social participation by the
beneficiaries;(c) If beneficiary participation increases the possibility of
greater appreciation of project benefits by the beneficiaries; (d) If the
participation of the beneficiaries is creating greater local capacity to manage
:~- (Il Tf *AIh 1At;         M e n a npceinimc nf thp nh1ioiancti  that the-v



-107 -                       Annex M
he acquired to maintain the services provided under the project; (f) If the
testigo de honor tmly represents the needs felt by the beneficiary
communities.
5.    Beneficiary Satisfaction and Perceived Benefits. To evaluate a
communty's attitude tward the benefits of FISE sub-projects, the survey
would address questions in the followig areas: (a) If the projects financed
tend to satisfy the priority needs detcted ty the beneficiaries; (b) If the
beneficiaries are satisfied with the quality of the works of the project in
execution; (c) If the beneficiaries are satisfied with quality of the senrices
that the project offers or that will be offered once project implementation is
completed; (d) If the benefciaries feel satisfied with the form in which the
project has been executed; (e) If the beneficiaries observe or epect any
negative effect in the community because of the project; (f) If the benefits of
the project are distributed among the identified beneficiary group.
6.    Institutional Development. To assess the role of institutions
participafting in sub-projects, the interviews would explore: (a) If, in the
opinion of the beneficiaries, the groups or instutons participating in the
project are adequate; (b) If the project that is financed contributes to the
st enin of the capacity of the sponsoring agencies.
7.    SuMstns to IVe FISEs Interventions. To proide feedback on
FISEs performance, beneficiaries would be asked: (a) If FISEs promotional
activities have given rise to projects that FISE finances; (b) If the
beneficiaries have encountered any obstacle in seeking FISEs support; (c) If
the beneficiaries have any explicit suggestions to improve FISE!s
performance; (d) If the beneficiaries feel they have received some type of
concrete aid from the supermisor externos or from the FISE supervisor.
8.    Furthermore, aJl of these questions must be analyzed with relation to
certain parameers of analysis. The following parameters would be used to
build a representive sample of sub-projects upon which to base field
interviews: (a) Type of sponsoring agency (government, NGO, grssroots
oipnization); (b) Category and tpe of project (according to the list of
eligible projects); (c) Geographic area (Sierra, Coast and Amazon); (d)
Demographic area (city with greater than 100,000 inhabitats; with less than
100,000; rural community); (e) Priority zone (with respect to poverty map
catgories); (t) Type of executing agency (privae contractor, community
self-help, NGO); (g) Tirget groups (women, children, indigenous
communities, etc.); (h) Type of testigo de honor (by categories developed by
the investigaton); (i) Socio-economic charactsidcs of the beneficiary
population; (j) Levels of counterpart funding (community and/or
institutional);   T 1lype of beneficiary (those that will receive some benefit
from the services that the project offers and those that were employed during
project implemenation).



-108 -                      Annex M
9.    The beneficiary assessment will be performed with two separate
evaluations, employing the methodology used previously in other countries
with similar Fund-type projects. Each evaluadon would be implemented
according to the following timeline: (i) design of the interview and
observation manuals (two weeks); (ii) output tables and case study selection
(one week); (iii) field test of manuals and training of interviewers (thtee
weeks); (iv) field work (two to three months); (v) tabulation and analysis of
results (one month) and report writing (twe to three weeks).
10.   The design of the mamnals would follow the four categories previously
established. The selection of case studies would also reflect the scope of the
analysis and, hence, the sample must include sufficient case studies with
respect to the communities and the number of persons to be interviewed. It
is estimated that approximately fifty projects will be visited for beneficiary
interviews.
11.   The field work would be completed in selected communities in two
years (1994 and 1995) in order to obtain information differentiated across
two distinct periods of FISE activities, with a subset of communities
interviewed in both years for comparative value. The FISE would provide
data from its management information sm  and support in the oWinization
of site visits to the selected communities.
12. Performing a study of this nature would require considerable
experience in the application of beneficiary assssment techniques and in the
preparation of institutional evaluation reports. Few institutions exist in
Ecuador with the sufficient capacity to perform the beneficiary assessment.
During the appraial mission, several local istitutions were considered and at
least one institution was determined to have the experience to meet the
requirements for the study. The estimated budget for the two beneficiary
assessments is US$100,000.
Impact Evaluation
13. While the MIS system will provide information on the direct impact
of service delivery (e.g. infiasc    rehabilitated, productive community
investments made, etc.) these indicators only serve as proxies to changes in
the living conditions of those affected by FISE sub-projects. Therefore,
FISE will contract a series of impact evaluations which attempt to detect
changes in overall living conditions and, in addition, to explore specific
aspects of impacts, either by type of project or by type of beneficiary.
Using Household Surveys to Measure Inmact
14.   FISEs impact can be measured with stistical procedures that
detrmine to what effect FISE has participated in raising the living standards
of the beneficiary populations, either directly thwugh temporary employment
and income. or indirectly through the provision of basic social services. The



- 109 -                     Anna M
only feasible tool for this type of evaluation is a national household suey.
Although institutional responsibilities are currently in flux, both INEM and
INEC have experience in carrying out these types of surveys. Moreover,
with support from the Bank's Education Project, a Living Stadards
Measurement Survey is currendy being field tested. Such an instrument
would provide the necessary baseline and control groups for the FISE impact
evaluation.
15. Tb perform the impact evaluation, key indicators, in areas such as
education and health, consumption and production, income and employment,
shall be compared using ,tatistical controls: comparisons of housebolds
benefited by FISE vs. households not benefited, and comparisons of selected
areas across time, i.e. pre- and post- project. Based on an oversampling to
be done in selected communities with FISE sub-projects, the behavior of the
following variables would be studied: (a) employment, (b) income, and (c)
access to services. The inital data collection (baseline) will be performed in
1994 and the second data collection in 1996, in order to compare the two
situations. The baseline study will also serve to confirm if FISE is reaching
target population groups according to level of poverty. Using a national
instrument has the added advanutage that the sustainability of impacts can be
measured beyond the lifetime of the FISE, if desired.
16.   The impact evaluation requires both an institution which performs
household surveys on a regular basis and an institution with the capacity for
statistical analysis using econometric controls. In this case, FISE would
contract separately with NGOs, universities, and/or researchers to design
methodologies for analyzing the data.
17. The impact measurement using the household survey is estimated to
cost US$50,000, divided between data collection and statistical analysis.
Compleme   Studies
18. In addition to measuring impact through household surveys, FISE will
commission complementary studies which will bring to light specific aspects
of FISEs impact on particular population groups and on participating
institutions, as well as of the impacts linked with certain types of sub-
projects. The studies will be contracted externally and carried out in 1996
and 1997
19. Initial topics have been identified which will later be defined in
grater detail and modified according to futue necessities. The suggested
lines of study include the followng categories:
(a)   hmpat  on specific population groups: This line of research will
investigate the impact that FISEs interventions have had on
particularly important population groups and will determined the
a..sl~. .... em,wi ata.,*e %eat tA   this imn2i-t Amnin  the



- 110 -                      Annex M
population groups to consider are women, indigenous groups anid
other target groups.
(b)   Institutional aspects of FISEs impact: There are two possible studies
which can measure FISEs impact on institution-building. One study
would determine the way in which FISE has affected the capacity of
different types of institutions. The other study would investigate how
the institutional characteristics of the sponsoring, executing and
administrative agencies have affected FISE's impact on the target
population.
(c)   Specific project impact: Depending on the institutional interests,
various studies would be performed which will determine the impact
on beneficiaries from certain types of projects. For example, it may
be of interest to know the relation between the provision of services to
housing (potable water and sewerage), the land market in the area of
influence of these projects and the level of poverty or schooling of the
beneficiary population. Other types of projects which may be studied
are the productive community investments, to assess if the projects
created the expected social reflows. Finally, a study would be
undertaken to discover the condition of the operation and maintenance
of the projects in a given period following project completion. This
last study could be carried out directly by FISE field staff using a
standard questionnaire.
20.   The institutional requirements for the agencies which will perform
these studies will be defined on a case-by-case basis, but will necessarily
include significant experience in ex-post evaluations and qualitative evaluation
techniques. The budget for these evaluations, which will take place in 1996
and 1997, is estimated at US$100,000.
Genal Plan of Activities
21.   To complete these evaluations (beneficiary assessment and impact
evaluations) FISE would implement the following list of activities within the
estimated timefirame:
(a)   Prepare ems of refierence for the beneficiary assessment (December
1993).
(b)   Develop the design of the impact evaluations using household survey
which includes the definition of indicators, the design of the survey
instrument and the needs and strategy for oversampling in FISE
project areas (December 1993).
(c)   Intr-institutiona greement for the baseline data collection for the
impact evaluation (January 1994).
(d)   Public iwnitation for beneficiary assessment (February 1994).
(e)   Selection of consultants for beneficiary assessment (March 1994).
(fh   First state of fieldwork for beneficiary assessment (April-June 1994).



-111-                       Annx M
(g)   Baseline data collecdon though housebold suvey (initial colectdon
April 1994, and by sample during rmander of 1994).
(h)   Final report for first stage of fieldwork for beneficiary assessment
(Augs 1994).
(i)   Second stage of fieldwork for beneficiary assessment (April-June
1995).
0I)   Final report for second stage of fieldwork for beneficiay assmt
(August 1995).
(k)   Second impleme      of household survey in FISE comunities
(April 1996).
(1)   Final report of household svey results (August 1996).
(m)   Terns of refrene, iviton, contracting and aecution of
complementary sudies (1996-1997).



- 112 -
Annex N
ECUADOR
THIRD SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detiled Project Costs
COMPONENT                             L~OCAL  FOREIGN    TOTAL
FISE Institutionafll Support                            (US$ '000)
Fees and Salaries
Higher Level Salaries                           4,880.2      0.0    4,880.2
Including the following positions:
Coordinator
Sub-coordinator
Area Directors (5)
Legal Advisor
Intemal Auditor
Area Subdirectors Eval. & Follow Up (2)
Projects Promotion, Evaluation &
Follow up:
Promotion Officers (4)
Evaluators (1 1)
Follow up Officer (5)
Accountant
Administrator
Budget and Sources Officer
Standard Costing Officer
Regional Chiefs (3)
Regional Office Promotion Officers (4)
Regional Inspectors-Follow Up (3)
Coordinator Assistant
Evaluation Assistant
Public Relations Officer
Legal Assistant
Fund Raising Assistant
Accountant Assistants (2)
Administration Assistant
Cashier
Procurement Officer
Programmers (5)
Support Level Salaries                           983.1       0.0       983.1
Including the following positons:
Secretaries (9)
Receptionist
Drivers (16)
Messengers (6)
Subtotal Fes and Salaries    5 863.3       0.0    5 863.3



- 113 -
Annex N
Vehicles and Equipment                       LOCAL FOREIGN    TOTAL
Computer Equipment                              0.0    287.9      287.9
Vehicles (16)                                   0.0    297.4      297.4
Communications equipment                        1.8     33.9       35.6
Furniture                                      15.2      3.8       19.0
Office Design and Parttions                    14.4      3.6       18.0
Office Equipment fax, photocoplers,etc          0.0     20.1       20.1
Subtotal Vehicles and Equipment     31.4    646.7      678.1
Operating Expenses
Equipment Maintenance & Insurance              14.1      3.5       17.6
Vehicles: maint, operat, & insurance          194.9      21.7     216.6
Outreach 3eminars                              54.9      0.0       54.9
Promotion:TV, Radio, Brochures, etc.          215.3     92.3      307.5
Travel and Perdiems
National                                     683.9      0.0      683.9
International                                  0.0     25.7       25.7
Office rentals (4 area offices)               224.1      0.0      224.1
Utiltes, Maintenance, other                   132.2      0.0      132.2
Office Supplies                                86.2      57.5     143.7
Subtotal Operating Expenses    1,605.5    200.6   1,806.1
Technical Assistance
Legal & Management experts                      4.7      0.0        4.7
Institutional Strategy Expert                   0.0     36.4       36.4
Support to FISE Organiz.                        3.1      0.0        3.1
Financial Administration Advisor                0.0     16.9       16.9
Financial System Design                        23.1      0.0       23.1
MIS Design Expert                               0.0     34.0       34.0
System Operation Technician                     3.3      0.0        3.3
1 chnical Specs Consultants (Brochures)       33.2      0.0       33.2
Procurement Consultant                          0.0      4.7        4.7
NGOs & OPs Support                             64.6      0.0       64.6
Project Design Prototypes                      11.1      p.0       11.1
Standard Costing System Consultant             37.5      0.0       37.5
Extemal Technical Audit                        23.4      0.0       23.4
Beneficiary Assessment                         93.7      0.0       93.7
Promotion Campaign Materials                   45.0      19.3      64.3
External Auditing                             347.2      0.0      347.2
Poverty Targeting                              25.6      0.0       25.6
Social Projects Follow-up Consult               0.0      9.2        9.2
lnfraestructure Projects Follow-up Con.         0.0      9.3        9.3
Study: NGO & Pop Org.Capac. to Dev. Prog.       7.4      0.0        7.4
Workshops(1 2)Promo.Among Indigenous groups    11.3      0.0       11.3
Promoton Among Women consult                    2.3      0.0        2.3
Other External Services                         0.0    141.5      141.5
Mid Term Review                                39.0      0.0       39.0
Seminar on FISES's Closure                     19.5      0.0       19.5
Impact Evaluat,Macroec.lmpactNGO Eval.        109.2      36.4     145.7
Subtotal Technical Assistance   904.1    307.7   1,211.8



- 114 -
Annex N
Tranina                                      LOCAL FOREIGN    TOTAL
Visits to "Funds" abroad                       4.6       6.6      11.1
Computer users training                        5.1       0.0       5.1
Technical personnel training                  30.6       0.0      30.6
Project Formulation                           10.6       0.0      10.6
Cost Beneft Analysis taining                   0.0      24.5      24.5
Social Services Proj. Evaluation               0.0      12.2      12.2
Data Collction Techniques                      0.0      12.2      12.2
Social Projects Supervision Techriques         0.0      24.5      24.5
Social Implication In Proj. Evaluation         3.1       0.0       3.1
lntastuct Proj.Supervision Techniques          0.0      24.5      24.5
Productive Proi.ImplementTechniques            0.0      12.2      12.2
FISE Personnel Intemal Seminars                9.3       0.0       9.3
Subtotal TraninIng   63.2    116.6      179.9
FISE TOTAL COST 1/                          8,467.5  1,271.7   9,739.2
1/Includes__Contingencies
I/ Indludes Contngencbs



YEAR i: MAY - DEC 1i993     YEAR 2: JAN - DEC /1994      YEAR 3:      - DEC 119"5
LOC.    FRGN,  TOTAL    LOC.    FRGN.  TOTAL    LOC.    FRON.  TOTAL
F1SE INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
HigherLevelSalariesandFees                      432        0       432     1,159        0     1,159     1,215        0     1.215
Support Level Saades                             58        0        58      226         0       226      240        0       240
VeNicles and Equipment                           30      285       315         I      336       337        0        11       11
OperaIng Expenses                               118       20       138      383        56       439      390        50      440
Techfical Atwstance & TranIng                   183       93       276      285       262       548      161        29      191
Subtotaf FISE InstItutIonal Support               821       399    1.219    2.054        654    2.708    2,007        90    2.096
FI8E SUB1-PROJECTS
Infrastructure                             2,540      898     3.437    22,668    7,579    30,246    25,568    8.474    34.031
Socil Senices                                92       117      209     2.077     1,617     3,694    2,040     1,614    3.654
Institutonal Development                     11         0        I 1     446        0       446       435        0       435
Small Invetment Operalons                    65         0       65      1.958       0      1.958    1,142        0     1.142
Subtotal FlUE Sub- l-roods                       2.707    1,015    5,722   27.148    9,'d5   36,344   29.175   10.088   89,268
PROJECT PREPARATION (PPF1                     1.200       SOO    1.500         0        0         0        0         0        0
T1O-TAL PRO1JEC     TAI                       4.728     1,714    6.442   29,202    9,849   89,052   91,182   10.177   41.859
YEAR 4: JAN-; DEC 11096     YEAI 5: JAN - DEC /1997               TOTAL
~~tr_r_+-._O_4_   LO ,FO. ____T_ _                        _       a
* LOC.    FRqN.  TOTALv    LOG.;  FII.  TOTAL    WLCAL    FRGN    TOTAL
F1SE INSTITUtIONAL SUPPORT
Higher Level Salars and Fees                  1,249        0     t,249      825         0      825     4;B80        0     4,880
Support Level Salaries                         246         0       246      213         0      213       983        0       983
VeNcles and Equtpment                             0        8         8        0         7        7        31      647       676
Opwatng Expenses                                401       45       446      313        30      343      1,605     201      1,806
Techcia Asdsiance & Traring                     233       34       267      106         5       ttt      967      424      1.392
Subtotal FISE Inaltutlonnl Support              2.10        87    2.216    1,456        42    1,499    8.467    1,272    9.789
_FIE SUB-PROJECTS
infrastuctue                              13.400    4,284    17,685    7,519    2,356     9,875    71,684    23.590    95,274
S9ob  Servces                               642       413     1.055      250      274       524     5.101    4.035     9,136
kIdtutIonal Development                     163         0      163        33        0        33     1.088        0     1.0860
Smal Investment Operations                   98         0       98         0        0         0     3,283        0     3.263
Subtotal FSE Sub - Profcefs                    14.,08    4,897   19.001    7,802    2.830   10,482   81,186   27,625  106,761
PROJECT PREPARATION (PPf!                         0         0        0         0        0         0    1.200       SOO   1t,00
TOTAL PRO-ECT CO8T tl                        16.483     4,784   21,217    9,25S    2,672   11,930   90.808   2t.197  120.0002
tl inkde contigendes



-116-                                  An=eO
ECUADOR
Third Social Development Project
Soial Investment Fund
PROCUREMENT REVIEW
Tem  of Reeremce
Objecves
The purpose of this review is to emmine the compliance of procurement procedures undertakn under
the Emergency Social lnestment Fund (Fondo de Inversion Social de Emergencia - FISE) project
with the norms and guidelines stipuleted in the project's loan agreement. The subject of the review is
procrement undertaken by the FISE both directly (e.g. vehicles, office supplies) and indirectly (i.e.
that related to the completion of sub-projects). The central questions which concern the review are
the following.
1.    Do the FISE and its soliciting agencies comply with the Bank's procurement guidelines?
Are the parameters established in the loan agreement observed?
2.    Are these procedures efficient? transparent? fair? How do they contribute to the
effectiveness of the sub-projects in question?
Methodologically, the procurement review should concentrate upon the efficiency of procedures,
efficiency of results, openness/fairness, and the quality of outputs of each of the procurement
categories that the FISE employs: Local Competitive Bidding, Local Shopping, and Direct
Contracting. The review should also examine the implementation of these procedures by procume
agents, sub-project sponsoring agencies, and the FISE itself across different sectors and regions of the
ocia Compeitve Bidding
A.    Are bidding documents openly advertised and made available to the general public?
B.    Is the awarding process quick? efficient? transparent? fair? Are there well-founded
complaints about the procedures among cotractors? the Conraloria?
C.    How close to the FISEs reference unit prices are those in the winning bids?
D.    How many wrkls and goods contracts suffer delays, price changes, cancelation? How much
of this can be attributed to the procurement procedure? When contractors lower their prices
(vis-a-vis relirence prices), how often do projects suffer delays or cancellation?
E.    Is there evidence of other than technical criteria in the awarding of contracts?
E.    Do procurement agencies add value to the LCB process? Are there functions which the FISE
could take on itself?



- 117 -                                 Annex O
G.    Recommend ways to improve local competitive bidding procedures.
LcAl Shopping
A.    How often are one or two of the three bids declared vacant? Are all three bids presented
generally competitive? How often is shopping used as a replacement for direct contracting?
Are there cases when direct contractng would have been a better alternative?
B.    How often is the lowest bid not chosen? Are there sound technical reasons for this?
C.    How close to the FISE's referetnce unit prices are the winning bids? Are disparities justified?
D.    Do sponsoring agencies/FISE involve a broad range of contractors in their local shopping
procedures?
E.    Is the shopping procedure itself efficient across sectors? Across different regions of the
country?
FE     How many works and goods contracts suffer delays, price changes, cancellation? How much
of this can be attributed to the procurement procedure? When contractors lower their prices
(vis-a-vis reference prices), how often do projects suffer delays or cancellations?
G.    Recommend ways to improve local shopping procedures.
Dired Cont
A.    How do the prices of these contracts compare to the FISEs reference unit prices? Is direct
contracting efficient (i.e. low prices) for projects in this category?
B.    Tb what extent is direct contractng used in areas where there exist few contractors who can
carry out the contracts?
C.    Do sponsoring u"endies/FISE involve a broad range of contractors in their local shopping
procedures? How are sponsoiing agencies' "short lists" drawn up (examintc short lists)?
D.    How many works and goods contacts suffer delays, price changes, cancellation? How much
of this can be attributed to the procurement procedure? When contractors lower their prices
(vis-a-vis rerence prices), how often do projects suffer delays or cancellations?
E.    Are there cases in which implementation of the direct contrating procedures is problematic?
Are such problems sector or region-specific? Is there evidence of other than technical criteria
in the awarding of contracts?
F.    Would it be more appropriate to use shopping in some cases where direct contracing is
currently used? Should the use of direct contracting be expanded? restricted fturther?
G.     Recommend ways to improve direct contrcting procedures.



- 118-                                       Anna P
ECUADOR
Third Sodal Development Froject
Sodal Investment Fund
Disbursement Forecast
IDRD F1scal Year and Semter         Disbursemen  (US$ millon)        Semester
Semester  Accunutated      %
1994
2nd (Jan-Jun 94)              6.0          6.0       20%         1
1995
1st (Jul-Dec 94)              5.5          11.5      38%         2
2nd (Jan-Jun 95)              6.0          17.5      58%         3
1996
Ist (Jul-Dec 95)              4.5          22.0      73%        4
2nd (Jan-Jun 96)              4.0          26.0      87%         5
1997
1st (Jul-Dec 96)              2.0          28.0      93%         6
2ad (Jan-Jun 97)              1.4          29.4      98%         7
1998
1st (Jul-Dec 98)              0.6          30.0     100%         8



- 119 -
Annex P
ECUADOR
THIRD SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Allocations
US (s)
Category                               Amount    Percentape
1. FISE Sub-Projects                 23,300,000    100% of disbursements by FISE for
eligible sub-projects/l
2. FISE Institutional Support
a) Salaries, Fees and Operating Expenses/2 3,000,000    100% of eligible expenditures.
b) Technical Assistance and Training  910,000    100% of expenditures for
consuitants' services, travel
expense, per diem.
c) Vehicles and Equipment             290,000    100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of ex-factory local exenditures
and 80% of local expendiures for
other items procured locally.
3. PPF Refinancing                    1,500,000
4. Unallocated                        1,000,000
TOTJAL                              30,000,000
/1 Cumulative annual limits are established for the category as follows:
US$15.0 million CY1994, US$21 million CY1995, US$22.8 million CY1996,
and US$23.3 million CY1997 as specified in the legal documents.
/2 Indicative annual limits are reflected In the Minutes of Negotiations as follows:
US$1.7 million CY1994, US$2.5 million CY1995, US$2.9 million CY1996, and US$3.0 million bythe
end of the project, to be reviev ed annually. The Govemment would finance support level
personnel, with higher level personnel costs shared parailelly (not jointly) between the IDB
and the Bank. With regard to the use of the term "salaries, feese please refer to the note for the
Procurement Arrangements table in main text. Operating expenses comprise US$0.7 million
equivalent out of the US$3.0 million equivalent specified in this sub-category.



- 120 -                            AnnexQ
ECUADOR
Third Sodal Development Project
Sodal Inves_ment Fund
MID-TERM REVIEW
Terms of Reference
Objectives
The overall objectve of the Mid-Trm Review exercise is to examine the Emergency Socal
Investnent Fund (Bando de Inversion Social de Emergencia - FISE) and its operations to
determine what, if any, adjustments should be made to its objectives, organization, and
procedures, both for application in the short term and as the basis for decisions regarding
new funding. The most fundamental questions to be answered are the following:
Are the FISEs mandate, objectives, and role clearly defined? How agile and
efficient is FISE as an instiution in achieving its objectives?
In the exstmg institutional fiamework in Ecuador, is an Emergency Social Investment
Fund the most appropriate institutional arangement for achieving the program's
objectives (i.e. the financing of small, targeted inments in education, health, water
a sanitation, etc.)? Should the FISE withdraw from any areas in which it currently
operates? Should it enter any new areas?
-     Does the FISE coordinate its activities with appropnate line ministries and other
relevant state and non-state actors? Are ElSEFs activities a complement to or
substitue for the functions and responsibilites of the Frente Social ministries? Is the
FISEs existence favorable to the development of institutional capacities for public
investment planming and implementation in the line ministries responsible for the
sectors in which the FISE operates?
-     Have FISE's projects reached their target groups? Have operations been sustained
subsequently? Is there evidence of development/ poverty-alleviation impact yet?
EMPLEMNTrAION
Thematically, the Mid-Tbrm Review will be broken down into three parts: (J) The role of the
FISE in the Frene Social; (11) The quality of the PISEs portfolio and the effectiveness of its
approach to addressing EISE's objectives and beneficiaries' needs; and, (III) The FISEs
internal and o tional efficiency. The review is designed to examine FISEs operations
across sectors and acrmss the project cycle; Mission members should not concentrate on the



- 121 -                             Annex Q
activities of any given directorate or stage of the project cycle but on the integration of the
FISE's operations.
I. The FISE in the Frente Social
A. Are the Govermnent's policies and priorities for the social sectors clearly defined by
the respective lead ministries? Do the FISE's policies and priorities reflect these?
B. Are sectoral coordination mechanisms between the FISE, lead ministries, and other
relevant sectoral agencies effective?
C. What impact does FISE have on the formulation and implementation of the public
sector investment program for the social sectors?
D. Is there a tradeoff between the objectives of policy and planning coordination with
the line ministries and that of responding to the felt needs of the community at the
local level?
E. Is a financing agency with a (small-)project methodology the correct mechanism for
channelling resources to the sectors in which the FISE operates? Is the FISE itself
an adequate agency for financing these small, targeted social projects? Are there
sectors/areas which the FISE should abandon? into which it should enter?
F. Does the FISE have a useful role to play in the future? Which and for how long?
H. Quality of the MlSE's Pbrtfolio and the Effectiveness of Financing Lines and
Individual Projects in Addressing its Priorities and IFblicies (and Beneficiaries' Needs)
A. What is the failure rate of FISE projects by line? by geographical region? What is
the adequate completion rate to date?
B. Is the FISE's poverty targeting methodology adequate for reaching the poorest strata
of Ecuadoran society? Do the benefits resulting from financing projects among the
poorest of the poor outweigh the administrative costs to FISE imposed by the
targeting methodology?
C. How does the absorptive capacity of the FISEs beneficiaries contribute to project
delays and failure? to the adequate operation and maintenance of civil works once
completed?
D. Does the FISE's promotion methodology involve adequate contact with beneficiaries
to ensure their involvement from the beginning? Do subsequent stages of the



- 122 -                              Annex Q
process carry through this focus to ensure their participation in the project? Are the
level and intensity of community participation in FISE projects adequate to ensure
their long-term sustainability? Compare comrnmunity counterpart financing across
sectors and regions of the country with project sustainability.
E. Should the FISE move to a "regional inventory"' promotion strategy, or a project
promotion strategy? How effective is FISEs promotion strategy to stimulating
demand from women's groups? indigenous groups? In what financing lines are
these groups most represented?
F. Regarding project evaluation criteria:
1. Are they consistent with nationallsectoral priorities? Have they been consistently
applied? Is there evidence of the application of evaluation criteria other than
those technical criteria agreed upon with the Bank?
2.  Do they take adequate account of economic viability, where applicable?
3.  Do they provide adequate assurance of project sustainability, where applicable?
4.  Do they support targeting objectives?
5.  Are social and institutional evaluation criteria clear, appropriate, and consistently
applied? Do they adequately ensure beneficiary participation in project selection
and execution?
6.  Identify tradeoffs between equity and efficiency. Are these adequately
addressed?
7.  Where applicable, do they appropriately apply norms reflecting best practices in
the respective area?
8.  Do evaluator performance targets exist? are they appropriate? do they result in
the compromise of the quality of the FISEs project evaluation work?
G. What is the institutional capacity of the FISEs soliciting agencies? (case studies of
sample of projects) What is the project failure or delay rate by type of agency?
Are some types of agencies concentrated in certain lines? which? Is a lack of
project formulation capacity a constraint to the promotion of certain lines? Has the
FISE undertaken actions to relieve this constraint? are they adequate? What is the
1. The regional inventory strategy refers to needs assessments performed by promotion dept.
staff in the field to identify critical needs in different areas.



- 123 -                           Annex Q
sustainability of projects (i.e. feasibility of operation and maintenance arrangements)
by type of soliciting agency?
H. How many projects are reformulated once in execution? Is this due to poor
evaluation, poor supervision (internal or external), or other factors?
I.  Does the FISEs internal supervision methodology ensure both flexibility and
adequate control of project execution? Should the intensity of this supervision be
increased? decreased? Are supervision methods well-suited to the diversity of the
FISEs portfolio?
I   Similar to (I), regarding external supervision.
K. Have impact assessments been completed? adequately? What do they imply about
the quality of the work of the FISE as a whole? Has the FISE taken such reports
into account and implemented operational reforms based upon them?
L. Are environmental concerns appropriately and adequately addressed in the
evaluation and implementation of the FISEs projects?
m. The FISE's Internal and Organizational Efficiency
A. With respect to the project cycle, what are the FISE's internal processing rates?
Identify bottlenecks in the process. Are these due to poor staffing, organization, or
problems external to the FISE?
B.  ersonnel: Are staff in the FISE distributed according to needs - both numerically
and according to skill needs? Are terms of reference appropriate to the FISE's
requirements? Does the FISE attract and retain highly-qualified personnel?
C. Internal Administration: Is the FISFs financial administration agile and adequate
to the task of large volumes of disbursements? Are central governmental
counterpart funds disbursed on time, as per commitments? Do decentalized
agencies (e.g. soliciting agencies) disburse on time, as per commitments?
D. Analyze the procedures, systems, and capacity for budgeting, programming,
accounting, and auditing. Do they provide transparency in both administrative and
project spending? Are internal and external audits regular, rigorous, and
independent?
E. What are the FISEs administrative costs as a proportion of commitments? of
disbursements? how do they compare to other, similar agencies in Ecuador? to



- 124 -                           Annex Q
other social investment funds in the region? Is there evidence of strict cost control
efforts by the FISE?
F.  Procurement: Have procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank been
implemented by the FISE both at the central FISE level and for procurement under
individual projects? If not why? Make reconmmendation for how this problem
should be solved.
G. Regional Offices: Do the FISEs regional offices contribute to or detract from the
FISEs efficiency and effectiveness? how? Should the FISE decentralize its
operation further in the future?
H. Reporting: Analyze the reports completed by the FISE in its first two years. Do
they provide adequate information to enable the Bank and other donors to monitor
its operations?
J. Information System: Does the FISE's MIS system provide useful, agile service to
the FISE? Is its data base, including especially costs, complete, current, and
accessible? Has the MIS system been successfully integrated into the FISEs daily
operations?



- 125 -                      Annex R
ECUADOR
Third Social Development Project
Social Investment Fund
BANK SUPERVISION REQUIREMENTS
1.    Due to the demand-driven nature of FISE, the newness of the
institution and the importance of transparency, intensive supervision will be
required by the Bank. Arrangements to reduce the costs of this supervision
include joint supervision missions with other donor agencies (specifically the
IDB), effective use of the Bank's Resident Mission in Quito, and the
contracting of local consultants to review selected aspects of FISE operations.
2.    Supervision Tasks. Supervision tasks would include the following:
(a)   Supervision Missions: Approximately 2-3 supervision missions
will be necessary annually. These missions should be of about
two weeks, including visits to sub-projects in execution. For
each mission, the team will be comprised of the Task Manager
and about 2-3 consultants specializing in various aspects of
supervision. The missions would be planned so as to include
meetings with the ad-hoc International Review Board and the
annual programming exercise with FISE;
(b)   Sub-Proiect Ex-Ante and Ex-Post Reviews: In addition, ex-ante
and ex-post sub-project reviews are expected to require about 8
weeks in FY1995, 6 weeks in FY1996 and 2 weeks in
FY1997. All ex-ante reviews would be carried out in
Washington, with support for random ex-post reviews from
either the Bank's local office and/or local consultants;
(c)   Procurement Reviews: Procurement reviews are to be carried
out semi-annually, with each one requiring about one week of
analysis and report preparation, for a total of two staff weeks
per year. This task would be handled locally, preferably by
the Bank's Office in Quito;
(d) Approval of terms of reference and candidates for technical
assistance and traiiinm and FISE staff positions. Depending on
the overall number of contracts per year, this task should take
about three weeks per year, with much of the review function
supported by the Bank's Office in Quito;
(e)   Monitoring of monthly information sheets and performance
indicators submitted by FISE is expected to take an equivalent
of two weeks per year to be done at Headquarters;



- 126 -                      Annex R
(f) Mid-TErm Review. The Mid-Term Review, scheduled for the
first quarter of 1996 (CY) would require three weeks. Most
consultants would be financed out of project funds, with some
contribution from donors.
(g)   Routine supervision tasks and internal administration. It is
expected that an additional eight weeks per year would be
needed at Headquarters for the various activities of internal
reporting, donor coordination, mission preparation, routine
/          correspondence, and so forth.
3.    Supervision Plan. Based on the above supervision requirements, the
following supervision calendar is proposed for the project:
FY1994:
Project Launch
Task Manager
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
Procurement Specialist
Technical Aspects of Sub-Projects (to vary by specialty, e.g.,
engineer, health specialist)
Administration and Finance Specialist
FY199 - FY1997:
Supervision Missions - 2 per year comprised of a combination of the
following:
Task Manager
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
Technical Aspects of Sub-Projects
Economist - Sub-Project Evaluation
FY1996:
Mid-Term Review
Task Manager
Consultant(s) - To be determined between donors
FY1998:
Supervision Missions (1)
Task Manager
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
Technical Aspects of Sub-Projects
Financial Specialist/Accountant
Project Completion Report Preparation Mission
Task Manager
Statistician/Research Assistant
4.    Resource Requirements. Based on the supervision tasks and
calendar outlined above, the following is an estimate of total staffweeks



- 127 -                    Annex R
(including consultants) required per year: FY1994 - 15; FY1995 - 40;
FY1996 - 40; F1 d97 - 30; FY1998 - 20.



- 128 -                      Annex S
ECUADOR
Third Social Development Project
Documents Included In Prqoect Fle
A. Asistencia t6cuica. Proyecto de fortalecimiento del sectr social, Quito,
Ministero de Bienestar Social-Unidad de Polidca Social, October
1991.
A. 1. "Anexo 1: Tdnninos de referencia para la preparaci6n del
proyecto de fortalecimiento del sector social", March 1991
A. 2. "Anexo 2: Marco de referencia dle proyecto de fortalecimiento
del sector social'
A. 3. "Anexos 3, 3.1, y 3.2: Evaluacion de la gestida del sector
social"
A. 4. "Anexo 3.3: Listado de Projetos", 2 v.
A. 5. "Anexo 4: Implantaci6n del modelo de gesti6n para el sector
social'
A. 6. "Anexo 5: Propuesta del esquema organizativo-funcional del
frente social. Documento metodol6gico de gestidn y
administracidn"
A. 7. "Anexo 6: Lineas de desarrollo social (lDES)"
A. 8. "Anexo 7: Implementaci6n del .mbito tecnico operacional del
frente social"
A. 9. "Anexo 7.1: Secuencia operacional. Documento metodol6gico
conceptual (SIAS-11)"
A. 10. "Anexo 7.2: Propuesta del Centro de Indrmaci6n. Documento
metodoldgico de gesdan y administracidn (SIAS-13)"
A. 11. "Anexo 7.3: Propuesta del esquema organizativo funcional del
frente social. Documento metodol6gico de gestid6n y
administraci6n (SIAS-14)"
A. 12. "Anexos 8 y 8.1: Implementaci6n y desarrollo del sistema de
informaci6n sectoriale
A. 13. "Anexo 8.2: Estructura infor=mica (SLAS-15)y
A. 14. "Anexo 9: Recuperaci6n y procesamiento de informaci6a
estadfstica b.sica en el area social"
A. 15. "Anexo 19: Fuentes de financiamiento. Mecanismos de
asignaci6n de desembolsos"
A. 16. "Anexo 11: Consolidaci6n del sistema de gestid6n social.
Definici6n y prioridades estrategicas"
A. 17. "Anexo 12: Relaci6n entre politica econ6mica y poUtica
social"
A. 18. "Anexo 13: Sistemas administrativos y apreciaci6n situacional
del sector social"
A. 19. "Anexo 14: Creaci6n y consolidacidn del sistema de iniciativas
para la descentralizaci6n (SIPADE)'
A. 20. "Anexo 1S: Devoluci6n municipal (PRODEMXJ)"



-129 -                        Anex S
A. 21. "Anexo 16: Polftica de apoyo a los pueblos indfgenas"
A. 22. "Anexo 17: Dictoio de oqanizaciones no gubernamentales",
2 v.
A. 23. "Documento de proyecto"
B Aneios tkcnicos. Fondo de Inversidn Social del lbuador, Quito,
Ministerio de Bienestar Social-Ministerio de Trabajo y Recursos
Humanos, Februazy 1992.
R 1. "Aspectos legales"
B. 2. "Cartera de proyectos I"
B. 3. "Cartera de proyectos fl"
B. 4. "Costo y financiamiento del FISE"
B. 5. "Diagn6stico macroeconomico"
R 6. "Disefho funcional"
B. 7. "Evaluaci6n, seguimiento y fiscalizaci6n"
B. 8. "Infraestructura social"
B. 9. "Instituciones gubernamentales: naturaleza y caracterfscas"
B 10. "Manejo financiero"
R. 11. "Organizaciones populares rurales y urbanas"
B. 12. "La pobreza. AnaiIsis metodoi6gico de las tecnicas utiliadas
para su cuantficaci6n e identificaci6n de areas crfticas",
December 1991
B. 13. "La pobreza en El Ecuador. cuantificaci6n e identiiicaci6n de
6reas criticas"
B. 14. "La pobreza en El Ecuador. natumleza y caracterfticas"
B. 15. "Plfdticas, programas y estraegias para enfentar la pobrea"
R 16. "Problematica y caracteristicas de las ONG's en El Ecuador
B. 17. "Prgragma de asistencia social'
B. 18. "Programa. Fondo de Imversi6n Social del Ecuador (FISE)"
B. 19. "Prograna de promocion e identificacidn de proyectos"
B. 20. "Pryectos integrales"
B. 21. "Sistema informitico del FISE"
C Proyecto de fortalecimiento del sector social, Quito, Ministeno de
Bienestar Social-Unidad de Polftica Social, March 1992:
Componente I: Reorganizacidn y desarrollo admlnistrativo del
sector social:
C. 1. "Asistencia tScnica a or iones comunitasias y no
gubemnamentales. Casa comunal: unidad bWsica de
planificaci6n y gesti6n"
C. 2. "Desarrollo organizacional y administivo del sectOr
social"
C. 3. Estrategias de desarrollo sectorial y subsectorial.
Asistencia t6cnica dirigida a politicas y programas pana:
familia: infancia, juventud, mujer y tercera edad"
C. 4. "Estrategias de desarrollo sectorial subsectorial.
Lineamientos polifticos y estrategicos sobre empleo"



- 130 -                       Annex S
C 5. "Estrategias df desarrollo sectorial y subsectorial.
Lineamientos polidcos y estratmgicos de un proyecto
educativo nacional"
C 6. "Estrategias de desa.ollo sectorial y subsectorial.
Linearnientos polfticos y est-atdgicos pam el sector
cultur"
C 7. "Estrategias de desarroUo sectorial y subsectorial.
Lineamientos politicos y estramtgicos para seguriad
social"
C. 8. "Evaluacion de programas proyectos y sevicios sociales"
Componente II: Financiamiento del sector social:
C. 9. "Evaluaci6n de los fondos sociales"
C. 10. "El financiarniento del gasto social"
Componente m: Fortalecimiento de la capacidad de anilisis,
programaci6n y seguimiento sectorial:
C. 11. "Coordinacion entre politica econ6mica y politica
social"
C. 12. "Implementaci6n del ambito tecnico operacional del
frente social'
C. 13. "Implementaci6n y desarrollo del sistema de
informaci6n sectorial"
C. 14. "Metodologia para la focalizacion de polfticas,
programnas y pryectos socales"
C. 15. "Metodologfas para la formulaci6n, seguimiento y
evaluaci6n de programas y proyectos sociales"
C. 16. "Metodologfa e instrumentos de programacifn
sectorial"
C. 17. "Recuperaci6n y procesamiento de la informacion
estadistica bisica en el area social"
D. Evaluacion de los fondos sociales, Quito, Ministerio de Bienestar Social-
Unidad de Polftica Social, August 1992.
D. 1. "Fondo para el Desarrollo de la Infncia (FODINFA)Y
D. 2. "Fondo de Desarrollo Rural Marginal (FODERUMA)"
D. 3. 'Fondo Financiero para la Vivienda (FfV)"
D. 4. "Fondo de Inversi6n Social (FISE)"
D. 5. 'Fondo Nacional de Economia Solidaria (FONADES)-Fondo de
Desarrollo Social FODESO)"
D. 6. "Fondo Nacional para la Nutrici6n y Protecci6n de la Poblaci&n
Infntil Ecuatoriana (FONNE')"
E. Fondo de lnversi6n Social, Quito, Consejo Nacional de Desarrollo
(CONADE), February 1993.
E. 1. "Clasificaci6n de proyectos FISE"
E. 2. "Criterios de elegibilidad de los proyectos FSE-
E. 3. "Fondo de Inversi6n Social (FISE)"



- 131 -                      Annex S
E. 4. 'Fondo de Inversion Social. Resumen ejecutivo"
E. 5. "Manual de facilitacidn para uso de las ONG's interesadas en
participar en el FISE", CONADE-Unidad de Politica Social-
Fundaci6n Altemativa
E. 6. "Mapa de pobreza. Documento preliminar"
E. 7. "Unificaci6n de fondos sociales"
F. Documentos Operativos FISE, Quito, Presidencia de la Republica, June
1993.
F. 1. "Decreto"
F. 2. "Organigrama"
F. 3. "Definici6n de actores"
F. 4. 'Sistemas de focalizacion"
F. 5. "Coordinaci6n interinstitucional"
F. 6. "Tipos de proyectos"
F. 7. "C.iterios de elegibi}idad"
F. 8. "Estrategia de promocifn y difusi6n"
F 9. "Terminos de garantia de opemci6n y mantenimiento"
F* 10. "Terminos de contrataci6n"
F. 11. "Modelo de contrato de ejecucidn y financiamiento de prvyecto
y obra"
F. 12. "Criterios de seguimiento y supervisi6n"
F. 13. "Guia para la formulaci6n y presentacion de proyectos de
inversi6n social"
F. 14. "Fornulario de presentacion de carta solicitud y proyecto de
inversi6n social"
. 15. l Gufa para la formulacidn y presentaci6n de proyectos de
fondos rtativos'
F. 16. "Fonnulario de presentaci6n de carta solicitud y proyectos de
fondos rotativos"
G. Other Documents
G. 1. "Afinamiento de documentos sobre la acci6n de las
organizaciones no gubeniamentales en El Ecuador",
Corporaci6n de Organismos Privados-Fundacion Alternativa
para el Desarrollo-CONADE-Unidad de Polftica Social,
November 1992.
G. 2. Bebbington, Anthony, "Evaluaci6n del impacto generado por los
proyectos de desarrollo de base auspiciados por la Fundaci6n
Interamericana". Quito, September 1991. (Manuscript)
G. 3. V Censo de poblaci6n y IV de vivienda 199Ot Resultados
definitivos. Res6men Nacional. Quito, Instituto de Estadstica
y Censos, November 1991.
G. 4. "Comportamiento mensual del consumo en los hogares de
ingresos bajos del area urbana del pais", Quito, Instituto
Nacional de Estadfstica y Censos: October 1992, November
1992, December 1992, February 1993, April 1993.



-132 -                       Annex S
0. 5. "Los costos sociales del ajuste, 1980-1990: sintesis y
conclusiones", Quito, PREALC-Progmma Mundial del
Empleo, December 1992. (Documentos de Trabajo, 372)
G. 6. De Janvry, Alamn, Elisabeth Sadoulet and Andre Pazgeix,
Adjustment and Equity In Ecuador. Paris, OECD, 1991.
G. 7. "Desgaste del poder adquisitivo del saralio mfinimo vital",
Quito, Instituto Nacional de Estadfsitica y Censos, December
1992.
G. 8. Ecuador. Crisis, Ajuste y PoUtica Social en los Anos 80,
Comelio Marchan, coord. Quito, Fundaci6n Grpo Esquel-
UNICEF, 1992.
G. 9. "Financiamiento y destino del gasto social en El Ecuador", 2
v., Cornelio Marchan C., coord. Quito, Ministerio de
Bienestar Social, September 1992.
G. 10. "Fondo de Inversi6n Social-Ecuador. Infraestructura social con
tecnologia popular", 3 v., Quito, December 1991.
G. 11. "El gasto social en El Ecuador", Quito, Ministerio de
Bienestar Social-Unidad de Pblitica Social, September 1991.
G. 12. "Gufa pam la formulacion y presentaci6n de proyectos FISE",
Quito,Presidencia de la Repdblica del Ecuador, April 1993.
G. 13. Luzuriaga, Carlos and Mariana Mom, Anlisis sobre ein
pobreza. Quito, CONADE. (Serie Documentos Tdcnicos, 1).
G. 14. Larrea, Carlos, Pobreza, necesides bisicas y desempleo.
Area urbana del Ecuador. Quito, Instituto Nacional de
Empleo-Instituto TLatinoamericano de Invesgaciones Sociales.
(Documentos de Investigacion, 1).
G. 15. Luzuriaga, Carlos, "Situacidn y perspectivas de la pobrea en
El Ecuador (1970-2000)", Quito, November 1992.
G. 16. "Mapa de pobreza consolidado. Nivel parroquial, urbano y
rural", Quito, CONADE, April 1993.
G. 17. Organizaciones Pbpulares Rurales y Urbana. Quito,
Ministerio de Bienestar Social-Ministerio de Trabajo y
Recursos Humanos, February 1992.
G. 18. "Proyecto de asistencia t6cnica para el sector social.
Documentos par contrato de consultores", Quito, Unidad de
Polftica Social, May 1991
G. 19. "Proyecto de modernizaci6n del sector social. Resdmen del
Proyecto", Quito, CONADE-Unidad de Polftica Social,
October 1992.



Il'                        or7t <_                                                78-                       77-                         76-
; R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                                         O L    O M  B  I A
O C E 'A N                                                                                                      COLOMBA
§   .   -:  (  M  Ag ./7 .1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" c H /1,                                                     7s° 
d. R;S , X   X      +           ,    IqA .                                   . A  ,_A  p ,
leato                                          emhi~~~~~~~Cocm~ don ..rt RlCame
_114 j_J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ntmy
S 0 f^/t             (X             X               g                 s                          ......V.I.......... -k)TEN
iNst'C':'S1"^E~~ZnnI Dom.ngo  /O S* \ oAuA
'<4 t" S~N  A N TA G 0                     /     V                                       _. -. 
G U a:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,';6roiancsa                                                                                        -.    ' IatoD
4Qw-ed.                                                          /                                                            {,,, , ,* ,, ,, t !SLq 10t¢Hf B ,5tA EOltaxa P
A ',c G v p r h  d r . d  d d r 9 o  rJ o ;  G                                                                                                       _AR A N D
_  .........    B  RABA B                                        P
-a-~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
G u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                          ~7
N                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
C  A R        A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4    AIRPORTSG
A               At            PACIFIC                                          -   RI~~~~~~~GAAP~O   ILADSPVEDRS AD
*'   k"s~~~~~~~t~~~                             OCEAN                      --PR~~~~~~~~OVIHEROLLNDATHRIEOAS
ISLA MAM~~~MFNA                 AINPERNTIOAS     OUDRE
-4      t,ImAApA y n.WAS.&  I.tn4M                           ~K                                       I~ SASINA GCRuz
25    50   75   lOS                                        -               4L -JCA 79
KILOMETERS                       SM  ~~~~~~~~~~~K~~~'-*~~~     cRIST&''      ~       ~       RIER
AAAhBOIAOAOOOIOOyIAAA.OAYOAOOAO.A,.POAOAA.PI-OOA I.A SANTATCRU
,0A  2SaMOA ,05    0 7   ISO                                                     IOMNAND)NA
o   81--               so-                        rttnwna          9I~~~~~~~              9TxE
KitOMETERS                              f                     "   )        tSI                   _ _____A__                  ___N



