Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3707 EC
                          Loan Agreement
    (Third Social Development Project--Social Investment Fund)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated May 12, 1994
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3707 EC
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 12, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "Administrative Manual" means FISE's (as hereinafter
defined) Manual Administrativo y Financiero (Administrative and
Financial Manual), approved by FISE's Consejo Administrativo
(Administrative Council) pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this
Agreement, as such FISE document may be amended from time to time;
      (b)   "CONADE" means the Borrower's Consejo Nacional de
Desarrollo (National Development Council);
      (c)   "Coordination Agreement" means any of the agreements,
satisfactory to the Bank, between FISE and ministries or other
public entities of the Borrower, entered or to be entered into by
FISE, which agreements constitute part of the formal coordination
mechanisms referred to in Annex A of the Implementation Letter (as
hereinafter defined);
      (d)   "FISE" means the Borrower's Fondo de Inversion Social de
Emergencia (Emergency Social Investment Fund), created pursuant to
Presidential Decree No. 584 dated March 19, 1993, as subsequently
amended by Presidential Decree No. 1140-A dated October 7, 1993;
      (e)   "FISE Decree" means Presidential Decree No. 584, as
amended, referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section;
      (f)   "Grant" means a non-reimbursable cash contribution made
or proposed to be made by the Borrower, through FISE, for a
Subproject, pursuant to the terms of a Grant Agreement (as
hereinafter defined) and out of the proceeds of the Loan;
      (g)   "Grant Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into
among the Borrower (through FISE), the Subproject Sponsor (or its
agent referred to in paragraph (n) of this Section if the Subproject
Sponsor has no separate legal personality of its own) and the
Subproject Executing Agency (witnessed on behalf of the bene-
ficiaries as set forth in paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to this
Agreement), for purposes of making a Grant;
      (h)   "Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date
herewith, from the Borrower to the Bank, containing, inter alia, the
annexes referred to in Sections 1.02 (l), 3.05 (b) (iii) and 3.07 of
this Agreement and in paragraphs 2 (a) and 2 (c) of Schedule 7 to
this Agreement;
      (i)   "Operational Manual" means FISE's Manual de Operaciones
(Operations Manual), approved by FISE's Consejo Administrativo
(Administrative Council) pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this
Agreement, as such FISE document may be amended from time to time;
      (j)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated December 5, 1989 and January 19, 1990,
as subsequently amended, between the Borrower and the Bank;
      (k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (l)   "Subproject" means any specific development project,
within the following five categories as more precisely defined in
Annex B of the Implementation Letter, to be carried out pursuant to
the terms of a Grant Agreement and utilizing the proceeds of a
Grant: (i) social infrastructure subprojects (involving creation or
improvement of infrastructure, such as primary schools, health posts
and community washing facilities) for which economic benefits cannot
be quantified; (ii) socio-economic infrastructure subprojects
(involving creation or improvement of infrastructure, such as
tertiary and feeder roads and water supply and sewerage systems) for
Page  3
which a cost-benefit analysis is feasible; (iii) social services
subprojects (involving the provision of goods, training and other
inputs in support of health, education and nutrition programs); (iv)
productive community investment subprojects with social reflows
(involving support for grass-root development initiatives containing
a cost-recovery element the proceeds of which would be channeled to
a second-generation development project pre-identified by the
beneficiary community); and (v) institutional development
subprojects (involving the provision of technical assistance and
training for the consolidation of community operations and
maintenance committees to ensure sustainability of the
infrastructure which is under the care of such committees);
      (m)   "Subproject Executing Agency" means an individual or a
private entity, each with its own separate legal personality,
selected by the Subproject Sponsor (as hereinafter defined) to carry
out works for a Subproject pursuant to the terms of a Grant
Agreement (a Subproject's beneficiaries may contribute towards the
execution of a Subproject to the extent they provide labor and
materials, but cannot be deemed to constitute a Subproject Executing
Agency and cannot receive or administer Grant proceeds unless
organized as a private non-profit entity with separate legal
personality); and
      (n)   "Subproject Sponsor" means a public or private non-
profit entity which presents a Subproject proposal to FISE for
financing (for a given Subproject not involving works, other than
minor repair works, the Subproject Sponsor (if it has its own
separate legal personality) and the Subproject Executing Agency may
be one and the same). If the Subproject Sponsor has no separate
legal personality, it can enter into Grant Agreements only through
an individual acting as the Subproject Sponsor's agent pursuant to
a power of attorney, satisfactory to FISE and valid under Ecuadorian
law, issued by the members of the Subproject Sponsor.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of thirty million dollars ($30,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by
a Subproject Executing Agency under a Grant to meet the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Subproject in respect of
which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (ii)
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part B of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in Banco
Central del Ecuador (Central Bank of Ecuador) on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.
Page  4
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Page  5
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
FISE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, social service and
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project. In addition, the Borrower, through FISE, shall carry out
the Project in compliance with FISE's Operational Manual and
Administrative Manual, but only to the extent the provisions of such
Manuals are consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
      (b)   Without limitation of its obligations referred to in the
preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall make available to FISE the
following annual counterpart funding amounts (from the Borrower's
own resources not emanating from local or foreign donors or
financiers) to be used by FISE for Project implementation: in 1994,
$4,000,000 equivalent by no later than March 1, 1994; in 1995,
$4,000,000 equivalent by no later than March 1, 1995; in 1996,
$3,000,000 equivalent by no later than March 1, 1996; and in 1997,
$1,000,000 equivalent by no later than March 1, 1997. Evidence
demonstrating that such amounts have not only been budgeted, but
have actually been released to FISE during the relevant year, shall
be contained in each of the annual reports, referred to in Section
3.05 (b) of this Agreement, furnished to the Bank during that same
year.
      (c)   As part of its obligations referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall cause professional/technical-
level functions within FISE to be carried out solely by the
consultants referred to in Part B.1 (a) of the Project.  Such
consultants shall have experience and other qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank. The terms of this paragraph shall not
apply with respect to functions carried out by: (i) members
(excluding the Coordinador del FISE (FISE Coordinator)), and their
alternates, of FISE's Consejo Administrativo (Administrative
Council); (ii) members, and their alternates, of the comision para
la liquidacion (liquidation commission) referred to in Article 8 of
the FISE Decree; or (iii) voting members (again excluding the
Coordinador del FISE (FISE Coordinator)) and their alternates of
FISE's Comite de Aprobaciones (Approvals Committee).
      Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (b)   Throughout the course of Project implementation, the
Borrower, through FISE, shall maintain a data base of standard
regionalized unit prices of works, goods and services (as well as of
Subproject cost per beneficiary ranges) to serve as a reference for
Subproject procurement and costing. Such data base shall be subject
to independent review and updating every three months, beginning in
July 1994, by consultants hired by FISE as part of the technical
assistance referred to in Part B.1 (e) of the Project. The Borrower,
through FISE, shall promptly change such unit prices, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, pursuant to the recommendations of each
such independent review.
      (c)   FISE shall provide each Subproject Sponsor, prior to
such Subproject Sponsor's selection of a Subproject Executing Agency
and procurement of any Subproject goods or services, with a package
of basic procurement documents (including standard bidding
Page  6
documents) satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, through FISE and for
purposes of Part A of the Project, transfer proceeds of the Loan to
Subproject Executing Agencies on a grant basis in accordance with
the procedures set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement and under
Grant Agreements to be entered into among the Borrower (through
FISE) and each Subproject Sponsor and each Subproject Executing
Agency, containing terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
which shall include, inter alia:
            (i)    rights adequate to protect the interests of the
                   Bank and the Borrower, including the right to
                   suspend or terminate the right of the Subproject
                   Executing Agency to the use of the proceeds of
                   the Loan upon failure by the Subproject Sponsor,
                   such Subproject Executing Agency and/or the
                   Subproject beneficiaries to perform their
                   obligations under the Grant Agreement; and
           (ii)    the applicable terms and conditions set forth or
                   referred to in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower, through FISE, shall exercise its rights
and perform its obligations under the Grant Agreements in such
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the
Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign or fail to
enforce any Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.04. Throughout the course of Project implementation,
the Borrower, through FISE, shall operate and maintain its manage-
ment information system, referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this
Agreement, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 3.05. (a) Monthly throughout the course of Project
implementation, the Borrower, through FISE, shall furnish to the
Bank Project progress reports in a format satisfactory to the Bank
and based on data generated by the management information system
referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement.
      (b)   By no later than June 1, 1994 and March 1 of each year
thereafter during Project implementation, the Borrower, through
FISE, shall (without limitation of its obligations under Section
9.07 of the General Conditions) furnish to the Bank an annual report
with regard to the implementation of the Project, such report: (i)
to be ratified by FISE's Consejo Administrativo (Administrative
Council) prior to its submission to the Bank; (ii) to be in a format
satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) to include data, generated through
operation of the management information system referred to in
Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, pertaining to the indicators
referred to in Annex C of the Implementation Letter; (iv) to include
available results of the studies and surveys referred to in Section
3.07 of this Agreement; (v) to include the results of the latest
independent review referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this
Agreement; and (vi) to include any other information regarding the
Project as may be reasonably requested by the Bank.
      Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower, through FISE, shall
participate in annual programming reviews of Project implementation
to be held in conjunction with the Bank no later than July 31, 1994
and April 30 of each year thereafter during Project implementation.
Such reviews shall, inter alia, focus on analyzing the annual
reports referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement and on
programming Project implementation for the twelve months immediately
subsequent to each of said reviews.  At the conclusion of each such
review, the Borrower, through FISE, shall prepare an action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, specifying Project implementation measures
and targets with respect to such immediately subsequent twelve
months. The Borrower, through FISE, shall carry out each such action
plan in accordance with its terms.
Page  7
      (b)   The Borrower, through FISE and under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, shall participate in a Project imple-
mentation mid-term review to be held with the Bank and any other
external FISE Project donors or financiers during the first two
months of 1996 (but in any case prior to the annual review to be
held in 1996). During such mid-term review, attention shall
particularly focus, inter alia, on FISE's role within the set of
Borrower executive branch ministries known as the Frente Social
(Social Front), the quality and effectiveness of FISE's Subproject
portfolio and FISE's internal and organizational efficiency.
      Section 3.07. Pursuant to Part B.1 (e) of the Project, the
Borrower, through FISE, shall contract technical assistance for the
carrying out of surveys and studies to assess FISE's impact on
Subproject beneficiaries and FISE's overall effectiveness. Such
surveys and studies shall be carried out as set forth in Annex D of
the Implementation Letter.
      Section 3.08. Supported by the technical assistance to be
provided under Part B.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall, during
the first quarter of 1997, define its strategy with regard to the
closure or possible transformation of FISE in preparation for its
legally mandated extinction date (December 31, 1997) specified in
the FISE Decree. Any Borrower obligations under this Agreement or
under Grant Agreements which were to be performed through FISE
shall, after FISE's extinction, be performed by the Borrower
directly.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through FISE: (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained records and separate accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project; and (ii) maintain procedures and records adequate to
monitor and record the progress of each Subproject (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it).
      (b)   The Borrower shall, through FISE:
            (i)    for each semester of each fiscal year, have the
                   records and accounts referred to in para-
                   graph (a) of this Section, including those for
                   the Special Account, audited in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent private auditors
                   acceptable to the Bank acting under terms of
                   reference satisfactory to the Bank;
           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than four months after the
                   end of each such semester, the report of such
                   audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                   such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall, through FISE:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and separate accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
Page  8
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year semester in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Loan Account or payment out of the Special
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the fiscal year semester audits
                   referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and
                   that the report of such audits contains a
                   separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
                   the statements of expenditure submitted during
                   such fiscal year semester, together with the
                   procedures and internal controls involved in
                   their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                   the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower, through FISE, shall itself select
and contract the independent private auditors referred to in Section
4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement without any intervention by the
Contraloria General del Estado (National Controllership General).
Such auditors shall be deemed consultants for purposes of Section
3.02 (a) of (and Schedule 4 to) this Agreement.
      Section 4.03. The audit reports referred to in Section 4.01
(b) (ii) of this Agreement shall include an opinion as to compliance
with the terms of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the FISE Decree or the Operational Manual or the Administrative
Manual shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially and
adversely the carrying out of the Project.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   that a FISE management information system, satisfactory
to the Bank, shall be operational;
      (b)   that FISE has prepared separate technical brochures (to
guide Subproject appraisal), satisfactory to the Bank, for each of
the Subproject types identified in Annex B of the Implementation
Letter; and
      (c)   that an administrative manual and an operational manual,
both satisfactory to the Bank, have been approved by FISE's Consejo
Administrativo (Administrative Council) and are in effect.
      Section 6.02. The date August 12, 1994 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  9
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministerio de Finanzas y Credito Publico
            Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington
            Quito, Ecuador
            Cable address:                       Telex:
                   MINFINANZAS                     22358 MINFIN-ED
                   Quito, Ecuador
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                       Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                       248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                                   197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
                         By /s/ Edgar Teran Teran
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
Page  10
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  (a) Subprojects          15,000,000        100% of amounts
         (through end                           disbursed by FISE
         of 1994)                               through December 31,
                                                1994 under a Grant
     (b) Subprojects           6,000,000        100% of amounts
         (1995)                                 disbursed by FISE
                                                during 1995 under a
                                                Grant
     (c) Subprojects           1,800,000        100% of amounts
         (1996)                                 disbursed by FISE
                                                during 1996 under a
                                                Grant
     (d) Subprojects             500,000        100% of amounts
         (1997)                                 disbursed by FISE
                                                during 1997 under
                                                a Grant
(2)  FISE consultants          2,300,000        100%
     (as defined in
     paragraph 2 (c)
     below)
(3)  Incremental FISE            700,000        100%
     operating costs (as
     defined in paragraph
     2 (d) below)
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(4)  Technical                   910,000        100%
     assistance and
     training under
     Parts B.1 (d)-(e)
     and B.2 of the
     Project
(5)  Vehicles, office            290,000        100% of foreign
     furniture and                              expenditures,
     equipment under                            100% of local
     Part B.1 (c) of                            expenditures
     the Project                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(6)   Refunding of               1,500,000      Amounts due
      Project                                   pursuant to
      Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                   of this Agreement
(7)   Unallocated                1,000,000
                                __________
      TOTAL                    30,000,000
                               ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  11
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   the term "FISE consultants" means the consultants
referred to in Part B.1 (a) of the Project; and
      (d)   the term "incremental FISE operating costs" means FISE
operational, maintenance, travel and per diem costs which would not
have been incurred by FISE absent the Project and includes, inter
alia, costs with respect to: (i) provision of utility (e.g., light,
heat, water, telephone) services in FISE office space; (ii)
operation and maintenance of FISE vehicles, equipment and other
goods; and (iii) consumable office supplies. In no case shall such
incremental FISE operating costs include salaries paid to FISE
employees or rental paid for FISE office space.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000
equivalent, may be made in respect of Category (1) (a) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date under Grants for
Subprojects approved by FISE after October 7, 1993 and in respect of
Category (5) on account of payments made for expenditures before the
date of this Agreement but after May 25, 1993.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, any Loan
amount remaining unwithdrawn under Category (1) (a) at the end of
1994, under Category (1) (b) at the end of 1995 and under Category
(1) (c) at the end of 1996 shall, by notice to the Borrower, be
reallocated by the Bank to Category (1) (b), Category (1) (c) or
Category (1) (d), respectively, no later than ninety days after the
end of each such year.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of a Subproject unless its
corresponding Grant has been made in accordance with the procedures
and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule
7 to this Agreement.
6.    The Bank may, under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower, require withdrawals from
the Loan Account to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure for expenditures:
      (a)   under goods, works or non-consultant service contracts
(or billings, as in the case of utility service expenditures) not
exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; and
      (b)   under contracts for consultants (occupying positions
within FISE at a level lower than that of Department Director) under
Part B.1 (a) of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
its efforts aimed at poverty alleviation and at providing com-
pensation to vulnerable groups presently not reached by traditional
mechanisms in the areas of social assistance, social and socio-
economic infrastructure and small-scale productive activities.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  12
Part A:     Subprojects
      Carrying out of Subprojects.
Part B:     Institutional Support
1.    Improvement of FISE's operational capacity through provision
to FISE of: (a) the services of approximately 55 fixed-term
individual consultants to carry out professional/technical-level
functions within FISE on a full-time basis and thus operate FISE and
administer its programs; (b) financing to assist in covering its
incremental operating costs; (c) vehicles, equipment and office
furniture; (d) external audit services; and (e) technical assistance
and training in the areas of institutional development, admini-
strative and financial management, Subproject development and
Subproject impact evaluation.
2.    Provision of technical assistance and organization of a
seminar to assist the Borrower in determining arrangements for the
closure or possible transformation of FISE in preparation for its
legally mandated extinction date (December 31, 1997) specified in
the FISE Decree.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
      June 1, 1999                         560,000
      December 1, 1999                     580,000
      June 1, 2000                         605,000
      December 1, 2000                     625,000
      June 1, 2001                         650,000
      December 1, 2001                     675,000
      June 1, 2002                         700,000
      December 1, 2002                     725,000
      June 1, 2003                         750,000
      December 1, 2003                     780,000
      June 1, 2004                         810,000
      December 1, 2004                     840,000
      June 1, 2005                         870,000
      December 1, 2005                     900,000
      June 1, 2006                         935,000
      December 1, 2006                     970,000
      June 1, 2007                       1,005,000
      December 1, 2007                   1,045,000
      June 1, 2008                       1,080,000
      December 1, 2008                   1,120,000
      June 1, 2009                       1,165,000
      December 1, 2009                   1,205,000
      June 1, 2010                       1,250,000
      December 1, 2010                   1,300,000
      June 1, 2011                       1,345,000
      December 1, 2011                   1,395,000
      June 1, 2012                       1,450,000
      December 1, 2012                   1,500,000
      June 1, 2013                       1,560,000
      December 1, 2013                   1,605,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
Page  13
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                      Premium
                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:
Not more than three years                     0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                     0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                       0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                    0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                    0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                     1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     Contract Packaging
      To the extent practicable, contracts for Subproject goods
shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent
of $50,000 or more and contracts for Subproject works shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of more
than $100,000.
Part B:     Procurement Procedures
1.    Vehicles and computer equipment under Part B.1 (c) of the
Project shall be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids obtained from all qualified suppliers (with
service facilities in Ecuador) eligible under the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines) and in accordance with procedures set
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs
2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof). For fixed-price contracts, the
invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines
shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will
be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of
the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in
the bid evaluation.
2.    The following shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank:
Page  14
      (a)   Subproject works estimated to cost the equivalent of
less than $250,000 per contract or per bid package (no Subproject
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more shall be
procured under the Project);
      (b)   Subproject goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or less per contract or per bid package (no Subproject
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $200,000 shall
be procured under the Project); and
      (c)   Goods under Part B.1 of the Project not covered by
paragraphs 1 or 3 (c) of Part B of Section I of this Schedule.
3.    The following may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank:
      (a)   Subproject works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or less per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $11,500,000;
      (b)   Subproject goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
less than $50,000 per contract or per bid package, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $4,300,000; and
      (c)   Goods and equipment (including consumable office
supplies) under Parts B.1 (b) and B.1 (c) of the Project, estimated
to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000 per contract or per bid
package.
4.    Subproject works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$25,000 per contract or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $3,600,000, may be procured under contracts awardedafter direct 
negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank and only to the extent allowed by
paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines. Such procedures shall, inter alia,
require that contract prices be consistent with the standard
regionalized reference unit prices determined by the Borrower,
through FISE, pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement.
5.    For procurement in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Part B,
the Borrower, through FISE, shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.
6.    For procurement in accordance with paragraphs 2 (a) and (b) of
this Part B, Subproject Sponsors shall use the standard bidding
documents provided by the Borrower, through FISE, pursuant to
Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement.
Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract procured under Part
B.2 (b) and (c) of Section I of this Schedule estimated to cost more
than $100,000 equivalent; and (ii) each contract procured under
Parts B.1 and B.2 (a) of Section I of this Schedule, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
Page  15
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist in carrying out the Project and the
Subprojects, the Borrower, through FISE, shall (and Subproject
Sponsors may) employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such consultants shall be employed under contracts
using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by
the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms agreed with the Bank shall
be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts for consultants (occupying positions
within FISE at a level lower than that of Department Director) under
Part B.1 (a) of the Project. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts,
to single source selection of firms or to assignments of a critical
nature as reasonably determined by the Bank.
3.    No consultant under Part B.1 (a) of the Project shall, at the
time he or she is carrying out his or her contractual obligations as
consultant, hold political or civil service office or any other
position in an Ecuadorian public sector entity or any position in an
Ecuadorian political party, nor shall such consultant have any right
(established during or prior to the carrying out of his or her
consulting services) to re-entry into any such office or position
upon the conclusion of his or her consulting services. The only
exception to such re-entry right prohibition shall be if no civil
service benefits (such as remuneration, seniority rights, pension
rights, etc.) accrue to the consultant in question at any time with
respect to the period during which such consultant is carrying out
such contractual obligations.
Section III.  Special Provisions
A.    In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set
forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles
of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of goods
referred to in Part B.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.    Bids must be submitted in one single envelope, and the name of
each bidder and the total amount of each bid, as well as any
alternative proposals, if they have been requested or permitted,
shall be read aloud when opened.
Page  16
2.    Foreign bidders must not be required to have a local
representative for purposes of submitting bids, but may be required
to have such a representative upon entering into contracts which
they have been awarded.
3.    Foreign bidders must be permitted to have their financial
solvency certified by a foreign bank acceptable to the Borrower
without recertification by any Ecuadorian bank or other Ecuadorian
person or entity.
4.    Bid and performance bonds and guarantees issued by foreign
sureties approved by the Borrower must be admissible without
recertification or other participation by any Ecuadorian bank or
other Ecuadorian person or entity.
5.    Letters of credit issued to any supplier of goods or provider
of services must not be required to be counter-guaranteed by such
supplier or provider in whole or in part. This shall not prevent
purchasers from obtaining other performance warranties from
suppliers.
B.    In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set
forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles
of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of goods and
works referred to in Part B.2 of Section I of this Schedule:
      1.    Foreign contractors and suppliers shall be allowed to
bid on all contracts.
      2.    The date for the opening of bids shall be set on a date
which shall be at least thirty days from the date of the last
advertisement of the invitation to bid.
      3.    The invitation to bid shall be advertised for at least
three days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Ecuador.
      4.    Contracts must be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder
in accordance with criteria set forth in the bidding documents.
C.    In addition to and without limitation to any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the
following principles of procurement shall expressly govern all
procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of
this Schedule:
      1.    Foreign consultants must not be required to be locally
registered as a condition of participation in the selection process,
but may be required to be so registered, at the time of contracting,
if the Borrower and the Bank so agree.
      2.    Foreign consultants must not be required, either
directly or indirectly, to give any participation in or share of any
consulting contracts to any local firm or person, except in
connection with a joint venture arrangement where: (i) a sufficient
number of capable domestic firms or individual consultants exist to
allow a foreign consultant reasonable freedom of choice; (ii) the
contribution of either party to the joint venture arrangement will
not be constrained by any prescribed manner or extent of
participation; and (iii) the foreign consultant is not required to
associate itself with any specific named domestic firms or
individual consultants.
      3.    Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a
condition to provide services in Ecuador under contracts to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, to be registered in
Ecuador with a minimum capital different from that required for
Ecuadorian firms.
      4.    Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms,
providing services under contracts financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, shall not be required to pay fees to the Ecuadorian
Page  17
Consultants' Association that are different from those required for
Ecuadorian consultants.
Section IV.  Internal Approvals
      To the extent any approval of bidding documents or contracts
(with respect to the procurement of goods, works or services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan) may be required under the
laws of the Borrower, such approval need be given only by FISE (and
by Subproject Sponsors with respect to such documents or contracts
required for Subproject execution). With regard to the employment of
consultants, any approval of contracts or of consultant selection
processes, required under the laws of the Borrower, shall be limited
to approval by FISE (and by Subproject Sponsors when consultants are
hired as part of a Subproject).
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided,
however, that notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 5 (b) of
Schedule 7 to this Agreement, payments for expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Grants may be made out of
the Special Account before the Bank shall have authorized with-
rawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures,
however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if the Bank
shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
Page  18
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 6
Page  19
                Modifications of General Conditions
      For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
      1.    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      2.    In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      3.    The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and
the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the
end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted
therefor: "or (f) by the date specified in paragraph 6 (c) of
Schedule 7 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of any
portion of the Loan: (i) have received no applications or requests
permitted under paragraphs 6 (a) or 6 (b) of Schedule 7 to the Loan
Agreement; or (ii) have denied any such applications or requests,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate
the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or approvals
or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be,
with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving
of such notice, such amount or portion of the Loan shall be
cancelled.".
                            SCHEDULE 7
         Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of Grants
1.    The terms and conditions of, and procedures for, making Grants
shall be as set forth in FISE's Administrative Manual and
Operational Manual to the extent such terms, conditions and
procedures do not conflict with the provisions referred to or
contained in this Agreement or in the Implementation Letter.
2.    Grants shall be made only for Subprojects with an estimated
cost of less than $250,000 equivalent and:
      (a)   falling within the types identified in Annex B of the
Implementation Letter;
      (b)   in priority poverty areas identified through use of
CONADE's April 1993 Consolidated Poverty Map, as supplemented by,
inter alia, the latest census data, canton-level poverty indices and
parish-level poverty rankings;
      (c)   approved by FISE after an appraisal of each Subproject's
technical, economic, social, institutional and environmental aspects
that demonstrates, inter alia, that: (i) in those cases where they
are not one and the same, the Subproject Sponsor has chosen the
Subproject Executing Agency in a manner consistent with the terms of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (ii) sufficient safeguards will be in
place to prevent any negative environmental impact as a result of
the Subproject; (iii) the guidelines and requirements for the
Subproject type in question, contained in the relevant technical
brochure referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, have
been complied with; and (iv) operational coordination with public
sector entities (as set forth in Annex A of the Implementation
Letter) has been carried out successfully for the Subproject (as
evidenced, inter alia, by FISE's obtaining of "no objection"
notifications from Borrower entities or ministries where applicable
pursuant to Coordination Agreements).
3.    Each Grant shall be made pursuant to a Grant Agreement which
shall, inter alia, contain:
Page  20
      (a)   a description of the parties thereto;
      (b)   a statement of the amount of the Grant (which statement
shall specify that such amount includes no provision for contin-
gencies and that a percentage, not to exceed five percent, of the
Grant shall be retained by FISE to contract independent on-site
technical supervision of the Subproject in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank);
      (c)   a description of the Subproject financed by the Grant;
      (d)   the Subproject Executing Agency's and Subproject
Sponsor's obligation to carry out the Subproject, or to cause the
Subproject to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and
in accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental and
managerial standards;
      (e)   the Subproject Sponsor's obligation, when acting as
Subproject Executing Agency, to procure all goods and services for
the Subproject in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement;
      (f)   a statement indicating that FISE shall disburse Grant
amounts only to the Subproject Executing Agency and only for one
mobilization advance specified in the Grant Agreement, followed by
further disbursements only to reimburse for Subproject expenses
already incurred as evidenced by proper expense documentation;
      (g)   the Subproject Executing Agency's, Subproject Sponsor's
and Subproject beneficiaries' obligation to use, or to cause to be
used, the proceeds of the Grant, as well as the Grant-financed
goods, services and works, exclusively for purposes of the
Subproject;
      (h)   the Subproject Sponsor's, Subproject Executing Agency's
and Subproject beneficiaries' obligation to allow FISE to verify the
provision of the funds, materials, labor and cost recovery amounts
specified in subparagraph (k) of this paragraph and to inspect, by
itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall
so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant
Subproject records and documents (including the records and accounts
referred to in subparagraph (i) of this paragraph);
      (i)   the obligation of the Subproject Executing Agency to
maintain separate financial records and accounts relating to the
Subproject in accordance with sound accounting practices and to
allow such accounts to be audited by FISE or by any representative
designated by FISE;
      (j)   a statement identifying the owner of any infrastructure
constructed or improved as part of the Subproject (as well as of any
goods or equipment, financed by the Grant, with which such infra-
structure is furnished or equipped or which shall otherwise be in
use as a result of the Subproject);
      (k)   the obligation, if any, of the Subproject Sponsor or of
Subproject beneficiaries to provide funds, materials or labor for
the Subproject or to contribute towards Subproject cost recovery (in
the case of Subprojects of the type described in Section 1.02 (l)
(iv) of this Agreement, the Grant Agreement shall identify the
second-generation development project for which such cost recovery
amounts shall be used); and
      (l)   the obligation of all Grant Agreement parties to ensure
that any environmental safeguards identified during Subproject
appraisal are observed.
4.    As a means of reflecting community participation and
acceptance of Subprojects, each Grant Agreement shall be witnessed
by a representative (testigo de honor) acting as agent of the
Subproject beneficiaries. Such representative shall sign the Grant
Page  21
Agreement pursuant to a power of attorney, satisfactory to FISE and
valid under Ecuadorian law, issued by such beneficiaries (in cases
where the beneficiaries are organized as an entity with separate
legal personality, such entity shall witness the Grant Agreement on
their behalf).
5.    No expenditures for goods, works or services required for a
Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan unless:
      (a)   the Grant for such Subproject shall have been approved
by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier
than one hundred and eighty days prior to the date on which the Bank
shall have received the application and information required under
paragraph 6 (a) of this Section in respect of such Grant; or
      (b)   the Grant for such Subproject shall have been a Free-
limit Grant for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the
Loan Account and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier
than one hundred and eighty days prior to the date on which the Bank
shall have received the request and information required under
paragraph 6 (b) of this Section in respect of such Free-limit Grant.
For purposes of this Agreement, a Free-limit Grant shall be a Grant
in support of a Subproject estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent.
6.    (a)   When presenting a Grant (other than a Free-limit Grant)
to the Bank for approval, the Borrower, through FISE, shall furnish
to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank,
together with: (i) a description of the Subproject Sponsor,
Subproject Executing Agency and Subproject beneficiaries and an
appraisal of the Subproject, including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan; (ii) a copy of the proposed Grant Agreement; and (iii) such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
      (b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a Free-limit Grant
shall contain (in a summary Subproject data sheet of a format
satisfactory to the Bank) a description of the Subproject and of the
Subproject Sponsor, Subproject Executing Agency and Subproject
beneficiaries, including a description of the expenditures proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (c)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the
provisions of subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before December 31, 1996.
