OFFICIAL           LOAN NUMBER 1941 BT
DOCUMTSI
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Road Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1941 BT
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        JV" CKJK4       *    , 1981, between
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and IN-
TERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions) .
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventeen million dollars ($17,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the civil works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be October 1, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the .Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
nine and one-fourth per cent (9-1/4%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Works and Communications with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admini-
strative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in: (i) the
supervision of the construction of Parts A, B and C of the
Project; and (ii) the carrying out of Part D of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all civil works and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,


﻿-3-
reports, contract documents and construction schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate for recording and monitoring the progress, costs and
benefits of the Project, for identifying the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and for disclosing their
use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion ,rf the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out Parts A and C of the Project.
Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause the roads included under Part A of the
Project to be constructed in accordance with the design standards
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchfange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,.ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with


﻿-.5-
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than June 30,
1981 employ two additional instructors at the Borrower's Roads
Training Center in Gaborone; and (ii) thereafter, maintain a
teaching staff consisting of at least a Senior Training Engineer
and five instructors.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all action necessary
to: (i) cause the dimensions, axle-loads and weight limits of the
vehicles using the gazetted roads under the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Works and Communications to be kept within the limits
provided by law; and (ii) ensure consistent and effective enforce-
ment of its Road Traffic Act.
Section 4.05. The Borrower undertakes (i) to maintain its
gazetted road system adequately in accordance with sound engineer-
ing practices, and (ii) to provide funds, facilities, services and
other resources for that purpose.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date      W   D                , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower for the time being
responsible for Finance and Development Planning is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-6-
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and
Development Planning
Private Bag 008
Gaborone, Botswana
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINANCE                             2401 BD
Gaborone
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
By               b
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By           )6/UD&      h.F~
Regional V ce President
Eastern Africa


﻿1 -7-
- 7 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                   11,300,000       70%
for roads under
Parts A and B
of the Project
(2) Civil works for                1,000,000       60%
buildings under
Part C of
the Project
(3) Consultants' services          1,300,000       80%
(4) Unallocated                    3,400,000
TOTAL               17,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.


﻿-8-
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:
Construction to two-lane bituminous paved standard of:
(i) the road between Dumela and the Zimbabwe border,
a distance of about 76 km;
(ii) the road between Selebi Phikwe and Sefophe, a
distance of about 25 km; and
(iii) the access road to the Selebi Phikwe airport,
a distance of about 7 km.
Part B:
Spot improvements of:
(i) the road between Sefophe and Tsetsebjwe, a distance
of about 56 km; and
(ii) the road between Sefophe and Dikabeya, a distance
of about 93 km.
Part C:
(i) Construction of the Roads Department's Soil and
Materials Laboratory building at Gaborone;
(ii) construction of a road maintenance base depot
at Gaborone and a road maintenance district
depot at Kang; and
(iii) enlargement of the axisting two base depots at
Francistown and Maun and of five district depots at
Kanye, Mahalapye, Palapye, Nata and Ghanzi.
Part D:
(i) The preparation of a pavement strengthening program
for about 80 km of roads to be identified during


﻿- 10 -
the Project implementation, and training of Roads
Department's staff in pavement evaluation; and
(ii) a study to determine appropriate road design
standards for Botswana and the preparation of
a design manual for the Roads Department.
The Project is expected to be completed by April 1, 1984.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 1985
through   May 15, 1997                       655,000
On November 15, 1997                              625,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 12 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  1.65%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                         3.25%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                  6.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                  8.15%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                  9.25%


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   In addition to the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the
Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to the Bank as
soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior to
the date of availability to the public of the first tender or
prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Bank shall, reasonably request; the Bank
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the works in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the works included in the Project shall be
prequalified as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, togethef with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 14 -
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and com-
parison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 5
Design Standards for Project Roads
Dumela/Zimbabwe
Border Road
and Selebi Phikwe    Selebi Phikwe/
airport access Road    Sefophe Road
Design Speed (kph)                   120                 120
Carriageway Width (1 m)                6.7                 6.0
Shoulder Width (m)                     2.0                 1.5
Maximum Gradient (%)                   5                   5
Minimum Horizontal Radius (m)        820                 820
Maximum Superelevation (%)             5                   5
Minimum Stopping Sight               205                 205
Distance (m)
Road Reserve (m)                      61                  61
Pavement Design               Based on maximum     Based on maxi-
single-axled load    mum single-
of 8.2 tons using    axled loan of
the British TRRL     8.2 tons using
Road Note 31.        the South
African TRH4.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
1981.
FOR SECRETARY


