Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7343 ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DECENTRALIZATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$606.07 MILLION
FOR
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
(BANOBRAS)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
November 30, 1999
Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



MEXICO-FISCAL YEAR
January I-December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of 1 November 1999)
Currency Unit   =  Peso
9.53 Pesos   =  US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANCOMEXT                Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior, S.N.C.
BANOBRAS                 Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.
CAS                      Country Assistance Strategy
CNBV                     Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria y de Valores
DAL                      Decentralization Adjustment Loan
FOBAPROA                  Fondo Bancario de Protecci6n al Ahorro
FDI                      Foreign Direct Investment
FY                        World Bank Group's Fiscal Year
GDP                      Gross Domestic Product
GOM                      Government of Mexico
IDB                      Inter-American Development Bank
IMF                      International Monetary Fund
IPAB                     Instituto para la Protecci6n del Ahorro Bancario
NAFIN                    Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
NAFTA                    North American Free Trade Agreement
PBSS                     Paquete Basico de Servicios de Salud
PAC                      Programa de Ampliacion de Cobertura
PROGRESA                 Programa de Educaci6n, Salud y Alimentaci6n
PROMAD                   Programa de Manejo Ambiental y Decentralizaci6n
SECODAM                   Secretaria de Contraloria y Desarrollo Administrativo
SEDESOL                   Secretaria de Desarrollo Social
SEMARNAP                  Secretaria de Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y Pesca
TALD                     Technical Assistance Loan for Decentralization
TDU                      Technical Decentralization Unit
WBG                       World Bank Group
IB:RD
Vice President                  David de Ferranti
Chief Economist:                Guillermo Perry
Country Director:               Olivier Lafourcade
Lead Economist/Manager:         Marcelo Giugale
Task Manager:                   Marcelo Giugale
Operation's Lead Specialists:   Steven Webb
Fernando Rojas
William Dillinger
Team Production Support:        Michael Geller
This operation was prepared by a World Bank team composed of Messrs/Mimes. Dillinger, Rojas (LCSPS); Webb (LCSPE);
Marquez (LCSHH): Brizzi, Giugale, Nguyen, Velez, Everhart, Draaisma, Ordonez, Duval, Urbiola, Geller, Toxtle (LCC1C);
Genta-Fons (LEGLA); Sherman and Vetter (consultants). The team was led by Mr. Giugale (Lead Economist, LCC1C), and
worked under the general guidance of Mr. Olivier Lafourcade (Director, LCC1C).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROGRAM  SUMMARY .....................................................                                       i
I.  INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE .                                ..............................1..................... I
II.    MExICo's DECENTRALIZATION PROCESS ........................                             ............................. 3
A.  Overly Complex System  of Transfers ............................                       ......................... 3
B.  Sub-optimal Taxation at the Sub-national Level ...................................... ............ 4
C. Unclear Spending Responsibilities ......................................................                          5
D. Missing Institutional Infrastructure .....................................................                         5
E.  Inadequate Framework for Sub-national Borrowing ............................................. 6
III. THE GOVERNMENT' s RECENT ACHIEVEMENTS IN DECENTRALIZATION                                                   ..  8
IV. TBE PROPOSED DECENTRALIZATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN (DAL) .................                                                    9
A. Objective .....................................................                                                   9
B.  Content .....................................................                                                   10
C.  Risks .....................................................                                                     15
D. Poverty Impact ..................................................... 17
E.  Terms and Conditions .....................................................                                      18
V. THE MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK FOR THE PROPOSED DAL                                                        ..   19
A. Recent Economic Developments ....................                            ................................. 19
B.  Macroeconomic Prospects ..................................................... 20
C. External Financing Requirements .....................................................                            22
VI.   BANK  STRATEGY ..................................................... 23
A. The CAS and The Proposed DAL                                    ..................................................... 23
B.  Complementarity with Other Operations by the World Bank ..............                               ............... 23
C.  Complementarity with Operations by Other Institutions ..................................... 24
VII. RECOMMENDATION    ..                                                                                                   26
TEXT TABLES
Table 1. Mexico-Decentralization Adjustment Loan (DAL)
Matrix of Policy Commitments for Tranche Release ..                                                        11-12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of teir 
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                                  



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ANNEXES
A.   INDIcAToRs
Al. Mexico at a Glance .............................                               27-28
A2. Mexico Social Indicators .........................                                29
A3. Key Economic Indicators .........................                              31-32
A4. Balance of Payments..............                                         ........... 33
A5. Key External Debt Indicators, .............................            ,          35
A6. External Financing Requirements
and Projected Sources of Financing ............................. 37
A7. Total IBRD Debt Flows and Stock .............................                     39
A8. Status of Bank Group Operations .................41.......  41
A9. Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio .43
B.  ENVIRONMENT-RELATED DECENTRALIZATION POLICY COMMITMENTS .....................        .  45
C.   HEALTH-RELATED DECENTRALIZATION POLICY COMMITMENTS ................................ 49
D.   LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY (ORIGINAL IN SPANISH)                  ............ 51
English Translation of Letter of Development Policy .. .     57
MAP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN (DAL)
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                      Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Puiblicos, S.N.C.
Guarantor:                     The United Mexican States
Implementing Agency:          Secretaria de Hacienday Credito Puiblico (SHCP)
Amount and Terms:              US$606.07 million fixed spread, US dollar denominated
loan, with 10 years of grace period; bullet repayment due
on December 1, 2009. Commitment charge: 0.85 percent
for first four years, and 0.75 percent thereafter. Front-end
fee: 1 percent of the loan amount, capitalized.
Description:                   The  operation  will directly  support the  Mexican
Government's efforts in bringing market-driven order and
accountability  to  the  country's  rapidly  moving
decentralization process.  In particular, the DAL will
support four immediate policy objectives-imposing hard
budget constraints on federal resources provided to states
and municipalities; reducing moral hazard in sub-national
borrowing; increasing the transparency and public
accountability of sub-national fiscal and financial
management; and setting up pilot mechanisms to enhance
efficiency in decentralized expenditures (with emphasis on
environment- and health-related expenditures).
The DAL-supported measures, which will provide a sub-
national level complement to the authorities' conservative
fiscal and monetary policies in the run-up to the
presidential transition of December 2000, will be
implemented in the context of an on-going IMiF Stand-by
operation and will exploit strong synergies with related
lending by the IDB.
The DAL will be a key tool in delivering World Bank
support for the three objectives that drive the current CAS
(as discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on June
8, 1999): effective public governance, growth and
macroeconomic stability, and social sustainability. The
operation was envisaged in the CAS, both in scope and
timing, and its amount lies within previously projected
exposure limits and adjustment lending envelopes.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Risks and Benefits:             Several types of risks will be operative: i) the election
calendar will make consensus around necessary reforms
difficult to achieve; ii) there remains a possibility that
some states or municipalities would refuse to adopt
recommendations or respond to incentives that they may
perceive as federal imposition; iii) even if agreement is
reached among the branches and levels of government, the
new administration might choose not to sustain the new
rules, institutions or procedures put in place by the
decentralization program supported by the DAL; iv) it is
theoretically possible that a politically and fiscally
desperate state might ignore the new regulatory structure
and associate with a rogue bank to borrow excessively; v)
financial-sector-related   technical   difficulties   may
jeopardize the program's objectives; and vi) increased
transparency may, in itself, present an implementation risk
for this operation (by severely dampening, on impact, credit
rating grades). While real, these risks have been taken into
account in the design of the DAL operation, which puts
emphasis on avoiding the need for new legislative action
(outside the regular budget submission) and seeking to
create incentives for the various stakeholders to want to
abide, by the new decentralization rules.
The DAL operation will carry two broad, core benefits -it
will start to put Mexico's rapid decentralization process on
a more sustainable path (unlocking that process' long-term
promise of better quality in public service delivery, more
transparent governance and greater citizen participation)
and it will greatly contribute to preventing undue sub-
natio:nal pressure on the federal fiscal accounts and, more
generally, on the country's macroeconomic framework,
especially in the period leading to the upcoming
presidential transition.   Both benefits will assist in
protecting the Mexican poor.
Schedule of Disbursements:      The full amount of the loan (US$606,070,000) is expected
to be disbursed in FY00 in two tranches (US$306,070,000
upon effectiveness, and the remaining loan amount as a
second tranche about four months after Board approval).
Closing Date:                   June 30, 2001
Project ID Number:              MX-]E-P066867
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEXICO
Decentralization Adjustment Loan
I. INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE
1.    Mexico is progressing rapidly toward more autonomy and fiscal responsibility at sub-
national levels of government. This process is being driven by heightened political competition
and by the desire of the federal authorities to include decentralization in their program for
broadening political participation and enhancing fiscal efficiency. The Federal Congress has
reinforced these trends by enhancing municipal autonomy and local resources, as well as by
strengthening control institutions. However, the country is not yet realizing all the potential
benefits of decentralization. It lacks a cohesive overall model of decentralization and an
appropriate institutional infrastructure for the management of sub-national spending, taxes,
transfers, and borrowing. These are important shortcomings not only because they reduce the
efficiency with which public services are delivered to final users, but also because they have
major implications for Mexico's fiscal and, thus, macroeconomic stability-states now spend
close to half as much as the federal government, and the municipal share of public expenditure is
known to be growing fast although up-to-date aggregate figures are not available.
2.    Those shortcomings may be especially critical in the upcoming period of presidential
elections, when local political expedience may weaken sub-national fiscal discipline. Discipline
in decentralization is in fact seen as a critical, real-side complement to the so-called "financial
armoring" (blindajefinanciero) of the economy announced by the Government in June 1999 as a
precautionary strategy to avoid a repetition of the so-called end-of-sexenio crises that have
affected Mexico in the past. Under that armoring effort, an international loan package of some
US$24 billion was planned, to ensure the financial stability of the economy in the period
preceding the Presidential elections. The three-year package is led by a 17-month IMF Stand-by
program (US$4.2 billion) and envisages lending from the World Bank, IDB, and international
private lenders.
3.    More fundamentally, underpinning macroeconomic stability through sustainable sub-
national finances would serve as a means to protect the poor. Available analytical work shows
that end-of-sexenio crises can have a devastating impact on the poor (notably, the 1994/95 crisis
fully reversed the ten percentage point reduction in the poverty headcount that had been achieved
since 1984). That protective effect would be additional to the benefits accruing to the poor from
more transparent and more efiTcient financial management at the local level, especially in regards
to decentralized expenditures that directly affect the poor (in the environment and health sectors,
among others).
4.    Aware of the urgent need to bring order and accountability to the decentralization
process, the federal government requested, in December 1998, technical and financial assistance
1



from the World Bank in the form of (i) a comprehensive Policy Agenda for Decentralization
(delivered in April 19991) and (ii) a US$600 million adjustmcnt operation in support of that
agenda's implementation. The core purpose of the operation will be to establish a coherent
structure of market-based incentives across the three levels of govern-ment (federal, state,
municipal) as a first step toward ensuring discipline in all aspects of sub-national fiscal
management.  The loan would take place in the framnework of, and WOuid cornmlement, the
above-mentioned 1IF Stand-by Arrangermient currently under irruipemnentaticn.
5.     This Memorandum  of the President explains the objectives, content, and risks of the
proposed Decentralization Adjustment Loan (DAL), and seeks the approval of Worid Bank's
Board of Executive Directors to proceed -vvith the operation. Thle loan was envisaged in, and is a
central component of, the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Mexico disciussed by the Board
of Executive Directors on June 8, 1999, as it will directly support the three pillars of that
strategy-effective  public  governance; growth  and  mnacroeconomic  stabilityv  and  social
sustainability.
6.     At the outset, it is imperative to underscore the uncertain contex- and the coverage limits
of this adjustment loan, for three main reasons. First, with presidertial elections scheduled for
the year 2000 and a Congress in which the governing party has no majority (for the fi-st ttire in
seven decades), the likelihood of gathering sufficient consensus around new legislative initiatives
is negligible. Thus, the design of this opelration does not depen d on additional legal action (new
laws or amendments) before the elections, except for the budget law package for the year 2000
(to be submitted in November 1999).  Second, to ensufe _count-ry ownership, no policy
commitments have been programmed to span into the next presidential ernm.  y their nature,
however, many needed decentralization-related reforms would take severai years to implement
(for examnple, in the institutional development area. Third, the proposed operation will focus on
the overall regulatory and institutional framework for decentralization, but will stop short of
addressing the array of pending  sector-specific decentralization issucs, except for pilot
"performance agreements" in the environment and health sectors. Aithough relevant for the
design of the overall agenda,2 most of the sectoral issues are deemed t-o be better addressed
through sectoral investment operations and technical support (for example, through the
Decentralized Rural Development II Loan, currently under restrucfuring)
7.     While the above-mentioned constr-aints currently are preventing comprehensive policy
actions in some important decentralization-related areas (notabl!  s'. national taxation and
transfer formulae), the reform package to be supported by the -croposed DAL will put in place
strong incentives for that action to take place during the next admrinist,-ation (especially through
the discontinuation of discretionary federal transfers and the imposition of rigorous market
discipline on subnational borrowing). A complementary, lonager-hauL} technical assistance effort,
to be launched as part of the government's overall decentralization program ,3 and the option of a
successor policy-based operation by the World Bank 'wil provide a panal b.idge between
1. Coincident with the delivery of the Policy Agenda, a related presentation was made for Mexico s Minister of
Finance and his three undersecretaries on April 6, 1999.
2. In preparing the proposed DAL, an informal "steering conm=itte&' involving all sectors i5 the Mexico Country
Tean, as well as expert staff in other parts of the Bank, has a,nd wRill conitinue to be regl-arly consulted.
3. A US$400 million line of credit has recently been granted by IDB to support that techncal assistance effort. See
Section VI.
2



presidential administrations. Equally important, the observed commitment of the current
government officials to a legacy of fiscal order at both the federal and sub-national levels has
proved, and will continue to prove, instrumental in the design and implementation of reforms
that will be sustainable beyond the up-coming elections.
1I. MEXICO'S DECENTRALIZATION PROCESS
8.    Mexico's decentralization efforts are hampered by problems in five main areas-
intergovernmental transfers; tax assignment and collection; spending responsibilities;
institutional infrastructure; and sub-national borrowing and debt management. This section
presents a summarized diagnosis of those problems, while the next section elaborates on the
authorities' efforts thus far to tackle them.
a) Overly Complex System of Transfers
9.     There are five broad types of federal to sub-national transfers in Mexico (their value as
percent of 1999 GDP is shown in brackets): (i) the participaciones (2.9), as laid out in the fiscal
pact of 1980 between the federal government and the states (through the Ley de Coordinaci6n
Fiscal of 1980, its ensuing Sistema Nacional de Coordinacion Fiscal, and various subsequent
reforms) whereby states receive their formula-driven share of the federal tax collection not
subject to conditions or earmarking; (ii) transfers of Ramo 23 (0.1) determined unilaterally by the
federal branch (in the past Ramo 23 was directly allocated by the President of the Republic) for
the general purpose of bolstering state and municipal revenue and with no specific earmarking;
(iii) the aportaciones (2.8) of Ramo 26 (especially up through 1997) and Ramo 33 (1998
onwards)4, through which the federal government allocates Congressionally approved funds to
states and municipalities for these to spend within certain predetermined functional areas (partial
earmarking) like education, health and municipal strengthening; (iv) pari-passu or matching-
grant programs (0.1) negotiated between federal and state governments to pursue specific
projects of mutual interest; and (v) a series of other discretionary or non-discretionary transfers
(0.6) arranged by federal line-ministries with states or municipalities (notably in the areas of
education, roads and health).
10.   Both states and municipalities are highly dependent on those transfers-in the aggregate,
two thirds of municipal governments' net revenues are accounted for by transfers; the proportion
is even larger among states. While not all transfers carry attached spending responsibilities (or
"mandates"), there is a general perception among sub-national authorities that the states receive
considerably more mandates than funding, and municipalities (especially small ones) receive
more funding than mandates.
4. Conceptual differences exist between Ramo 26 and Ramo 33 funds. Under the former, resources are transferred
according to the discretion of the local delegations of SEDESOL (regulated by federal law and under
SECODAM's control) and returned to the federation if unused. Under Ramo 33, transfers are made on a formula
driven basis; are spent under state laws (and controlled by the local Contralorias and Contadurias Mayores); and
remain with the state or municipality if unspent.
3



11.   The objectives of the transfers are unclear. There are at least 10 major transfer programs
in the 1999 budget, up from three in 1997. Each program addresses multiple objectives, and
each objective is addressed in several programs. This makes it harder than necessary for states
and municipalities to know how much money they will receive and for the federal government to
determine how well the transfer system is addressing its objectives. The territorial allocation of
these federal resources is not reported clearly. Nor are the matching-grant requirements, which
are negotiated state-by-state.
12.   The complexity of the transfers system flaws the implicit structure of incentives for both
state and municipal governments, on five main accounts. First, at least up until 1999, the
availability of ad hoc transfers for politically favored states undermined the incentives for good
management of spending and enhancement of revenue. Second, complexity effectively forces
the federal government to distribute more resources than necessary to achieve its objectives,
benefiting sub-national governments whose accounts are relatively less transparent. Third, many
transfers are based on historical or current costs, rather than using costs per capita or per
potential recipient, rendering the system inequitable and discouraging effort to improve
efficiency at the sub-national level. Fourth, lack of clear rules for allocation leads to mutual
mistrust among levels of government and t;o ensuing over-reliance on earmarking and matching-
grant requirements, something that, in turn, leaves states and municipalities with little autonomy
for improving efficiency or adjusting their expenditures to meet local needs. Finally, the overall
uncertainty associated with the yearly transfer decisions renders sound budget planning at the
sub-national government all but impossible.
b) Sub-optimal Taxation at the Sub-national Level
13.   In general, Mexican states and municipalities underexploit their taxing potential, and
inefficiently manage the collection of the taxes which they do impose. At present, taxes
represent less than five percent of the total revenues of states (other than the Federal District) and
less than a fifth of revenues of municipalities (who collect property taxes). While states typically
have their own fees, payroll taxes (23 of the 32 federal entities), and taxes on automobiles, they
have no legal power to tax income and are restricted from most sales taxes.
14.   More fundamentally, most states and municipalities seem to lack the incentive to tax
more or collect taxes more efficiently, since they have had too little control over how they spend
revenues and relatively too much opportunity to negotiate discretionary transfers or obtain credit
with, effectively, a federal guarantee.  This is not a minor problem  for Mexico's fiscal
sustainability, as the ratio of non-oil-related tax revenue to GDP in the federal budget stood
below 10 percent in 1998.
15.   Uneven sub-national tax administration adds to the problem. While for most states the
payroll tax offers substantial opportunities to increase own revenues and to reduce compliance
costs for tax payers, the necessary homogenization and cooperation with the federal government
(especially in terms of data exchanges) has not yet materialized. Similarly, administration of the
municipal property taxes is highly unequal across the country. Some small and medium size
municipalities leave the administration of the tax to the states; others administer the tax
themselves, often without the support of the state government. The federal government provides
no support specifically for property tax collection.
4



c) Unclear Spending Responsibilities
16.   While the boundaries of responsibility between a large federal government, 31 states,
some 2,400 municipalities, and a large Federal District are, in practice, difficult to clarify ex-ante
with precision, Mexico's decentralization is especially hampered by two critical uncertainties.
First, the role of the states in the allocation, monitoring and control of the Ramo 33-related
transfers to municipalities has not been clearly defined in law or in court. Some states feel
responsible for, and therefore entitled, to play, a significant role in the way municipalities
manage these resources while others leave ample room to municipal decisions.
17.   Second, the distribution of spending and, to a lesser extent, taxing responsibilities
between the Federal District, the federation, and the states and municipalities that surround the
Federal District is not clearly defined either. This is leading to inefficiency in investment
because the involved governments under-invest in sectors that they do not consider of their own
purview or over-invest in services that they perceive as their exclusive responsibility. (Such
inefficiencies have been particularly acute in the areas of water and public transportation).
18.   The poorly defined lines of responsibility also impair the sub-national governments'
incentive to pursue further decentralization, because an overwhelming proportion of their own
aportaciones is often de facto committed to federall-mandated expenditures (something that
converts "decentralization" into "deconcentration"), and because the federal government
negotiates (and does not report) the territorial allocation of its own expenditure.
d) Missing Institutional Infrastructure
19.   Mexico's drive toward  decentralization  started  before  an  adequate  institutional
framework could be established. First, there is a need to strengthen the mechanisms for
monitoring the overall process, and reporting accordingly. As demonstrated by the experience of
other countries, such an institution is a pivotal force for enriching the discussion of and
promoting a long term perspective on the complex, inter-disciplinary issues at the core of
decentralization policies. Given the prevailing political nature of federal and state congresses,
such monitoring institutions serve frequently as "think-tanks" for law reform proposals and
negotiations across levels of government. They are also one of the pillars for linking public
policies to civil society, building consensus and ensuring continuity. An institution that plays
this technical role is all the more important in contemporary Mexico, as the country is
experiencing increasing inter-party competition, congressional alliances and multiple centers of
power at all levels of government.
20.   Second, municipal governments are receiving transfers (Ramo 26, Ramo 28, and Ramo
33) in spite of evidence of insufficient management capacity at many-probably most-
municipalities. Moreover, the subsidiarity principle-that would call for substituting state or
federal management in weak municipalities where sufficient capacity has not been clearly
established-is being applied in a confusing manner that diminishes accountability at both the
federal and local levels. The federal government does not collect the information it is entitled tc,
on the use of Ramo 33 transfers to municipalities. As a result, different states have different
practices, some more and some less actively involved in municipal strengthening. Although
5



federal transfers allocate some resources to municipal capacity building, there are no clear
patterns (by municipal size or otherwise) nor systematic monitoring and evaluation of the impact
of these earmarked transfers. Neither do present arrangements stimulate alternative, more
efficient approaches to strengthening of small- and medium-size municipalities, such as
association of municipalities, public-private alliances or outsourcing. The wealth of experiences
with capacity strengthening, within and o-utside the country, remains largely unknown to local
and regional authorities.
21.   Third, fiscal accountability at sub-national levels is often lacking. At present, control is
largely restricted to ex-post verification of "formal" compliance, that is, verification that monies
allocated to a category of expenditure (for example, health) are actually used within that
category. This falls short of assessing quality and impact of earmarked transfers and pari passu
programs; of checking against pre-defined performance indicators of fiscal management; and of
assuring transparency in procurement and personnel decisions. The federal government and
some state governments still lack the most basic control indicators on the Ramo 33 transfers
(which account for about 3 percent of GDP in the 1999 national budget)-a telling example of
this accountability problem.
22.   Fourth, there are no uniform accounting and reporting standards across, or within each of,
the three levels of government. Moreover, sub-national governments have resisted inter-
government communication and coordination both as a way to assert their constitutional
autonomy and as a natural response to repolting requirements that do not differentiate according
to tne fiscal size of territorial units (thereby imposing an excessive burden on smaller states or
municipalities). The federal government's own inconsistent performance in reporting back to the
state and municipal authorities has only worsened the situation (and has prevented the use of
earmarked and pari-passu funding as a positive incentive to exact better reporting from the
subnational governments).
23.   Finally, the timing of the preparation of the national budget limits the states' and
municipalities' ability to plan and budget their expenditures, as they do not have reliable
estimates of forthcoming fiscal transfers (of aportaciones in particular) until very late in the
previous fiscal year or in the early part of the concurrent one.
e) Inadequate Framework for Sub-national Borrowing
24.   Sub-national debt in Mexico has so far not been a national macroeconomic problem (as it
has in, for example, Brazil), but it could rapidly become one. In 1997, the recorded stock of state
and municipal debt was equivalent to about 2 percent of Mexico's GDP (and about 6 percent of
total public debt). By comparison, sub-national debt amounts to 5 percent of GDP in Argentina,
almost 20 percent in Canada, and somewhat above that in Brazil. In addition, the Mexican
constitution prohibits states from borrowing in foreign exchange or from foreign creditors.
However, behind Mexico's relatively comfortable sub-national debt statistics lie three potential
destabilizing factors-moral hazard, limited actual servicing capacity, and contingent liabilities.
25.   Both states and their lenders have witnessed many federal bailouts in the past and come
to expect them, making borrowing a means through which states can obtain extra federal
6



resources, transferred to them directly or through their creditors. All states received bailouts in
the wake of the 1995 crisis, and a -few states have received bailouts since then when guarantees
came due on large infrastructure projects.  Perhaps more importantly, the federal practice of
accepting state mandatos (mandates) to act as a trustee in servicing state debt that has been
collateralized with participaciones has de facto become a pre-condition for states to have access
to credit markets, not just because of the value of the collateral but because of the perceived
blessing and guarantee by the federal government.
26.    In general, Mexican states have much less disposable income to service debt than usual
accounting would suggest. This is because much of their current expenditures is "tied" to de
facto inflexible commitments (notably salaries). The ratio of debt stock to disposable revenue,
the latter defined as own taxes plus untied transfers, ranges from a maximum of 1.8 (in Sonora)
to a minimum of 0.02 (in Hidalgo). By that measure, the eight most indebted states are Sonora,
Nuevo Le6n, Mexico, Queretaro, Quintana Roo, Baja California Sur, Jalisco, and Sinaloa, all
with a ratio of debt stock to disposable revenue greater than 1, which is taken to indicate
excessive indebtedness.   In principle, abstracting for the moral hazard problem  mentioned
above, the limited debt servicing capacity of Mexican states should be identified, and priced in,
6
by prospective lenders.   Th e credit rating of Mexican sub-national governments is being
distorted, however, by private "fiscal management" ratings commissioned  by the states
themselves, which neither are connected to a particular loan nor measure the states' repayment
capacity.
27.    While precise data are scarce, pension benefits to state employees are probably the largest
contingent liability of Mexican states, and one that goes largely unrecorded. The contingent
nature of the pension debt is not in its expected value-the states' pension systems operate in an
unfanded, pay-as-you-go basis, and few states will have the fiscal capacity to service them once
their labor force matures. [A partial account of the states' pensions liability reached P$167
billion in 1997. that is, about 6 percent of national GDP.7 Among the 25 states with sufficient
data to estimate the year in which the system would run out of reserves (given adequate actuarial
and financial parameters), five were already in deficit in 1998 and seven more were projected to
be bankrupt in 1999-2002.1 Rather, the contingent nature of this liability arises because the legal
responsibility For this debt remains unclear. Most state governments see the pension liability as a
legacy left from  the pre-1990 practices, when state governments were under the complete
domination of the federal government in Mexico City and many state employees (for example,
teachers) worked originally for the federal government. Consequently some state govermments
view pensions as a liability of the federal government, not their own. The lack of clear
5. The Fader Distiict, othug it has the highest absolute debt among Mexican sub-national govements, is
ranked amnong the least-indebted federated entities relative to debt-servicing capacity, because it collects
substantial revenue of its own.
6. Much of the sub-national borrowing has been from Banobras (a federal-governmnent-owned development bank)
which reviews -le fiscal and financial status of borrowers and can refuse or reduce loans when it sees problems.
Although Banobras does not disclose state lending data, it is known that states with high debt ratios and a
repeated hstory of needirg bailouts still receive loans from Banobras. This suggests that its evaluations are less
stringent th:an t.ey would be urthout federal ownership of the bank and without the federal mandate to deduct
debt service from transfers. Banobras's cost of funds is higher than that of commercial banks, which are
gradually getting more of the sub-national business.
7. This calculation was for 16 states (plus the Federal District) employing about half of the state employees.
7



assignment gives both sides an incentive not to make adequate provisions, hoping that the lack of
preparation will result in the other side bearing more of the cost in the end.8
m. THE GOVERNMENT'S RECENT ACHIEVEMENTS IN DECENTRALIZATION
28.   The federal authorities are well aware of the weaknesses in the framework within which
decentralization is currently proceeding in Mexico. They have therefore implemented a number
of policy initiatives that, while perhaps still insufficient, provide a good platform for the reform
initiative to be supported by the proposed DAL.
29.   On the institutional front, the recent constitutional reform of Article 115 will strengthen
the autonomy of municipalities and make them more transparent and more accountable for the
earmarked federal transfers they currently get. As a clearly distinguished level of government,
municipalities will be in a better position to negotiate with other levels of government and be
made responsible for legal and contractual obligations.  This constitutional reform  also
establishes the basis for a clear division of responsibilities between states and municipalities vis-
a-vis the Ramo 33 transfers. The federal congress has given high priority to preserving the
independence and strengthening the capacity of the Contaduria Mayor de Cuentas de la Uni6n,
and the Contaduria is pursuing coordination with and strengthening of the state contadurias. The
Programa de Homologaci6n was launched with a view to introducing uniform rules and
practices on accounting, budgeting and reporting. Unfortunately, the program has not been
adequately implemented by several states, which had neither a legal obligation nor an economic
incentive to abide by it, and has been effectively on hold since the end of 1998. In parallel, and
with more encouraging results, the Contaduria de Cuentas de la Uni6n, and some of the state
Contadurias and Contralorias are currently developing programs to collect information on
and/or audit Ramo 33 spending. As part of that Ramo 33, the federation has also introduced
earmarked resources for strengthening municipal capacity. A number of federal secretaries have
signed agreements among themselves and with regional and local governments to share
information and resources with a view to coordinate expenditure in the territories.
30.   Some progress was also recorded in clarifying spending responsibilities. Perhaps to
avoid ex-post legal liability for increasing municipal borrowing, states have recently shown
interest in clarifying roles and accepting precise accountability in the management of the
aportaciones that go to municipalities. The federal government took the initiative to provide
more fiscal and political autonomy to the Federal District. For its part, the Federal District is
preparing legal and constitutional reform proposals aimed at clarifying fiscal relations with the
federation and neighboring states.
31.   Initial steps to grant more tax autonomy to the states rendered limited results. In the 1999
budget proposal, the federal government offered states the option of introducing up to a 2 percent
tax on final retail sales, but virtually all states declined. Their reasons related to both political
cost and perverse incentives (more own tax revenue, less federal transfers), and the 2 percent
option was dropped from the finally approved budget. At the level of municipalities, more is
8. The state of Nuevo Le6n is, perhaps, the exception, as it has independently proceeded with some limited reform
of its pension system.
8



happening, particularly with the property tax-some large municipalities and particularly the
Federal District have strengthened that tax's collection through better assessment and
administration. In other cases, like the state of Puebla, the state supports the modernization of
the cadastre and the overall tax administration while municipalities collect the revenues. In a
few cases, municipalities, particularly rural municipalities, have completely delegated to their
respective states the administration of the property tax.
32.   While, as explained earlier, the system  of transfers remains overly complex, the
authorities have recently simplified it by doing away with extra-ordinary transfers almost entirely
(a large portion of those transfers were part of the bail-out packages granted to the states in the
aftermath of the 1995 crisis). In addition, the Secretaria de Hacienda is active in disclosuring
the rules to access the pari passu programs, thereby strengthening the signals and incentives and
leveling the field for equal state access to this type of federal grant.
33.   Relatively less progress has been made in establishing a sound framework for sub-
national borrowing. Following the 1995 crisis, the ministry's of finance (Secretaria de Hacienda
y Credito Puiblico; SHCP) entered annual fiscal adjustment and disclosure agreements with each
of the states (except the Federal District) that included specific borrowing parameters, as a pre-
condition to deliver additional extraordinary transfers of funding. With those transfers now
discontinued, no substitute mechanism to enforce state fiscal and borrowing discipline has been
put in place.
IV. THE PROPOSED DECENTRALIZATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN (DAL)
a) Objective
34.   The previous sections have shown that Mexico's decentralization process is unfolding at
high speed but lacks an efficient policy framework to set the process on a sustainable path. The
core objective of the proposed DAL is to support the federal government's efforts to introduce
such a framework. This is an urgent task, if decentralization is not to translate into fiscal
mismanagement of spending, taxes, transfers, and borrowing, rendering the business of
government less, rather than more, transparent and accountable to citizens. The DAL will also
play an important macroeconomic role, as it will help the Government reduce Mexico's
vulnerability to external financial shocks and loss of confidence that in the past have been
associated with the country's presidential elections. On the one hand, the fast-disbursing feature
of the Bank's structural adjustment lending, of which the DAL is the principal component during
FYOO, is a key part of the precautionary external financing package that the Mexican authorities
are putting in place to avoid balance of payments difficulties in the period surrounding the
upcoming election. On the other hand, this loan reduces the possibility that state-level fiscal
deficits will undermine the prudent fiscal policy of the federal authorities. By reducing Mexico's
vulnerability to external and fiscal crises, the Bank's support aims at avoiding the social and
economic costs (particularly in terms of poverty increases) that are usually associated with these
crises.
9



35.   Making decentralization more efficient and accountable to democratic control will
require a substantial set of reforms, some of which need to wait until the next administration.
These include revamping tax and transfers systems and revising the assignments of spending
authority, as discussed earlier. As the election will not take place until July 2000 and the new
incumbent will not take office until December 2000, the elections effectively mean that no policy
initiative requiring legislative action (apart from the annual budget law) can be realistically
expected until around mid-2001. In addition, undertaking policy commitments under the DAL
that span into the next presidential term would not guarantee ownership by the entrant
policymakers. The decentralization framework and its supporting operation will, therefore,
include no new laws (apart from the budget law for the year 2000) and its implementation will be
programmed for completion by approximately April 2000.
36.   While the proposed loan will not directly address the full set of required reforms, it will
build institutional capacity, open up information and, critically, set hard budget constraints on
sub-national finances. These will create the capability and motivation for the stakeholders to
take the next steps in 2001 and thereafter. The DAL should thus be seen as a first but significant
step in a chain of support, to be complemented by the federal government launching, as part of
its overall decentralization efforts, a technical assistance program for states and municipalities;
by strong synergies with other sector-specific operations with decentralization-related
components both by the World Bank and by other institutions (see Section VI); and by the option
of a successor World Bank adjustment operation under the next presidential administration.
37.   More fundamentally, the current aLuthorities' proven commitment to a legacy of fiscal
discipline underpins the design and implementation of decentralization-related reforms that will
proved sustainable beyond the upcoming elections. If fully implemented, the DAL would enable
the public as well as the federal government to monitor most of the transfers, would hold
governments more accountable and fiscally responsible, would convey positive incentives to
sub-national governments, and would strengthen their relative autonomy. Taken altogether,
these benefits would begin to ensure tlhe cohesiveness and long term sustainability of
decentralization in Mexico.
b) Content
38.   The operation will be based on the Government's broad decentralization program, as
presented in the attached Letter of Development Policy, and from which a core subset of key
policy actions have been selected as commitments for respective tranche disbursements (and
effectiveness). Those actions are listed in Table 1; a summary explanation of their economics is
provided below.
39.   The selected policy commitments have four main targets: imposing hard budget
constraints on federal resources provided to states and municipalities; reducing moral hazard in
subnational borrowing; increasing the transparency and public accountability of subnational
fiscal and financial management and of the overall decentralization process; and setting up pilot
mechanisms to enhance efficiency in decentralized expenditures.
10



Table 1. Mexico-Decentralization Adjustment Loan (DAL)-MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS FOR TRANCHE RELEASE
BOARD PRESENTATION (unless otherwise indicated)                                                      SECOND TRANCLE
(expected December 1999)                                                              (expected by April 2000)
1.  The federal budget proposal submitted for fiscal year 2000 will not include discretionaiy transfers to state and    1.  SHCP wil provide the Bank: a) a report detailing any
municipalities (and their organismos descentralizados) in excess of 0.15 percent of total federal expenditures.'  discretionary transfer approved in the Federal Budget; and
2.  SHCP announces, through the publication of the DAL's Letter of Development Policy (see Action 11 below), a new policy  the aggregate aount  ofalldiscreionaryltrasfe, ta
on mandatos whereby: (i) effective March 31, 2000, SHCP will no longer accept mandatos to act as a trustee for the  executed by the Federal Government until March 31,
collateralization of borrowing by states and municipalities (and their organismos descentralizados); and (ii) from January 1  2000, does not exceed the total amount approved in the
to March 31, 2000, mandatos will only be accepted if their effectiveness does not extend beyond March 31, 2000 and the  federal budget for such transfers.
soliciting state or "large" municipality2 (or organismo descentralizado) is, at a minimum, in the process of obtaining two
global local-currency scale "issuer"3 credit ratings performed by credit rating agencies registered with the CNBV4, as    2.  The Federal Government has been implementing its
evidenced by the presentation of the relevant contracts between the borrower and those credit rating agencies. [Any  policy of abolishing its practice of mandatos on a basis
mandatos for borrowing by states and "large" municipalities (or their organismos decentralizados) contracted between  consistent with the DAL's Letter of Development Policy.
Board presentation and December 31, 2000 will be subject to the states' existing budget laws and associated borrowing    3.  Capital-risk-weighting requirements for commercial and
programs for fiscal year 1999.]                                                                                 development bank lending to state and municipalities (and
3.  Issuance of regulation ("Modificaci6n a las Reglas sobre la Diversificaci6n de Riesgos en las Operaciones Activas a que  their organismos descentralizados) have become effective
se Refiere el Articulo 35, Fracci6n II de la Ley Reglamentaria del Servicio Publico de Banca y Credito") by SHCP  and are being implemented in a manner consistent with
revoking the "regimen de excepcion" (exemption regime) of exposure-concentration hmits for bank loans made after  the relevant regulation.
November 30, 1999 to states and municipalities (and their organismos descentralizados).                     4.  Regulations setting requirements for registration in
4.  Issuance of regulations ("Modificaci6n a las Reglas para los Requerimientos de Capitalizaci6n de las Instituciones de  SHlCP's Registro de Obligaciones y Emprdstitos de
Banca Multiple " and 'Mod1ifcaci6n a las Reglas para los Requerimientos de Capitalizacion de las Instituciones de Banca  Entidades Federativasy AMunicipios have been issued and
de Desarrollo") by SHCP whereby the commercial and development bank debt of states and "large" municipalities (and  have been implemented in a consistent manner.
their organismos descentralizados) contracted after March 31, 2000 would: (i) if not registered with SHCP, be subject to a    5.  Banobras, and any other development bank which has
150 percent capital risk weighting; and (ii) if registered with SHCP, be subject to a differential capital-risk-weighting grid  provided loans to sub-national governments since March
based on two, current, published, global-scale local-currency credit ratings performed by credit rating agencies registered  31, 2000, have issued and implemented intemal lending
with the CNBV5 (for loans of US$20,000,000 or less, either "issuer" or "issue,6 credit ratings will be used; for loans of  regulations regarding  loans to  states and  "large"
more than US$20,000,000 "issue" ratings will apply).  This policy action wil be considered a condition of loan  municipalities (and their organismos descentralizados) in
effectiveness.                                                                                                  accordance with SHCP's relevant of cio.
5.  Issuance by SHCP of appropriate regulation whereby, effective January 1, 2000, it will register (in the Registro de    6.  SHCP has published the regulations governing eligibility
Obligaciones y Emprdstitos de Entidades Federativas y Municipios) new state, municipal, or subnational organismo  criteria for the use of funds and detailed amounts of each
descentralizado loans only when (i) the state or municipality in question is current7 on its publication of debt and fiscal  pari-passu program approved in the federal budget for the
statistics from the preceeding semester's final accounts, and on all of its debt service obligations toward the Govermnent's  year 2000.
development banks; and (ii) when the organismo descentralizado is current on all its debt service obligations toward the    7.  SHCP  has  established  and  is  operating  the
Government's developmnent banks.                                                                                decentralization committee in a manner consistent with
6.  Issuance by SHCP of an appropriate oficio instructing the federal Government's development banks with legal mandate to  the relevant oficio.
lend to states and municipalities to issue internal rules (in accordance with the applicable regulations) whereby, effective    8.  SHCP has published the state-by-state allocation of
March 31, 2000, they will make new loans to states and "large" municipalities (and their organismos descentralizados)  federal expenditures and other explicit transfers to sub-
only when the loan in question (i) qualifies for registration with SHCP; and (ii) requires a capital risk weighting of less  national governments m the education and transport
than 100 percent. Development banks can make loans to sub-national governments and their organismos descentralizados  sectors, as approved in the federal budget for the year
with a capital risk weighting of 100 percent or more only if the loan in question contains an institutional development  2000.
component that is funded by an international development agency.
1i



7.  SHCP has developed jointly with the states and announced an action plan to assist states and municipalities (and their    9.  Relevant funds, as approved in the federal budget for the
organismos descentralizados), at their request, in improving their accounting, auditing, budgetinig, revenue and debt  year 2000, have been made available to states for the
management, and reporting practices as well as in achieving other goals that the states and municipalities (and their  execution of environmental and health "performance
organismos descentralizados) may identify in their own institutional development programs. At least one government     agreements".
development bank has issued internal lending regulations to make credit available to states and municipahties for    10. Overall progress under the Government's Decentralization
institutional development purposes.                                                                                    Program as specified in the DAL's Letter of Development
8.  Issuance by SIHCP of an appropriate intemal instruction (oficio) appointing an intemal decentralization committee (Comite  Policy is satisfactory to the World Bank.
para la Coordinacion Hacendaria), with participation of and rotating chairmanship by SllCP's three sub-secretanias and
with a permanent technical secretariat. The committee's functions wil include (i) strategic and policy analysis and
recommendations in the area of decentralization, (ii) consolidation of available data and information in that area, and (iii)
promotion of the publication of federal and sub-national fiscal and financial statistics. The committee will supervise the
federal program for technical assistance to states and municipalities in the area of decentralization.
9.  Inclusion in the federal budget submission for fiscal year 2000 of a program in support of "performance agreements"
(Convenios de Desempeflo) between the federal and state govemments to elicit improvements in state-level legal
frameworks for environmental protection and development of the states' environment-related institutions.
10. Inclusion in the federal budget submission for fiscal year 2000 of a program in support of "performance agreements"
(Convenios de Desempeilo) between the federal and state governments to foster institutional development (training and
monitoring capacity) at the state level that can facilitate the expansion of basic health coverage under the Programa de
Ampliaci6n de Cobertura (PAC).
11. Pubhcation in major national media of the DAL's Letter of Development Policy.
12. Overall progress under the Government's Decentralization Program as specified in the DAL's Letter of Development
Policy is satisfactory to the World Bank.
1/    As used in this table, "discretionary transfers" are transfers of federal resources to states or municipalities (and their organismos descentralizados) that are not allocated in accordance with
specific amounts, distribution formulas or conditions for subnational access.
2/    A "large" municipality (and its organismo descentralizado) is defined as over 500,000 inhabitants.
3/    "A Standard & Poor's 'Issuer' credit rating is a current opinion of an obligor's overall financial capacity (its creditworthiness) to pay its financial obligations. This opinion focuses on the
obligor's capacity and willingness to meet its financial commitments as they come due. It does not apply to any specific financial obligation, as it does not take into account the nature of and
provisions of the obligation." Standard & Poor's web page, Issuer Rating Services: Issuer Credit Ratings, September 22, 1999 (w.standardandooors.comnratings/defnitions/issuer.html).
4/    As per infonnation provided by the Mexican authorities, all four credit rating agencies currently registered with CNBV are affiliated with intemationally reputable credit rating agencies.
5/    Should the two ratings lead to different risk weightings in the grid, a suitable decision nrle (e.g., average of the two ratings/weightings) will apply.
6/    "Issue" ratings are done for each loan or bond based on: (a) likelihood of payment independently of guarantees ("unsecured issuer rating"), that is, the capacity and willingness of the obligor to
meet its financial comnnitment on an obligation; (b) nature of provisions of the obligation, and (c) protection afforded by guarantees and other legal arrangements.
7/    In this context, "current" means semester data published within six months of the close of the previous semester. (This means that during January-June of a given year, data would need to be
published for the period up to June 30 of the previous year, and during July-December of a given year, data would need to be published for the period up to December 31 of the previous year.)
12



40.   Hard budget constraints will begin to come about as rules rather than discretion start
governing subnational expenditure, transfers and borrowing.9  Discretionary transfers to states-
and municipalities will be discontinued (except for minute expenditures where accounting and
other practices require a certain degree of discretion). All large pari-pasu programs will operate
with transparent rules and will be available to all states that qualify according to published
criteria.
41.    Rules on discretionary financing from the federal government will be complemented with
efficiency-enhancing, market-based incentives in sub-national borrowing, something that will
both harden budget constraints and reduce moral hazard. Specifically, the federal government
will, as of March 31, 2000, cease accepting mandatos from states to collateralize their loans with
participaciones. States and their creditors will thus have to make alternative private fideicomiso
or equivalent arrangements that do not carry an implicit guarantee by the federal treasury. SHCP
will no longer be directly involved in the sub-national borrowing process. To make the transition
to the new no-mandatos system as smooth as possible, during the first quarter of 2000 the federal
government will accept mandatos only for states that are in the process of obtaining credit
ratings from reputable international agencies (see below).
42.   In parallel, bank regulation (and its impact on loan pricing) will be employed to foster
both more efficient and more transparent borrowing programs and financial management by
states and municipalities, and sounder, moral-hazard-free sub-national risk assessments by their
bank lenders. In particular, the existing regimen de excepci6n, whereby all sub-national lending
is exempted from normal exposure concentration limits, will be formally abolished. Bank loans
to states and municipalities will be subject to a punitive capital risk weighting ratio (150 percent)
if they are not registered with SHCP, a process that will in turn be made conditional on the
borrower being current in its publication of debt and fiscal data and in all its debt service
obligations toward the Government's development banks. More fundamentally, registered loans
will be subject to a differential capital risk weighting "grid" that will link the capital backing
requirements for (and, thus, the pricing of) sub-national debt instruments to the borrower's credit
rating, as measured by two, current, published, global-scale local-currency credit ratings
performed by credit rating agencies registered at CNBV (the four agencies currently registered
are partner/affiliates of intemationally reputable credit rating agencies). 10
43.    To be complete, the hardening of budget constraints and the reduction in moral-hazard
will require a new lending framework for the public development banks, as they are not
currently subject to the same corporate governance and market pressures as commercial banks.
Thus, all regulatory and supervision standards applicable to commercial banks will be imposed
9. By liniting the discretionary power of the federal authorities, the prevalence of rules will also directly support
on-going Congressional efforts to grant more independence to sub-national governments, including recent
amendments to Article 115 of the Constitution.
10. This link between credit ratings and regulatory standards is in line with a recent consultative paper issued by the
Basel Conmmittee on Banldng Supervision ("A New Capital Adequacy Framework", Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision, Basel, June 1999). More generally, linking regulation to credit ratings is a common
practice in the financial sector of many countries (including Mexico), for example, in regulating corporate bond
issues or insurance companies' investments (see Annex VI of RIM 119991 International Capital Markets-
Developments, Prospects and Key Policy Issues, World Economic and Financial Surveys, in
www.inif.org/external/pubs/ft/icmIl999/index.htm).
13



on the development banks, including the above-mentioned differential capital risk weightings. In
addition, and as a matter of corporate policy, the federal government (who owns the development
banks) will only allow development banks to grant loans to sub-national governments if the
borrower holds credit ratings that require capital risk weightings of less than 100 percent.1'
44.   Increasing the transparency of decentralized fiscal management will be the third objective
of the policy package to be supported by the DAL, as a means to increase the public
accountability of both federal and subnational governments.  The federal government will
establish a high-level Decentralization Committee within SHCP that will play a continuing
strategy setting, policy analysis and public information'2 role, based in part on the statistical
disclosure generated by the incentives mentioned earlier. The Committee, which will be served
by a permanent technical secretariat, will be responsible for technical analysis of the evolution of
the decentralization process in order to guide federal policy on the matter. SHCP will also
commission and publish a study of the state pension liabilities including state-level estimates of
them. A more consistent process of institutional development for decentralization will be put in
motion. Beyond the efforts of the above-mentioned Committee, a program of institutional
training and strengthening at the state and municipal levels, covering accounting, budgeting,
monitoring, reporting, auditing, and debt and revenue management, will be made available on-
demand. This program will capitalize on on-going federal efforts (for example, homogenization
of accounting practices) and will count on the financing of a recently-approved US$400 million
loan from the IDB (see Section VI).
45.   Finally, the DAL-supported policy package will include initial steps toward sub-national
expenditure efficiency. Performance agreements between federal ministries and states will be
piloted, primarily as a signal that, in the future, sub-national governments will be held more
accountable for the sector-specific funds they receive through decentralization. To start, pilot
performance agreements in a standard form for all states will be written and implemented for the
environment and health sectors (these sectors appear particularly suitable for the performance
agreement pilot as they enjoy a solid reform record, strong ownership, and ongoing
decentralization agendas).
46.   The performance agreement for environment will offer a one-time federal matching
grant, included in the proposed budget for year 2000, to go into a fund that each participating
state would set up and contribute to with its own resources. The fund would finance
development of the state's institutional capacity for environmental management, including
technical training, regulatory and monitoring capacity, and reporting for intergovernmental
coordination. Once the program is approved in the budget, the Ministry for the Environment,
SEMAR:NAP, will sign individual agreements with the states that choose to participate and agree
to the conditions of the program. During FY00 and beyond, SENMARNAP will monitor and
evaluate the effectiveness of this program and, based on that, design the next steps.   This
program is a pilot to demonstrate what a relatively small incentive can accomplish in terms of
11. An exemption to the internal, additional credit-rating requirement will be made for loans that carry an
institutional development component funded wikh resources from international development agencies, as this
may help improve a state's credit rating (especially among low-rated states).
12. While making decentralization-related information available to the general public may seem an innocuous
undertaking, it represents a major break from past practice in Mexico, and one that is likely to generate a new
set of political incentives for sound, decentralized governance.
14



mobilizing states' efforts in an area with national as well as state-wide externalities. Annex B
provides more detail on the objectives, content, implementation and risks of the program.
47.   The performance agreement for health will offer to participating states a matching grant
to support development of states' training and institutional capacity to facilitate and monitor the
expansion of coverage of basic health services. One of the government's principal objectives is
to extend basic health-care coverage to the estimated 10 million people who currently lack
access. To help achieve this, the federally funded Program for the Expansion of Coverage
(PAC) pays for state health workers in 19 target states with high poverty indexes, in addition to
the regular Ramo 33 funds that go for the health sector, which was decentralized to the states in
the early 1990s. A major weakness of the Program for Expansion of Coverage at present is the
lack of skills of state-level workers. The new program would address this problem and finance
technical and managerial training, monitoring and reporting capacity, and other institutional
development. This will be important for assuring that the general decentralization of the health
care sector brings the expected benefits to the poor. Annex C provides more detail.
48.   It is worth emphasizing that, because of the design constraints mentioned earlier (which
primarily relate to the political calendar), there are important areas where no policy initiatives are
planned at this time and should be pursued with the next administration, through separate sector
operations, technical assistance and, possibly, a successor adjustment operation. Chief among
those areas are further institutional development at the municipal level; continued refinement in
transfer formulae; constitutional and legal changes to allow direct and indirect taxation at the
state level; and a program for comprehensive reform in the states' pension systems.
c) Risks
49.   The election calendar will make consensus around necessary reforms difficult to achieve,
even though both the administration and Congress want to continue progress on decentralization
(indeed, it has been the interaction between the two branches of government that accelerated the
process in recent years). On the other hand, the do-nothing-until-after-the-election alternative is
not attractive-in the year until a new government comes into office, decentralization would go
farther without an adequate policy framework in an uncoordinated and sometimes contradictory
fashion, possibly causing irreversible damage to an otherwise-beneficial process. Thus, the DAL
policy commitments do not require legislative action, with one exemption-the already-
scheduled budget submission for the year 2000. The DAL-supported program calls for only one
policy within that submission, which is very unlikely to be rejected by opposition parties,
namely, the elimination of the federal executive's power to make discretionary transfers to the
states and municipalities.
50.   Even if government and Congress reach the necessary consensus, there remains a
possibility that some states or municipalities would refuse to adopt recommendations that they
may perceive as federal imposition. The proposed structure of incentives makes this improbable,
as incentives have been crafted in a positive vein and failure to adopt those recommendations
would limit the sub-nationals access to financial markets. Still, it is theoretically possible that a
politically and fiscally desperate state might associate with a rogue bank and borrow excessively;
that banks eager for the non-credit business of sub-national governments may not transfer to
15



interest rates the higher funding cost of lending to uncreditworthy state and municipalities; or
that states that are denied bank credit resort to floating domestic-currency bonds in the capital_
markets (a form of sub-national borrowing that, while currently non-existent, is not contemplated
in the proposed reform package). These scenarios are, however, unlikely. Under the new more
transparent framework, especially with published credit ratings, unsustainable financial behavior
by either sub-national governments or their lenders will be immediately known to the market and
to the regulators, and will become unfeasible (at least on a continuing basis).
51.   Similarly, even if agreement is reached among the branches and levels of government,
the new administration might choose not to sustain the new rules, institutions or procedures put
in place by the decentralization program supported by the DAL. Or the new administration might
not proceed with the next steps in reforming intergovernmental relations and completing the
longer-term program which is the underlying rationale for this operation. While these risks are
indeed real, each is substantially mitigated by the same historical process that is bringing about
decentralization in Mexico and by the reforms supported with this proposed loan. Legally, the
measures taken over the life of this loan could be reversed, at least after budget year 2000.
Practically this is unlikely. Disclosure of information by the federal executive and strengthening
the accounting and auditing branch of the Congress will open up information and create
expectations for follow up information and reforms, e.g., of pension systems. With the federal
executive no longer in full control of Congress (stronger opposition parties since 1997 and less
discipline in the ruling party), the irreversible release of information provides leverage for
Congress to insist on continued reduction of executive discretion and even more disclosure in the
future. The peer pressure for equal treatment will grow, as any state will and can protest if it gets
less than the most favored treatment. The federal government is hardening the budget constraint
on itself, of necessity, and the federal bureaucracy seems to have widespread interest in passing
that discipline along to the next level. Hardening the budget constraint on federal and financial
sector resources for states and municipalities will increase the incentives for them to raise more
of their own taxes, to get control of their personnel costs, and to rationalize the transfer system,
because negotiation with the federal government will no longer be a quick and painless way to
raise more resources.
52.   There is also a risk that financial-sector-related technical difficulties may jeopardize the
program's objectives. Prime among those risks is that the bank regulatory authority (CNBV)
might not be able to implement the new rules for sub-national lending and, more generally,
might not enforce a sound regulatory framework for banking. While CNBV's record in that
regard is mixed (particularly in the aftermath of the 1995 banking crisis), major reforms are
currently under implementation.  ]Following the establishment of the EPAB (in place of
FOBAPROA) and the gradual unfolding of a new, more efficient deposit-insurance mechanism,
the authorities announced in September 1999 a program of capital-related regulatory reforms that
will, over a period of time, correct important flaws in the Mexican banking industry (most
notably, the imposition of limits on deferred tax capitalization; removal from Tier 1 capital of
equity investments in non-traded, non-financial companies; new provisioning methodology; new
valuation programs for fixed assets; etc.). These reforms are being implemented in the context
of the previously-mentioned IPX Stand-by, and will be supported and furthered by a proposed
World Bank "Bank Restructuring" operation.
16



53.   Increased transparency may, in itself, present an implementation risk for this operation.
As market forces and new rules drive the states and municipalities to disclose, directly or through
credit ratings, more complete information about their debt positions (especially in regards to
pension-related contingent liabilities), lenders may refrain from sub-national lending altogether.
While such a credit freeze, if it takes place, may have short-term costs, it will be both a
temporary prelude of a rationale market diversification of sub-national risk and a strong
incentive for states and municipalities to maintain prudent financial management practices.
54.   Finally, sub-national institutional capacity  may  present a  constraint to  reform
implementation. While, for efficiency reasons, technical assistance to states and municipalities
(over and above existing federal programs) will be provided only upon demand, there is a
general assessment in Mexico that sub-national governments have a genuine interest in seeing
their institutional capacity up-graded. In fact, allocated federal funding may prove insufficient,
especially given the overall fiscal restraint being exercised to protect the macroeconomic
framework. As mentioned earlier, the funding associated with the recently-approved US$400
million 1DB loan (see Section VI) will substantially cover those needs.
d) Poverty Impact
55.    The proposed DAL operation would have important effects on poverty. On the one hand,
by supporting the maintenance of viable fiscal accounts at the three levels of government, it will
directly protect the poor, especially the extreme poor, from  the potential effects of major
macroeconomic fluctuations. 3   Such fluctuations have in the past erased the country's
achievements in poverty reduction (especially during the 1994/95 crisis). On the other hand, by
augmenting the institutional efficiency and transparency of sub-national finances, it will help
improve administration and delivery of the array of social expenditure programs that are
currently decentralized.14   The DAL's support for pilot performance agreements in the
environment and health areas will be an important first step in that direction (e.g., an enhanced
implementation of the PAC will bring immediate, tangible benefits to the most needy).
56.    While the DAL-supported reform package will carry major poverty-related benefits, it
also has potential risks for the poor. In particular, it is conceivable that imposing hard budget
constraints on sub-national governments may lead to a reduction in social expenditures at the
state and municipal level, rather than to an increase in expenditure efficiency, a contraction in
spending on non-priority items, or invigorated revenue collection efforts. This risk is mitigated
by three factors.  First, like the federal authorities, sub-national governments also face
democratic processes of their own and are therefore sensitive to social sector needs. The
increased transparency sought by the DAL-supported reforms will enhance that sensitivity.
13. As part of its extensive poverty-related analytical work (spearheaded by an ongoing poverty assessment), the
World Bank is producing a policy note that will focus on poor households' responses to negative
macroeconomic shocks.
14. It should be noted that, although the DAL will help improve the administration of decentralized social programs
(almost 100 at the federal level), it will not seek to address the efficiency with which each of those programs is
actually executed, except for the health and environment programs described in Annexes B and C. Support for
those programs will be delivered under the World Bank's large portfolio of projects and advisory services in the
social sectors (health, education, social protection, program evaluations associated with the ongoing poverty
assessment, policy dialogue on gender, and the like).
17



Second, any additional resources that might reach sub-national governments if "soft" budget
constraints are left in place would not necessarily go to social needs, rather than to non-priority
expenditures. Third, the federal government itself runs core social assistance programs for the
poor, notably PROGRESA, a targeted cash-based system of transfers to the poor, conditional on
their demonstrating consumption of specific goods and services (e.g., infant vaccination, school
attendance, and so forth).
e) Terrms and Conditions.
57.   Loan Amounts, Conditions, and Arrangements. The proposed US$606,070,000 million
DAL in the form of a fixed spread, US dollar denominated loan will be made to Banobras S.N.C.
with a guarantee from the United Mexican States. Disbursements under the proposed DAL will
be made to an account ("Deposit Account") of Banobras, S.N.C. established at the Banico de
Mexico for this purpose. The loan will have a 10 year grace period, and a bullet repayment due
on December 1, 2009. The commitment charge will be 0.85 percent for the first four years, and
0.75 percent thereafter. The front-end fee will be 1 percent of the loan amount capitalized.
58.   Disbursement and Procurement.  Loan disbursement will be made under simplified
disbursement procedures. Proceeds will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the
adjustment program, including compliance with stipulated tranche release and effectiveness
conditions. In accordance with the Operational Directive on the Simplification of Disbursement
Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustment Loans (February 8, 1996),
disbursements -will not be linked to specific purchases and, hence, there will be no procurement
requirements. Upon notification by the Bank of loan effectiveness and of second tranche release,
the proceeds of the first and second 1-ranche, respectively, of the loan will be deposited by the
Bank into the Deposit Account at the request of the Borrower. If after deposit in this account,
the proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible purposes as defined in the Loan Agreement, the
Bank will require the Borrower to either: (a) return that amount to the account for use for eligible
purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to the Bank (in which case the Bank will cancel an
equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan).
59.   Loan Management and Monitoring. Loan administration will be the responsibility of a
loan manager employed by Banobras, S.N.C. The loan manager will be responsible for
preparing the withdrawal applications, maintaining the Deposit Account and arranging for its
timely audit (if requested by the Bank.), and monitoring overall loan implementation. The loan
manager will also be responsible for coordinating the preparation of the Borrower's contributions
to the Implementation Completion Report and for writing those sections relating to loan
administration.
60.   Accounts and Audit. The loan manager will maintain separate records for all transactions
under the loan. Upon the World Bank's request, the Borrower will have the Deposit Account
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the World Bank and in accordance with standard
World Bank requirements.
61.   Environmental Assessment Requirements. In accordance with the Bank's Operational
Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.00, Annex A), the proposed operation has been
placed in Category "C" and will not require an environmental assessment.
18



V. THE MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK FOR THE PROPOSED DAL
a) Recent Economic Developments
62.   The Mexican economy has in recent years achieved a solid growth record, in spite of an
adverse external framework. International capital market uncertainty stemming from successive
crises in Asia (second half of 1997), Russia (August 1998) and Brazil (January 1999) led to
reduced and more expensive access to external financial resources. In addition, the collapse in
international oil prices towards the end of 1997 and the historically low level of oil prices
prevailing throughout 1998 and the first quarter of 1999 had a severe negative impact on
Mexico's public finances and to a lesser extent on the country's terms of trade. Annual real GDP
growth in 1998 fell to 4.8 percent (after averaging 6 percent during the 1996-97 period), a
remarkably resilient performance by that year's regional standards.
63.   The real-side resilience to external shocks was underpinned by conservative fiscal and
monetary policy, coupled with a flexible exchange rate regime. Three consecutive public
expenditure reductions (totaling 0.7 percent of GDP) managed to keep the fiscal deficit at its
targeted level of 1.25 percent of GDP in 1998. Tightening of monetary policy on several
occasions during 1998 could not, however, avoid a rapid pass-through to inflation of a higher
than anticipated nominal depreciation of the peso. Consumer prices increased by 18.6 percent
compared to the original target for the year of 12 percent.
64.   A further slowdown in the expansion of economic activity during 1999 to about 3 percent
had been anticipated on the basis of an expected lack of access to international capital markets,
low oil prices and the impact of the above-mentioned fiscal and monetary policy adjustments on
domestic consumption and investment demand. (The contraction of domestic absorption as of
the last quarter of 1998 has had a dominant impact on growth performance during the first half of
1999, leading to an annualized growth rate of only 2.5 percent.) Nevertheless, against initial
expectations, improved international liquidity and access to international capital markets, a
higher level of oil prices and higher non-oil exports due to the strength of the U.S. economy are
contributing to a recovery of domestic demand and economic growth during the second half of
the year. The recently released third quarter GDP growth rate (year-on-year) of 4.6 percent has
raised estimates for 1999 annual economic growth to about 3.4 percent.
65.   Lower international oil prices contributed to an increase in the trade and the balance of
payments' current account deficit in 1998, with the latter increasing to US$16 billion (3.9
percent of GDP). Weaker domestic demand and the increase of oil prices experienced during the
first half of 1999 are, however, likely to reduce the current account deficit to some US$13 billion
(2.8 percent of GDP) this year. Manufactured goods exports and total imports continue to grow
at rates above 10 percent, and total trade flows already more than doubled under the NAFTA
over the past five years. The economic integration in the NAFTA area is also reflected in the
continued high level of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), financing over two-thirds of the annual
current account deficit.
66.   Monetary policy is conducted in the context of a floating exchange rate regime adopted
as of the 1995 crisis. Although the volatility of the peso-US-dollar exchange rate has been
modest in comparison with other currencies over the past four years, adjustments in the exchange
19



rate have neither been gradual nor continuous, and long periods of stability have been followed
by sharp variations in the nominal exchange rate. Such adjustments are closely related with
capital flows and the international financial markets' perception of Mexico's country risk,
especially in the wake of the various external crises (Asia, Russia, Brazil). The turbulence in the
global financial situation during the second half of 1998, particularly for emerging economies,
was thus reflected in a sharp depreciation of the peso. Since early 1999, however, increasing
differentiation in the international investors' perceptions of developing countries risk has led to
an improved access for the Mexican public and private sector to international capital markets
and, together with other favorable external developments (oil price, U.S. economic strength), has
driven a modest nominal appreciation of the peso. This contributed to the gradual appreciation
trend observed in the real exchange rate over the past four years (whether measured on the basis
of consumer price inflation differentials or unit labor costs), a phenomenon that, while requiring
close monitoring, has neither translated into a marked loss of competitiveness (udging by the
speed of non-oil export growth) nor been accompanied by a domestic financial "bubble" or
excess domestic absorption (no boom in the stock market, surge in real estate prices, acceleration
in credit expansion, or major deterioration in the balance of payments' current account).
67.   Tight monetary policy has also caused a substantial increase in domestic interest rates.
Ex-post real interest rates on Mexican treasury bills went up from an average of 6 percent in
1997 and the first half of 1998 to approximately 13 percent at present. Banks' real lending
interest rates have reached levels of almost 20 percent over the past few months. The renewed
emphasis on inflation reduction emanating from the monetary authorities' policy statements is
likely to maintain the current high levels of interest rates throughout the upcoming political
transition period.
b) Macroeconomic Prospects
68.   The government's 1999 and 2000 targets for real growth (3 415 and 4.5 percent), inflation
(13 and 10) and fiscal deficit as proportion of GDP (1.3 and 1.0), albeit ambitious, seem
attainable under the present, improving external climate and make up the base scenario for this
operation's economic and external financing requirement projections (see Annex Tables A3-A5).
A continuation of the main thrusts of present macroeconomic policies, emphasizing fiscal
discipline and a gradual but determined reduction in inflation, is assumed even beyond the term
of the present administration. Economic growth, largely driven by a gradual recovery of
consumption and investment, would lead to an increasing, though still manageable, balance of
payments' current account deficit (<up to 3.7 percent of GDP in 2002). Continuously tight
monetary policy should also contribute, through its inflation dampening impact, to a slowdown
in any further appreciation of the real exchange rate.
69.   While the impressive recovery in private investment observed since the 1995 crisis (from
about 13 percent of GDP in 1995 to over 22 percent in 1999) will level off, that investment will
remain strong (bolstered by a flow of FDI that may reach some US$15 billion in 2002). In turn,
15. The real growth target in the economic program for 1999 was initially set at 3.0 percent. In the presentation of
the budget and economic program for 2000, the estimate for GDP growth in 1999 was revised upwards of 3.4
percent in view of the favorable developments experienced this year.
20



consumption (both private and public) is expected to remain in check, hovering around 77
percent of GDP.
70.   Those macroeconomic projections assume that Mexican policy-makers (current and
forthcoming) will succeed in addressing the economy's two most critical structural needs-
assuring the solvency and efficiency of the banking sector, and reducing the oil dependency of
the fiscal accounts. Those needs are closely inter-related. The total cost to the public sector of
debtor support programs, bank bail-outs and interventions implemented as of 1995 is now
estimated at MX$ 873 billion (US$ 93 billion or 19.3 percent of 1999 GDP). Interest accruing,
non-tradable bonds issued by the government's bank deposit insurance agency (earlier
FOBAPROA, replaced in 1999 by IPAB) make up the larger part of this cost. In order for IPAB
to cover at least the real component of its total interest obligations, annual fiscal transfers of
about one percent of GDP are required. Recent efforts to strengthen the financial sector (the
creation of IPAB; its issuing of regulations for the conversion of Fobaproa bonds for new,
tradable securities; the gradual limitation of deposit insurance coverage; and various new rules
for bank capital calculation and capitalization) are steps in the right direction that will need
furthering in the medium term.
71.   Similarly, the experience over the past two years showed again the high vulnerability of
Mexican public finances to the level of international oil prices. The shallowness of the non-oil
tax base (worth under 10 percent of GDP) results in fiscal over-reliance on oil, as a third of total
non-financial public sector revenues are currently oil-related. Each dollar of variation in the
average annual international price of oil leads, in the absence of compensating policies, to an
estimated variation in the public sector's balance worth some US$660 million'6 (or 0.14 percent
of GDP). This is further complicated by the inflexibility of expenditures in the federal budget.
Over 70 percent of total federal government spending (or 16 percent of GDP) is already
committed either to interest payments on domestic and external public debt, fiscal revenue
sharing (participaciones) with sub-national governments, pension and social security reform
costs, bank and debtor support programs, and social expenditure transfers to sub-national
governments. However, while there is a general recognition of the need for comprehensive fiscal
reform focussed on broadening the tax base, no political consensus is expected until the next
administration.
72.   Beyond banking and fiscal risks, this operation's macroeconomic scenario will be
strongly affected by the performance of the US economy (and of its financial markets) and by the
evolution of domestic political process in the run-up to the presidential elections and transfer of
the administration in December 2000.  A one percentage point increase in the average
international interest rate faced by Mexico is estimated to cause a first-year increase in the
country's total external interest payments worth approximately US$1 billion (0.2 percent of
GDP), of which about half would be on account of the public sector.
16. And to an estimated variation of the trade and current account deficits of some US$ 550 million (0.11 percent of
GDP)
21



c) External Financing Requirements.
73.   One of the elements that contributed to the severity of the 1994-95 crisis was the amount
of short-term dollar-indexed public debt (Tesobonos) contracted in the period that immediately
preceded the crisis. Therefore, in addition to prudent fiscal and monetary policies and a flexible
exchange rate regime, the administration has put particular emphasis on external public debt
management that reduces repayments and refinancing needs over the 1999-2001 period, as a
crucial element in maintaining stability in financial markets during the political transition.
74.   In this regard, the Mexican authorities announced in June 1999, on occasion of the
publication of the Letter of Intent for the previously-mentioned Stand-By Arrangement with the
IMF, a broader three-year external financing program totaling US$23.7 billion. The package
consists of US$16.9 billion in credit from international organizations (IMF US$4.2, World Bank
US$5.2,17 IDB US$3.5 and US-Exim US$4.0 billion) and US$6.8 billion in contingent, crisis-
management credit arrangements with the US and Canadian monetary authorities.
75.   Details on Mexico's external financing requirements and projected sources are presented
in Annex Table A6 (based on the contractual situation of the external debt at the end of June
1999). Total public and private sector external financing requirements are estimated at US$27,
35, and 34 billion for the second half of 1999, and the years 2000 and 2001, respectively. These
amounts include typically shorter term trade financing (publicly guaranteed and private)
obligations of US$8.6, 3.4 billion and 1.5 billion respectively for each of these periods. These
are likely to be rolled-over continuously thereby reducing the need for longer term financing.
76.   The foreign private sector is expected to remain the main source of external financing for
Mexico. By 2001, three quarters of the country's total financing requirements will be served by
either private investment flows or private non-guaranteed debt. It is important to note, however,
that, due to its strategy of reducing refinancing obligations during the upcoming political
transition, the public sector will face important external debt amortization requirements over the
2002-2004 period. Maintaining adequate access to longer-term financing as provided by the
IBRD and other international financial organizations will thus be an essential element in
improving the maturity structure of Mexico's external debt and in reassuring private investors of
the viability of its external accounts. Notably, various international credit rating agencies
upgraded Mexico sovereign risk rating after the announcement of the above-mentioned official
financing program.
77.   Annex table A7 reflects total annual IBRD debt flows and stocks with Mexico. With
annual repayments of almost US$1.4 billion, a modest positive net flow of resources is
maintained through average annual disbursements of US$1.7 billion over the next few years.
The proposed fast-disbursing adjustment operation contributes to keep such a net flow at a
critical time of the transition of administrations. IBRD debt outstanding with Mexico will
stabilize at about US$12 billion and continue to fall as a share of the total IBRD portfolio,
staying well within the historically employed and recently proposed country exposure limits of
10 percent and US$13.5 billion, respectively.
17. The World Bank contribution in the external finance package announced by the Mexican authorities refers to
the FY99-01 lending program of the CAS presented to and discussed by the Board on June 8, 1999
22



VI. BANK STRATEGY
a) The CAS and The Proposed DAL
78.   The DAL will be a key tool in delivering World Bank support for the three objectives that
drive the current CAS (as discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on June 8, 1999):
effective public governance, and growth and macroeconomic stability, and social sustainability.
The operation was envisaged in the CAS, both in scope and timing, and its amount lies within
previously projected exposure limits and adjustment lending envelopes.
b) Complementarity With Other Operations by the World Bank
79.   The World Bank has been active for some time in decentralization issues at the sectoral
level. The proposed DAL's design has benefited, and will continue to benefit, from those
sectoral experiences and, in turn, will facilitate further sector decentralization operations by
providing an adequate overall policy framework. Specifically, the Bank has been present in the
financing of the municipal infrastructure funds since 1990 through SEDESOL. Access to basic
services especially in the poorest areas has been a priority shared between the Government and
the Bank and has translated into two loans to promote the provision of municipal social
infrastructure and capacity building (Decentralization and Rural Development I and II-DRD-
of $350 and $500 million, respectively, with about $150 million undisbursed). The creation of
the Ramo 33, in January 1998, and the ensuing decentralization of a number of social programs
(including the social infrastructure fund within Ramo 33) directly to sub-national governments
has opened-up new opportunities to support the decentralization effort in key sectors, but has
also created new challenges to the Bank's lending in support of fiscal transfers to states and
municipalities.
80.   Thus, the World Bank has recently reordered its decentralization-related efforts around
four pillars. First, supporting decentralization-related policy reform through adjustment lending
(this DAL and its possible successor) and continuing sector-specific investments (DRD II,
currently under restructuring). Second, designing feasible channels for directing World Bank
investment lending, possibly in roads, water, sanitation, and urban infrastructure, to the states
(through the State Infrastructure APL, at present under preparation). Third, providing "just-in-
time" technical assistance as required by the authorities (notably, through the production of the
Policy Agenda for Decentralization delivered in April 1999 and through upon-request technical
advice to state governments on, among others, water issues, education, health, and public
administration). Fourth, supporting institutional development, primarily through the DRD loans.
81.   The on-going work in restructuring the DRD II project (ointly with NAFIN) exemplifies
the synergy between the Bank's sectoral operations and the proposed DAL. The successful
reactivation of DRD II will depend on: i) the establishment of state-level systems of monitoring
and information flow, something the DAL will directly foster, and ii) budget availability for the
financing of the independent audits required by the Bank. Subject to the resolution of these
issues, the Bank would resume and complete disbursement of the DRD II loan during FY00 and
initiate preparation of new sectoral operations under that framework (for social infrastructure,
institutional strengthening, and Desarrollo Integral de la Familia).
23



82.   The World Bank Institute has developed in partnership with the Monterrey Institute of
Technology a very successful distance learning program for municipal officials. In its first year
operation the program has been offered twice (January 16-March 20 and September 11
November 13, 1999) training ove:r 3,000 municipal officials in 65 remote-learning ccnters in
Mexico, plus eight in other countries of Latin America. The course relies on fees to cover the
delivery and transmission cost, and it will be offered at least annually during the next three years.
Demand for the course has been growing and specialized national programs for mayors will be
set up in Mexico (and Guatemala) during 2000. This will complement the DAL by making
municipalities better able to comply with new requirements for reporting, creditworthiness, and
participation in the pari-passu programs.
83.   Finally, as mentioned earlier, the DAL policy objectives are consistent with, and
mutually-supportive of, the planned "Bank Restructuring" loan. While the DAL will enhance
efficiency and soundness among sub-national borrowers (a branch of banking business that is
very likely to expand rapidly in tandem with the decentralization process), the Banking
Restructuring loan, combined with the IMF Stand-by, will attend to the broader solvency and
regulatory needs of the Mexican banking industry. For the DAL, an important component of the
improved banking regulations will be the gradual tightening of the definition of capital, which
will gradually increase the incentive effects of the differential capital-risk weighting scheme for
subnational debt to banks.
c) Complementarity With Operations by Other Institutions
84.   As mentioned before, the DAL will take place in the context of a SDR 3.1 billion
(US$4.2 billion), 17-month, IMF Stand-by operation which was approved in July 1999 and will
provide the macroeconomic underpinning for the implementation of the new decentralization
framework. At the same time, the DAL-related actions will contribute to the sustainability of
Mexico's fiscal accounts, a direct target of the Stand-by. In that sense, the operations are
mutually reinforcing.  The Fund arrangement includes periodic progress reviews of both
quantitative quarterly performance criteria on fiscal and monetary policy and indicative targets
for measures to strengthen the banking sector, to enhance tax policy and administration (as
introduced in the 1999 budget), and to improve the external debt monitoring system. The
program has been on track since its inception. Continuous coordination between the IMF and the
Bank takes place in the review of economic policy and the preparation of respective operations.
85.   The DAL will also exploit strong synergies with decentralization-related operations by
the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). The bulk of IDB's sub-national involvement will
soon be channeled through a hybrid loan-US$400 million in fast-disbursing funding and US$
400 million in a line of credit through Banobras. For the fast-disbursing part, the first tranche
(expected by December 1999) commitments correspond to measures already taken by the
government over the last two years-mainly the reforms of intergovernmental fiscal relations
contained in the budget laws of 1998 and 1999 (particularly adherence to the approved schedule
of Ramo 33 transfers to states and municipalities). The second tranche commitments (expected
in Spring 2000) are primarily associated with the reform of Banobras, especially its internal
management capacity, and with the federal government rationalizing the rules under which states
use participaciones as collateral for their borrowing. The new regulatory framework for sub-
24



national borrowing to be supported by the DAL provides such rationalization (through, among
others, the elimination of mandatos and their replacement by private fideicomisos or equivalent
arrangements where SHCP plays no role).
86.   The IDB-supported reforms in Banobras, a key player in Mexico's sub-national lending
market, will significantly add to the efficiency of this market, a core objective of the proposed
DAL. Those reforms will include the development of sounder, internal credit policies with
emphasis on more efficient norms for risk management at the level of each borrower (inter alia,
to determine whether and how much a potential client can borrow) and on monitoring systems to
follow up on client performance. In parallel, the rules for states to access the line of credit part
of IDB's operation require that those states be in the process of implementing acceptable
institutional strengthening programs, including improved accounting systems and the setting of
borrowing ceilings according to rules spelt out in the "Program's Manual". The line itself will
be available to finance the wide-range of technical assistance activities that may be needed to
carry out those programs. Access requirements to the line of credit are more lenient for
financing purely institutional development, in contrast to infrastructure financing that is
contingent on institutional improvements.  Thus, even states with weak capacity and
creditworthiness can get help to improve. This would directly facilitate the implementation of
the new lending policy framework for commercial and development banks that the DAL will
support, as it will foster the progressive "graduation" of low-rated states.
25



VII. RECOMMENDATION
87.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreemert of the
Bank, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By
Sven Sandstrom
Managing Director
Washington, D. C.
November 30, 1999
GIUGALEIWEBB/ROIAS/D1LL1NGER
MSG
26



Annex Al
Mexico at a glance                                                             10/27/99
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America   middle-
Mexico   & Carib.  income       Development diamond*
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                       95.9      502       588                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   3,970     3,940     4,860
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     380.9     1,978     2,862
T
Average annual growth, 199248
Population (%/6)                                       1.8       1.6       1.4
Labor force (%)                                        2.6       2.3       2.0     GNP                             Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199248)                               per                            primary
capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)   ..                                                      enrollment
Urban population (% of total population)               74        75        77
Lffe expectancy at birth (years)                       72        70         70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               31        32        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             14          8         -.               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 95         75        79
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   10        13        11
Gross primary enmllment (% of school-age population)  115        113       108           -     Mexico
Male                                                116         ..        ..                 Upper-middle-income group
Female                                              113                         _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1S97      1998
Economic ratiose
GDP (US$ billions)                           87.4    140.2     401.7     410.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP               21.6      19.2      26.0      24.4                    Trd
Exports of goods and services/GDP            8.6      19.5      30.3      31.2                    rade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  20.6      25.3      26.0      22.4
Gross national savings/GDP                   18.2     21.8      24.1      20.6
Current account balance/GDP                  -2.2      3.0      -1.9      -3.9     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                         1.8      5.5       2.1       2.5          stInvestment
Total debt/GDP                              35.7      78.1      37.3      39.0     Savings 
Total debt servicelexports                   57.4     40.1      32.4      19.1
Present value of debt/GDP                       .        .      36.0      37.8
Present value of debt/exports                 ..        ..    110.3      110.7
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988d8      1997      1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 2.2       2.9      6.8       4.8       4.6                 Mexico
GNP per capita                      0.3       0.6      6.0       3.0       3.3                 Upper-miedle-income group
Exports of goods and services       9.4     12.3      10.8       9.7       5.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1SS8      Growtb rates of output and Investment 1%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         40
Agriculture                                  10.2      8.6       5.7       5.4
Industry                                    30.7      35.9      28.5      29.1     20-_
Manufacturing                              22.4     25.7      21.4      21.9      3.
Services                                    59.1      55.5      65.8      65.5    -20-    93   94           se   97   9S
Private consumption                          69.6     65.9      64.1      68.2    go
General govemment consumption                 9.8      8.8       9.9       9.4                 -     GDI       i  GDP
Imports of goods and services                9.6      13.4      30.4      33.2
1977-87  198848       1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annua/ growth)
Agriculture                                   2.2      1.6       0.2       0.5    40
Industry                                     2.7       3.5       9.3       6.6    30
Manufacturing                               2.3      3.9      10.0       7.4    20
Services                                      2.1      2.7       6.4       4.4    10
Private consumption                          2.2       2.5       6.4       6.4      0     93   94 \SE             s 57   ss
General government consumption                5.2      1.8       2.9      -1.3   -i1 -                      9 ,0
Gross domestic investment                    -4.6      4.1      25.0       8.4   -20
Imports of goods and services                -1.3     12.1      22.8      14.2                    rExports       Imports
Gross national product                        2.6      2.4       7.9       4.7    _
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
27



Annex Al
Mexico
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                             40T
Consumer prices                                   ..   131.B        20.6      15 9     t30
Implicit GDP deflator                          25.6    137.3        17.7      13.8    20
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                   -      29.5       23.0      20.6              93    94    ss    96    97    98
Current budget balance                                  -10.3        3.1       2.3                     GDP deflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                 -15.0       -0.7      -1.3
TRADE
(US$ miltions)                                 1'977    1987       1997      1998       Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                               ..  22,093    110,431   117,500      140,0W -
Oil                                                   8,630     11,323     7,147      120,ODO
Agriculture                                           1,543      3,828     3,954      100,DW oo
Manufactures                                         11,344     94,802   105,933      80,000
Total imports (cif)                                    13,305    109,808   125,242      00,D00
Consumer goods                                          768      9,326    11,108      40,000
Intermediate goods                                    9,907     85,366    96,805      20,000
Capital goods                                         2,631     15,116    17,329          0
92  93  94  0s  ss  97   08
Export pnce index (1995=100)                              93        101         99
Import price index (1995=100)                             80        101       103                     sExports    r Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                115        100         96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(LUS$ millions)                                1977     1987       1997      1998       Current account balance to GOP ratio I%)
Exports of goods and services                 7,792   27,509    121,701   129,387       0
Imports ofgoodsand services                   7,665   18,387    121,608   137,859      -1
Resource balance                                '127    9,121        94    -8,473   ,2
Net income                                    -2,151   -6,801    -12,790   -13,497         t 
Netcurrenttransfers                              88    1,919       5,247     6,012     -4
Current account balance                      -1,936    4,239      -7,448   -15,958
Financing items (net)                         2 558    1,861      17,942    18,095      7t
Changes in net reserves                        .622   -6,100    -10,494    -2,137      -s
Memo:                                                                                   -
Reserves including gold (USS millions)            .   12,590      28,815    29,032
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)               O 02       1.4        8.8       9.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         31,179  109,459    149,690   159,962                             A    4
IBRD                                        1,374    7,347     11,356    11,514             0G:27,506      A:C11514  , 0
IDA                                             0        0          0         0
Total debt service                            4,715   12,083      42,452    26,778
IBRD                                          152    1,072      2,102      2,024                                       E:5,961
IDA                                             0        0          0         0    |
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                 9       75
Official creditors                            299      888      -4,563      -776
Private creditors                           4,407    2,891      6,003    12,219
Foreign direct investment                     556    3,246     12,478    10,238
Portfolio equity                                0        0      3,215       -66
World Bank program                                                                                      F: 100,952
Commitments                                   162    1,695        530      2,212     A-IBRD                         E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                 202      983        995      1,283     8 - IDA    0 - Other multilateral   F- Private
Principal repayments                           50      567      1,311      1,257    I C-IMF                         G-Short-term
Netflovs                                      152      416       -316        26
Interest payments                             102      505        791       767
Net transfers                                  50       -89     -1,107      -741
Development Economics                                                                                                     10127/99
28



Annex A2
Mexico Social Indicators
Latest single year            Same regionflncome group
Latin America & Upper-middle-
1970-75     1980-85      1992-97         Caribbean       income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)           59.1         75.5         94.3             493.9        574.0
Growth rate (% annual average)                 3.1          2.2          1.5               1.4           1.3
Urban population (% of population)              62.8         69.6         73.8              74.2         73.8
Total fertility rate (births perwoman)           6.5          4.2          2.8               2.7          2.5
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index                          ..           ..
Urban headcount index                           ..           ..
Rural headcount index                           ..           ..
INCOME
GNP per capita (US$)                           1,980        2,160        3,700             3,940        4,540
Consumer price index (1995=100)                    0            3          162              123           117
Food price index (1995=100)                        ..           4          169
INCOMEICONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index                                        ..           ..         53.7
Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)     3.3           ..          3.6
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption)   60.7           ..         58.2
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                               ..           ..          2.8               2.8          3.0
Education (% of GNP)                           3.5          3.9          4.9               3.7          4.8
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)         3.4          2.2          3.0               7.4          7.9
Net primary school enrollment rate /a
(% of age group)
Total                                           ..          100         101                91            94
Male
Female
Access to safe water
(% of population)
Total                                           62           82           95               75
Urban                                         70           95           ..               83
Rural                                         49           50           ..               36
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                         ..           64           97               93            92
DPT                                              ..          40           83               82            82
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)              ..           ..           14                8              -
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                           63           68           72               70            70
Male                                          60           64           69               66            67
Female                                        65           71           75               73            73
Mortality
infant (per thousand live births)               69           47           31               32            30
Under 5 (per thousand live births)             110           74           38               41            38
Adult (1549)
Male (per 1,000 population)                  246          205          166              189           193
Female (per 1,000 population)                188          121           83              116           116
Maternal (per 100,000 live births)              ..           ..
a. Ratios exceeding 100 indicate discrepancies between the estmates of school-age population and reported enrollment data.
29






Annex A3
Mexico
Decentralization Adjustment Loan
Key Economic Indicators
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross Domestic Product       100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0        100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture8               5.7    5.5    6.3    5.7    5.4          5.2    5.0    4.9    4.8
Industry8                 26.9   27.9   28.4   28.5   29.1         29.3   29.2   29.3   29.5
Services'                 67.4   66.6   65.4   65.8   65.5         65.6   65.8   65.7   65.7
Total Consumption             83.1   77.5   74.7   74.0   77.6         76.9   76.7   76.7   76.4
Gross Domestic Investment     21.7   19.8   23.2   26.0   24.4         24.3   24.5   24.7   24.9
Government investment      3.8    3.3    3.0    3.1    2.4          2.0    2.0    2.2    2.2
Private Investment        15.6   12.8   14.8   16.4   18.9         22.3   22.5   22.6   22.8
Increase in Stocks         2.4    3.7    5.4    6.6    3.1          2.7    2.4    2.4    2.4
Exports (GNFS)b               16.8   30.4   32.1   30.3   31.2         31.0   32.2   32.5   33.1
Imports (GNFS)b               21.7   27.8   30.0   30.4   33.2         32.1   33.4   34.0   34.5
Gross Domestic Savings        16.9   22.5   25.3   26.0   22.4         23.1   23.3   23.3   23.6
Gross National Savingsc       14.7   19.2   22.5   24.1   20.6         21.5   21.3   21.1   21.3
Memorandum items
Gross Domestic Product    420,776 286,167 332,909 401,682 410,302   473,033 506,677 545,311 587,464
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross National Product per   4,590   3,800   3,650   3,700  3,970     4,460   4,710   5,090   5,380
Capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real Annual Growth Rates
(%, calculated from 1993
prices)
GDPatmarketprices          4.4   -6.2    5.1    6.8    4.8          3.4    4.5    5.0    5.0
Gross Domestic Income      4.5   -7.9    5.3    7.7    4.2          3.9    4.4    4.9    4.9
Real Annual per Capita
Growth Rates (%/o, calculated
from 1993 prices)
GDP at market prices       2.5   -7.8    3.3    4.9    3.1          1.0    2.7    3.1    3.1
Total Consumption          2.5  -10.0    0.1    4.1    3.6          0.3    2.3    3.0    2.6
Private Consumption        2.7  -11.1    0.5    4.6    4.6          0.5    2.2    3.0    2.3
(Continued)
31



Annex A3
Mexico
Decentralization Adjustment Loan
Key Economic Indicators (Continued)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)d
Current revenues                 22.8   22.8   23.0   23.0   20.6       21.3   21.9   21.9   21.6
Current expenditures              19.2   19.6   19.2   19.9   18.3      19.4   19.5   19.5   19.2
Current account surplus(+)        3.5    3.2    3.8    3.1    2.3        1.9    2.4    2.4    2.4
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure               3.7    3.2    3.9    3.7    3.4        3.2    3.4    3.4    3.4
Overall Balance                   -0.1    0.0    0.0   -0.7   -1.3      -1.3   -1.0   -1.0   -1.0
Monetary Indicators
M2/GDP (at current               28.6   29.1   26.5   28.4   27.2    ...    ...    ...    ...
market prices)
Growth of M2()                    19.3   31.7   25.3   34.6   14.2    ...    ...    ...
Private sector credit growth!      1.4   -0.3   -3.3   -8.4    0.3    ...    ...    ...    ...
total credit growth (%)
Price indices (1993=100)
Merchandise exportprice index    108.0  114.0  115.9  114.8  108.0    114.4  116.9  119.5  122.2
Merchandise importprice index    102.5  108.1  108.5  109.2  108.4    110.7  113.5  116.3  119.3
Merchandise terms of trade index    105.3  105.5  106.8  105.1   99.6    103:4  103.0  102.7  102.4
Realexchangerate(LCUIUS$)e       105.3  152.9  134.5  113.9  112.5    103.8  103.8  103.8  103.8
Consumer price index              7.0   35.0   34.4   20.6   15.9       15.4   10.5    9.1    7.2
(% growth rate, period average)
Consumer price index              7.1   52.0   27.7   15.7   18.6       13.0   10.0    8.0    6.0
(% growth rate, end of period)
GDP deflator                      8.3   37.9   31.0   17.7   13.8       13.2    9.7    8.0    6.0
(% growth of rate)
a. GDP components estimated at factor cost, as a % of GDP at factor cost.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services".
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital.
d. Consolidated non-financial public sector
e. "LCU" denotes "local currency units". An decrease in LCU/US$ denotes appreciation.
32



Annex A4
Mexico
Decentralization Adjustment Loan
Balance of Payments
Balance of Payments
(UIS$ m)
Exports (GNFS)a           71,184  89,207 106,779 121,701 129,387    146,680 162,916 177,498 194,644
Merchandise FOB       60,882  79,542  96,000 110,431 117,460    134,231 149,518 163,079 179,110
Imports (GNFS)8           91,616  81,454  99,700 121,608 137,859    152,056 168,999 185,217 202,633
Merchandise FOB       79,346  72,453  89,469 109,808 125,373    139,222 155,253 170,422 186,695
Resource balance         -20,432   7,753   7,079     94  -8,473     -5,376  -6,083  -7,719  -7,989
Net current transfers      3,782   3,960   4,531   5,247   6,012     5,881   6,176   6,487   6,812
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance  -29,662  -1,577  -2,330  -7,448 -15,958    -13,101 -15,908 -19,811 -21,579
(after official capital grants)
Netprivateforeigndirect   10,973   9,526   9,186  12,830  10,238    11,000  12,100  13,310  14,641
investment
Portfolio investment       1,858 -13,340   3,708   3,800   -452      1,000   1,500   2,500   3,500
Long-term loans (net)      4,630  16,344   4,442   1,440  11,443     5,046   4,554   5,328   5,355
Official                -585  10,352  -7,681  4,563    -776     -1,262    781      84    231
Private                5,214   5,992  12,123   6,003  12,219     6,308   3,773   5,244   5,124
Other capital (net, including   -4,986 -13,504 -11,184   3,312  -2,071  -769   -766   -632   -636
errors and omissions)
Net use of IMF resources  -1,204  12,144  -2,052  -3,439  -1,063    -3,147   -951    -55  -1,077
Change in gross reserves  18,391  -9,593  -1,768 -10,494  -2,137      -30   -529   -639   -204
Memorandum items
Resourcebalance(%of         -4.9    2.7    2.1    0.0   -2.1          -1.1   -1.2   -1.4   -1.4
GDP at current market
prices)
Current account balance     -7.0   -0.6   -0.7   -1.9   -3.9          -2.8   -3,1   -3.6   -3.7
(% of GDP at current
market prices)
Real annual growth rates (%)
(1993 prices)
Merchandise exports     17.3   30.6   20.7    15.0    6.4         14.2   11.4    9.1    9.8
Merchandise imports     21.4   -8.7   23.5   22.7   14.1          11.2   11.5    9.8    9.5
a. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services".
33






Annex A5
Mexico
Decentralization Adjustment Loan
Key External Debt Indicators
Total debt outstanding and     140,002 166,780 157,848 149,690 159,962    164,532 167,969 173,210 177,452
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (US$m)a        6,491  26,466  -4,843  -3,560  10,380      4,399   3,853   5,548   4,581
Total debt service (IDS)        21,941  26,886  40,792  42,452  26,778     39,072  39,342  37,025  47,310
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(0/6)
(%)C
TDO/XGSb                     187.5   179.6   142.2   118.3   118.5      107.8    99.3    94.1    88.1
TDO/GDP                       33.3    58.3    47.4    37.3    39.0       34.8    33.2    31.8    30.2
TDS/XGSb                      29.4    28.9    36.7    33.5    19.8       25.6    23.3    20.1    23.5
IBR3D exposure indicators (%)
lBRDDS/publicDS               15.0    13.8     8.1     6.6    11.8        9.2      8.7    11.2     8.8
Preferred creditor/           30.9    27.4    19.5    20.9    24.7       36.6    25.8    18.0    18.3
public DS (%)C
IBRD DS/XGSb                   2.7     2.6     2.1      1.7     1.5       1.4      1.3     1.1     1.1
IBRDTDO(US$m)               13,475  14,295  13,078  11,906  12,109     11,233  11,839  12,040  12,548
Present value              437     472     510     550     595        429      116       0       0
of guarantees (UJS$m)
ShareofIBRDportfolio(%)       11.9    12.0    11.5    10.5      9.3       8.5     8.6      8.5     8.6
IFC (US$m)
Loans                         534      550     528     495     338      ...     ...     ...      ...
Equity and quasi-equitye        51      57      65      76      78      ...     ...     ...
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMl credits and net short-term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional mltilateral development banks, the IMF, and the Bank of
International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.
35






Annex A6
Mexico
External Financing Requirement and Projected Sources of Financing
(in millions of U.S. dollars)
Financing requirements:
1. Current Account Deficit                            7,072             15,908             19,811
2. External Debt Amortizationa                       19,869             18,438             13,898
a. Public and Publicly Guaranteed                  10,207             10,989              6,384
of which IMF                                     2,998               2,894                52
of which IBRD                                      698               1,368              1,294
b. Private                                          9,662              7,449              7,514
3. Change in gross reserves (-decline)                   11                529                639
4. Gross Financing Requirements                      26,951             34,875             34,349
(1 + 2 + 3)
Sources of Financing:
5. Private Investment Flows (Net)                     6,061             13,600             15,81 D
6. External Debt Contracteda                         20,890             21,275             18,539
Public and Publicly Guaranteed                      8,490             11,275              5,539
Multilateral and Bilateral Gross                    3,418              4,936              2,508
Disbursements
of which MF                                       2,100              2,100                  0
of which IBRD                                       362              2,090              1,924
Private Creditors                                   5,072              6,339              3,032
Private Non-Guaranteeda                            12,400             10,000             13,000
7. Total Sources of Financing                        26,951             34,875             34,349
(5+6)
a. Includes short-term external debt amortization and refinancing during 1999-2nd half and part of 2000, except for
interbank credit lines of the commercial banking sector of an amount of US$ 15,524 millions.
Source: Bank staff estimates, SHCP.
37






Annex A7
Mexico
Decentralization Adjustment Loan
Total Debt Flows and Stock with IBRD
(US$ million)
Debt Outstanding            14,951  13,322  12,251  11,363  11,540      11,858  11,942  12,190
of which guarantees         462    499    539    572    424             429    116        0
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)   13.3   11.9   11.3    9.8    9.2             9.0    8.6    8.5
Comllmitments                2,387    527    485   1,767    950          1,700   1,900   1,500
Disbursements                1,113   1,473    943   1,024   1,309        1,698   1,740   1,667
Repayments                   1,223   1,461   1,363   1,268   1,285       1,385   1,343   1,302
Net Disbursements             -110      12   -421   -244       24          314    396    364
Interest                       948    937    892    750    816             789    814    841
Net Transfer                -1,058   -925  -1,313   -994   -793           -475   -417   -476
1/ As per information available as of December 1999
Source: Bank staff estimates
39






Mexico
Decentralization Adjustment Loan
Status of Bank Group Operations in Mexico
Operations Portfolio
As of 23-Nov-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual                  Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                              disbursements a/        Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year                 Borrower                           Purpose
IBRD       IDA       Cancel.      Undisb.       Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 121
Active Projects
MX-PE--7667      1992   NAFINSA                            IRRIG SCTR                              400.00        0.00         0.00        30.70        80.70         4.00      S           S
MX-PE-7723       1993   BANOBRAS                           HWY RHB & SAFETY                        480.00        0.00         0.00        84.20        42.60        0.00       S           S
MX-PE-7648       1993   BANOBRAS                          MEDIUM CITIES TRANSP                     200.00        0.00        23.00       113.70       123.00       47.10       S           S
MX-PE-7725       1994   NAFIN                              PRIM.EDUC.II                            412.00        0.00         0.00       110.30       154.30       93. 30      HS          S
MX-PE-7710       1994   BANOBRAS                           N. BORDER I ENVIRONM                    368.00        0.00         0.00        65.40       306.40       39.30       S           S
MX-PE-7707       1994   BANOBRAS                           WATER/SANIT II                          350.00         0.00        0.00       171.50       171.50         0.00      S           S
MX-PE-7701       1994   NAFIN                              ON-FARM & MINOR IRRI                    200.00         0.00        0.00        60.40        85.40       13.70       S           S
MX-PE-7612       1994   BANOBRAS                           SOLID WASTE  II                         200.00         0.00       53.10          1.50       -4.50         1.50      S           S
MX-PE-34490      1995   NAFIN                              TECH EDU/TRAING                         265.00         0.00        0.00       142.70       170.00         6.30      S           S
MX-PE-41811      1995   NAFINSA                            FINANCIAL SEC T.A. SUPPLM                14.00        0.00         0.00         9.80         0.00        0.00       f
MX-PE-7702       1995   SEDESOL                            SECOND DECENTRALZTN                     500.00         0.00        0.00       144.10       144.10      126.70       S           U
MX-PE-7713       1996   GOM                                WATER RESOURCES MANA                    187.00         0.00        0.00       152.70        44.80         6.20      S           s
MX-PE-7689       1996   NAFIN                              BASIC HLTH II                           310.00         0.00        0.00       164.00        89.20       64.30       HS          MS
. MX-PE-7732       1997   GOVERNMENT                         RURAL FIN. MKTS T.A.                     30.00         0.00        0.00         28.30       26.00        12.30      U           U
MX-PE-7726       1997   GOVERNMENT                         AQUACULTURE                              40.00         0.00        0.00         39.10        8.80         0.00      U           U
MX-PE-7700       1997   GOVT OF MEXICO                     COMMUNITY FORESTRY                       15.00         0.00        0.00          9.30        1.30         0.00      S           S
MX-PE-43163      1997   BANOBRAS                           FEDERAL ROADS MODZTN                    475.00         0.00        0.00       475.00       146.70         0.00      HU          U
MX-PE-55061      1998   BANOBRAS                           HLTH.SYSTEM REF. TA                      25.00         0.00        0.00        23.00         6.40         0.00       S          S
MX-PE-49895      1998   MINISTRY OF FINANCE                HIGHER ED. FINANCING                    180.00         0.00        0.00       180.20        23.90         0.00      S           S
MX-PE-44531      1998   GOM                                KNOWLEDGE & INNOV.                      300.00         0. 00       0.00       278.70         4.10         0.00      S           S
MX-PE-40199      1998   MEXICAN GOVERNMENT                 BASIC EDC. DEV.                         115.00         0.00        0.00        99.90         8.40         0.00      S           S
MX-PE-7720       1998   8ANOBRAS                           HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM                    700.00         0.00        0.00       350.00       116.70         0.00      S           S
MX-PE-7711       1998   NAFIN                              RURAL DEV. MARG.AREA                     47.00         0. 00       0.00         41.50       12.20         0.00      S           S
MX-PE-48505      1999   NAFIN                              AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT                    444.00         0.00        0.00       366.00        11.90         0.00      5           S
MX-PE-7610       1999   BANOBRAS                           FOVI RESTRUCTURING                      505.00         0.00        0.00       505.00       161.70         0. 00     S           S
Total                                                                                            6,762.00         0.00       76.10    3,637.00   1,935.60         414.70
Active Projects c/    Closed Projects c/          Total c/
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                2,460.79            21,404.70              23,865.49
of which has been repaid:                  122.08           12,731.48               12,853.56
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                5,543.73             9,173.74              14,717.47
Amount sold                                         0.00               92.34                   92.34
Of which repaid               :                  0.00               92.34                   92.34
Total Undisbursed                 :            3,205.02                52.82               3,257.84
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP) , a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory,
HU - highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
c. As of 31-Oct-99,
00






Annex A9
Mexico
Decentralization Adjustment Loan
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Aug-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                               Disbursed
IFC                                     IFC
FY Approval                  Company              Loan     Equity    Quasl    Partic      Loan      Equity    Quasi    Partic
198891192/93/95            Apasco                          14.40      0.00      0.00     57.60      14.40      0.00      0.00     57.60
1994/96/98                  Aurum-Heller                     0.00      0.82      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.82      0.00      0.00
1998                        Ayvi                            10.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
1990/92/96                  BANAMEX                        100.00      0.00      0.00     71.06     44.33       0.00      0.00     71.06
1997                        Banco Bilbao MXC                80.00      0.00     30.00      0.00     76.10       0.00     30.00      0.00
1992                        Banorte-SABROZA                  3.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.00       0.00      0.00      0 00
1995/96                     Baring Mex FMC                   0.00      0.03      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.02      0.00      0 00
1995/99                     Baring Venture                   0.00      2.73      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
1998                        CIMA Mexico                      0.00      4.80      0.00      0.00       0.00      4.80      0.00      0.00
1998                        CIMAPuebla                       7.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       3.50      0.00      0.00      0.00
1994                        CTAPV                            4.18      0.00      2.53      0.00      4.18       0.00      2.53      0.00
1997                        Comercializadoma                 3.50      0.00      2.50      7.50      3.50       0.00      2.50      7.50
1990/91                     Condumex                         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1993                        Derivados                        4.40      0.00      0.00      6.02      4.40       0.00      0.00      6.02
1997                        Fondo Chiapas                    0.00      5.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.31      0.00      0.00
1998                        Foria Monterrey                 13.00      3.00      0.00      13.00     13.00      3.00      0.00     13.00
1991/96                     GIBSA                           24.34      0.00     10.00     81.86      24.34      0.00     10.00     81.86
1993                        GIDESA                           8.75      8.00      0.00     12.75       8.75      8.00      0.00     12.75
1996                        GIRSA                           27.00      0.00      9.29    110.00      27.00      0.00      9.29    110.00
1993                        GOTM                             1.09      0.00      0.00      0.66       1.09      0.00      0.00      0.66
1997/98                     Gen. Hipotecaria                 0.00      1.20      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
1998                        Grupo Calidra                   12.00      6.00      0.00     10.00      12.00      6.00      0.00     10.00
1989                        Grupo FEMSA                      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
1997                        Grupo Minsa                     20.00     10.00      0.00     30.00     20.00      10.00      0.00     30.00
1992/93/95196/99            Crupo Posadas                    0.00     15.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      15.00      0.00      ).00
1992/96/97/98               Grupo Probursa                   0.00      1.32      0.00      0.00      0.00       1.32      0.00      D.00
1998                        Grupo Sanfandila                10.00      0.00      0.00      5.00      6.67       0.00      0.00      3.33
1994                       Interceramic                     10.00      0.00      6.00      7.00      10.00      0.00      6.00      7.00
1993                        Masterpak                        4.80      0.00      0.00      6.48      4.80       0.00      0.00      6.48
1998                        Merida III                      30.00      0.00      0.00     73.95      22.42      0.00      0.00     55.28
1984/87194/96               Metalsa                          0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1995/99                     Mexplus Puertos                  0.00      1.41      0.00      0.00      0.00       1.41      0.00      0.00
1996                        NEMAK                            0.00      0.00      6.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      6.00      0.00
1990                        Petrocel                         2.60      0.00      1.20       1.40      2.60      0.00      1.20      1.40
1998                        Punta Langosta                   4.00      1.00      0.00      7.00       2.76      1.00      0.00      4.84
1988/94/95                  Sigma                            0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997                        TMA                              4.87      0.00      0.00      9.60      4.87       0.00      0.00      9.60
1992                        Toluca Toll Road                 7.39      0.00      0.00      0.00       7.39      0.00      0.00      0.00
1991/92                     Vitro                            0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
1991                        Vitro Flotado                    8.26      0.00      0.00      3.45       8.26      0.00      0.00      3.45
1998                        ZN Mxc Eqty Fund                 0.00     25.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:                      414.58     85.31     67.52    514.33    329.36      51.68     67.52    431.83
Approvals Pending Comnmitment
l,an     Eadtv      O"asi    Partic
1997                        ALTAMIRA                        17.80      0.00      1.00     38.00
1999                        BANAMEX LRP II                  50.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999                        BARINGBMPEFFMC                   0.00      0.06      0.00      0.00
1998                        CIMA HERMOSILLO                  7.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999                        CORSA                           13.00      3.00      0.00      0.00
1999                        GRUPO POSADAS V                 25.00      0.00     10.00     35.00
1999                        NEMAK RI                         0.00      0.00      0.70      0.00
2000                        NEMAK RI n                       0.00      0.00      0.83       0.00
Total Pending Comnmitment:                 112.80      3.06      12.53     73.00
43






Annex B
Policy Commitments on Environment-related Performance Agreements
Explanatory Note
First Tranche:   Inclusion in the federal budget submission for fiscal year 2000 of a pari-
passu program, acceptable to the World Bank, in support of '7performance
agreements" between the federal and state governments to elicit
improvements in state-level legal frameworks for environmental protection
and development of the states' environment-related institutions.
Second Tranche:   Overall progress under the Government's Decentralization Program  as
specified in the letter of Development Policy is satisfactory to the World
Bank.
1.    Background/Rationale. As a new administrative sector in Mexico, the environment is so
far less decentralized or deconcentrated than the traditional sectors of health, education
agriculture or infrastructure. In spite of some progress in the legal-regulatory environment,' the
responsibilities of each level of government could not, to a large extent, be implemented in
practice. The states must still adapt and adjust their legal environment to the new decentralized
environment that is being put in place at the federal level. As in other sectors of the Mexican
administration, further progress in decentralization requires, as a sine qua non condition, the
strengthening of inter-government monitoring and reporting procedures and practices for which
the federal government and the states are not yet prepared. Besides further definition of
responsibilities, inter-government coordination mechanisms are urgently required for
identification of priorities, co-financing and evaluation of shared responsibilities. State and
municipal administrations often lack the necessary technical and management capacity for
environmental protection matters.
2.    SEMARNAP has put forward a proposal for the creation of state environmental funds.
Besides being a financing mechanism, these funds would play a significant role in inter-
government coordination through co-financing and strengthening capacity in the areas of
planning, monitoring, reporting and evaluation.2 Theparipassu program that will be included in
the federal budget for FYOO and supported by the DAL will help prepare the ground for the state
environmental funds. It will introduce an incentive for institutional development at the sub-
national level, geared towards the states' development of an adequate regulatory environment,
training and technical capacity building, and monitoring and reporting for inter-government
evaluation and coordination. Since the institutional development needs vary from state to state,
the incentive offered by the federal government will consist of core instruments and activities for
environmental management and a menu of institutional development options from which the
states will choose. Institutional development priorities identified by the states themselves will
then be aligned with those of the federal government and negotiated with SEMARNAP in terms
of specific performance and impact indicators.
1. In particular, LGEEPA and Ley Forestal.
2. See "Propuesta de un Mecanismo de Financiamiento para la Gesti6n Ambiental Local. Resumen Ejecutivo."
SEMARNAP, September 21, 1999.
45



Annex B
3.    As part of the strategy for establishing and financing the state environmental Funds, it is
also contemplated that SHCP may agree to the implementation of a gasoline surcharge by the
states on a voluntary basis, as an instrument to enhance states' revenue earning capacity for the
environment. If, as requested by SEMARNAP, SHCP (ingresos) agrees that the states can
implement such surcharge (of no rnore than Mex$ 0.04 per liter) on the gasoline excise tax, the
pari passu agreement will require that participating states effectively apply this surcharge and
apply its revenues to the proposed state environmental funds. If this is indeed the case, the
additional state revenues earmarked for the environment will be made part of the inter-
government agreements, the implementation, and the impact evaluation of this pari passu
programs.
4.    In terms of connection with broader institutional development strategies for
decentralization of environmental protection services, the pari passu program will directly
contribute to the objectives of thie "Programa de Manejo Ambiental y Descentralizaci6n",
PROMAD, as developed by SEMARNAP with support from the World Bank. That objective is
to build efficient and effective environmental management systems by strengthening capacity at
the federal, regional and local levels and mobilizing additional resources for the sector. Seen in
connection with other institutional development objectives of this DAL, the pari passu program
for the environment sector will facilitate collection and reporting of regional and local data on
decentralization and inter-governrment coordination, as required by SHCP's Decentralization
Committee. The program will also stimulate confidence building and negotiations among levels
of government.
5.    Expected Impact. The pati passu is a pilot to demonstrate what a relatively small
incentive can achieve in terms of mobilizing additional resources, strengthening capacity and
developing ownership for sustainable institutional development at the state level. The incentive
will be a one-time matching grant contribution from the federal government, targeted on key
measures that eliminate bottlenecks or otherwise further institutional development for
decentralization of environmental protection. The agreement by SHCP that the states can
implement a gasoline surcharge on a voluntary basis would be an additional incentive for the
states to sustain their effort in addressing environmental priority issues after the one-time support
is over. As a one-time action for achieving institutional development objectives goals, the
sustainability and medium term impact of the pari passu will depend on further actions that
consolidate the decentralized/deconcentrated institutional framework envisioned in Mexico. As a
pilot program, this pari passu will provide lessons on institutional capacity building for
decentralization and inter-government coordination. It will also provide lessons as to the size and
cost-effectiveness of incentives for inter-government negotiation of priorities through pari passu
programs.
6.   Implementation. The SHCP will include in the budget bill for FY00 a program that offers
matching resources to states that agree with SEMARNAP on reaching specific institutional
development benchmarks, and reach them. This pari passu program will be specified in the
budget, and detailed regulations issued by SEMARNAP in January 2000 will specify the
institutional development objectives that can be financed, the amount of federal resources
available, the rules of access by the states, the corresponding matching contributions required
from the states, and the indicators to measure state performance and impact of the program.
46



AnnexB
7.    Once the program is approved as part of the budget for FY00 (December 31, 1999, at the
latest), SEMARNAP will sign agreements with the states whereby the individual institutional
development objectives, the matching contributions, the various other commitments for the
implementation of the program (as indicated above), and the evaluation indicators for each state
program will be specified in detail.
8.    Since the pari passu program is being introduced for the first time in FY2000, and it
requires preparatory activities at the state level before the states actually sign the inter-
government agreement, it is expected that only a limited number of states will be in a position to
participate during the first year.
9.    The federal contribution to each individual state will occur only once, afler the state has
signed the inter-government agreement and otherwise demonstrated its commitment to the
program. Indicators of satisfactory progress, for the DAL second tranche commitment, are: (i)
publication by SEMARNAP of the Operational Manual of the pari-passu program, and (ii)
preparatory work performed at the federal and state level for signing of the agreement between
SEMARNAP and the participating states. Preparatory work for signing the pari passu
agreement is necessary at the state level as participating states commit themselves to: a) up-
dating of the state environmental legislation and regulatory framework; b) executing actions
leading to capacity building at the sub-national level; c) issuing state environmental action plans
that spell out the state's environmental, institutional, and investment priorities; d) creating a state
environmental fund; e) allocating resources for the state financial contribution to the
environmental fund to match the pari passu program, possibly including proceeds from the
gasoline tax surcharge, the state's other own resources, donations and grants, private sector
contributions, or municipal participation.
10.   During FY00 SEMARNAP will monitor and evaluate the performance and impact of this
pari passu program and will pursue further institutional development strategies at the state level
that capitalize on the results of this pari passu. As part of its monitoring responsibilities,
SEMARNAP will report to the SHCP on the performance and impact indicators and will submit
an evaluation of this federal spending program.
11.   Supervision. Supervision of compliance with this commitment will be in two phases: (i)
inclusion of the pari passu in the budget bill for FY00; (ii) monitoring and evaluation of progress
between the first and second tranches of the DAL on the basis of the number of inter-government
performance agreements signed, disbursement of federal matching funds and preparation of
SEMARNAP for monitoring and evaluation of the program.
12.   Stakeholders.  The GOM-SHCP, insofar as evaluation and rationalization of fiscal
transfers and public expenditure efficiency is concerned. The GOM-SEMARNAP, as it is highly
committed to advancing PROMAD and other strategies for strengthening capacity with a view to
decentralization of the environment sector. The GOM, both SHCP and SEMARNAP, as the two
secretaries are committed to strengthening inter-sector coordination for enhancing efficiency in
public expenditure through decentralization. The sub-national entities that are demanding
additional resources, incentives and technical assistance that enable them to assume new
responsibilities for the protection of the environment.  Civil society organizations and
communities concerned with a more participatory and decentralized approach to environmental
47



Annex B
protection. Other federal and state secretaries that will closely observe the performance of this
pilot paripassu to draw lessons for decentralization in other sectors.
13.   Risks and RiskMitigation. There is always the risk of the incentives being insufficient to
mobilize the active commitment of the states. This risk is already being minimized through the
participation of the states in the selection of their own institutional development priorities.
Besides, SEMARNAP has for somne time been working with the states on and announcing
support for institutional development at the state level.
14.   The risk of SEMARNAP not actively promoting, monitoring and rigorously evaluating
the pari passu is highly mitigated by the demonstrated commitment of the present SEMARNAP
administration to decentralize the sector effectively and to put in place mechanisms for inter-
government reporting and coordination.
15.   The risk of the federal congress rejecting the government proposed pari passu program -
although it exists-is estimated as low.
48



Annex C
Policy Commitment on Health-related Performance Agreements
Explanatory Note
First tranche:   Inclusion in the federal budget submission for fiscal year 2000 of a pari-
passu program, acceptable to the World Bank, in support of "performance
agreements" between the federal and state governments to foster
institutional development (training and monitoring capacity) at the state
level that can facilitate the expansion of basic health coverage under the
Programa de Ampliacion de Cobertura (PAC).
Second tranche:   Overall progress under the Government's Decentralization Program as
specified in the letter of Development Policy is satisfactory to the World
Bank.
1   Background and Rationale. As part of the process of government decentralization, the
federal government has made significant transfers to states and municipalities. Some, such as
revenue sharing (ramo 28) are block grants. Others are earmarked for specific purposes, such as
education and health.  These earmarked transfers are not always supported by effective
mechanisms for monitoring and evaluation. Therefore the federal government often lacks the
necessary information to evaluate and adjust earmarked transfers and transfer mechanisms,
develop adequate sector regulations or otherwise strengthen inter-government coordination.
Neither is the federal government in a position to determine whether states are fully capable of
performing the functions that have been decentralized to them.
2.   The decentralization of health services in Mexico can be best characterized as a devolution
of some revenues and responsibilities to state and municipal governments, with continued
predominant federal control over policies and programs. One of the principal objectives of the
current administration is to extend basic health services to the estimated 10 million people who
lack either access to public health facilities. and health insurance. To achieve this goal, the
Government's Health Sector Reform Program 1995-2000 defines a package of 13 low-cost,
high-impact interventions, termed the Paquete Basico de Servicios de Salud (PBSS). These are
to be delivered by state health workers in 19 target states, with funding from the federal Program
for the Expansion of Coverage (PAC). (A complementary program-el Programa de Municipio
Saludable-is now operating in 1,306 of the 2,426 municipios in the country.) To monitor
progress toward universal coverage, the federal Secretariat of Health (SSA), with the support of
the Panamerican Health Organization/World Health Organization (PAHO/WHO), has devised a
system of 39 indicators which will measure the quality and quantity of basic health services in
each target state. PAHO/WHO will be responsible for officially certifying states that have
achieved the universal coverage target.
3.   One of the main weaknesses in the implementation of the PAC is a deficiency in the
specific skills required to deliver the PBSS effectively.  To address this deficiency, the
government intends to establish a matching grant program (pari-passu) to finance training,
monitoring, reporting, and institutional development. The training program will cover technical
and managerial aspects of PBSS delivery, as well methods for monitoring and reporting PAC
impacts.
49



Annex C
4.   Expected Impact.   The proposed pari-passu program  will strengthen participant
subnational governments' capacity to deliver the PBSS. A required state capacity-building plan
will stimulate regional ownership of partially devolved responsibilities and provide the basis for
increasing state autonomy in planning and execution of health programs. Training in monitoring
and reporting will enhance inter-government coordination and extend capacity and ownership of
the PAC at local and community levels. Monitoring and reporting on actual PBS service actions
and impact indicators will further elevate the PAC goals in terms of coverage and range of
services. The pari-passu program will be selectively offered to a few PAC-participating states,
as a pilot program that can be extended to other states later on. Strengthening the PAC will help
it achieve its goal of improving the access of the poor to health care services.
5.  Implementation. Federal finds allocated to this program will be specified in the budget
bill for FY00. Eligibility requirements, criteria, and formula for distribution will be specified as
part of the publication of all pari-passu rules and state-by-state allocation due for second tranche
disbursement. The federal matching funds will be distributed to states in two tranches during
fiscal year 2000: the first tranche upon signature of the pari-passu agreement, the second upon
satisfactory completion of the commitments stated in the performance agreement. Signature of
the pari-passu agreement will inter alia require each state to present an institutional
strengthening plan for the health sector for FY2000. (Terms of reference have been prepared by
SSA and are in the project files.)
6.   Supervision. For first tranche, the Bank will review the inclusion of this new pari-passu
program in SSA's budget bill for FY2000. For second tranche, program specifications must be
acceptable to the Secretariats of Finance (SHCP) and Health (SSA) and the World Bank. The
Bank will review the pari-passu agreements signed with individual states and the initial flow of
funds to participating states.
7.   Stakeholders. The Secretariat of Finance is a major stakeholder in this activity, given its
interest in evaluating and rationalizing fiscal transfers and in improving the overall efficiency of
public expenditure. The Secretariat of Health is a second stakeholder, given its interest in
strengthening health service delivery. The states have a stake in strengthening their own
capacity for service delivery and coordinating with the federal and municipal governments and
civil society.
8.   Risks andRiskMitigation. There is some risk that states might divert funds from this pari-
passu program to ongoing training and personnel costs, rather than the allocating them to its
intended purpose. This risk will be mitigated in three ways.
9a.   First, SSA will explicitly warn the states and make it explicit in the pari-passu agreement
that this is a one-time program aimed at achieving universal coverage in the year 2000;
9b.   Second, SSA will enforce the requirement that each state present a plan for institutional
development, monitoring and reporting;
9c.   Finally, SSP will commit itself to monitor and evaluate the program's impact on coverage
and on the range of Paquete Basico de Servicios offered through the PAC. The World
Bank is prepared to finance and provide technical assistance for the design and
implementation such a monitoring and evaluation mechanism.
50



G.H 1
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO
PUBLICO
Oficio 101.-  -
SECRETARIA
CE
HuACIENOA ' CRO1TO PUSLICO               MkxicoD.F.a 26 de noviembre de 1999
Sr. James D. Wolfensohn
Presidente
Banco Mundial
Washington. D.C. 20433
Estados Unidos
Estimado Sr. Wolfensohn;
En relaci6n con el prestamo en apoyo al Programa de Fortalecimiento a Estados y Municipios a
ser contratado con el Banco Muniial (8M), mediante el cual se apoyara el prooeso de
descentralizaci6n que se ileva a cabo, me permito hacer de su conocimiento algunos aspectos
relevantes de ia economta mexicana, asl como de la politica macroecon6mica seguida por el
Gobiemo de Mexico, en particular de las acciones realizadas y las que se llevar6n a cabo para
continuar con el proceso de descentralizaci6n,
i. Situaci6n Macroecon6mica
En los uiltimos anos, la economf a mexicana ha logrado mantener la recuperaci6n y
consolidaci6n de las bases para el desarrollo sostenido y con estabilidad de precios gracias a la
aplicaci6n de un programo economico sustentado en la disciplina fiscal y monetaraa, asi como
en el sano financiamiento del deficit de la cuenta corriente y los oportunos ajustes en el gasto
p6blico. Asimismo, se ha llevado a cabo un programa de reformas estructurales, que incluye la
desincorporaci6n de aeropuertos y ferrocarriles: reformas al sistema financiero y al sistema de
seguridad social, en particular al sistema de pensiones.
Estas acciones han influido en el compoftamiento de diversas variables macroecon6micas. El
crecimiento del Producto Intemo Bruto (PIB) registr6 un crecimiento anual promedio de 5.6 por
ciento en el periodo 1996-1998. Para 1999 se estima que podria registrarse un crecimiento
ligeramente superior al 3 por ciento. a pesar de las condiciones intemacionales adversas como
son ta desaceleraci6n en la tasa de crecimiento de Estados Unidos, la volatilidad de los precios
del petr6leo y el limitado acceso a los mercados de capital. Con base en el mantenimiento del
programs econ6mico de la actual Administraci6n, para el afto 2000 el crecimiento del PIB
podria alcanzar un nivel de entre el 4 y el 5 por ciento.
Por otra parte, en 1998 y 1999 el Banco de Mexico ha aplicado en diversas ocasiones una
politics monetaria restrictiva con el fin de contrarrestar el efecto inflacionario de la depreciaci6n
del tipo de cambio producido por eventos eXtemos desfavorables. Por ello, a pesar de los
efectos negativos de la volatilidad de los mercados financieros intemacionales sobre el regimen
de tipo de cambio flexible, la tasa de inflaci6n en los (ittimos afios ha caldo por debajo de la
inflaci6\n observada en 1996 (27.7 por ciento), alcanzando 18.6 pOr ciento en 1998. La
tendencia decreciente en la tasa de inflaci6n continuar6 en 1999, ano en que se espera
terminar muy cerca de la meta programada del 13%, mientras que para el anio 2000 se proyecta
en 10 por ciento.
51



G.H. 1
SCRETARIA
OE
4ACIENOA Y CAEOITO PJBLICO
Por su parte, la cuenta corriente presento en 1998 un deficit de 3.5 pOr ciento del PIS, cifra que
se estima en 2.2 por ciento para fines del aho en curso y 3.2 por ciento para el 2000.
Aproximadamente tres cuartas partes del financiamiento de este deficit proviene de inversi6n
extranjera directa, lo que permite mayor estabilidad a las cuentas extemas. Asimismo, con el
sustancial recorte de Jos gastos piblicos en 1998, que represento el 0.7 por ciento del PIB
derivado de la caida de los ingresos petroleros, se mantuvo el deficit publico en 1.25 por ciento
del producto, y se espera mantenerlo por debajo de esa cifra en 1999 y cerca de 1.0 por ciento
en el afio 2000.
Conjuntamente con el mantenirniento de un programa economico s6lido, el Gobiemo Mexicano
ha otorgado especial atenc!6n al desarrollo de los sectores sociales. En este sentido, a pesar
de las restricciones presupuestales impuestas en los ujttimos anos, y auin con los ajustes
importantes de gasto que se efectuaron en 1998, el Gobierno ha incrementado, como
proporci6n del proclucto, el gasto publico destinado a salud, educaci6n, capacitaci6n, seguridad
social, servicios basicos como aqua potable, drenaje, eiectricidad y apoyo para areas rurales.
En 1998 casi 60 por ciento del gasto federal se destino a programas sociales, manteniendo esta
tendencia en 1999 y se estima que continuara en el 2000.
Por otra parte, se tomaron medidas para fortalecer el sistema bancario mexicano. Se creo el
Instituto de Proteccion at Ahorro Bancario (IPAB) y se est6 ajustando el marco regulatorio del
sistema financiero. El IPAB emiti6 regulaciones que limitan la cobertura del seguro de
dep6sitos bancarios e inici6 programas para eliminar los activos improductivos y convertir los
bonos vencidos en valores negociables. Como acci6n complementaria se esta fortaleciendo el
regimen regulatorio de los bancos, de manera que se incluya el uso de estandares mAs en linea
con los intemacionales para la definicion del capRal.
Cabe sefialar que nuestro proposito es mantener la linea de la politica macroecon6mica actual,
enfatizando la disciplina fiscal y la reducci6n de la inflaci6n con el fin de asegurar la estabilidad
econ6mica durante la transici6n politica que experimentara nuestro pais en el aino 2000.
It. Politica de Descentralizacion
A partir de estos avances y con el prop6sito de consolidar las bases para alcanzar un
crecimiento sostenido y distribuir responsabilidades en los distintos niveles de gobiemo, en los
ultimos anos se ha llevado a cabo un amplio proceso de descentralizaci6n. Ademas del
tradicional sistema de participaciones utilizado deade 1980, el Gobiemo Mexicano ha delegado
a los estados la responsabilidad sobre educacion y salud asf como sus correspondientes
transferencias; asimismo, se han aumentado las transferencias a loS municipios  Esto ha
favorecido a las entidades ya que ahora tienen la capacidad de predecir el monto de sus
recursog y c6mo distnbuirlos.
2
52



SECRETARIA
OE
HACIENDA Y CREDITO PU8LICO
Esto se logr6 mediante la adecuaci6n de la Ley de Coordinaci6n Fiscal con el fin de que los
gobiernos subnacionales respondan mAs adecuadamente a las necesidades locales. Asimismo
se amplih, como parte del Presupuesto Federal, el Ramo 33 (Aportaciones Federales para
Entidades Federativas y Municipios), mediante el cual se han fortalecido las haciendas locales y
se ha avanzado en lo establecido en el Programa para un Nuevo Federalismo, en materia de
coordinaci6n hacendaria y de descentralizaci6n fiscal.
Este Ramo esta conformado por siete fondos:
1, Fondo de Aportaciones pars la Educacion Basica y Normal
2. Fondo de Aportaciones para los Servicios de Salud
3. Fondo de Aportaciones para la lnfraestructura Social
3.1 Fondo de Aportaciones para la Infraestructura Social Estatal
3.2 Fondo de Aportaciones para la Infraestructura Social Municipal
4. Fondo de Aportac*ones para el Fortalecimiento Municipal
5, Fondo de Aportaciones Miltiples
5.1 Asistencia Social
5.2 Infraestructura Educativa
6. Fondo de Aportaciones para la Educaci&n Tecnol6gica y de Adultos
7. Fondo de Apartaciones para la Seguridad Publica
En general, los recursos otorgados a estados y municipios se distribuyen conforme a criterios
claros y transparentes, y en los casos de infraestructura social, fortalecimiento municipal y
seguridad pWblica, de acuerdo a f6rmulas que consideran factores como la poblaci6n objetivo y
el grado de marginaci6n. De esta frima, se asegura la transparencia en la distribuci6n y
destino de los recursos, y se evita su transferencia discrecional.
De esta manera se institucionaliz6 una via complementaria para el traslado del gasto federal a
los gobiernos estatales y municipales, asumiendo el Gobiemo de Ia Repcablica el compromiso
de fortalecer el proceso de descentralizaci6n con lo cual se avanza hacia una mejor distribuci6n
de recursos y responsabilidades en los tres niveles de gobiemo. Cabe senialar que en 1994, de
cada peso del Presupuesto Federal ejercido pOr la Federaci6n, 51 centavos correspondian a
gasto ejercido por estados y municipios, mientras que a la fecha esa proporci6n se aproxima a
I peso con 43 centavas y en el presupuesto para el pr6ximo ato se espera que aumente en
seis centavos mis.
Como resultado de estos esfuerzos, se ha logrado disminuir considerablemente el nuimero de
Estados con deficit primario y financiero, y consecuentemente una reducci6n en el saldo de la
deuda puiblica total asi como del impacto de la deuda sobre el ingreso total de los estados. Es
importante destacar que en ttrrninos reales la deuda estatal total disminuy6 23.5% durante el
penodo 1l994-1999, y salvo en el caso de 3 excepciones, la deuda real disminuy6 en todas las
entidades. Asimismo, se increment6 el n(imero de entidades federafivas que reforn6 o
actualizo el marco juridico de las finanzas pCsblicas contando la mayoria de elias con Ley de
Deuda Publica, Ley de Presupuesto e informes trimestrales de flnanzas p6blicas.
3                                 53



Gh. 
SECRETARA
DE
HIACIENDA Y CAENTO PUBLfCO
Cabe senialar que la actual Administraci6n continua trabajando, en la agenda de'la estrategia de
descentralizaci6n para los pr6ximos anios con el fin de ampliar y profundizar dicho proceso.
Algunas medidas solo se podrian Ilevar a cabo en el mediano plazo. por lo cual serfa facultad
de la pr6xima Administracion. Las reformas que se instrumentaran en el corto plazo persiguen
cuatro objetivos principales~ i) incrementar aun mas la transparencia en la asignaci6n de
transferencias a estados y municipios; ii) establecer un esquema de endeudamiento
subnacional que promueva el endeudamiento responsable y prudente de estados y municipios:
iii) aumentar la transparencia y responsabilidad de los gobiernos subnacionales respecto a las
finanzas publicas; y iv) desarrollo institucional que permita mejorar la administraci6n y
coordinaci6n entre los distintos niveles de gobiemo.
Transparencia en la asignaci6n de recursos. La estrategia elimina casi por completo las
transferencias discrecionales con el fin de aumentar la transparencia en la asignaci6n de
recursos a los gobiemos subnacionales y mantener la estabilidad fiscal a nivel federal. Como
parte de este esfuerzo, se reorganizaron los recursos para cubrir gastos de emergencias en un
fondo con reglas claramente establecidas para disponer de los recursos s6lo en caso de
desastres naturales y evitar el flujo de transferencias discrecionales. Con esta estrategia, se
incentivara a los estados y municipios a asignar el gasto publico de manera mrAs adecuada. En
1999 las transferencias discrecionales representaron menos del 0,15 por ciento del gasto total y
para el aiio 2000 se espera mantenerlas por debajo de dicha cifra.
Esquema de endeudamiento subnacional. Un elemento central sera la introducci6n de un
esquema de endeudamiento subnacional basado en mecanismos de mercado que incentive un
comportamiento prudente entre las instituciones financieras otorgantes de crddito y los
gobiernos subnacionales como tomadores del mismo. El esquema de endeudamiento requerirA
la calificaci6n de la deuda subnacional por parte de dos agencias calificadoras, autonzadas por
las dependencias regulatorias y de supervisi6n. De acuerdo con estas calificaciones se
establecerA Is tasa de capitalizaci6n ai crudito otorgado por los bancos. De esta forma se
incentivari la adecuada evaluaci6n de riesgos entre proyectos y entidades federativas. y por
consiguiente, Ia correspondiente diferenciaci6n del precio del credito. Del mismo modo, se
promovera que la inversi6n p(iblica subnacional se destine a proyectos de alta rentabilidad
economica y se identifique la fuente de pago del financiamiento.
Con estos elementos se fomentari un mayor rigor en el anilisis de la situaci6n financiera de las
entidades estatales y municipales, lo que a su vez propiciara la necesidad de fortalecer sus
sistemas de contabilidad, presupuestaci6n y planeaci6n de inversiones. En este marco, el
analisis y tratamiento de sus pasivos contingentes es un punto que merece especial atencion,
por lo que el Gobiemo Federal trabaja en coordinaci6n con los gobiemos estatales con el
prop6sito de identificar con mayor precisi6n la problematica que se enfrenta y, en su caso,
encontrar alternativas de soluci6n. Por otra parte, se hara imperativo fortalecer la capacidad
recaudatoria de los estados y municipios asi como establecer con mayor clandad sus
prioridades pars la asignacion del gasto. En el mediano plazo, este nuevo esquema propiciari
la profundizaci6n de los mercados de deuda subnacional creando productos financieros
inexistentes actualmente.
4                                  54



SECAETARIA
MACIENDA v GREDITO PU8LICo
De manera especifica, en el marco de la reuni6n del Grupo de Trabajo de Deuda de
Funcionanos Estatales realizada el pasado 11 de octubre, esta Secretaria de Hacienda y
Credito Puiblico anunci6 los elementos centrales del nuevo esquema de endeudamiento: i)
despues del 31 de marzo del afio 2000 la SHCP terminara la practica de aceptar mandatos
para colateralizar la deuda de estados y municipios; ii) con el prop6sito de dar tiempo a los
gobiernos subnacionales para adecuarse al nuevo esquema, se establece un periodo de
transici6n entre el 1V de enero y el 31 de marzo del ano 2000, durante el cual solo se aoeptar6n
mandatos cuando su efectividad no se extienda mas alla de este periodo de transici6n y cuando
el gobierno solicitante, ya sea a su nombre o en representaci6n de un tercero. se encuentre en
el proceso de obtener dos calificaciones de credito.
Adicionalmente, para fines del registro de la deuda estatal, a partir del 1 de enero del ano 2000
la Secretaria de Hacienda y Crtdito Pcblico estableceri como requisitos: 1) que el gobiemo
subnacional este al corriente en la publicaci6n de su informaci6n fiscal y de deuda, la cual
tendra que publicarse en por lo menos un peri6dico local y uno nacional ( estar al corriente se
define como la informaci6n mas reciente que se disponga, sea esta la correspondiente al primer
semestre del ano calendano   la correspondiente al a no calendario precedente, en el entendido
de que en ningCin caso Is informaci6n debera tener un rezago de mas de seis meses Sin
embargo, para el periodo entre el primero de enero y el 15 de febrero se considerari como
corriente la informaci6n correspondiente al 31 de diciembre de 1998 ); y ii) que el gobiemo
subnacional este al corriente en el pago del servicio de su deuda con los bancos de desarrollo.
En pr6ximas reuniones del Grupo de Trabajo de Deuda de Funcionarios Estatales se afinarcn
los detalles a fin de que las acciones descritas esten operando a partir de la fecha sefialada.
Conforme se adecule"la regulaci6n de la banca comercial para financiamiento de estados y
municipios, se ajustara la regulaci6n del Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Piblicos, S.N.C.
(Banobras) y otros bancos de desarrollo que otorguen cr6dito a gobiemos subnacionales de
forma que observen los mismos estXndares que la banca comercial respecto a limites de la
exposici6n al riesgo como porcentaje del capital. En el caso de los pr6stamos que reciban un
nivel de capitalizaci6n igual o mayor al 100%. a fin de que sean financiados por la banca de
desarrollo sera necesario que cuenten con los componentes de desarrollo institucional que sean
fondeados por organismos financieros intemacionales. Este trataniento especial es con el fin
de que Banobras apoye a los estados y municipios a mejorar su capacidad crediticia.
Transparencia en la informaciun de las finanzas subnacionales. Se desarrollaran diversos
programas para incrementar la transparencia en asuntos fiscales subnacionales. Muchos
estados y municipios han llevado a cabo mejoras en este aspecto. Sin embargo, a fin de
facilitar el acceso de las entidades al financiamiento, es necesarlo contar con mns y mejor
informaci6n sobre su situaci6n fiscal. En este prop6sito las nuevas normas pare el registro de
deuda subnacional promoveran el mejoramiento de la informaci6n fiscal y de endeudamiento.
asi como su divulgacifn. Ademas, se promovera mayor responsabilidad en el ejercicio del
gasto a traves de programas presupuestales vinculados a desempeno. Este serA un proyecto
de largo plazo que se iniciara con la introducci6n de programas piloto de convenios de
desempeiio en el presupuesto del aiio 2000 pars los sectores ambiental y salud.
55
s



bAAt
SECR&TARIA
DE
AlEca U* CREOITO b6IUCo
Desarrollo Institucional. Se establecera un mecanismo de coordinaci6n y seguimiento de las
acciones que realizan las diferentes areas de la Federacion, que al mismo tiempo disemine
informacion  sobre  las  relaciones  fiscales  intergubernamentales,  incluyendo  las
responsabilidades respecto al gasto, endeudamiento y transferencias,
111. Apoyo del Banco Mundial
A la fecha son significativos los avances logrados en materia de descentralizacion. No
obstante, existen algunas areas en las cuales deberan redoblarse los esfuerzos a fin de
fortalecer el desempeAo de las finanzas subnacionales. Con tal proposito, debera continuarse
trabajando para mejorar el sistema de transferencias utilizado actusalmente, fortalecer el sistema
de recaudaci6n fiscal a nivsl subnacional. asi como definir con mayor claridad las
responsabilidades de los estados y, en particular, de los municipios, con respecto al ejercicio de
los recursos publicos.
La consolidaci6n del Federalismo es un proceso irreversible y que complementa el programa de
reforrnas economicas.  En este marco, la ampliacion y consolidacion del proceso de
descentralizaci6n requiere de la aplicaci6n de medidas en el corto y largo plazos.
En este contexto, Mexico solicita el apoyo tecnico y financiero del Banco Mundial para la
realizaci6n del Programa de Fortalecimiento a Estados y Municipios con el fin de apoyar el
proceso de descentralizacion aumentando la autonomia, responsabilidad y transparencia de los
gobiemos subnacionales en las decisiones de asignaci6n de recursos, mejorando el
desempeno de los mercados de cr6dito a nivel estatal y municipal, y reforzando la capacidad de
gesti6n financiers de los recursos publicos de los gobiernos subnacionales, La asistencia del
Banco Mundial contribuira a fortalecer el proceso de descentralizaci6n en Mexico.
Atentar mente
SUGRAGIO EFECTIVO. NO REELECCION
El Secretar:o,
JoS6 Angel Gurria
56



MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT
Mexico City, Federal District
Mr. James D Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
Washington DC, 20433
USA
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
With respect to the Decentralization Adjustment Loan to be contracted with the World Bank in
support of the program now underway for strengthening states and municipalities, I would like to
bring to your attention some relevant aspects of the Mexican economy and of the
macroeconomic policy followed by the government of Mexico, in particular the efforts that have
been and will be made to continue the decentralization process.
I. Macroeconomic situation
In recent years, the Mexican economy has managed to recover and consolidate the foundations
for sustained development, and price stability has been restored, thanks to an economic program
based on fiscal and monetary discipline, and on a sound approach to financing the current
account deficit and making timely adjustments to public expenditure. Also, a program of
structural reform has been carried out, which has included spinning off the airports and railways
and reforming the financial and the social security systems, in particular the pension system.
The effect of these efforts can be seen in the behavior of various macroeconomic variables. The
country's gross domestic product recorded an annual growth rate of 5.6 percent over the period
1996-1998. For 1999, it is expected to grow at slightly more than 3 percent, despite adverse
international conditions, which include a slowdown in the rate of growth of the U.S. economy,
volatile oil prices and limited access to capital markets. Assuming continuation of the current
administration's economic program, GDP growth should reach a level between 4 and 5 percent
for the year 2000.
During 1998 and 1999 the Bank of Mexico has imposed a restrictive monetary policy on several
occasions, in order to counteract the inflationary effect of depreciation in the exchange rate,
caused by unfavorable external events. Despite the negative effect of international financial
market volatility on the flexible exchange-rate regime, the inflation rate in recent years has fallen
below that recorded in 1995 (27.7 percent), dropping to 18.6 percent in 1998. This declining
trend in inflation will continue in 1999: inflation is expected to end the year very close to the
planned goal of 13 percent, while it is projected to fall to 10 percent for the year 2000.
The current account showed a deficit of 3.5 percent of GDP in 1998, a figure that is estimated to
be 2.2 percent by the end of this year and 3.2 percent for the year 2000. Approximately three-
quarters of this deficit is being financed by means of foreign direct investment, which allows for
greater stability in the country's external accounts. Similarly, with the substantial cutbacks in
public spending in 1998, representing 0.7 percent of GDP, occasioned by the drop in oil
57



revenues, the public sector deficit was held at 1.25 percent of GDP. We expect to maintain it
below that level in 1999, and to bring it near one percent in the year 2000.
Together with its pursuit of a sound economic program, the Mexican government has given
special attention to development needs in the social sectors.  In this respect, despite the
budgetary restrictions imposed in the last few years, and even with the major expenditure
adjustments that were made in 1998, the government has succeeded in increasing public
spending, as a proportion of GDP. on health, education, training, social security, basic services
such as water supply, drainage and electricity, and support for rural areas. In 1998, nearly 60
percent of federal spending was devoted to social programs, a trend that is being maintained in
1999 and is expected to continue in the year 2000.
Furthermore, measures have been taken to strengthen the Mexican banking system. The Bank
Savings Protection Institute (IAB) has been created and the regulatory framework governing
financial transactions is being amended. The IPAB has issued regulations limiting bank deposit
insurance cover and has launched programs to eliminate nonperforming assets and to convert
overdue bonds into negotiable instruments. As a complementary action, the bank regulatory
system is being strengthened, including a definition of capital that is more in line with
international standards.
Our commitment is to maintain the current approach to macroeconomic policy, emphasizing
fiscal discipline and inflation reduction, in order to ensure economic stability during the political
transition that will take place in our country in the year 2000.
II. Decentralization policy
On the basis of this progress, and for the purpose of consolidating the foundation for achieving
sustained growth and redistributing responsibilities among the various levels of government, a
broad process of decentralization has been launched in recent years. In addition to the traditional
revenue-sharing system in place since 1990, the Mexican government has delegated
responsibility to the states for education and health, and has accompanied this with the
corresponding fiscal transfers; it has also increased transfers to the municipalities. As a result,
these entities are now in a position to forecast the amount of their revenues and to plan their
distribution.
This was achieved by amending the Fiscal Coordination Law so that subnational governments
could respond more appropriately to local needs. Furthermore, as part of the Federal Budget,
Section 33 (Federal Contributions to States and Municipalities) has been expanded, with the
result that greater resources have been transferred to the states and municipalities, thereby
increasing the discretion of local government over the allocation of expenditure.
58



This Section consists of the following seven funds:
1. Basic and normal education fund.
2. Health services fund
3. Social infrastructure fund
3.1 State social infrastructure fund
3.2 Municipal social infrastructure fund
4. Municipal strengthening fund
5. Multi-use fund
5.1 Social assistance
5.2 Educational infrastructure
6. Technological and adult education fund
7. Public safety fund
The resources provided to states and municipalities are now distributed according to an
established formula that takes into account such factors as population and levels of poverty. In
this way, transparency in the distribution of funding is assured, and the element of discretion
over such transfers is eliminated.
This approach has provided a complementary means for transferring federal expenditure to the
state municipal governments, under which the federal government has assumed a commitment to
strengthen the decentralization process, and to move towards a better distribution of resources
and responsibilities among the three levels of government. It should be noted that in 1994, for
every peso spent by the federal government under its budget, 51 centavos were spent at the state
level, while today the latter proportion has increased to one peso and 48 centavos.
As a result of these efforts, there has been a considerable reduction in the number of states with
primary and financial deficits, and a consequent reduction in the total public debt and in the
impact of that debt on total state finances. It is important to mention that total state debt declined
23.5 percent in real terms during the period 1994-99, and except in three cases the real debt
declined for all of the states. Also, a growing number of states have reformed or updated the
legal framework of their public finances, and most of them have adopted a public debt law, a
budget law, and quarterly reporting on the status of public finances.
It should be noted that the current administration is working, with assistance from the World
Bank, on a strategic agenda of decentralization for the coming years, in order to broaden and
deepen this process. Some of the measures included in the agenda can only be carried out over
the medium term, which means that the strategy will have to be pursued by the incoming
administration. The reforms to be undertaken in the short term involve four major objectives: (i)
further improving transparency in the allocation of transfers to the states and municipalities; (ii)
establishing a framework for subnational borrowing that will encourage a responsible and
prudent approach to debt on the part of the states and municipalities; (iii) increasing the
transparency and accountability of subnational governments with respect to their public finances;
and (iv) institutional development to improve administration and coordination between the
different levels of government.
59



Transparency in the allocation of resources.
The strategy puts a virtual end to discretionary transfers, in order to increase transparency in the
allocation of resources to subnational governments and to maintain fiscal stability at the federal
level. As part of this effort, funding for emergency expenditures has been reorganized into a
fund with clearly established rules that will make resources available only in the case of natural
disasters, thereby avoiding discretionary transfers.   With this strategy, the states and
municipalities will have an incentive to allocate public spending more appropriately. In 1999
discretionary transfers represented less than 0.15 percent of total expenditure, and for the year
2000 they are expected to be below that figure.
Subnational borrowingframework
A key element will be to introduce a framework for subnational borrowing based on market
mechanisms that will provide an incentive to prudent behavior, both by financial institutions in
terms of their lending and by subnational governments in terms of their borrowing. The
framework calls for the debt issued by subnational governments to be classified by two credit
rating agencies that are authorized by the regulatory and supervisory authorities. These ratings
will be used to establish the capitalization rate for the loans granted by the banks. This move
will serve to promote proper risk assessment of projects and states, and will lead to a
corresponding differentiation in the pricing of credit. Similarly, it will encourage subnational
governments to direct public investment into projects with a high economic return, and to
identify clearly the source of repayment for such financing.
These elements will lend greater rigor to analysis of the financial situation of state and municipal
entities, which in turn will pose: the need to strengthen their accounting, budgeting and
investment planning systems. Moreover, it will be essential to strengthen the revenue-generating
capacity of states and municipalities, and to establish clear priorities for expenditure allocation.
Over the medium term, this new scheme will promote a deepening of the market for subnational
debt and will generate financial products that do not exist today.
To be specific, in the context of the meeting of the Debt Working Group of the State
Functionaries on last October 11, the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP) announced
the central elements of the new framnework for borrowing: i) after 31 March 2000 the Ministry
will end the practice of accepting niandatos to collateralize the debt of states and municipalities;
ii) in order to give the subnational governments time to become accustomed to the new
framework there will be a period of transition between 1 January and 31 March 2000 during
which mandatos will only be accepted if their effectiveness does not extend beyond this
transition period and if the soliciting government, whether in its own name or that of a third
party, is active in the process of obtaining two credit ratings.
Furthermore, after 1 January 2000, new state debt will have to meet two requirements in order to
be registered at the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit: i) that the subnational government is
current in the publication of its fiscal and debt information, which it will have to published in at
least one local periodical and' one national (to be current is defined as with a delay of no more
that one semester after the close of a, semester; for the period of 1 January to 15 February 2000,
however, information will be considered current if it corresponds to 31 December 1998); and ii)
60



that the subnational government is current in its payment of debt service to the development
banks. In the next meetings of the Debt Working Group of the State Functionaries the details
will be finalized so that the actions described will be operating by the dates indicated.
At the same time as banking regulations for financing states and municipalities are being
adjusted, amendments will be made to the rules governing the National Bank for Public Works
and Services (BANOBRAS) and other development banks that provide credit to subnational
governments, to ensure that they observe the same standards as those that apply to commercial
banks with respect to provisioning and to limits on risk exposure as a percentage of capital. In
the case of loans that receive a capital risk weighting equal to or greater than 100 percent, in
order for them to be financed by the development bank it will be necessary that they include
components for institutional development that are funded by international financial agencies.
The purpose of this special treatment is for Banobras to assist the states and municipalities in
improving their creditworthiness.
Transparency in financial information at the subnational level.
Programs will be undertaken to increase fiscal transparency at the subnational level. Many states
and municipalities have already made improvements in this respect. Nevertheless, greater efforts
are needed to increase access to financing for these entities: the new rules for recording debt and
publishing information on the fiscal and debt situation will help in this regard, by increasing the
degree of accountability and transparency. In addition, steps will be taken to encourage greater
accountability on the spending side, through budgetary programs that are linked to performance.
This will be a long-term undertaking and will be initiated by introducing a pilot program of
performance agreements for the budget year 2000, in the areas of environment and health.
Institutional development.
A mechanism will be established to coordinate and monitor efforts at the various levels of the
Federation, while at the same time disseminating information on intergovernmental fiscal
relations, including responsibilities with respect to expenditure, indebtedness and transfers.
III.    World Bank support
Significant progress has already been achieved in the decentralization program. Nonetheless,
there are several areas where efforts need to be strengthened further in order to improve the
performance of public finances at the subnational level. To this end, measures are required to
improve the current system of transfers, strengthen revenue collection at the subnational level,
and define more clearly the responsibilities of the states and, in particular, of the municipalities,
with respect to the control and use of public resources.
Consolidating federalism is an irreversible process and one that is directly complementary to the
economic reform program. In this context, expanding and consolidating the decentralization
process will require both short-term and long-term measures.
61



I



MAP SECTION



I



IBRD 23547
'ION,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -    -
F5uEO8Q L9, "sS7ESOF            XX                                                                                                            ~~~M  E X  I C  O
4s' m?   95Ono >62/   r--- i30
f  _ t  C  1J  \ e e '+ ">& / ti!>' o ,,,, ,,I . ,, or towns~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10                                                                          sot.~apto
,AiA                                   d Ok,, I-                                               0 A  H   ---                                                                                                    -N ivAP  
AT  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                 --D~~~~~~~~~~~~~isided highways
CA lIfORNIA   &                            ~                                                                                5n4                                                                            Selected min rOads
- ifn            Arztf<                                  j-.   RailroadsoS                         Cddute 
Ni                                                                                                                                                                                     ..I Riners
N -         0                                                                          Ni'' -  P rincipal airports
KIIOMEEKS/O 20  3ftO   fiOO   L500 noN                       ,\                                                               4,S      N ctdataoros                     -h                  - .nTe  b-, c_dries
MILE5 O' 1170  700       300                                       -AN 'i
rsnk ~ ~     ~     ~      K        fror  ,h d>omrln                             Dorargoebungle  hnen h                                                                                                     Xw
4' x1,   t   eol 5>fl^ of   pnyfPerPrJrytofyorhpnworlddSdnkGroup  Pny lQds7menE TOPOChUlOBbW ,,) HONDURAS
P'.~~~~~~~~~~~-;
'y    ,f   C                               OWN~~(I YUCTAN  414
-                             'OVERO                             y    41 C rChii,p.I,                                   NTA,AJ
N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FbUR GUATEMAL
'd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
-d lh~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~h-  Ih,.~                                                                                                              ~TAPEH
~~~.,Id                                                                                                                                                T.                                        HONDURAS~~~~~~~~~' Y$, 1'lAAN5Qjylahr  s 
110-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~wv~4                                                                              l3                 rttl-                  -'
Chilpancingo                                       "s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~  BELIZE   BUAY 99



