Report No. PID8408
Project Information Document
Project name               Mexico-Decentralization Adjustment Loan (DAL)
Region                     Latin America & the Carribean
Sector                     Multi-sector
Project ID number          MX-PE-P066867
Borrower                   Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos,
S.N.C.
Guarantor                  United Mexican States
Implementing agency        Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP)
Lic. Ricardo Ochoa
Director de Organismos Financieros
Internacionales
Insurgentes Sur 826, 4o Piso
Col. Del Valle
C.P. 03100, Mexico, D.F.
Date this PID prepared           November 12, 1999
Projected appraisal date         October 25, 1999
Projected Board date             December 14, 1999
Country and sector background
Helped by its economic recovery, Mexico is progressing rapidly toward more
autonomy and fiscal responsibility at subnational levels of government. This
process is being driven by heightened political competition and by the desire
of the federal authorities to broaden political participation and enhance
fiscal efficiency. The Federal Congress has reinforced these trends by
enhancing municipal autonomy and local resources as well as strengthening
control institutions. However, the country is not yet realizing all the
potential benefits of decentralization. Its overall model is still evolving,
and an appropriate institutional infrastructure for the management of
subnational spending, taxes, transfers, and borrowing is still lacking.
These are serious shortcomings not only because they reduce the efficiency
with which public services are delivered to final users, but also because
they have major implications for Mexico's fiscal and macroeconomic stability.
The federal authorities are well aware of weaknesses in the existing
framework. They have therefore implemented a number of policy initiatives
that, while in their early stages, provide a good platform for reform as
follows:
? A recent constitutional reform will strengthen the autonomy of
municipalities and make them more transparent and more accountable,
establishing the basis for a clear division of responsibilities between
states and municipalities vis-a-vis federal resource transfers through the
budget line item of Ramo 33. Concurrently, the Government, in agreement
with the states, has been promoting consistent and transparent subnational
financial management systems through the definition and implementation of
uniform rules and practices on accounting, budgeting and reporting as well
as supporting institutional strengthening programs for state-level



budgetary oversight entities, the state ContadurUas (reporting to the
legislative) and ContralorUas (reporting to the executive).
? The federation has also taken steps to further define its evolving fiscal
relationships with the states, with the aim of enhancing state fiscal and
political autonomy and reducing dependence on federal transfers. This,
however, has produced limited results due to perceived political cost and
perverse incentives (more own tax revenue, less federal transfers) at the
state level. At the level of municipalities, more is happening,
particularly with the property tax-some large municipalities and
particularly the Federal District have strengthened that tax's collection
through better assessment and administration.
? To underscore its commitment to fiscal discipline and transparency of
resource allocation, the Government has been eliminating extraordinary
transfers almost entirely (the largest portion of recent transfers were
through bailout packages following the 1995 crisis). In addition, SHCP
has been active in disclosing the rules to access the federal matching
grant ("pari passu") programs, thereby strengthening the signals and
incentives and leveling the field for equitable state access to this type
of federal grant. On their part, states and the Federal District have
shown increasing interest in clarifying roles and accepting accountability
for the program-specific transfers that go to subnational governments.
SHCP also leveraged its fiscal bailout program to enter into debt
disclosure agreements with each of the states (except the Federal
District); this instrument, however, is quickly losing its effectiveness
in the context of the economic recovery and increasing political autonomy.
These achievements only mark the first steps in a long and complex
decentralization process for which the Government has demonstrated full
commitment. It has requested the assistance of the World Bank to support the
process of decentralization through the definition and implementation of a
number of fundamental and sustainable reforms.
Project objectives
The core objective of the proposed operation is to support the Government's
efforts to introduce reforms that would move Mexico's decentralization toward
an efficient and sustainable path. This is an urgent task, if
decentralization is not to translate into fiscal mismanagement of spending,
taxes, transfers, and borrowing, rendering the business of government less,
rather than more, transparent and accountable to citizens. The DAL will also
play an important macroeconomic role, as it will help the Government reduce
Mexico's vulnerability to external financial shocks and loss of confidence
that in the past have been associated with the country's presidential
elections, thus potentially avoiding the social and economic costs
(particularly in terms of poverty increases) that are usually associated with
these crises.
Project description
The operation is based on the Government's broad decentralization program and
will support its commitment to meet four main objectives: (i) imposing hard
budget constraints on federal resources provided to states and
municipalities; (ii) reducing moral hazard in subnational borrowing; (iii)
- 2-



increasing the transparency and public accountability of subnational fiscal
and financial management and of the overall decentralization process; and
(iv) setting up pilot mechanisms to enhance efficiency in decentralized
expenditures in the environment and health sectors. Specific reform
initiatives to achieve these objectives include the following:
? The Government effectively eliminated most discretionary transfers in its
1999 budget and intends to further tighten this provision in the 2000
budget which it will propose to Congress in November 1999. It will
further increase transparency in its pari-passu programs to give full
account of public expenditures.
? To meet objectives (ii) and (iii), the operation relies heavily on the
introduction of market-based incentives as the main tool for increasing
transparency and passing on to subnational governments the full, non-
federally-guaranteed cost of debt. SHCP will implement banking
regulations and uniform financial management rules (including disclosure
requirements) which will reduce, if not eliminate, moral hazard and
introduce market-enforced discipline in the stewardship of subnational
accounts.
? Pilot performance agreements will be written and implemented in the
environment and health sectors. The results agreement for environment
will offer a one-time federal matching grant for the year 2000 for a fund
to finance development of the state's institutional capacity for
environmental management, including technical training, regulatory and
monitoring capacity, and reporting for intergovernmental coordination.
Its performance will be jointly reviewed and a determination made by
SEMARNAP (the Environment Ministry) on any design changes. The results
agreement for health will offer to participating states a matching grant
to support development of states' training and institutional capacity to
facilitate and monitor the expansion of coverage of basic health services,
financing, inter alia, technical and managerial training, monitoring and
reporting capacity.
Project financing
The proposed loan will be for US$600 million, to be disbursed in two
tranches. It is anticipated that both tranches will be disbursed before the
end of this administration.
Project implementation
SHCP is the implementing agency for the operation. It has the proper legal
authority to propose and enforce the budgetary and financial management rules
supporting the operation. It will work with the National Banking and
Securities Commission on the enforcement of banking regulations as well as
rely on private sector financial markets to promote the right incentives for
fiscal discipline.
The federal government will establish a high-level Decentralization Committee
within SHCP that will play a continuing public information role, based in
part on the statistical disclosure generated by the incentives mentioned
earlier. State-by-state and municipal fiscal and financial data published by
the Committee will be complemented by the federal government's regular
- 3-



disclosure of the territorial distribution of its resources. The Committee,
which will be served by a permanent technical secretariat, will be
responsible for technical analysis of the evolution of the decentralization
process in order to guide federal policy on the matter.
Project sustainability
Because of uncertainties related to the presidential elections in June 2000,
the operation limits itself to a number or reforms which can be implemented
immediately, without the need for legislative action. Nevertheless, the
initiatives to be supported were carefully designed to put in motion reforms
which convey positive incentives to subnational governments and strengthen
their relative autonomy and, in the process, begin to ensure cohesiveness and
long-term sustainability of decentralization in Mexico.
To enhance ownership in the operation, wide consultation with state
governments (including some governed by opposition parties), private sector
banks, Mexican development banks, and international financial sector players
was carried out. Simulation models were developed to assess macroeconomic
and financial sector risks.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Strong ownership and the need for consultation/information are the most
important lessons applicable to the decentralization process worldwide.
Country-specific experience has also been in the context of several ongoing
operations which have been affected by the recent ramp-up decentralization
process. This experience also points to the need to involve stakeholders
early and directly in the process and more specifically, to seek to deal with
states on an individual basis, respect their political and fiscal autonomy,
and design operations accordingly.
Poverty category
The proposed operation would have important effects on poverty. On the one
hand, by supporting the maintenance of viable fiscal accounts at the three
levels of government, it will directly protect the poor, especially the
extreme poor, from the potential effects of major macroeconomic fluctuations,
which in the past have erased the country's achievements in poverty reduction
(e.g., during the 1994/95 crisis). On the other hand, by augmenting the
institutional efficiency and transparency of sub-national finances, it will
help improve administration and delivery of the array of social expenditure
programs that are currently decentralized.
Environmental aspects
In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental
Assessment (OD 4.00, Annex A), the proposed operation has been placed in
Category "C". While it does not have any direct effect on the environment,
indirect benefits will accrue through the pilot program of institutional
strengthening of environmental management at the subnational level.
Project benefits
The operation will carry two broad, core benefits. It will start to put
- 4 -



Mexico's rapid decentralization process on a more sustainable path (unlocking
that process' long-term promise of better quality and efficiency in public
service delivery and more transparent governance at levels closest to the
user, and it will greatly contribute to preventing undue subnational pressure
on the federal fiscal accounts and, more generally, on the country's
macroeconomic framework, especially in the historically vulnerable period
leading up to the coming presidential elections.
Project risks
In addition to its dependence on a solid macroeconomic foundation, the
operation faces several types of operational risks: (i) the election
calendar will make consensus around necessary reforms difficult to achieve;
(ii) some states or municipalities might refuse to adopt recommendations or
respond to incentives which they perceive as federal imposition; (iii) market
failure may happen with states and/or banks defying rules and regulations;
(iv) financial sector-related technical difficulties may jeopardize the
program's objectives; and (v) the incoming administration may have a
different perspective on how the direction of reforms. While real, theses
risks have been taken into consideration in the design of the operation,
which puts emphasis on avoiding the need for new legislative action (outside
of the annual budget process) and seeking to create positive incentives for
stakeholders to want to abide by the decentralization framework.
Contact Point
The World Bank InfoShop
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
necessarily be included in the final project.
- 5 -



