Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 22310
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(FSLT-70020)
ON A LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$606.07 MILLION
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
(BANOBRAS)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A DECENTRALIZATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
June 12, 2001
Colombia-Mexico-Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



MEXICO-FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of 12 April 2001)
Currency Unit       Peso
9.31 Pesos       US$1
WEIGhITS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANOBRAS                  Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Puiblicos, S.N.C.
CAS                       Country Assistance Strategy
CNBV                      Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria y de Valores
DAL                       Decentralization Adjustment Loan
EMSAL                     Estado de Mexico Adjustment Loan
FSAL                      Financial Structural Adjustment Loan
IDB                       Inter-American Development Bank
IDI                       Institutional Development Impact
IMF                       International Monetary Fund
PTI                       Poverty Targeted Initiative
SHCP                      Secretarfa de Hacienda y Credito Pujblico
IBRD
Vice President                   David de Ferranti
Chief Economist:                 Guillermo Perry
Country Director:                Olivier Lafourcade
Lead Economist/Manager:          Marcelo Giugale
Task Manager:                    Marcelo Giugale
Team Production Support:         Michael Geller



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Implementation Completion Report
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.   Project Data .........................................................1
2.      Principle Performance Ratings ........................................................l1
3.   Assessment of Development Objectives and Design, and of Quality at Entry .............2
4.      Achievement of Objective and Output .........................................................4
5.      Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome . ..............................................6
6.      Sustainability .........................................................6
7.      Bank and Borrower Performance .........................................................7
8.   Lessons Learned .........................................................9
9.      Partner Comments .........................................................9
10. Additional Inforation                                                               .9
Annex  1.    Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix ......................................... 10-13
Annex 2.    Project Costs and Financing ...............................................                                         14-15
Annex 3.    Economic Costs and Benefits ............................................... 16
Annex 4.  Bank Inputs ...............................................                                                                 17
Annex  5.    Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components ............                                          ........ 19
Annex  6.    Ratings of Bank  and Borrower Performance ...............................................                                   20
Annex 7.  List of Supporting Documents ...............................................                                               21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P066867                                      Project Name: MX DECENTRALIZATION SAL
Team Leader: Marcelo Giugale                             TL Unit: LCCIA
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 4, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: MX DECENTRALIZATION SAL                       L/C/TF Number: FSLT-70020
CountrvyDepartment: MEXICO                                              Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: BD - Decentralization
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  07/01/1999                              Effective:
Appraisal:  11/05/1999                               MTR:
Approval:  12/14/1999                              Closing:
Borrower/Implementing Agency:
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                         David De Ferranti
Country Manager:     Olivier Lafourcade                        Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:      Emesto May                                Guillermo Perry
Team Leader at ICR:   Steven Benjamin Webb                     Marcelo Giugale
ICR Primary Author:   Elliott Hurwitz; Steven Benjamin
Webb; Marcelo Giugale
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Perfonnance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                     HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
Introduction
During the 1990s, Mexico embarked on a process of decentralization, motivated by heightened political
competition' and a desire to broaden political participation. Decentralization was expected to yield
significant benefits including improved macroeconomic stability, more efficient provision of social services,
and improved quality of governance.



Decentralization was expected to yield these benefits by: relieving the federal government of responsibility
for the fiscal actions of subnational entities; providing incentives for these entities to be more fiscally
responsible; providing greater administrative power and financial authority to officials closest to the
delivery of many services; and giving officials of subnational governments more of a stake in the efficient
and effective provision of services.
In the 1994-95 financial crisis, many state governments had to be assisted by the federal government, which
heightened the federal govemment's appreciation of the potential for subnational fiscal problems to
exacerbate a financial crisis. But despite the country's desire to proceed with decentralization, by the late
1990s the country lacked a coherent overall model of decentralization, and a strategy for achieving this.
Mexico also lacked an appropriate institutional infrastructure for managing subnational spending, taxes,
transfers, and borrowing. The DAL comprised a key part of the program to support the government's
efforts to introduce a rational and efficient framework for the ongoing process of decentralization, and
thereby help avoid the macroeconomic crises that seemed to occur with each election cycle.
The DAL was complemented by a US$800 million IDB loan, approved at about the same time, which
provided adjustment lending as an incentive to implement reforms that provided greater autonomy in
subnational use of federal funds. The IDB project also included a credit line to upgrade the capacity of
BANOBRAS, the principal development bank lending to subnational entities, and as well as the capacity of
the cities and states themselves.
During the 1990s, political parties other than the long-goveming PRI captured numerous state governorships, increased their
presence in Congress, and eventually won the Presidency with the election of President Fox in 2000.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overarching purpose of the DAL was to support the government's efforts to introduce a rational and
efficient framework for its ongoing process of decentralization. In the area of subnational debt, the main
goal was to design a mechanism based on market incentives that would remove the federal government
from involvement in this process (i.e., as a guarantor of subnational debt). And in the allocation of federal
fiscal transfers to subnatio- .al entities, the goal was to maximize transparency and eliminate discretionary
transfers.
The project had four main objectives:
1.     Imposing hard budget constraints on federal resources provided to states and municipalities
2.     Reducing moral hazard in subnational borrowing
3.     Increasing the transparency and public accountability of subnational fiscal and financial
management and of the overall decentralization process
4.     Setting up initial pilot mechanisms to enhance efficiency of decentralized expenditures
It should be noted that the DAL was only one step-albeit a very important one-along the path of Mexico's
process of decentralization. Key areas explicitly deferredfor later treatment included: revamping tax and
transfer systems and revising assignment of spending authority, including constitutional and legal changes
to allow direct and indirect taxation at the state level; further strengthening of institutional capacity at the
subnational level; continued refinement in the formulae used for intergovernmental transfers; and a program
for comprehensive reform of state pension systems.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.
-2 -



3.3 Original Components:
FIRST TRANCHE:    $306,070,000
SECOND TRANCHE:              $300,000,000
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is assessed as Highly Satisfactory. The objectives were clear and were highly realistic--a
consequence of outstanding government ownership and extensive and high-quality Bank analytical work
(described in detail below). The DAL was explicitly envisioned in the 1999 CAS, and was very relevant to
the three CAS objectives: improved governance; enhanced growth and macroeconomic stability; and social
sustainability.
While the project involved certain risks, these were quite reasonable. The overall project approach of
utilizing market-oriented incentives to improve fiscal responsibility and reduce moral hazard was developed
taking into account foreign experience, and with the advice of leading experts on procedures utilized in
lending to subnational entities. For example, the project team carefully considered the experience of
Argentina and other Latin American countries.
The project was prepared with deliberate speed, because, after a period of discussion and consideration, the
government was eager to press ahead with reforms and at the end of 1998 asked the Bank to produce,
within 90 days, a Policy Agenda for Decentralization. Facing elections in July, 2000, all parties in the
country's political dialogue accepted the need to increase democratization and devolve authorities currently
exercised by the federal government. While proceeding before the election posed risks, these were
considered as manageable, and waiting until after the election to start the project would have lost valuable
time and momentum.2 The project was designed to move quickly after effectiveness, and it did so.
It is important to note that an adjustment loan was the appropriate instrument to stimulate the policy
reforms envisioned by the DAL. Even though the government was fully supportive of the DAL reforms,
the provision of balance of payments support provided SHCP with leverage to convince other components
of government, e.g., BANOBRAS and the sector ministries, that the proposed changes were in the national
interest. Project design--a two-tranche adjustment loan preceded by intensive ESW and closely
coordinated with the IDB capacity-building effort--was very effective in addressing the project objectives.
QAG assessed Quality at Entry as Satisfactory. This ICR assessment is more favorable, taking the view
that the QAG assessment (which was completed only two months after Board presentation): (1) was overly
cautious about the speed with which the project could be implemented, and the potential benefits that could
derive therefrom; (2) did not place sufficient weight on the project team's excellent analysis of the
institutional framework and sustained interaction with policymakers (the high quality of which was
acknowledged by the QAG review); (3) did not place sufficient weight on the responsiveness of the design
to the Borrower's priorities; (4) did not reflect the improvement in banking regulation that was taking place
in parallel under the FSAL, which had the effect of making the capital ratios stipulated under the DAL
binding constraints (a specific point raised by QAG).
The decision to proceed quickly required that the Bank not condition its support on the adoption of new legislation nor
request commitments on behalf of future administrations.
- 3 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Outcome is assessed as Highly Satisfactory, with all relevant development objectives fully achieved, and no
significant shortcomings. Viewed as a whole, a major project accomplishment was greatly to raise the
visibility of the decentralization issue, i.e., to elevate the issue on the Mexican political agenda from
"important" to "urgent."
Project conditionalities were completely fulfilled: Annex 1 contains a list of project conditions, performance
indicators, and actions taken. The following sections present a full description of the detailed achievements of
the DAL.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Detailed achievements are organized by the main project objectives to which they contributed:
1.Imposing hard budget constraints on federal resources provided to states and municipalities
*  The 2000 and 2001 federal budgets provided funding for the states with allocations determined by
a publicly available formula, and with detailed allocations clearly specified in legislation (through
Ramo 28 and Ramo 33). This shift to more clearly specified transfers (which had begun earlier) was a
departure from procedures used in the past, which were subject to much greater discretion and
politically-based intervention.
* Transfers to states and municipalities that were at the discretion of the federal executive (through
Ramo 23) were eliminated from the federal budget
2. Reducing moral hazard in subnational borrowing
*  On March 31, 2000, SHCP discontinued its policy of accepting mandatos to collateralize
subnational debt with revenue-sharing transfers.
*  President Vicente Fox underscored this commitment when he publicly declared that "there would
be no more bailouts."
3.    Increasing the transparency and public accountability of subnational fiscal and financial
management and of the overall decentralization process
*  Bank regulation was tightened. First, SHCP eliminated the exception whereby subnational lending
was not considered as part of a lender's normal exposure concentration limits. Next, an incentive
scheme was put into place that effectively required prospective borrowers to publish data on debts and
debt service, and also to obtain creditworthiness ratings from two international rating agencies.
*  Twenty-five of Mexico's 32 states, and seven municipalities, have had creditworthiness
assessments published by credit rating agencies, and more are currently in the process of doing so.
There is a significant variation in the ratings published thus far, which will raise the cost of borrowing
for some states and thus provide an incentive for more responsible fiscal behavior. Lenders and the
general public can now see state debt and income accounts, information that previously was very
difficult to obtain.
* SHCP published the regulatory frameworks for the all programs involving payments to the states,
as well as rules of access to such funding (again, this was a departure from past practice).
*  In the 2000 and 2001 budgets, SHCP published a state-by-state listing of all federal allocations to
states.
* In 2000, the government published for the first time (in the President's Annual Economic Report)
the state-by-state allocation of the federal government's spending for roads and education.
- 4 -



4.     Setting up initial pilot mechanisms to enhance efficiency of decentralized expenditures
*  SHCP developed a plan jointly with subnational entities to improve their accounting, auditing,
budgeting, revenue and debt management and reporting procedures. BANOBRAS initiated procedures -
to make funding available to states and municipalities for institutional development.
* In accordance with policy commitments under the loan, the 2000 budget contained the specified
level of funding for transfer to the states for the enhancement of environmental and health programs.
In addition, in accordance with the policy conditions of the loan, SHCP set up an Intemal Decentralization
Committee with a permanent secretariat and membership by all major SHCP components. The committee'
s charge was to support decentralization by means of: strategic and policy advice and recommendations;
collection and analysis of relevant data; supporting the publication of federal and subnational fiscal and
financial data; supervising the federal program to bolster subnational capacity.'
It should be pointed out that since SHCP terminated the acceptance of mandatos, there has been little
lending to subnational entities. It is considered that this is a transitional phase, and that lending is likely to
resume when: (1) more states receive creditworthiness ratings, and (2) when a privately-developed
mechanism is developed--without the involvement of the federal treasury--that provides banks with
adequate assurances that their claims will receive priority in the event that state finances deteriorate.
As noted earlier, the DAL was only one step along the country's decentralization path. The moderate speed
with which this process is being conducted was quite deliberate, as experience in decentralization efforts
elsewhere had demonstrated that attempts at rapid reform were usually not effective.
Poverty impact--Available analytical work shows that Mexico's periodic financial crises have had a
devastating impact on the poor. Most notably, the 1994/95 crisis fully reversed the 10 percentage point
improvement in the poverty headcount that had been achieved since 1984. Although the DAL was not a
PTI, by helping to avert a financial crisis, it was intended to contribute to poverty alleviation. And by
improving fiscal performance at all levels of government, the DAL's contribution to macroeconomic
stability would be of direct benefit to the poor. In addition, the more efficient and effective provision of
social and other services (e.g., in the environmental and health sectors) are likely to have a disproportionate
positive effect for the poor.
Macroeconomic framework--Mexico maintained a sound macroeconomic framework during the period of
the DAL, in accordance with indicators specified in Criterios Generales de Politica Economica. Real
GDP growth was 3.5 percent in 1999, and around 7 percent in 2000, compared to -6.2 percent in 1995 and
an average of 5.6 percent 1996-98. Inflation continued a downward trend, with year-end inflation at 12.3
and 8.9 percent for 1999 and 2000 respectively. The fiscal deficit in 2000 was around 1 percent of GDP,
reflecting a conservative fiscal stance as well as a windfall from higher oil prices of around I percent of
GDP. The current account balance was stable at around -3.0 percent of GDP, and the real effective
exchange rate against the US dollar appreciated gradually. The IMF staff report of August, 2000, states:
"Economic perforrnance so far in 2000 has been strong and all performance criteria for end-June were met,
some with large margins."
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
It was not possible to calculate net present value or economic rate of return.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
It was not possible to calculate financial rate of return.
- 5 -



4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional Development Impact (IDI) is assessed as High. The DAL was entirely focused on IDI insofar
as it aimed to improve: "institutional arrangements" such as laws and regulations that constitute the
enabling environment for economic and social activity; the incentives provided by oversight; and the
protocols and systems that govern organizations and their interactions. As described earlier, the DAL was
assessed as having achieved all of its relevant development objectives, without major shortcomings, and by
so doing it is expected to make a critical contribution to the country's ability to effectively use its
resources. The evidence for the rating of High IDI is presented earlier in the description of outcome, i.e.,
the achievement of relevant project objectives, and since all relevant development objectives were met, IDI
is assessed as High. The project's achievements in enhancing transparency were especially instrumental in
increasing IDI.
As an added component of Institutional Development Impact, BANOBRAS created a new Risk Evaluation
division, which assesses the bank's exposure to individual state borrowers, and if warranted recommends
additional provisioning. This division had not been in place earlier, and is a direct outcome of the DAL
project. Private banks have also responded by developing risk evaluation capacity for subnational lending.
It should be noted, however, that the Committee did not become active until after the July, 2000, election.
This would in all probability be similar to a mechanism used by most Argentine states--whereby a bank manages
collateralization of their debts against the transfer of federal funds. Some US states and municipalities also collateralize their
debt with revenue flows.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
*      Political changes--The declining power of the PRI in the 1990s (eventually leading to the election
of President Fox in 2000) h.-ightened political competition, which added momentum to decentralization.
*      rThe increase in oil prices that coincided with the performance of the project provided additional
revenue that facilitated the government's ability to provide revenue to the states.
5.2 Factors generally sub, `.ct to government control:
*      As noted earlier, Mexico maintained a sound macroeconornic framework during the period of the
DAL, in accordance with project conditionality.
*      While primary responsibility for implementation of the DAL fell on the SHCP, good cooperation
was also received from sectoral agencies (e.g., health, environment) whose assistance was also important to
project success.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
SHCP maintained a consistently high level of focus on the DAL, and a very high quality team, throughout
the project period
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
There were no cost changes.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is considered as -likely. Over the past decade Mexican political and economic thinking has
moved consistently in the direction of increased democratization and decentralization. These reforms are
- 6 -



now embedded in the political culture and have been supported by the previous and current federal
administrations--most strongly by subnational officials--and are unlikely to be reversed. In fact, the
reaction of subnational officials thus far has been to request that the process be enhanced, not reversed.
Another factor enhancing sustainability is that the expenditures over which subnational officials have thus
far been given authority consist mainly of current expenditures on such programs as health, education, and
municipal infrastructure. Beneficiaries can readily see the impact of these programs, and are unlikely to
consent to the reversal of the reforms. However, there is some possibility that a new financial crisis could
create a situation in which the federal government believed that it was "forced" to rescue subnational units
that were effectively bankrupt.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The reforms implemented by the DAL created incentives for subnational entities to bring about further
transformation: greater transparency in resource transfers; more stringent regulation of lenders; stricter
standards for subnational borrowers. Since the conclusion of the DAL, Mexican officials at both the
national and subnational levels are continuing to push ahead with the process of decentralization.
As a direct result of the completion of the DAL, the Bank initiated a follow-on operation, Estado de Mexico
Structural Adjustment Loan (EMSAL), approved in December, 2000. This US$505 million operation
supports the reform program of the State of Mexico, the largest state in the federation, to: raise taxes and
improve tax enforcement; commercialize selected state assets; maintain minimum levels of health and
education expenditure; strengthen the pension system; raise water tariffs; and improve the state's fiscal
position. In large measure due to experience under the DAL, preparation and identification of the EMSAL
were completed expeditiously.
And, as mentioned earlier, the IDB project is currently implementing a large program to strengthen
subnational capacity in budgeting, program management, tax administration, and bringing about greater
transparency in fiscal accounts. Funding is now 100% committed.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance overall is considered to be highly satisfactory, and performance in lending is also
assessed as highly satisfactory. The decentralization program of which the DAL was a key component
was initiated by the government, which thus had a strong commitment to its success. While a few initial
reforms had been implemented in the early and mid-1990s, it was in 1997-98 that government and Bank
staff began to discuss the outlines of what would become the DAL. The Bank team brought in individuals
knowledgeable on foreign experience with decentralization, experts in lending to subnational entities, and
later consulted broadly with the states and municipalities themselves. While it would be two years until the
project would formally become effective, the interval was used to reach a mutual understanding on the
overall approach to be used. Once basic agreement was reached, progress in bringing the project to
effectiveness was very rapid.
In 1999, the project team carried out a thorough analysis of the institutional framework of the fiscal and
financial dimensions of decentralization. This included the subnational governments themselves, relations
between levels of government, and the role of commercial banks, rating agencies, and other actors in the
credit markets. Sustained interaction with SHCP policy officials assured that the government would
assume leadership and ownership of the proposed reforms. The emphasis given to measures to increase
information and transparency in the market for subnational borrowing reflected the team's identification of
- 7 -



one of the key constraints in existing arrangements.
Papers detailing the team's analytical findings were prepared in 1999 and later circulated widely to
government, academia, and the press. They contributed substantially to the speed and the depth of the
progress that was made. The papers were combined in book form and published in April, 2000. This book
has been widely circulated, and has had and is continuing to have a significant influence on the process of
decentralization.
The government greatly appreciated the knowledge and professionalism of the Bank team, especially the
lessons of international experience relating to decentralization generally as well as the institutional
framework for financing subnational debt. Key officials involved in the process pointed out that
discussions with the DAL team enabled them to envision the implications of alternative means of
implementing decentralization.
As mentioned earlier, the choice of lending instrument was highly appropriate, and effective project design
and its rapid execution contributed strongly to the progress of the government's program.
As noted earlier, the government's decentralization program was supported by an US$800 million IDB
adjustment operation, with modest conditionalities, and an extensive institutional development program for
BANOBRAS and subnational entities. Coordination with IDB was very good, with an appropriate division
of responsibilities.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision is assessed as highly satisfactory. The tenure of the DAL was relatively short, and
supervision was correspondingly intense. While the project was formally operational for around 18 months
(December 14, 1999-June 30, 2001), all conditions were fulfilled and the second tranche was released in
October, 2000, less than a year after effectiveness. Between effectiveness and second tranche
disbursement, four supervision missions were mounted from headquarters, in addition to frequent contacts
of Resident Mission staff with project participants. Composition of missions was appropriate, DAL team
continuity was excellent, and reporting was good. The DAL team worked closely with the SHCP and other
ministries to provide technical advice, as required.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is assessed as highly satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Overall borrower performance is considered highly satisfactory. As noted earlier, the Borrower initiated the
concept of the DAL, which was then refined in intensive consultation with the Bank. Borrower
commitment was excellent; as the design was worked out, the government's technical and practical
contribution to the project was substantial. The project team was excellent, and, as noted earlier, a sound
macroeconomic framework was maintained.
While SHCP was the major counterpart agency, in the course of the DAL additional components of
government (e.g., Ministry of Environment and Ministry of Education) as well as parastatals such as
BANOBRAS cooperated fully in the achievement of project goals.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government technical and managerial support for the project was excellent. Implementation of the reforms
- 8-



was enthusiastic, and officials worked hard at overcoming obstacles.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the implementing agency, SHCP, was excellent.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is considered highly satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
*      Borrower Commitment is Critical to Project Success--While this point is frequently made, it is
nonetheless exceedingly pertinent in this case. While the general concept of the DAL was developed by the
government, its technical parameters were developed by a collaboration of the Bank and the government.
The Bank played a critical catalytic role in this process.
*      Implementing Fundamental Reform is a Long-term Process--The DAL supported several
important steps in what will be a long process of decentralization reforms. The lessons of international
experience in decentralization showed that it was best to proceed at a judicious pace, and a conscious
decision was made to limit the scope of the project and defer additional decentralization actions. Some of
these are being undertaken now, and others are in the pipeline. In retrospect, this was the correct decision.
*      lTransparency Can be Critical to Institutional Development Impact--As noted earlier, under the
DAL the state-by-state allocation of federal funding, e.g., for education and roads, was published.
Previously, the allocation of these funds was done primarily on a political basis, but their public disclosure
increased democratic accountability and acted to make the expenditures more efficient and equitable.
*      Publication of fiscal and financial information by the states, as part of the credit rating process
and as required by the new rules for subnational borrowing, has increased their public accountability and
motivated improvements in fiscal performance.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
For the Mexican Government, the Decentralization Adjustment Loan had highly satisfactory outcome in all
of its objectives. The sustainability of the project's objectives is highly likely because the government has
been moving in the direction of increasing decentralization and this policy has been reinforced by the new
administration. Since the project was an important initiative of the government as a key instrument to
implement its decentralization policy, there was a high sense of ownership on part of the Mexican
government, which was one of the main factors for its success.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
-9-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
1nd lS:atoMti1                         Proj,te4R+jk In Xi:t PS               A:talLas aEsimate, 00
Condition No. 1 - The Guarantor, through    INDICATOR - The Guarantor will provide    The 2000 approved Budget, of which SHCP
SHCP, has provided to the Bank: (a) a report three pieces of evidence to the Bank: a) a    provided a copy to the Bank, did not include
detailing any Discretionary Transfers  complete copy of the approved budget; b) a  any funding for discretionary transfers to the
approved in the Federal Budget; and (b) an  report detailing any Discretionary Transfers  states. Thus part (a) is fulfilled and part (b)
implementation report confirming, if  approved in the Federal Budget; and (c) an  is not applicable. CONDITION WAS FULLY
applicable, that the aggregate amount for   implementation report confirming, if  MET.
such Discretionary Transfers, as executed   applicable, that the aggregate amount for
by the Guarantor until March 31, 2000, does such Discretionary Transfers, as executed
not exceed the total amount approved in the  by the Guarantor until March 31, 2000, does
Federal Budget for such Transfers.   not exceed the total amount approved in the
Federal Budget for such Transfers.
Condition No. 2 - The Guarantor, through    INDICATOR - SHCP will abolish the practice CONDITION WAS FULLY MET. SHCP
SHCP, has been implementing its policy of  of accepting mandatos, ending it completely  announced its decision to end the
abdishing its practice of Mandatos, on a  after March 31, 2000 and having a transition  acceptance of mandatos, effective March 31,
consistent basis, in accordance with the  between January 1, 2000, and March 31,    2000. They made the decision public by,
provisions of paragraph 2.1 of the    2000. SHCP will make public its decision    among other things, posting the letter of
Implementation Letter                either by issuing an Officio to that effect or  development policy in their web-site on the
by publishing the decision in the Letter of   internet, a first in Mexico's history with the
Development Policy, such as by putting it on Bank. No mandatos have been accepted
the SHCP website on the intemet. As   since March 31, 2000.
evidence to the Bank, SHCP will provide an
official letter from Direccion General de
Credito Publico stating that after March 31,
2000, it has accepted no mandatos to act as
a trustee for the collateraliation of borrowing
by states and large municipalities (and their
organismos descentralizados); and (ii) from
January I to March 31, 2000, mandatos
were only accepted if their effectiveness did
not extend beyond March 31, 2000, and the
solicitng state on its own behalf or on behalf
of a large municipality was, at a minimum, in
the process of obtaining two global
local-currency scale issuer credit ratings
performed by credit-rating agencies
registered with CNBV, as evidenced by the
presentaton of the relevant contracts
between the borrower and those credit rating
agencies
- 10 -



Condition No. 3 - (a) The Regulations  INDICATOR - Credit ratings will be on a    For part (a) SHCP has published the
referred to in Sections 5.01(b) of the loan    global scale in local currency from two  appropriate regulations, which have been
agreement, establishing requirements on    agencies registered with CNBV. The  operative since March 31, 2000. SHCP,
banks for capital risk-weighting applicable to  requirements for capital-risk weighting will  along with Banobras, has had dissemination
debt incurred by a Subnational Govemment, have at least four categories, and they will   and training activities to help prepare the
has become effective and is being      range up to 150%. The debt of states and   states to operate in the new regulatory
implemented in a manner consistent with the large municipalities with no ratings or who do environment.
principles set forth in paragraph 3.1 of the    not register their debt with SHCP would have For part (b) SHCP has published in the Diaro
Implementation Letter; and (b) the     a risk weighting of 150%. Evidence to the    Official the new regulations for registering
regulations issued by the Guarantor, through Bank will be publication in Diario Oficial of   state debt and has been following them with
SHCP, setting requirements for the     the Resolucion with the capital risk weighting the (first) two states currently in the process
registration in SHCP's registry (Registro de  and a copy of the communication from the   of registration. CONDITION WAS FULLY
Obligaciones y Emprestitos de Entidades    Banco de Mexico to the banks requiring them MET
Federativas y Municipios) of debt incurred by to provide information according to the new
a Subnational Govemment has been       rules.
implemented in a manner consistent with the
principles set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the   INDICATOR - In order to register its debt
Implementation Letter.                 with SHCP, a subnational govemment would
need to show that it is current in publishing
its debt and fiscal outcomes in at least one
local periodical and one national periodical.
Evidence of this to SHCP would be the
publication in those periodicals. Current
means semester data published within six
months of the close of the previous
semester. (This means that during
January-June of a given year data would
need to be published for the period up to
June 30 of the previous year, and during
July-December of a given year data would
need to be published for the period up to
December 31 of the previous year). To
register its debt, a state or large municipality
(or organismo descentralizado ) would also
have to be current on debt service obligations
to development banks. Evidence of this to
SHCP would be a letter within the last month
from Banobras, and any other Development
Bank from which borrowing had taken place,
stating that no debt service was overdue. As
evidence to the Bank, SHCP will provide a
summary of all loans to subnational
govemments (or their organismos
descentralizados) registered since January
1, 2000, indicating the number of loans and
the total amount, and a letter stating that all
registering states met the requirements.
- 11 -



Condition No. 4 - The Borrower and any  INDICATOR - Criteria are issuance by  Banobras issued the intemal regulations.
other Development Bank which has provided Banobras, and any other Federal     THE CONDITION WAS FULLY MET.
loans to subnabonal govemments since   Govemment Development Bank that has lent
March 31, 2000: (a) have issued intemal    to states municipalities, or their organismos
lending regulations in accordance with the   descentralizados, since April 1, 2000, of
provisions of SHCP's Oficio Circular dated  intemal rules (in accordance with the
November 30, 1999; and (b) have        applicable regulations from SHCP) whereby,
implemented, such regulations, in a manner effective March 31, 2000, they will make new
consistent with the criteria and principles set loans to states and large municipalities (and
forth in paragraph 4.1 of the Implementation  their organismos descentralizados) only
Letter.                                when the loan in question qualifies (i) for
registration with SHCP; and (ii) for a capital
risk weighting lower than 100%.
Development banks can make loans to
subnational govemments or their organismos
descentralizados with a capital risk
weighting of 100% or more only if the loan
contains an institutional development
component that is funded by an intematonal
development agency. The evidence to the
Bank will be that the Borrower and any other
development banks that have lent to
subnafional govemments since April 1, 2000,
will provide copies to the Bank of their
intemal regulabons and the relevant changes
to their credit manuals, approved by their
Boards of Directors and consistent with the
regulations from SHCP. The Borrower and
any other development banks that have lent
to subnational govemments also will provide
official letters with information on lending, if
any, to subnational govemments (or their
organismos descentralizados) made since
the new regulations were effective, telling the
total number of loans and the value of loans
receiving each level of capital risk weighting.
Condition No. 5 - The Guarantor, through    INDICATOR - As evidence to the Bank,  SHCP has published the regulations for the
SHCP, has published the regulations    SHCP will provide a copy of the regulations  par-passu agreements and has provided
goveming eligibility criteria for the use of    and of the complete list of state-by-state  copies to the Bank. This condition was fully
funds and detailed amounts of each     par-passu programs in the approved Federal met.
pari-passu program approved in the Federal Budget, and a report of the state-by-state
Budget.                                changes in the allocation since last year.
Such re-allocation is based on Article 21 of
the Proyecto de Decreto del Presupuesto de
Egresos de la Federacion para el Ejercicio
Fiscal 2000 relative to the previous year of
funds of all pari-passu programs. The
re-allocations were agreed upon in the
federal-state agreements (convenios de
reasignacion de recursos).
- 12-



Condition No. 6 - The Guarantor, through    INDICATOR - Issuance by SHCP of an  SHCP issued the regulation to establish the
SHCP, has established and is operating the  intemal instruction (oficio) appointing an  Committee, and provided the Bank with the
Decentralization Committee in a manner    intemal decentralization committee (Comite  minutes of the meeting held prior to the
consistent with the provisions of SHCP's    para la Coordinacion Hacendaria), with  second tranche release. THE CONDITION
Oficio No. 101 -1 521 dated November 26,   participation of and rotating chairmanship by  HAS BEEN FULLY MET.
1999, and the operational guidelines set forth SHCP's three sub-secretarias and a
in paragraph 6.1 of the Implementation  permanent technical secretariat. The
Letter.                               committees functions will indude: (i)
strategic and policy analysis and
recommendations in the area of
decentralization; (ii) consolidation of available
data and information in that area; (iii)
promotion of the publication of federal and
subnational fiscal and financial statistics; and
(iv) supervision of the federal program for
technical assistance to states and
municipalities in the area of decentralization.
As evidence to the Bank, SHCP will provide
copies of the minutes of all meetings of the
committee held to date.
Condition No. 7 - The Guarantor, through    INDICATOR - As evidence to the Bank,    SHCP published the state-by-state allocation
SHCP, has published the state-by-state  SHCP will post the information in its  of federal spending and transfers for 2000.
allocation of federal expenditures and other  webpage on the intemet         THE CONDITION HAS BEEN FULLY MET.
explicit transfers to Subnational
Govemments in the education and transport
sectors, as approved in the Federal Budget.
Condition No. 8 - The funds approved in the  INDICATOR - As evidence to the Bank,  SHCP has published the appropriate
Federal Budget have been made available to  SHCP will show: (i) the funds in the  regulations for performance agreements with
States for the execution of Health    approved budget; (ii) copies of publication of the states in the heaith and environment
Performance Agreements and Environmental the rules of access (including performance  sectors, has provided copies of them to the
Performance Agreements.               and matching contributions required from  Bank, has provided signed copies to the
participating states) and of the allocation  Bank, and appropriated funding for the two
among states for these two programs in the  programs. THE CONDITION HAS BEEN
Diario Oficial, and of models of federal-state  FULLY MET.
agreements; and (iv) copies of
intergovemmental agreements already
signed, if any.
Output Indicators:
. In.catorMatrix                   Prected in last PSR                   Ac taULatest Estimate
End of project
- 13-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Proec Cos By Component               US$ million    US$ million   _____________
First tranche                                     306.07         306.07           100
Second tranche                                    300.00         300.00           100
Total Baseline Cost                               606.07         606.07
Total Project Costs           606.07         606.07
Total Financing Required           606.07         606.07
cy Pt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expen4ltur, Category     1GB          NGS          0ther'~      N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Budgetary Support        0.00          0.00        606.07        0.00        606.07
(0.00)        0.00)      (606.07)      (0.00)      (606.07)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     0.00         0.00         606.07        0.00       606.07
(0.00)       (0.00)      (606.07)      (0.00)      (606.07)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
_GB          NCB         Othe-        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
- 14 -



5. Budgetary Support             0.00            0.00          606.07          0.00         606.07
(0.00)         (0.00)        (606.07)        (0.00)       (606.07)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         0.00            0.00          606.07          0.00         606.07
(0.00)         (0.00)        (606.07)        (0.00)        (606.07)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govermnent units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate        -       -      -
Bank      Govt.     CoF.       Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank  t;Govt.  CoF.
First tranche            306.07      0.00      0.00      306.07      0.00      0.00    100.0   0.0    0.0
Second tranche           300.00      0.00      0.00      300.00      0.00      0.00    100.0   0.0    0.0
- 15 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
For this project, it was not possible to calculate economic costs and benefits.
- 16-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Econorists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count             Specialty                       Progress        Objective
Identification/Preparation
July, 1999                  2   Mission Leader, Decentralization
Specialist
July, 1999                 10   Mission Leader, Decentralization
Specialists (2), Macroeconomists
(2), Environmental Specialist,
Legal Specialist, Financial
Specialists (3)
Appraisal/Negotiation
September-Octob             8   Mission Leader,
er, 1999                         Decentralization Specialists
(2), Macroeconomists (2),
Environmental Specialist,
Legal Specialist, Financial
Specialist
October, 1999               2   Mission Leader, Decentralization
Specialist
Supervision
February, 2000               6   Mission Leader,                      S               S
Decentralization Specialists
(2), Macroeconomists (2),
Environmental Specialist
March, 2000                  6   Mission Leader, Decentralization     S               S
Specialists (2), Macroeconomnists
(2), Financial Specialist
March, 2000                  2   Mission Leader, Decentralization     S               S
Specialist
July, 2000                   3   Mission Leader, Decentralization     S               S
Specialist, Legal Specialist
ICR
January, 2001                1    ICR Specialist
(b) Staff:
|     Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision
ICR
Total
- 17-



I



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
ElMacropolicies                         * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Sector Policies                       * H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
El Physical                             O H  OSUOM   O N  * NA
Oi Financial                             O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Institutional Development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Gender                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Private sector development            O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
Li Public sector management              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
i Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 19-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
61 Bank performance                                 Rating
DJ Lending                                          *HSOS  OU OHU
El Supervision                                      *HS OS  OU  OHU
El Overall                                          *HS OS  O  u  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
ED Preparation                                      *HS OS  O u  O HU
LI Government implementation performance            * HS O S  0  U  0 HU
OI Implementation agencyperformance                 * HS 0 S  O  U  O HU
El Overall                                          *HS OS   0 U   O HU
- 20 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Marcelo Giugale and Steven Webb, editors, "Achievements and Challenges of Fiscal Decentralization-
Lessons from Mexico" World Bank, 2000.
Inter-American Development Bank, Mexico State and Municipal Strengthening Program, Loan Proposal,
September, 1999.
- 21 -



