Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7002-ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Decentralization Adjustment Loan)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 14, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 7002-ME 
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 14, 1999, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES (the 
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter from the Guarantor dated November 26, 
1999, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Guarantor's economy through the strengthening of the 
Guarantor's process of decentralization (the Program), declaring the Guarantor's 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof;
(B)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided, in 
support of the Program, to provide such assistance to the Guarantor by making a loan 
in an amount of six hundred six million seventy thousand Dollars ($606,070,000) to 
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C (the Borrower), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, of even date herewith, but only on 
condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in 
respect of such loan and to undertake such other obligations as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower 
and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in 
support of which the Loan is made.”;
(b)
Section 5.01 is modified to read: “The Borrower shall be entitled to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(c)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(d)
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably  request, on the execution of the Program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, 
the performance by the Borrower, the Guarantor and 
the Bank of their respective obligations 
under the Loan Agreement and the 
Guarantee Agreement, and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Loan.” 
(e)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Decentralization Committee” means the technical working group (Comité 
para la Coordinación Hacendaria) to be established and operating within SHCP (as 
hereinafter defined), pursuant to the provisions of SHCP's Oficio No. 101-1521 dated 
November 26, 1999;
(b)
“Development Bank” means each one of the Guarantor's banking institutions 
with a legal mandate to lend to a Subnational Government (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
“Discretionary Transfers” means funds transferred by the Guarantor (or 
its decentralized entities) to a Subnational Government (as hereinafter defined), as a 
budget item in the Federal Budget (as hereinafter defined), that are not allocated to 
such Government, in accordance with distribution criteria established by law;
(d)
“Environmental Performance Agreement” means an agreement (Convenio de 
Desempeño) to be entered into between the Guarantor's Secretaría de Medio Ambiente, 
Recursos Naturales y Pesca (SEMARNAP) and a selected State (as hereinafter defined), 
to promote, at the state level, the development of an environmental regulatory 
framework, training and capacity building programs, and monitoring and reporting 
mechanisms;
(e)
“Federal Budget” means the Guarantor's annual budget for the year 2000, 
as approved by the Guarantor's Congress (Presupuesto de Egresos de la Federación para 
el Ejercicio Fiscal 2000), to be enacted through a Congressional Decree issued 
pursuant to the provisions of Article 74 (IV) of the Guarantor's Federal Constitution;
(f)
“Health Performance Agreement” means an agreement (Convenio de Desempeño) 
to be entered into between the Guarantor's Secretaría de Salud and a selected State 
Page  3
(as hereinafter defined) to promote universal health services coverage at the state 
level;
(g)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Guarantor to the Bank, containing technical criteria and indicators to be used in 
monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the Program;
(h)
“Mandato” means an agreement entered into between \1f\1f\1f\1fthe Guarantor and a 
Subnational Government for the use of transfers (Participaciones) allocated to a 
Subnational Government (as hereinafter defined), in the Federal Budget as collateral 
for indebtedness incurred by such Government;
(i)
“Municipality” means a political subdivision (municipio) of a State (as 
hereinafter defined);
(j)
“Pari-passu program” means an item included in the Federal Budget, 
whereby cash transfers are made available by the Guarantor to a Subnational Government 
(as hereinafter defined), conditioned upon the provision of a matching counterpart 
contribution by such Government;
(k)
“State” means any of the States that constitute the United Mexican States 
and the Federal District (Distrito Federal);
(l)
“SHCP” means Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, the Guarantor's 
Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit, or any successor thereto; and
(m)
“Subnational Government” means a State, a Municipality, or a 
decentralized entity within a State or a Municipality. 
ARTICLE II 
Guarantee; Transfer of Loan Proceeds
Section 2.01.  Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally 
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment 
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if 
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all other 
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02.  (a) The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement and, except as the Bank may 
otherwise agree, shall not change or fail to enforce any provisions of such 
contractual arrangements.
(b)
The Guarantor shall exercise its rights under the contractual 
arrangements  referred to in paragraph (a) above in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Guarantor and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  
ARTICLE III 
Other Covenants
Section 3.01 (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Guarantor shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Guarantor shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Page  4
ARTICLE IV 
Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01.  The Director General de Crédito Público of the Guarantor is 
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 4.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Facsimile: 
(202) 477-6391
For the Guarantor:
Dirección General de Crédito Público
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur 826 (piso 9)
Colonia del Valle
03100 México, D.F.
México
Telex:
1777313-SHOCME
Facsimile: 
(525) 228-1690
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ David de Ferranti 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Jesús Reyes Heroles 
Page  5
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Actions Referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement
1.
The Guarantor, through SHCP, has provided to the Bank: (a) a report detailing 
any Discretionary Transfer approved in the Federal Budget; and (b) an implementation 
report confirming, if applicable, that the aggregate amount of all Discretionary 
Transfers, as executed by the Guarantor until March 31, 2000, does not exceed the 
total amount approved in the Federal Budget for such Transfers. 
2.
The Guarantor, through SHCP, has been implementing its policy of abolishing its 
practice of Mandatos, on a consistent basis, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.1 of the Implementation Letter.
3.
 (a)
The regulations referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement 
have become effective and are being implemented in a manner consistent with the 
principles set forth in paragraph 3.1 of the Implementation Letter; and (b) the 
regulations setting requirements for the registration in SHCP's registry (Registro de 
Obligaciones y Empréstitos de Entidades Federativas y Municipios) of debt incurred by 
a Subnational Government have been issued by the Guarantor through SHCP, and have been 
implemented in a manner consistent with the principles set forth in paragraph 3.2 of 
the Implementation Letter.
4.
The Borrower, and any other Development Bank which has provided loans to a 
Subnational Government since March 31, 2000: (a) have issued internal lending 
regulations in accordance with the provisions of SHCP's Oficio Circular dated November 
30, 1999; and (b) have implemented such regulations in a manner consistent with the 
criteria and principles set forth in paragraph 4.1 of the Implementation Letter.
5.
The Guarantor, through SHCP, has published the regulations governing eligibility 
criteria for the use of funds and detailed amounts of each pari-passu program approved 
in the Federal Budget.
6.
The Guarantor, through SHCP, has established and is operating the 
Decentralization Committee in a manner consistent with the provisions of SHCP's Oficio 
No. 101-1521 dated November 26, 1999 and the criteria set forth in paragraph 6.1 of 
the Implementation Letter.
7.
The Guarantor, through SHCP, has published the State-by-State allocation of 
federal expenditures and other explicit transfers to Subnational Governments, in the 
education and transport sectors, as approved in the Federal Budget.
8.
The funds approved in the Federal Budget have been made available to States for 
the execution of Health Performance Agreements and Environmental Performance 
Agreements. 
