Documant of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rqmwt No. 14056
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
YACYRETA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
AND
ELECTRIC POWER SECTOR PROJECT
(LOANS 1761-AR AND 2998-AR)
MARCH 14, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
1 US$ = 1 Peso
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures
kW          = Kilowatt
MW          = Megawatt (1,000 kW)
GW          =  Gigawatt (1,000 MW)
kWh         = Kilowatt hour
MWh         = Megawatt hour (1,000 kWh)
MVA         =  Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kVA)
km          =  Kilometer (0.6214 mile)
km2         = Square kilometer (0.386 sq. mile)
m 3         =  Cubic meter
hm3         = Cubic hectometer (106m3)
kcal        = Kilocalorie (3.968 BTU)
TOE         = Tons of oil equivalent
MTOE        = Million TOE
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AYCA              Auditores y Consultores Asociados
AyEE              Agua y Energia Electrica S.E. (federally owned,
nationwide electric utility and irrigation agency)
CNEA               Comisi6n Nacional de Energia At6mica (National
Nuclear Energy Comrnission)
CTMSG              Comisi6n Tecnica Mixta de Salto Grande
(Argentine/Uruguayan Commission in charge of the
Salto Grande hydroelectric plant)
DUC (DC)          Despacho Unificado de Carga (Dispatch Center)
EBY               Entidad Binacional Yacyretd (Argentine-Paraguayan
entity in charge of the Yacyreta project)
FRP                Financial Rehabilitation Plan
HIDRONOR          Hidroel&ctrica Norpatag6nica S.A. (federally owned,
electricity generation and transmission utility)
REMP               Resettlement & Environment Management Program
SIN (NIS)          Sistema Interconectado Nacional (National
Interconnected System)
SE                Secretaria de Energia Electrica (Secretariat of
Electrical Energy, under the Ministry of Economy'
SEGBA             Servicios Electricos del Gran Buenos Aires, S.A.
(federally owned electric utility, serving the Buenos
Aires metropolitan area)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                      March 14, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Argentina
Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project (Loan 1761-AR) and
Electric Power Sector Proiect (Loan 2998-AR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Argentina - Yacyreta Hydroelectric
Project (Loan 1761-AR) and the Electric Power Sector Project (Loan 2998-AR) prepared by the
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. The loans provided a total of US$462 million
(Loans 2854-AR and 3520-AR, expected to be fully disbursed by 1998, will additionally fund
US$437 million). The PCR is an interim report on the development and construction of the
Yacyretd hydroelectric project. The Borrower provided Part II of the report. It highlights
shortcomings in Bank supervision.
The loans were made to the Government of Argentina and on-lent to the Beneficiary,
Entidad Binacional Yacyreta (EBY), a joint-venture created under the Treaty of Yacyreta between
Argentina and Paraguay. The principal objectives of the projects were to provide additional low
cost energy, to improve sector finances and to finance studies in support of sector restructuring.
Construction of the Yacyreta hydroelectric plant started in 1977/78 but due to
financial, economic and political difficulties, the plant is now only partially completed (two units out
of 20 having been commissioned in 1994), and is expected to be fully completed with a nine-year
time overrun in 1998. Lack of timely local and foreign financing other than from the Bank and the
Inter-American Development Bank was the main reason for the delay in dam works. It also delayed
the implementation of resettlement, the staging of which now delays reservoir impoundment and
achievement of full output. On the basis of an estimated project cost in real terms about 8.2 percent
above the original estimate, the recalculated ERR is 5.5 percent compared with 14 percent at
appraisal.
The outcome of the two projects is rated as unsatisfactory because of the partial
success of their physical components, high unit cost of the output compared to alternatives, and
failure to improve power sector finances. The technical assistance component of the Electric Power
Sector Loan had a modest institutional development impact by contributing to the success of the
power sector reform which took place after mid-1991. Based on the current projections, the
sustainability of the projects is iikely, provided that the Government continues to lend to EBY to
help service its debt until the late 1990s.
The PCR includes a satisfactory account of the two projects' implementation and results. An
audit is planned as part of a country assistance review.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ................................... ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY   .                ........................... iii
Project Description . ............................. iii
Project Implementation .       ........................... iii
Project Results ................................ iv
Sector Results  ...............................  v
Project Sustainability   ............................   vi
Bank Performance  ............................. vi
EBY Performance ............................   vii
Consultant and Contractor Performance   ......           .......... vii
Lessons Learned  ............................  viii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S
PERSPECTIVE   ..............................   1
Project Identity ...............................  1
Background  .................................   1
Project Objectives and Description  ...................  4
Design and Implementation ........................ 15
Project  Results  ...............................  27
Project Sustainability ............................ 29
Bank Performance  ............................. 31
Borrower/Beneficiary Performance   ......                ............ 33
Consultant and Contractor Performance  ................ 35
Lessons Learned  .............................. 36
PART II. PROJECT REVIEWED FROM THE BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE   .............................. 39
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ................. 44
Table 1: Related Bank Loans  ...................... 44
Table 2: Project Timetable ........................ 45
Table 3: GDP Levels & Public Service Consumption: Actual
and Forecast  ............................ 46
Table 4: Appraisal Forecasts: Cost and Financing Plan  ... ... 47
Table 5: Estimated and Actual Schedule of Disbursements ..... 48
Table 6: Sector Sources and Applications of Funds ...           ...... 49
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants ................... 50
Table 8: Economic Impact ........................ 57
Table 9: Yacyreta's Economic Generation Cost ....             ........ 58
Table 10: Use of Bank Resources .................... 59
Table 11: Mission Data .......................... 60
Table 12: Project Studies  ......................... 63
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



a



- ii -
PREFACE
The Project Completion Report (PCR) is an interim report on the
development and construction of the Yacyreta Hydroelectric Power Project,
which the Bank helped to finance with a project investment loan of US$210
million (1761-AR, 1979), a sector investment loan of US$252 million (2998-
AR, 1988), and a second project investment loan of US$300 million (3520-AR,
1992). Loan 1761-AR was fully disbursed and closed on June 30, 1988, one
year late. Loan 2998-AR was fully disbursed and closed on June 30, 1991, also
one year late. Loan 3520-AR is under disbursement with an expected closing
date of December 31, 1998.
Yacyreta is a very large, complex, long-term project, and in the interim,
a report was needed to fulfill the twin goals of (i) meeting the PCR requirements
of the two completed loans (1761-AR and 2998-AR) and (ii) providing a
preliminary review of the main implementation issues while it is still possible
to receive meaningful comments from some of those who participated in the
project. To meet these goals, this PCR departs at times from the standard PCR
format and elaborates on the history of the project as well as several of the more
important issues.
It has been 15 years since approval of Loan 1761-AR. Since then, the
project has experienced significant time delays and moderate investment cost
overruns.  During the past two years, however, the project has regained
momentum, has been properly managed and is on schedule to be completed in
1998. The first unit came on line in September 1994. Once the Yacyreta
project is completed, a comprehensive Project Completion Report will be issued.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of Latin
America and the Caribbean Region's Country Department I and is based inter
alia on loan documents, appraisal reports, supervision reports, correspondence,
and interviews with Bank staff.
A draft of this PCR (Parts I and III) was sent to the Borrower for
comments. Comments were received in September 1994 and have been included
as Part II of this report.






- iii -
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Description and Objectives
1.    Description. The Yacyreta Hydroelectric Power Project (3,100 MW),
which is being constructed by the Entidad Binacional Yacyretd (EBY) on the
Parana River, is a joint venture of Argentina and Paraguay.  The project
comprises 70 km of earth dams, a power house, reservoir, navigation lock, fish
passage facilities, irrigation intakes, and ancillary/relocation works (para. 3.5).
The expected completion date is June 1998, nearly eight years behind the
original schedule. As financier, Argentina bears the total responsibility for
EBY.
2.    Objectives. The present I-PCR covers two completed Loans: 1761-AR
and 2998-AR. The project objectives for Loan 1761 (Yacyreta Hydroelectric
Project) were to: (a) provide additional, least-cost, base-load hydroelectric
energy; (b) improve navigation; (c) facilitate future irrigation projects; and
(d) augment the fishing industry.  The sector objectives were to promote
improved long-range planning for generation/transmission and to rationalize the
level and structure of power tariffs (para. 3.4). The project objectives for Loan
2998 (Electric Power Sector Project) were to (a) irnprove resource allocation
within the sector through optimization of its expansion program; (b) implement
a Financial Rehabilitation Plan (FRP) in connection with the national power
utilities; (c) improve efficiency of the power utilities; (d) promote rational use
of electricity through a tariff system based on economic costs; (e) strengthen the
structure of the sector, so as to bring about better coordination, planning and
regulation; and (f) establish policies and procedures for environmental protection
and social aspects in power projects.
Project Implementation
3.    Bank Lending. Since the original appraisal (1978), the Bank and the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) have collaborated in financing the
project with loans totalling US$1,734 million. The Bank has fully disbursed
Loans 1761-AR and 2998-AR, amounting to US$458.2 million. Loan 3520-AR
(US$300 million, 1992, out of which US$299 million are intended for EBY) is
being disbursed, and discussions with the Government have led to an agreement
to reassign US$137.6 million from Loan 2854-AR (SEGBA V) to further help
project completion, thus increasing the Bank's total financing to US$894.8
million. IDB lending in support of the project amounts to US$839.6 million
(para. 2.7).
4.    Tinetable, Cost, and Financing Plan. Total project completion delays
are estimated to reach nearly eight years when compared to the original plan.
Delayed completion reflected the impact of late loan effectiveness (1982), a
three-year Bank-EBY procurement dispute (1980-1983), the South Atlantic War
(1982), chronic financing problems after 1983, and the uneven quality of EBY's



- iv -
management, which was especially weak in 1989-1991 (para. 4.5). The delays
were further aggravated by other important events during this period. There
was severe macroeconomic mismanagement which produced recurrent bouts of
hyperinflation and an extended recession, compounded by the Latin American
external debt crisis. Simultaneously, there were profound, protracted political
shocks which eventually paralyzed the state.  These forces ultimately led
Argentina to abandon many historic policies and customs, causing prolonged
uncertainty and policy vacuums. All these events adversely affected Yacyreta's
progress (para. 2.1).
5.     Associated with delayed completion were higher project costs and larger
financial requirements (paras 4.1-4.3). Stated in 1977 price levels, there was
a 17% increase in project (investment) cost from the first appraisal (US$2,637
million) to the most recent one (US$3,082 million). This increase is explained
basically by the higher engineering and administrative expenses (due to the
nearly eight-year delay in project completion) and the Aguapey Valley protection
scheme which was not included in the initial project cost estimates. Financial
requirements, expressed in current amounts, increased considerably, as would
be expected due to inflation and extended project execution; they are now
estimated at US$9,350 million or 35% higher than originally estimated.
However, when referred to a common price level these requirements show an
increase of some 8%.  Along with the projected investment costs, these
additional financial requirements as well as shortfalls from suppliers' credits and
EBY's internally generated resources are being met by higher Governrent
contributions (US$2.1 billion including variation of working capital) and
IBRD/IDB loans (US$1.1 billion).'
Project Results
6.     The project was originally justified as the least-cost expansion program
on the assumption of market growth of 8.0%-9.9% during the 1980s, following
average 7.9% annual increases during the previous 15 years. However, the
actual annual growth rate during the 1980s was only slightly over 2%. Had this
sharp turndown in demand been foreseeable during the 1979 project appraisal,
YacyretA would possibly have been replaced by smaller sized projects. With the
advantage of hindsight, it can be argued that the delays in Yacyreta's
commissioning, combined with the advent of combined-cycle technology, and
the improving prospects of exploiting Argentina's ample natural gas reserves
would call YacyretA's selection into further question. Notwithstanding these
problems, Yacyreta was still within the least-cost generation program when the
Bank systematically reassessed the feasibility of completing the project during
1985-1988 and again in 1991-1992. These analyses considered: (a) prior
investments as sunk costs; and (b) the financial consequences of early
termination of contracts. It is also important to note that given the current
1.     These resources do not include the increase in the last IDB loan amount or the Bank's SEGBA V loan
reasignmnent of funds. which were decided after Loan 3520-AR appraisal. These would have increased
both banks' participation by US$1,316 million above the Loan 1761-AR appraisal commnitments.



v -
balance of energy demand and supply, and its estimated evolution during the
next five years, it is expected that all energy produced by Yacyreta will be
absorbed by the market.
7.    Internal Rate of Return. Presently, the economic generation cost of
Yacyreta, referring all investment costs (actually incurred and estimated for the
next four years) to the 1994 price level and considering an opportunity cost of
capital (OCC) of 10%, is USC9.5/kWh (Part III, Table 9). This compares
unfavorably with the prevailing marginal cost in Argentina (about USC4.0/kWh)
which is the basis for setting prices in the spot market.2 For such a tariff level
of US C4. 0/kWh, the project's historical IRR is 5.5%, which is much lower than
the originally expected IRR of 14%. According to the 1992 agreement between
Argentina and Paraguay, Yacyreta's tariff at year-end 1994 will be
US¢3.3/kWh. Such a generation cost would correspond to a 4.5% OCC. The
high IRRs computed in the appraisals of Loans 2998-AR (1988, IRR= 19 %) and
3520-AR (1992, IRR=24%) would have corresponded to low economic
generation costs, and are basically due to the consideration of sunk costs.
Indeed, generation costs computed for the updated investment series would
confirm this. For instance, 10% OCC would yield values of USC3.0/kWh and
USC1.4/kWh for cutting points in 1988 and 1992 (i.e., sunk costs until 1987,
and 1991 respectively), while a more stringent 12% OCC would raise the
former value to a still reasonable cost of USC3.8/kWh (paras. 5.1-5.2).
Sector Results
8.    Sector Financial Performance. Sector finances deteriorated between
1979 and 1991 (paras. 4.6-4.8).  Much of this was caused by deficient
Government financial management, beginning with the misguided use of
Argentina's state enterprises for mobilizing overall balance of payments support.
Their subsequent high level of indebtedness weakened the utilities' finances, as
did the Government's consistently belated adjustment of electricity tariffs to
cover the higher costs of fuel, personnel and interest charges under the recurrent
inflation.
9.    Sector Organization.  Although the Bank-supported activities were
unsuccessful in improving sector financial performance, this shortfall was
mitigated by the project's contribution to the power sector restructuring with a
major divestiture of state-owned utilities, one of the key components of
Argentina's now  highly-regarded public sector reforms.   Specifically, the
technical assistance component of Loan 2998-AR provided the diagnostic study
and part of the preparatory work for these considerable changes (para. 5.7).
2.    As a comparison, Puerto and Costanem, recently privatized thermal gcnemdtg utdlities in the Buenos
Aires area, have eight-year supply contracts with the distribution utilities at the current price of
USc4.2/kWh.



-vi -
Project Sustainability
10.   There are strong grounds for sustaining the favorable improvements in
recent years in project performance , and for considering that Yacyreta will
continue to hold these improvements in place for completion of the project and
long-term operation of the plant.
11.   Implementation process and completion of the project. The prospects
for sustainability in implementing the project are favorable.  Still to be
successfully completed are: (a) the main civil works and installation of the
generation equipment;  (b) the transmission system; and (c) the reservoir
operation at the ultimate design level (83 m) for full generation. Completion of
the first two areas will likely occur on schedule since the works to be completed
have been progressing well. While the complexity of the resettlement operations
entails some risk in meeting the June 1998 target for raising the reservoir to
elevation 83 m, their likely completion in a reasonable time frame should not
affect the grounds for project sustainability.
12.   Long-term  operation of the fully completed project.  The project
should be sustainable, given the sound financial condition expected for EBY.
The revenues resulting from the generation of electricity would guarantee the
generation of positive cash flows and repayment of all debt before completion
of the project's first 15 years of full operation. Given the current balance of
energy demand and supply, and its estimated evolution during the next five
years, it is expected that all energy produced by Yacyreta will be absorbed by
the market. Prospects for sustainability of the project after completion would
be enhanced by the envisaged private sector participation in Yacyreta. Finally,
the full generation of Yacyreta should not be affected by sedimentation in the
reservoir since sedimentation studies and strategy control are being developed
with Bank financing.
Bank Performance
13.   Risk Assessment. During appraisal of Loan 1761-AR, the Bank foresaw
the likelihood of project delays and cost overruns because of possible difficulties
in mobilizing sufficient financial resources, which it correctly viewed as the
major project risk. Similarly, it anticipated that problems could ensue from
EBY's internal management strains, especially in dealing with procurement and
environmental concerns. It failed, however, to secure adequate safeguards to
deal with these. In Loan 2998-AR, the Bank designed a sector financial
rehabilitation plan to be monitored by only two simple indicators, under the
expectation that a well-managed sector would also facilitate the channelling of
adequate funding to complete the project.  It failed, however, to secure
safeguards for protecting the project from reduction in Government contributions
(paras. 3.21 & 3.32).
14.   Resettlement/Environment.   Had current Bank policies and staff
expertise existed at appraisal, many of the subsequent problems in design and



- vii -
delay would possibly have been avoided. By the time Loan 2998-AR was
developed, a time-bound Action Plan was agreed upon for implementation of the
Master Plan (covering inter alia resettlement and the environment) and made
part of the legal documents. Nevertheless, these measures did not properly
examine important resettlement issues related to the provision of replacement
housing for affected rural and urban populations, e.g., housing cost, mortgage
payment affordability, and diversified housing solutions, including construction
by those resettled. During project execution, these matters were addressed by
specialists hired by the Bank. However, as the resettlement component was then
virtually at a standstill, the correction of these problems was deferred until Loan
3520-AR provided for the resolution of all issues concerning the resettlement
and environmental protection components through the Resettlement and
Environment Management Program (REMP) (paras. 4.25-4.31).
EBY Performance
15.   Project Management. EBY's top management was replaced many times
(para. 8.2). In some cases, the new managers did not have the requisite
experience, having been appointed for political reasons. Initially, management
and staffing of EBY were weak. It improved during the middle 1980s and then
became less viable toward the end of the decade. Reductions of personnel in
the 1990s eventually led to a reasonable number of staff.  However,
inappropriate voluntary separation incentives resulted in the loss of key people.
16.   Resettlement/Environment. Under Loans 1761-AR and 2998-AR, EBY
considered the resettlement and environmental protection works as secondary to
the construction of the civil works. Within EBY's management, there was no
professional with requisite skills, experience or interest to oversee the
resettlement and environmental protection. This, fortunately, did not prove to
be a major obstacle to getting results in environmental protection measures.
However, this is probably because a Bank expert reviewed policy and design
decisions during the preparation of Loan 2998-AR.   Similarly, EBY's
weaknesses in resettlement performance were somewhat mitigated over time by
its accommodation to greater provincial and municipal involvement than it
permitted earlier. But in retrospect, EBY should have: (a) acquired land and
the related titles more speedily; (b) adopted housing design and standards with
manageable construction costs; and (c) taken full responsibility for affected
residents' facilities which were lost, displaced or destroyed (paras. 8.4-8.5).
17.   Procurement. EBY failed to present the Bank with a compelling case
for awarding the main civil works contract to the second lowest evaluated
bidder. EBY and the Government took a hard line on the matter which resulted
in an impasse that lasted three years (para. 8.1).
Consultant and Contractor Performance
18.   Engineering Consultants. For feasibility studies and design, as well as
supervision of contractors, the consultants' performance was satisfactory. For



- viii -
instance, river diversion was carefully planned and smoothly executed. The
consultants' reversal of opinion on the award of the civil works contract led to
a protracted procurement dispute between the Bank and EBY.   Their
performance in the preparation and evaluation of the many bidding documents
and proposals for electro-mechanical equipment was less satisfactory in the
recent past.   The consultants provided environmental expertise which
recommended a solution to the problems of fish migration, the feasibility of
which remains to be proven. They were not involved in the detailed planning
and design work for resettlement; however, their proposed concept for
resettlement housing during the early feasibility study phase would only have
been appropriate for major urban settings (paras. 9.1-9.4).
19.   Boards of Experts. In 1983, a board of four consultants of international
reputation was appointed, at the Bank's urging, to review engineering aspects
of design and construction. These consultants meet regularly and have provided
valuable advice (para. 9.5). Subsequently, a panel for dealing with Resettlement
and Environmental matters was formally instituted and met much less frequently
as progress on those areas was much slower and more erratic. During 1990,
an interdisciplinary group of experts, directly employed by the Bank, reviewed
the social and environmental aspects of the project and produced detailed
recommendations for addressing the most pressing issues. Their work was
instrumental for setting the comprehensive Resettlement and Environmental
Management Programs agreed to during Loan 3520-AR's appraisal.
20.   Contractor. The civil works contractor has performed well thus far.
Since 1984, the contractor has maintained a presence at the site in spite of the
financial difficulties of the Argentine Government, which have resulted in EBY
arrears exceeding a year or more in its payments to the contractor (para. 9.6).
Lessons Learned
21.   Resettlement/Environment. Two lessons emerge: the first is that the
Bank must make every effort to ensure that the project entity has a proper sense
of "ownership" of the resettlement/environment effort. 'lb achieve such a sense
of "ownership", it is important that at the policy-making level, the management
of the project include individuals properly qualified to help formulate and
implement such an effort. A second lesson is that the local and provincial
governments of the affected people should be included in the identification,
planning and implementation of the selected programs (paras. 10.1-10.2).
22.   Risk Assessment. During the original appraisal, the Bank correctly
identified as a major risk the delays to project execution due to lack of
financing. Having identified variations in economic and financial conditions as
sources of uncertainty and risk, the Bank tested the economic justification of the
project by varying its costs and those of other generation options, but did not
test the economic soundness of the project in a manner which was consistent
with the perception of risk. Clearly, a lesson to be learned is that the economic
analysis of a project should be expanded to include a variation of economic and



- Ix -
financial scenarios, the breadth of which is consistent with the perception of risk
(including a critical evaluation of the credit standing and financing capacity of
the borrower, paras. 10.3-10.4). Correspondingly, the project agreements
should include workable safeguards to address the perceived financial risks and
thus minimize them.
23.   Continued Project Support in Deteriorating Circumstances.  The
Government's persistent failures to keep Yacyreta on track and to resolve the
sector problems raise questions as to whether the Bank's continued support of
the project was justified. This continuity was initially based on the view that
Yacyreta, being the largest public investmnent activity, was the best vehicle for
seeking to influence Government public finance and state enterprise reforms.
In addition, the extended project support reflected the continuing belief that
Yacyreta's completion (in place of other power sector alternatives) was not only
the least-cost solution, but also had a scale comnensurate with Argentina's long-
term economic needs. Other factors included the difficulties of applying "stop-
and-go" tactics on large, unitary civil works, EBY's heavy dependence on the
Bank for the project's survival, and Argentina's subsequent emergency-type aid
requests for its ultimately successful public sector reforms.
24.   At the same time, while reluctant to abandon Yacyreta, the Bank
toughened its position several times to stimulate better Government
performance. It initially deferred the effectiveness of Loan 1761 until receipt
of pledges of stricter sector financial management.  Later, it delayed the
processing of new loans for the sector, which it conditioned on major policy
actions, and repeatedly pressed the economic team for stronger Government
backing. Unfortunately, however, these measures netted only limited returns.
On reflection, therefore, the principal conclusions are that:
(a)    Support of a multi-year, lumpy civil works project was an
ineffectual tool for advancing sector policy and institutional
reforms, particularly because of country conditions after the late
1970s. This approach proved to be unduly ambitious, although
it may have appeared to be necessary under the circumstances.
(b)   On the other hand, a sector loan (such as 2998-AR) which
includes financing of a specific project may defeat the latter
purpose as non-compliance with agreed sector conditionalities
likely results in interruption of disbursements for the project.
Under both approaches, the project experience demonstrated that
it was unfeasible to obtain the needed sector reforms while the
Government had neither the political will nor strength to carry
them out. A pure sector approach would have also failed under
the circumstances.
(c)   However, the Bank's continued support of YacyretA must also
be seen in light of the foreseeable benefits of added power and
energy, in addition to the opportunities it afforded for



x -
participating in recent sweeping public sector changes. Had the
Bank abandoned the project, it would have been in a weaker
position to actively influence such sector reform.
25.   Agenda for a future evaluation. The assumptions considered in the
section for Project Sustainability should be revisited, giving special attention to
the REMP component and the operation of the reservoir at the ultimate design
level (83 m). The evaluation of the REMP program should be quantitative, in
terms of the compensatory areas assigned, water quality measurements, and the
number of people resettled; and qualitative, in terms of the quality in the
implementation and the effectiveness of the program. For these evaluations, the
project's independent monitoring program would be a good source of
information. Another issue of importance is the recalculation of the rate of
return of the project and the comparison with the value calculated in the Loan
3520-AR (Yacyreta II) and the estimations made in the present report with and
without sunk costs.



PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Names:               Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project and
Electric Power Sector Project
Loan Numbers:        1761-AR, 2998-AR
Loan Amounts:       US$210 million and US$252 million, respectively
RVP Unit:            Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Countries:           Argentina and Paraguay
Sector:              Energy
Sub-sector:          Electric Power
1.1   The Yacyreta hydroelectric  project (3,100 MW), which  is being
constructed by the Entidad Binacional Yacyretd (EBY) on the Parana River, is
a joint venture of Argentina and Paraguay. As financier, Argentina bears the
total responsibility for EBY.
2. Background
2.1    Pblitical and Economic Context. Between 1975 and 1991, Argentine
officials, together with staff of the Bank and the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB), prepared and partially executed the Yacyreta project.
Collaboration with IDB, which was preparing its own loan to support Yacyreta,
was close. A joint IDB/IBRD mission appraised the project in July 1978 (Part
III, Table 2).  To evaluate the performance of institutions and personnel
involved in the project, it is important to understand the turbulent context in
which the project was planned and partially executed. Military governments
ruled Argentina in the 1970s when this project was planned, but in the 1980s,
during project execution, they gave way to civilian, constitutional regimes3
following what was a watershed political event for Argentina:  the South
Atlantic  War (1982).   In  addition, there  was  severe  macroeconomic
mismanagement which produced recurrent bouts of hyperinflation and an
extended recession, compounded by the severe Latin America-wide external debt
crisis. Simultaneously, there were profound, protracted political shocks which
eventually paralyzed the state. These forces ultimately led Argentina to abandon
many historic policies and customs, causing prolonged uncertainty and policy
vacuums. All these adversely affected Yacyreta's progress.
2.2    Prior to 1982 government policies comprised, inter-alia, centralized
planning and industrial and energy independence with related barriers to trade.
Between 1984 and about 1990, the central Government, reflecting the divisions
in Argentina, was weak and lacked the institutional mechanisms and capacity to
3.     During the planning and execution of the project, there were four military governmens - those of
Generals Videla (1976-1981), Viola (1981-1982), and Bignone (1983) - and two eleced administrations -
those of Presidens Alfonsin (1983-1989) and Menem (1989 to the present).



-2-
formulate and implement policy on a consistent basis. Reduced institutional
capacity extended to the power sector, the organization of which was fragmented
(para. 2.11). Many power utilities have suffered from political interference,
over-staffing, poor maintenance, and financial difficulties. In circumstances of
political ferment and economic stagnation, there were many changes with
respect to project leadership, ministers responsible for oversight, and
Government financing for and commitment to the project.
2.3    During the past two decades, Argentina, a rich country, has been
struggling to reverse a slow decline from the ranks of the most prosperous
nations. Recent Bank reports make the point that prior to 1989, reliance on the
statist growth strategy led to: chronic deficits in public finance; excessive
government borrowing; virtual withdrawal of foreign lenders from the Argentine
market; high rates of inflation and devaluation; balance-of-payment crises;
declining savings, investment, and productivity; worsening poverty; and a long
period of stagnation (1976-1989).'
2.4    Between 1984 and 1989, the Administrations of Presidents Alfonsin and
Menem introduced various stabilization programs to control inflation based on,
inter alia, price controls, tight monetary policy, and progressive devaluations
(such as the Plan Austral, 1985) or new tax measures, sporadic improvement
in the pricing of services offered by public enterprises, and some adjustment in
provincial public sector finances (such as the Plan Primavera, 1988). Once it
became evident to the public that these plans had not fundamentally changed the
structure and behavior of public finance and that the Government was unable
effectively to redress the structural deficit of the public sector, inflationaiy
expectations re-emerged, the exchange rate-domestic inflation cycle took its
course, and political support for the programs collapsed. In 1990, the Menem
Administration attempted to address the underlying sources of public sector
deficits through fundamental economic reform with measures which included the
sale and privatization of several major state enterprises. These reforms have
achieved major success in controlling inflation, and continue to enjoy public
support.
2.5    Also growing under the administrations of Presidents Alfonsin and
Menem was the importance of provincial governments as political entities. With
respect to the allocation of the limited financial resources of the central
Government, the provincial governments used their influence to advance the
claims of local projects. Not surprisingly, the constituency favoring Yacyreta,
a bi-national project, was less numerous (and therefore less influential) than the
mass of constituencies favoring local projects; and in the competition for
funding by the central Government, Yacyreta tended to lag.
4.     Y.brId Bank (WB): Reorn and Recommendation of the President of the Intemnational Bank for
Reconstrucdion and Development lo the Executive Director on a Proposed Financial Sector Adiustment
Loan in an Amount Euuivalent to USS400 million to the Artentine Ranublic (Repot No. P-5862.R)
January 25, 1993, p. 1. pam. 2; Armentina: Public Finance Review-Frm Insolvency to Gowth (Report
No. 10827AR). February 11, 1993, pp. 1-3, pams. 1-5; Amgentina: Reforms for Price Stability and
Growth (Report No. 7994-AR), Febmuary 11, 1993, pp. i-iv, parms. 1-10.



-3 -
2.6   Bank  Lending to Argentina.   Besides political and economic
developments, the project was also affected by Bank lending policy toward
Argentina. Given the depressed level of economic activity during the 1980s, it
becane progressively clear from successive failed stabilization programs that
only deep structural, fiscal and institutional reforms could restore conditions for
orderly development activity. Absent these conditions, the continuing project-
specific lending practices offered almost no prospects for altering the poor
financial performance of the power utilities or removing the impedimnents to
implementing Yacyreta. Thus, towards the end of the 1980s, Bank assistance
to Argentina stressed intensive adjustment lending, directed at correcting the
economic policy framework. Lending to parastatals virtually ended. Since
then, there has been a resumption of traditional investment lending for
infrastructure combined with adjustment lending as needed.
2.7   Bank Lending for Power.  The Bank has made ten loans totalling
US$1.459 billion (Part III, Table 1) to support the Argentine power sector.
Five loans (US$601 million) helped finance expansion of the Federally-owned
system serving metropolitan Buenos Aires (Servicios Electricos del Gran Buenos
Aires-SEGBA4). Loan 577-AR (US$82 million, 1968) helped finance the El
Choc6n hydroelectric plant. Project performance audits have concluded that,
while the physical objectives of the first five projects were largely met, their
financial objectives were not. Loan 2751-AR (US$14 million, 1986) helped
finance a technical assistance project. The Yacyreta project has been supported
by Loans 1761-AR, 2998-AR, and 3520-AR (totalling US$720 million, of which
US$757.2 million was for Yacyreti). Loans 1761-AR and 3520-AR are project
investment loans; 2998-AR  is a sector investment loan.  Following the
privatization of SEGBA, discussions with the Government led to an agreement
to reassign US$137.6 million of the fifth loan to SEGBA (2854-AR, US$276
million, 1987) to further assist with the completion of Yacyreta. IDB lending
in support of the project amounts to US$839.6 million.
2.8   Energy Resources, Market and Organization. The energy resources
of Argentina are diverse and abundant. Potential gas, oil, and coal reserves are
estimated at 982 MTOE (million tons of oil equivalent). Hydropower potential
is estimated at 44,000 MW or 2200 MTOE over 50 years.
2.9   Argentina has traditionally enjoyed reliable electricity service. In 1977,
when the project was being planned, total public consumption amounted to
22,547 GWh, having grown since 1962 at an average annual rate of 7.9%.5
In 1979, when Loan 1761-AR was approved, Argentina enjoyed a high degree
of electrification: about 80% of the population had access to electricity and per
capita consumption amounted to about 1050 kWh, one of the highest in Latin
America. At that timne, Argentina's electric power needs were expected to grow
at rates of between 8% and 9.9% p.a. during the 1980s.6 Consumption slowed
5.    Idem., Staff ADrmisal Report: Arentina-tPraauav: Yacvmti Hydroelectric Prtect (Report No. 2342-
AR), dagd Sepember 21, 1979, p. 3, pam 1.14. -remafter referred to as SAR. Yfcvreti 1.
6.    Ibid., p. 45, pam. 7.12.



- 4 -
after 1980, reflecting the difficult economic situation of the country: it averaged
2.2%  p.a. from  1980 to 1985 and 2.1%  p.a. from  1985 to 1990. Toward the
end of the decade, there were energy curtailments due to a severe drought and
the low availability of thermal generation. In 1991, when Loan 2998-AR was
fully disbursed, ninety percent of the population had access to service, total
public consumption amounted to 38,754 GWh, and per capita consumption
amounted to about 1290 kWh.
2.10   Until 1991, electric power was provided by three national utilities,' a
national nuclear agency (CNEA-Comisi6n Nacional de Energia At6mica), a
binational entity similar to EBY (CTMSG-Comisi6n Tecnica Mixta del Salto
Grande), 19 provincial utilities, and several cooperatives. Located in Rosario,
the national Dispatch Center (DC) was responsible for the economic use of
generation facilities on a nationwide basis; it was basically staffed by AyEE
personnel. Starting in 1992, the Government launched a complete revamping
of the power sector, with divestiture of most of its assets for generation,
transmission and distribution. It basically kept only CNEA, CTMSG and EBY.
2.11   From  1978 to 1991, the Secretariat of Energy (SE), either as part of the
Ministry of Economy or the Ministry of Public Works and Services, was in
charge of defining energy sector policies, including energy planning, the
granting of concessions, management of the energy funds (to which the proceeds
of energy taxes were transferred). The SE regulated the national power utilities
and approved their tariffs; the tariffs of the nuclear agency were fixed under
agreement with the SE to make them compatible with those of HIDRONOR, a
national power utility. SE did not regulate other sector entities and was not
routinely concerned with their operations. CNEA reported to the President of
the Republic, while CTMSG and EBY reported to the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, and the provincial utilities reported to their owners. As already stated
(para. 2.2), with respect to the power sector, the central Government operated
with reduced institutional capacity to formulate and implement policy.
3. Project Objectives and Description
Loan 1761-AR (US$210 million, October 1979)
3.1    Executing  Agency.   EBY  was created  under the YacyretA  Treaty
between Argentina and Paraguay, signed on December 3, 1973. EBY was
formally established on September 6, 1974, with US$100 million in capital. It
is under the direction of a Board of Directors and is managed by an Executive
Committee.   EBY  has the technical, financial, legal, and  administrative
7.     The national utilities include SEGBA (pam. 2.02); Agua y FEnergia Elictca (AyEE), responsible for
generation and transmission nationwide, plus distribution in four provinces; Hidroelectrica Norparagdnica
(HIDRONOR), responsible for development of the hydro resources of the North Patagonia region. The
Comisi6n Nacional de Fnergia At6mica (CNEA) is responsible for all nuclear activities, including the
design, construction, and operation of nuclear power plants. The Cormision T&cnica Mixta del Salto
Grande (CTMSG) is the binational (Argentina/Uruguay) agency which owns and operates the Salto
Grande hydro plant (1890 MW).



responsibility to study, direct and execute the project, and to operate the
facilities after completion.
3.2    Consultants and Planning.  In 1971, the Government hired an
international consortium of consultants to carry out a feasibility study. This
study was completed in December 1973, and its conclusions provided the basis
for the preparation of the Treaty of Yacyret§. A further step was taken in 1974
when EBY re-hired the consortium to prepare the basic design for the project,
the bidding documents for the main civil works and the electro-mechanical
equipment, and the engineering and design of works related to the relocation
program. EBY decided to continue with the services of the same consultant for
the preparation of construction design and for technical supervision during
execution of the project.
3.3    Given the exceptional size of the project in physical and financial terms,
the Bank requested the hiring of a panel of well-known international experts in
different disciplines (geology, hydraulics, etc.) to review the concept of the dam
and related structures, to review the adequacy of their design, and to conduct
periodic reviews of the dam and structures during construction. EBY agreed to
this request and later hired the panel in late 1983.
3.4    Objectives. The main objectives of Yacyret§ were to provide additional
least-cost, base-load hydroelectric energy of up to 17,500 GWh annually. The
project was also meant to improve navigation by eliminating the rapids of
Apipe, facilitate future irrigation projects in Argentina and Paraguay, and
augment the regional fishery industry. In addition to supporting the project,
Bank involvement would help to promote sector-wide policy measures, including
long-range planning for generation and transmission, and to rationalize tariff
levels and structures.
3.5    Description. Located on the ParanA River, 80 km downstream from the
towns of Posadas (Argentina) and Encarnaci6n (Paraguay), the project
comprises:
(a)    approximately 70 km of earth dam with uniform elevation above
sea-level of 86 m and a maximum height of 33 m, and the San
Martin dike, creating a reservoir with total storage capacity of
about 21,000 hm3;
(b)   two spillways with a total discharge capacity of 95,000 m3/sec;
(c)    a conventional, covered power house with 20 Kaplan turbines of
135 MW each and 20 generators of 150 MVA each,8
transformers, associated equipment and intake structures for 10
additional units;
8.    Updated figures are 155 MW for the turbine and 172.5 MVA for the generator. Also, average plant
production according to later studies is now estimated at 19,200 GWh per year.



- 6 -
(d)    fish passage facilities; a navigation lock with a maximum 3 m
draft; and irrigation intakes;
(e)       ancillary works, including housing for personnel during and after
construction, about 90 km of access roads, relocated
infrastructure, and a bridge (1,500 m) over the Ana Cua river;
and
(f)       resettlement of about 33,000 persons, as the result of the creation
of the main reservoir.'
3.6       In addition, the project description included two studies to be carried out
by the SE for the design of the future national transmission system10 and the
use of small hydroelectric power plants in isolated regions.
3.7       Justification.    The  project  was justified  on  conventional,  least-cost
principles. The sector expansion program "that includes Yacyreta entering in
1985 is less costly than that excluding it for discount rates up to at least
20%."" Also, Yacyreta "forms part of the least-cost solution for meeting
Argentina's electric power needs from 1985 onwards. This is true for different
average demand growth rates varying from 8% to 9.9% p.a."12 These
electricity growth rates corresponded to an "annual growth of the economy of
about 3.8%  to 5.5%." 13 Expecting that a new package of policies (monetary,
fiscal, price, trade, etc.) would stimulate growth, efficiency and reorganization
of industry, the Bank assessed the prospects of the Argentine economy to be
9.        Updated figures are 50,400 persons for resettlement.
10.       The construction of the Argentine high-voltage transmission system, related to the Yacyreta project, is the
responsibility of the Government through AyEE. Although the system does not form a part of the project
and would not be financed by the Bank, it was analyzed at appraisal and its costs were estimated at about
US$512 million for the purpose of the project's economic analysis. The Government covenanted to
prepare a financial plan for its construction within 12 months after the signing of the Loan Agreement and
construct the system when and as needed for the transmnission of the power generated by the project
(Section 5.02 of the Loan Agreement).
11.       WB: SAR. Yacvretr 1, p. 43, para. 7.08 (i). In the preface of the SAR, issued in September 1979, it is
explained that because "of delays in the prequalification process of the main civil works contractors (six
months) and in the resolution of complex issues on dam alignment and financial compensation between
the Governments of Argentina and Paraguay (another six months), the bidding procedures are now
expected to start in November 1979 instead of November 1978, as envisaged during appraisal and as a
result the commissioning of the first units of the Yacyreta hydroelectric project will be delayed by about
12 months.' The body of the SAR report reflects the work done during appraisal (July-September 1978)
and indicates commissioning of Yacyreti's first unit in 1985. In terms of actual project scheduling under
Loan 1761 -AR, in this PCR, however, the one-year delay mentioned in the preface is to be considered.
Therefore, 1986 to 1990 is the period planned for commissioning of the Yacyreti units under Loan 1761-
AR.
12.       Ibid., p. 45, parm. 7.12.
13.      Idem. Report and Recommendation of the President of the Ilternational Bank for Reconstruction and
Develooment to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Loan to the Amentine Renublic for the Yacvreti
Hydroelectric Proicct (Report No. P-2625-AR), dated September 25, 1979, p. 25, pam. 80.



favorable in 1980 and thereafter;'4 and therefore, accepted as reasonable the
electricity growth projections, which were in line with historical growth rates.
The return on investment was estimated at 14%. Sensitivity analyses showed
that a 10% increase in cost or a 10% reduction of benefits would reduce the
return by about 1 %. Part III, Table 3 compares actual and forecast electricity
consumption during the 1980s.
3.8 Moreover, when Loan 1761-AR was processed, the Government was
concerned that Argentina's principal source of energy was petroleum, although
its proven oil reserves accounted for only 10% of energy resources. The
authorities were also quite mindful that US$500 million yearly had to be spent
in 1976-77 for importing oil and gas. There was thus considerable momentum
for developing hydroelectric resources, which were then calculated to have had
only about 4% of their potential exploited. These sentiments were further
enhanced by the second oil crisis in 1979 as acceptable justification for
advancing this project.
3.9   Supplementing  the economic justification were considerations of
statecraft. In Argentina there was the perception that Brazil had gained
considerable influence in Paraguay by reaching agreement with that country to
construct the Itaipu hydroelectric project (located upstream on the Parana
River).  Not to be surpassed in regional influence was an important, if
unacknowledged, factor motivating Argentina to proceed with Yacyreta during
the decade of the 1980s.
3.10 Timetable. Under Loan 1761-AR, the timetable called for bid award for
the gates by June 1980 and for the main civil works, turbines and generators by
October 1980.  It was expected that all other contracts would be placed in
1981-1982. As for construction activity, it was also expected that mobilization
would occur in November 1980, and the project would be carried out in three
phases over the next ten years:
(a)   Phase I (47 months):  completion of preparatory works and
navigation lock, and completion of first stage construction of the
spillways, powerhouse, side embankments and main dam;
(b)   Phase 11 (10 months): building of coffer dam and completion of
river diversion; and
(c)   Phase III (63 months), completion of main dam, spillways, and
powerhouse, and filling of reservoir and erection of 20 units
(commencing in 1986 and ending in 1990). Initial generation
was expected in the first half of 1986.
3.11  Sector Financing Plan.  Yacyreta was part of a larger investment
program of the sector (defined as AyEE, SEGBA, HIDRONOR, CNEA,
CIMSG, and EBY). Because YacyretA would account for a large share of the
14.   Ibid., p. 6, pam. 17.



-8-
program (22%), the Bank reviewed and accepted at appraisal a sector financing
plan for the period 1978-1985, which relied heavily on the successful outcome
of future actions, i.e., the implementation of tariff increases and the signing of
loan contracts.
3.12 Stated in 1977 prices, total sector requirements amounted to US$11.9
billion. This would be covered by: net internal cash generation, US$2.8 billion;
energy funds, US$4.5 billion; borrowings, US$4.1 billion; other, US$0.5
billion. Of key importance were assumptions about future levels of tariffs,
resources from energy funds, and borrowing (mostly foreign). The energy
funds derived their resources from taxes on petroleum products and surcharges
on electricity sales.
3.13  Concerning tariff levels, the Government covenanted to raise tariffs
sufficiently for the national utilities to earn target rates of return on properly
revalued rate bases (para. 4.7).
3.14  Concerning the electricity funds: "The share of... surcharges on
electricity sales in Energy Funds resources is estimated at 36% for 1978 and is
expected to increase progressively to 46% by 1985."'5 This expectation was
not reinforced by a covenant. The Bank accepted the Government's decision "to
assign to Yacyreta all resources still available from the Electrical Funds after
commitments with other recipients had been met."'6
3.15  Of total borrowings (US$4.1 billion), future borrowings were expected
to amount to about US$3.6 billion, of which US$2.1 billion appear to be related
to Yacyreta and the balance (US$1.5 billion) to other projects. It was reported
the non-Yacyreta borrowings would be covered manageably with medium-term
external funds"7. The Bank conditioned effectiveness to the submission of
evidence that EBY had contracted sufficient borrowing from other sources to
cover the funding gap on the project in 1980-1981 (US$0.6 billion). Eventually,
the gap turned out to be much greater and it caused delays.
3.16 Project Financing Plan. As shown in Table 3.1, at appraisal the
expected investment cost of the project for the period 1978-90, including
physical and price contingencies, amounted to US$3,706 million. If capitalized
finance charges for the period were included (US$2,557 million in current
prices), project cost would increase to US$6,263 million. Total financing
requirements, including amortization and working capital, would amount to
US$7,038 million in current prices. Prior to 1978, some US$44 million (in
current prices) had been invested in the project preparation.
15.   Ibid., p. 36, para. 6.10.
16.   Ibid., p. 37, para. 6.11.
17.   Ibid., p. 36, para. 6.07.



- 9 -
Table 3.1: EBY Financing Plan 1978-1990, Loan 1761-AR
(In millions of current US$)
Requirements                                Sources
Investment           3,706.3 a/          IBRD/IDB                 418.2
Debt Service         3.256.7             Suppliers' Credits       829.5
Interest            1,646.2            Commercial Banks        1,245.2
Amortization        1,610.5              Foreign                945.2
Working Capital         74.7               Local                  300.0
Gov. Loans (Energy Funds)  2,610.4 a/
Equity Contribution      50.0
Int. Cash Generation   1,884.4
7,037.7                                   7,037.7
a! Does not include US$44 million relative to the period 1975-1977.
3.17 The financing of the investment cost (US$3,706 million) would be
covered by the Bank, the IDB, suppliers, and part of the borrowings from
foreign commercial banks (US$271 million) for the foreign component
(US$1,519 million), and by the Government (US$1,213 million) and commercial
banks (US$974 million) for the local component (US$2,187 million). Internally
generated funds, complemented by Government channelling of energy funds
(US$1,372 million) would cover debt service, which was predominantly in
foreign currency (about 80%). Funding for working capital would be provided
by the energy funds.
3.18 In retrospect, the EBY financing plan was optimistic about the future
interest of foreign lenders in Argentina and the self-financing capacity of the
sector. For example, except for loans (US$433.2 million) from the Bank, the
IDB, and a foreign Bank, commercial-bank financing (US$1,230.3 million) had
yet to be contracted, although EBY had obtained "Letters of Intent" from export
agencies and suppliers' credits providing for financing amounting to US$829.5
million. Funding from sector sources (US$4,494.7 million) and a capital
contribution (US$50 million) depended on future actions by the Government.
In other words, as was later demonstrated, there was considerable uncertainty
attached to this financing plan.
3.19 Procurement and Disbursement. The Bank-financed portion of the
project, i.e., the civil works contract, would be awarded through ICB under
procedures in agreement with Bank guidelines for procurement. The bulk of
the civil works construction equipment would be financed by export credits.
Bidders would quote unit prices, excluding the cost of major construction
equipment so financed. Bids would be evaluated on a cash basis, by adding the
two items mentioned. It was expected that the proposed loan would cover civil
works (US$176.0 million), engineering consultant services (US$32.2 million),



- 10-
and studies (US$1.7 million). Disbursement arrangements were to be as
follows:
(a)    foreign costs during the period 1979-1985, consisting of civil
works, at 38% and engineering consultant services at 50%; and
(b)    power sector studies to be carried out by the SE at 50%.
3.20 Resettlement and Environment. The Bank devoted major resources to
helping EBY find solutions to the problems of resettlement and environment.
Staff of the Bank and the IDB persuaded EBY to:
(a)    establish a properly staffed resettlement unit;
(b)    prepare a skeleton resettlement program and timetable;
(c)   take steps to acquire land for resettlement; and
(d)    establish an office of property assessment.
To address concerns with respect to fish migration, the construction of fish
passage facilities was planned. Liquid waste resulting from population growth
and industrial development would be handled by future treatment plants; various
control measures would discourage water hyacinths and ferns. The project also
included relocation and improvement of railroads, power distribution, sewerage,
roads and an airport.
3.21 Risk. Due to the advanced stage of studies and designs and the
competence of the consultants, no special physical risks were expected. The
major risk was identified as financial. "If the economic situation of Argentina
were to deteriorate and the authorities were unable to increase tariffs as needed.
. and/or [EBY were] unable to obtain the foreign loans as assumed, the project
might be delayed and, as a result, have important cost-overruns and . . . enter
into difficulties in its execution. " " Other sources of risk were identified as
procurement and the relocation/resettlement program.
Loan 2998-AR (US$250 million; October 1988)
3.22 In the ten years following the first appraisal of Yacyreta (1978), the
project, due to a variety of factors, progressed at a rate far slower than expected
at the first appraisal. Country and sector conditions became uncertain due to
political upheaval, a stagnant economy, low growth of electricity demand (2%
p.a.), and deteriorating sector finances (i.e., low tariffs, delayed payments
among utilities, and the extra burden of foreign-currency debt service due to
devaluation)."9 As the proceeds of 1761-AR were disbursed, it became clear
that additional financing from the World Bank and the IDB was required.
However, given these uncertainties, the processing of additional financing was
delayed until 1988, when the Bank adopted a sectoral approach-that is, while
18.   Ibfd., p. 24, pam. 4.34.
19.   Idem., Staff Anraisaal Renort: Artentina-Elctric Power Sector Proiect (Report No. 7450-AR), dated
October 5. 1988, p. 10, pan. 2.24. Hereafter, referred to as SAR. Electric Power Sector.



- 11 -
all but a small portion of the proceeds would finance the project, the major
covenants would address important sectoral issues-finances, organization, and
the level and structure of tariffs. Central to this sector investment operation was
agreement with the Government on sector-wide financial rehabilitation measures,
targets and dates.
3.23 Objectives. Loan 2998-AR (US$250 million)20 supported a project
defined as the sector investment program for the years 1988 and 1989, plus the
institutional strengthening of the SE.21 However, the loan proceeds, except for
US$2.0 million, benefitted only the Yacyreta project. This operation was
supposed to achieve the following sector objectives of the Government:
(a)      improving   resource   allocation   within   the   sector   through
optimization of its expansion program;
(b)      implementing a Financial Rehabilitation Plan (FRP) in connection
with the national power utilities;
(c)      improving efficiency of the power utilities;
(d)      promoting rational use of electricity through a tariff system  based
on economic costs;
(e)      strengthening  the  structure  of the  sector, so  as to  bring  about
better coordination, planning and regulation; and
(f)      establishing policies and procedures for environmental protection
and the treatment of social concerns in power projects.
The Bank fully supported these objectives with its lending strategy.
3.24 The Financial Rehabilitation Plan applied to the SE-regulated group of
national utilities (AyEE, SEGBA and HIDRONOR), constituting 60% of sector
operations. It was supposed to support the government strategy for stabilizing
and revitalizing the economy, and was based on:
(a)      increasing average tariffs per kWh22 some 30%   over four years,
from an annual average level of USC4.3 (in January 1988 prices)
in 1987 to USC4.6 in 1988, US¢5.1 in 1989, US¢5.3 in 1990,
and USC5.6 in 1991;
20.      A parallel IDB loan of US$250 million was to finance 50% of the civil works and engineering contracts.
21.      Sector Invesltent Progamm. This component was the 1988-1989 "time slice" of the investment
programs of AyEE, SEGBA. HIDRONOR and EBY, defined on the basis of the sector expansion plan
for the period 1988-1995. This prgram, which adheted to least-cost principles, included only high
priority works: ongoiig generation and transmission works; generation and transmission works to be
initiated by AyEE: distribution works; and studies for futume works.
Ilnitutional Strengthening of the SE. This component consisted of: 240 staff months of specialized
consulWan1s; up to US$1.0 million equivalent of compuers, and office equipment; database and
communication link equipment between the SE and the main energy sector institutions; and miscellaneous
equipment. UNDP would help with administrative support for the project.
22.      Since the sales of the group included both final consumers and distribution utilities, this average tariff was
basically a measure of the revenues, rather than the tariff level for a certain voltage or class of custDmer.
Detailed financirg studies were being financed by Loan 2751-AR.



- 12 -
(b)    an investment program for each utility in line with a least-cost
expansion plan agreed upon with the Bank;
(c)   the implementation of sound practices of power utility financial
management with respect to collection and payment practices;
(d)    Government contributions to be used for debt service payments;
and
(e)    borrowings committed to ongoing projects.
The FRP would be monitored through agreed upon levels for the ratio of cash
operating expenses divided by revenues, and internal fund generation divided by
investment expenditures.
3.25 Sector Financing Plan. Stated in 1988 prices, the sector financing plan
(national utilities plus EBY) for the period 1988-1995 provided for the coverage
of investments (US$7.9 billion) and working capital (US$0.3 billion) by net
consumer-based funding (US$3.5 billion), Government contributions (US$1.2
billion), and borrowing (US$3.5 billion). The Bank felt that the plan possessed
a high degree of certainty because of commitments made by the Government
during negotiations for tariff increases and the assumption of debt-service
payments. This financing plan, like the one developed in connection with Loan
1761-AR (paras. 3.11-3.15), reflected optimism about the interest of foreign
lenders in Argentina and the interest of the Government in restoring the self-
financing capacity of the sector. As was later demonstrated, events confounded
expectations with respect to restoring the self-financing capacity of the sector.
3.26 Project Financing Plan. Taking account of delays since 1979 and the
expected construction schedule, initial generation at Yacyreta was postponed
from 1986 to 1992 and the completion date, from 1990 to 1996. Cost estimates
and financing plans were adjusted for the revised implementation schedule.
3.27  In 1988, as shown in Table 3.2 below, the revised project investment
cost, stated in current prices, was US$4,591 millioif3, including physical and
price contingencies. The Bank and IDB (US$1,278 million), suppliers and
export credit agencies (US$695 million) and foreign banks (US$796 million)
would cover the foreign cost (US$2,769 million); the Government, through the
energy funds and other loans, would cover the local cost (US$1,822 million).
If capitalized interest charges were included (US$2,395 million in current
prices, of which US$80 million would be financed by IBRD and IDB), the
project cost would increase to US$6,986 million. Total financing requirements,
including amortization, would amount to nearly US$8.2 billion24, to be
basically covered by Government (41.4%), internal cash generation (20.6%),
IBRD/IDB (16%), commercial banks (13.4%) and suppliers and export agencies
(8.5%).
23.    WB: SAR. Electric Power SectDr, p. 19 & 20, para. 3.09 and p.1, Annex 2.6.5
24.   If charging of working capitl1 (-US$245 million) is not considemed in the financirn requimments, these
would increase to US$8.4 billion (see Thble 4.1).



- 13 -
Table 3.2: EBY Financing Plan, 1975-1996, Loan 2998-AR
(in millions of current US$)
Actual   Existing &    Future
Financing   Proposed   Financing   Sub-Total
1975-1987  F linancig   1990-1996  1988-1996    Total
1988-89Toa
Total Requirements            2,606.2     1,322.1    4.241.3    5.563.4   8,169.6
Investrnent                  2,052.1       988.1     1,551.0    2,539.1   4,591.2
Debt Service                   855.4       362.8    2,606.0    2,968.8   3.824.2
Interest                     564.3       215.6     1,647.1     1,862.7   2,395.1
Amortization                 291.1       147.2       958.9    1,106.1    1,429.1
Change in Working Capital     -301.3       -28.8       84.3       55.50    -245.8
Total Sources                 2.606.2     1,322.1    4.241.3      5563.4   8,169.6
IBRD/IDB                       406.6       511.9      400.0       911.9   1,318.5
Suppliers                      162.2       141.7      390.6       532.3     694.5
Comm. Banks                    758.1       105.8      232.9       338.7   1,096.8
Equity Contrib.                 56.7        20.0       20.0        40.0      96.7
Elect.Funds                    903.8       272.3      516.1       788.4   1,692.2
Other Govt. Loans              318.8       270.4     1,002.8    1,273.2   1,592.0
Int. Cash Gen.                    -          -       1,678.9    1,678.9   1,678.9
3.28    The SAR, Electric Power Sector, discussed the level of commitment of
the sources included in the financing plan for the period from 1988 to 1996.'-
For total requirements of US$5,563 million, 48% were considered committed,
including Government loans for covering debt service, two IBRD/IDB loans
under appraisal amounting to US$500 million and nearly all suppliers and export
agency credits (some US$520 million). This plan was basically contingent upon
Government contributions deriving from energy funds (some US$790 million)
and future IBRD/IDB loans amounting to US$400 million. The plan also relied
upon internal cash generation close to US$1.7 billion, to be used in investment
(some US$200 million) and debt service in the outer four years of the period.
It was thus essential for the continuation of the investments during the first two
years of the period that Government secure some US$290 million, expected to
come basically from the energy funds (some US$270 million), in addition to the
approval of the IBRD/IDB loans under appraisal.
3.29 Economic Justification. In 1988, completing Yacyreta was justified on
the grounds that it was least-cost as compared with a gas-fired steam alternative
25.    WB: SAR. Electric Power SecDr, p.22, para.3.14 and Annex 2.6.5.2.



- 14 -
for meeting a market growing at 6% p. a. for the years from 1987 to 2000 for
all discount rates lower than 18%. Expected GDP growth rates were 3.5% for
1989 and 4. % p.a. thereafter.26 The costs of YacyretA included the costs of:
(a)   completing the project;
(b)   constructing related transmission facilities; and
(c)   the foregone benefits in the event of abandonment.
Costs incurred prior to 1988 were obviously considered as sunk costs and
therefore were not included in the analysis.
3.30 Procurement and Disbursement. Loan proceeds would be applied to
finance contracts for Yacyreta procured under Loan 1761-AR (civil works:
US$182.4 million; and engineering consultants, US$27.0 million); interest on
Loans 1761-AR and 2998-AR (US$18.2 million and US$22.4 million,
respectively); and the SE Technical Assistance (TA) Program (US$2.0 million).
The civil works and engineering contracts had been awarded under Bank
guidelines for procurement and for the use of consultants, respectively.
Procurement for the TA Program, computers, software and office technology
equipment would be carried out through limited international bidding.
3.31  Disbursement arrangements (timing and percentages) under Loan 2998-
AR differed greatly from those under 1761-AR (para. 3.19). The proposed loan
was expected to be disbursed over a period of two years (1988 and 1989); and
its proceeds would cover:
(a)   50% of expenditures on the major civil works contract and the
engineering contract in 1988-1989;
(b)   interest and other charges on Loans 1761-AR and 2998-AR; and
(c)    100%  of expenditures under the SE technical assistance (TA)
program.
The proposed IDB parallel loan (US$250 million) would finance 50% of
expenditures on the main civil works and engineering contracts.
3.32  Risk. The SAR discussed the financial risk facing the sector investment
program, not just Yacyreta. The major risk was identified as the pace of
implementation of the FRP (Financial Rehabilitation Plan). "Considerable effort
will be needed to ensure that electricity prices reflect inflationary changes so
that planned cost recovery targets are met, as well as that other supporting
financial measures are taken in time to avert deterioration in sector finances."27
26.   Ibid., p. 6, para. 2.12.
27.   Ibid., p. 29. pra. 3.34.



- 15 -
4. Design and Implementation
4.1   Project Costs and EBY Financing Plan. It is important for comparison
purposes to bring into the picture the more recent work done for the appraisal
of Loan 3520-AR, which was reviewed for this I-PCR.  A  meaningful
quantitative comparison of financial plans and project investment costs which
span long periods of time and have been produced in widely separated years,
requires that they be brought to a common price-level basis. For the purposes
of this I-PCR, it appears that the use of the index of unit value of manufactured
exports (MUV) as a deflator is adequate and also convenient, given its
simplicity and availability. There are also two baseline data sets usually
available, one in current prices and one in constant prices. The series in current
prices (for yearly investments and the associated project financial plans) was
given preference in this analysis because it included more documented
information for the three loans. The deflation of current series by MUV,
however, leads to the constant-price series, which is different from the baseline
used in the appraisals since it cannot be expected that the ex-ante price
contingencies would be matched by the ex-post MUVs. Lump-sums for project
costs in constant prices have also been used to compare the different appraisal
estimates. The differences resulting from the two approaches do not change the
basic conclusions.
4.2   Table 4.1 presents the financing plans for the three loans in current
prices for the sake of reference, while Table 4.2 facilitates a broad comparison
of the project costs and finances from the first to the last Bank loan, by
presenting figures deflated to 1977 prices. While financing requirements have
increased by one third in current prices (some US$2.3 billion) to nearly US$9.4
billion, they actually experienced an increase of only 8% in constant prices. It
is worth noting that from the inception of the project, it was considered that
some of the interest charges would be deferred beyond project completion. In
fact, this deferred interest amounts to about one-and-a-half times the interest to
be paid during project construction. Although most of the deferred interest
shown under Loan 3520-AR has in fact been waived by the Argentine
Government (as part of the negotiations leading to the Yacyreta Treaty
amendment in 1992), it has been kept in Table 4.2 for the purpose of a more
consistent analysis. Financing plans also included loan amortization due to the
long project construction time (not even considering delays). If deferred interest
were included, total project financing requirements would today reach some
US$11.5 billion in current prices, an increase of 11% in constant prices with
respect to the first appraisal estimate.



- 16 -
Table 4.1: Evolution of EBY Financing Plans
(in millions of current US$)
Original              Revised             Updated
(1761-AR)             (2998-AR)           (3520-AR)
1. Requirements a/                                               7.007.0               8.415.4            9.349.6
Project Expenditures                                 3,750.2 b/             4,591.2            5,555.5
Debt Service                                          3,256.7               3,824.2            3,794.1
Interest                                           1,646.2              2,395.1            2,490.5
Amortization                                       1,610.5               1,429.1            1,303.6
2. Sources                                                        7.007.0              8.415.4            9.349.6
Equity Contribution                                       50.0                  96.7               96.7
Net Internal Cash Gen.                                 1,884.3              1,678.9            1,390.8
Borrowing                                             5,147.4               6.394.0            7.335.2
IBRD/IDB                                             418.2               1,318.5            1,547.1
Suppliers                                            829.5                 694.5              982.3
Com. Banks                                         1,245.3              1,096.8               661.8
Gov. Loans/Energy Funds                           2,654.4               3,284.2            4,144.0
Chng. Working Capital                                    (74.7)               245.8               526.9
a/         Sizable negalive amounts would show as working capital variations for Loans 2998-AR and 3520-AR, if included
under the heading of requirements, thus artificially reducing the amount of financial requirements. For the sake of
uniformity of presentation and given its smaller absolute value in Loan 1761-AR appraisal, as compared to the two
other loans, in Section 4 working capital changes are included under the heading of financing sources.
b/         Includes expenditures prior to 1978.



- 17 -
Table 4.2: EBY - Comparison of Flnancial Requirements under Loans
1761-AR and 3520-AR
1761-AR             3520-AR
Current   1977    Current    1977    % inorear   3520-
Prices    Prices    Prices    Prices     (1977 Prices)
Investment                    3,750.3   2,636.9   5,555.5  3,081.9                 16.9
Major Civil Works          1,905.2   1,449.5   2,477.3   1,516.9                 4.7
Arroyos Protec. Works         --         --       118.2      68.0               New
Electromech. equip.          726.8     422.8    1,089.9    429.4                 1.6
Indem.,Land & L.rights       114.3      64.8      271.5    126.3                94.9
Reloc.,Ress. & Envir.        590.3     423.5      505.3    235.0              (44.5)
Engin. & Administ.           413.8     276.4    1,093.3    706.3               155.6
Interest Paid                 1,646.2   1,026.3   2,490.5   1,285.7                25.3
Sub total  5,3965  3,663.20    8,046.0  4,367.6                19.2
Amortization                  1,610.6     922.1    1,303.6    591.2              (35.9)
Total Requirements  7,007.1   4,585.2   9,349.3  4,958.8                 8.2
Borrowings                    5,147.4   3,596.7   7,335.6  3,957.4                 10.0
Government Loan              2,654.5   1,830.5   4,144.0  2,221.3                21.3
IBRD-IDB                      418.2      298.7    1,546.1    829.2              177.6
Suppliers & others           2,074.7   1,467.5    1,645.5    907.0              (38.2)
Own Resources                 1,884.3   1,014.3    1,390.9    579.8              (42.8)
Equity Contribution              50.0      37.2       96.0      74.9              101.5
Variation of Capital           (74.7)    (63.0)      526.0    346.7             (650.4)
Total Financing  7,007.1   4,585.2   9,349.3  4,958.8                 8.2
Interest deferred             2,557.8   1,516.7   2,111.8  1,822.2                 20.1
Total Investment plus Interest   7,954.3   5,179.9  10,157.5  6,189.8              19.5
paid & deferred
Total Investment plus interest    9,564.9   6,102.0  11,461.0  6,781.1             11.1
paid & deferred plus
amortization paid
4.3    Investment costs have increased 17%  in constant prices from  the first to
the last appraisal.2" Physical contingencies used in Loan 1761-AR appraisal
amounted to 12.6%, which could be considered a reasonable value were it not
28.     If compared on the basis of the lump-sum cost figures available in the appmisals, which differ from the
figures presented in Tkble 4.2 for the reasons given in parm. 4. 1, the cost incrse would be slighdy
higher: 19%. The correspondirg figures in lIble 4.2 would be US$2,524 million (Ln.1761-AR) and
US$3,002 million (Ln. 3520-AR). Additionally, Ln. 2998-AR appraisal would show a cost increase of
6 % with respect to Ln. 1761-AR, on the basis of lump-sum cost figures, referred to 1977 price level.



- 18 -
for the hard-to-predict delays of the project. Under loan 3520-AR, given the
highly advanced stage of execution and with nearly all electro-mechanical
equipment contracted, physical contingencies amounted to 3.9% of the
remaining investment.29 Engineering and administration expenses, which have
also accumulated during the years of project delay, and the Aguapey Valley
protection scheme, which was not considered in the initial project cost estimates,
help explain the cost increases.
4.4    Disbursement.    Table 5, Part III compares actual and forecast
cumulative disbursement for Loans 1761-AR and 2998-AR. There was an
approximate four year delay in the initial period of disbursement of loan 1761-
AR, basically due to a procurement dispute on the civil works between the Bank
and EBY (para. 4.6). By the end of FY 1986 (the project closing date set in the
appraisal), about half of the loan had been disbursed; a year later the loan had
been nearly fully disbursed. The disbursement of Loan 2998-AR was ahead of
estimates in the appraisal during the first two years of the loan execution, but
was completed as scheduled. The extension of the closing date facilitated the
full use by the Secretariat of Energy of the US$2 million assigned to the
technical component.
4.5    Completion Dates and Sources of Delay.  Phase I was completed in
1988, almost four years late; Phase II was completed in 1989, incurring no
additional delay with respect to the previous phase; and Phase III is expected to
be completed in June 1998, seven and a half years late. At 2998-AR appraisal,
Phase III was estimated to last two more years than considered during Loan
1761-AR appraisal. The sources of delay included:
(a)   late loan effectiveness (November 1982 vs. July 1981) due to
poor sectoral financial performance (paras. 4.6-4.8);
(b)   the South Atlantic War (June 1982) and the political and
economic convulsions which overwhelmed the country (paras.
2.1-2.4).  (From  the Argentine point of view, these events
reduced the project to an issue of secondary importance until
1984);
(c)    a protracted (three years) Bank-EBY dispute regarding award of
the main civil works contract. The contract was not signed until
October 1983 (paras. 4.9-4. 10);
(d)    after 1983, chronic financing problems (para. 4.14) due to
budgetary restraints experienced by the central Government, a
very cautious approach on the part of foreign lenders to the
Argentine market, and low sector tariffs and generalized liquidity
problems (paras. 4.17-4.21); and
(e)   leadership at EBY of variable quality, especially in the period
1989-1991 (para. 4.16) compounded by a lack of Government
29.   In constnt prices, the rcmainiiE investment meptesented about one-thixi of the total investment from
project inception to completion.



- 19 -
commitment towards the Project, which was reflected in reduced
financial support for investment; and
(f)    a substantial increase in the number of people to be relocated due
to migration to the areas to be flooded attracted by the possibility
of obtaining compensation packages (para. 5.3).
4.6    Delayed Effectiveness and Financial Performance.  At appraisal of
Yacyreta (1978), weak finances were a central issue adversely affecting the
sector. The Bank attempted to address this issue through covenants providing
for rising levels of revenue for major national power companies-that is, the
Government committed itself to raise tariffs progressively until the power
companies earned a rate of return of eight percent (8%) on annually revalued
net fixed assets. Depending on the company, the target dates for earning 8%
ranged from 1979 to 1982.
4.7    During the eighteen months following Board approval (October 16,
1979), the financial performance of the national power utilities-indeed, the
sector as a whole-deteriorated.  The Govermnent had not raised tariffs
sufficiently to offset the high rates of inflation, thereby preventing the national
utilities from earning the covenanted rate of return. The fact of poor financial
performance placed the Bank in an awkward position: either declare the loan
to be effective and then immediately take action (waiver or suspension) due to
non-compliance; or cancel the loan. The Bank chose to be forebearing due to
country and project considerations30, and, as a first step, obtained (in 1980)
Government agreement to amend the loan documents prior to effectiveness in
order to explicitly accept the principles of:
(a)    basing tariffs on average long-run marginal costs;
(b)    accruing to the power sector total customer payments; and
(c)    allocating  sector revenues to ensure that individual power
companies had satisfactory finances.
4.8   In November 1982, the Bank, after stipulating two new  revenue
covenants, declared the loan agreement to be effective. The first covenant had
two parts:
(a)    a general commitment from the Government to follow a rate-
setting policy, which would reflect average long-run marginal
costs for the systems of SEGBA and AyEE; and
(b)    a one-time tariff adjustment (6.3 % above the levels prevailing as
of April 30, 1981) to permit accomplishment of this policy. This
increase would be maintained in real terms through an indexation
scheme to reflect changes in costs.
30.    WB: Back-l-Office (BTO) Remor, datd August 5, 1990: "... The consequences of ..  [cancellation]
ame, serious and obvious ... for Argentina .... the pmject, and ... mieations between the Bank and
Argentina ...'



- 20 -
The second covenant provided that the tariffs of SEGBA and AyEE would
include amounts previously collected as taxes for provincial governments.
Tariffs of the other companies would continue to be set to earn an 8% rate of
return on revalued net fixed assets. In so doing, the Bank made a concession
to assist Argentina.3'
4.9    After the declaration of effectiveness, procurement problems caused the
project to languish. While the pre-qualification exercise for the civil works
contract proceeded well-five contractors were pre-qualified on the basis of the
report made by the consultants-thereafter, the Bank and the Government/EBY
disputed the award of the civil works contract. The dispute began in late 1980
when EBY convinced the consultants to change their stance and support the
award of the contract to a bidder (Bidder A for the purpose of this discussion)
who was not the lowest evaluated bidder in the Bank's view, on the basis that
bidder B's bid (lowest evaluated bidder in the Bank's view) was unresponsive
on some aspects of the bidding documents and its knowledge of the local scene
was virtually nil. The Bank disagreed, and so advised EBY, at the same time
offering it the opportunity of re-bidding the works.32 In the meantime Bidders
A and B got together and proposed a joint venture which was accepted by EBY
and in turn by the Bank with the provision that the award be made at the price
of Bidder B the lowest evaluated bidder. EBY signed a contract with the joint
venture in October 1983, three years after the bids were received.
4.10 Unusual circumstances caused the extraordinary length of this delay.
Because of the atypical reversal of the engineering consultants' award
recommendation, the large amounts involved in the pending contract, and the
considerable attention attached to the project, the Bank convened a special panel
to investigate the circumstances.   This group, chaired by an independent
procurement expert, held hearings over a considerable period of time. Among
others, it examined intensively the weights that EBY had applied in evaluating
Bidder B's proposal, which served as the basis for preventing this firm of being
ranked first.  Moreover, the fact that the two bidders were internationally
known consortia with considerable competitive proficiency exacerbated the
process. So too did the disruption in Argentina midway through this process.
The South Atlantic hostilities and the attendant political instability that ended the
military regime caused substantial delays in arriving at a solution with the
Argentine authorities, which incidentally also needed to be agreed to by the
Govermnent of Paraguay and the IDB.
4. 11 EBY's contract award recommendations for electro-mechanical and
hydro-mechanical equipment, cranes, gates, stoplogs, navigator lock equipment
and plant sub-station equipment, although not financed by the Bank loan, were
31.    Idem., Memorandum to Executive Directors from the President, dated June 22, 1981 (R81-183), p. 3,
para. 6: "...1 am satisfied that the amendments will ensure the financial viability of individual power
companies and a sound financirg plan for the Yacyreta project ... [and] that the financial situation of
Argentina's electricity sector has improved sufficiendy to declare the YacyretA loan effective....
32.    Letter of March 3, 1982 from LACVP to EBY.



- 21 -
reviewed and found acceptable by the Bank. For the last 10 of the 20 main
generators, agreement in principle has been reached with the supplier, but the
terms and conditions of the credit were fully negotiated only in 1993. The
construction of the transmission system to connect Yacyreta to the Argentine
grid, which was not EBY's responsibility, was followed up by the Bank initially
with AyEE and, upon privatization of the national utilities, directly with the SE.
Construction and operation of the first phase of the system was entrusted to a
private concessionaire and its implementation is on schedule.
4.12 The contract for engineering services was awarded in accordance with
Bank guidelines for the use of consultants.
4.13  Project Reassessment.  In 1984, EBY and the Government, after
evaluating possible options regarding the project, including cessation of works,
decided to continue with the project because it was still considered to be the
minimum cost solution for system expansion. Moving at a slow pace, work on
the project actually commenced in the first quarter of 1984.
4.14 Financing Problems. For the period 1984-1991, in addition to political
change, economic stagnation, and inflation, chronic project financing problems
delayed the project. Foreign lenders took a cautious attitude toward Argentina;
the Government experienced extreme budgetary stress, and sector financial
performance deteriorated (paras. 4.17-4.21). Due to excessively long periods
of non-payment, the contractor threatened to suspend construction several times
but in fact proceeded with the major civil works, albeit at a slower pace than
would have prevailed if lack of financing had not been a problem.
4.15 Design Changes and Reprogramming. In January 1986, EBY adopted
design changes which produced an estimated savings of US$175 million. The
changes were: deletion of some provisions for future expansion (US$50 million),
replacement of fish stairs by fish-lifting machinery (US$25 million), and
changes in housing standards and investments in camps and land acquisition
(US$100 million). By mid-1986, EBY, under new and qualified management,
negotiated with the contractor a rescheduling of works consistent with the design
changes. Later, there were changes with respect to the design of protection
works, but these were not major. One important change with respect to Loan
1761-AR appraisal was the extension of the Phase III implementation period
(para. 3.10). Loan 2998-AR appraisal considered that some two more years
would be required for completion of Phase III. Such a pace was deemed more
compatible with EBY's managerial and financial possibilities. By April 1988,
execution of the main civil works was 40% completed. In late 1990, as a way
to overcome financial difficulties, a phased approach was devised for filling the
reservoir: by beginning initial generating operations with a reservoir level
lowered to 76 m rather than at 83 m 33, as planned, it would be possible to
defer construction of major resettlement and relocation works. Later, after the
levels of revenue and net internal cash generation of Yacyreta were sufficient
33.   Refers to the Posadas/Encamaci6narea.



- 22 -
to construct these works, the reservoir level would be progressively raised to 83
m. By March 1992, about 80% of the main civil works were completed.
During preparation of Loan 3520-AR, detailed analysis of the relocation costs
at incremental reservoir levels and reduced-model turbine testing allowed the
completion of a three-stage plan for reservoir filling. There were no delays
caused by technical problems.
4.16   EBY  Management.   Since  1978, there have been several project
managers at EBY, especially for the top position appointed by the Argentine
Government (Executive Director).   The Paraguayans have treated the next
management position, assigned to them by the Treaty (Director, and the other
member of the Executive Committee, with the Executive Director) more
seriously:   only  four appointments to  date (one forced  by death  of the
incumbent), all capable engineers.  Because political considerations played a
major part in their selection, some managers did not possess the necessary
qualifications. In the mid 1980s, qualified management prevailed; in the late
1980s, however, the quality of management proved to be sub-standard.
4.17   Loan   1761-AR:    Amended  Revenue  Covenants  &   Financial
Performance. During the years 1982-1985, "the Government made numerous
tariff increases which were substantially eroded by increasingly acute inflation.
Consequently, tariff levels proved insufficient to produce positive rates of
return."34 In circumstances of high inflation and political uncertainty, the
financial performance of the national utilities and the sector as a whole
deteriorated  severely. "3     Due  to  inadequate  tariff  levels,  the  national
companies, as a group, generated negative operating income;36 the same was
true with respect to the sector. Between 1982 and 1985, annual sector ratios of
debt service coverage were 0.36, 0.18, 0.48 and negative; and each of the
annual contribution-to-expansion ratios was negative (Part III, Table 6). "3
4.18 Not only were tariff levels inadequate, but financial discipline was
deteriorating  on a sector-wide basis.   Customers did  not pay the power
companies on a timely basis, nor did the power companies pay each other on
timne.   Furthermore, the power companies, being  strapped for cash, were
holding back a portion of the energy taxes which they were supposed to transfer
34.    Idem., Memorandum to the Executive Directors fmm the President (SecM86-967), dated August 15,
1986, p. 1, para. 5.
35.    Idem., SuDervision Reort (SR), dated June 28, 1983, Annex 8. p. 1, pam. 1; Bank letter,
dated October 2. 1984.
36.    For the years 1982-1985, HIDRONOR genemted rmtes of retum below I %; and SEGBA and AyEE
genetated negative net opemting income. CNEA and CTMSG did not prvide comprehensive financial
inibrnation on their opertions; they report to, respectively, the Presidency and the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs.
37.    For the longer period 1978-1985, sted in consbnt 1977 prices, total sector requirements (US$5.0
billion) were almost 58 % less than expected (US$11.9 billion). Net secaDral funding amounted to only
US$366 million, almost 95 % less than expected (USS7.1 billion); borrowing amounted to US$3.5 billion,
almost 15% less than expected; and all other sources amounted to US$1.1 billion, 98% above forecast
levels.



- 23 -
to the SE.38  Poor payment discipline was becoming a sector-wide financing
bottleneck.39
4.19 In such circumstances, the Bank faced the options of suspending
disbursements, granting a waiver of the revenue covenants, or renegotiating the
covenants. Given its agreement on the least-cost nature of Yacyreta and taking
a sympathetic attitude toward the newly elected civilian administration of
President Alfonsin,40 the Bank undertook discussions with the Government in
1985-86 to redefine "...a more appropriate [financial] strategy for the
sector."4' These in turn led to another re-evaluation of the project and an
affirmation of the decision to proceed with the project on the basis that it was
the least-cost solution at discount rates of up to 30% for an expected market
growth  of 5.0%   - 5.8%   (1985-2000).42    Negotiations  for an  Amending
Agreement were completed in March 1986; the Amending Agreement was
signed on October 31, 1986 and became effective on November 18, 1986. The
amended financial covenants provided:
(a)     programs to reduce losses and improve collections of receivables
and energy taxes;
(b)     measures to raise and maintain power tariffs and other energy
prices to reflect economic costs; and
(c)     action programs to achieve (a) and (b).
The Government was covenanted also to review sector finances annually with
the Bank and revise them as required.
4.20 The action program required the submission of satisfactory programs for
loss reduction and improved collections by October 31, 1986. For tariffs, the
action program consisted of short-term tariff increases for the individual
companies, followed by dated target rates of return to be met over the
intermediate term. For example, with respect to SEGBA, the Government
would:
(a)     increase tariffs by up to 12%  in five steps by April 1, 1987 over
the levels prevailing as of January 1, 1986; and
38.    In Argentina, in addition to internal funds genertion and borrwings, the power secior was principally
financed by taxes on the sale of electricity and other forms of energy, which were returned to the seclor
as equity contributions to help finance investment. In 1985, it was estinated that tr nsfers by the power
companies of such taxes to the SE, which adminisreed various Energy Funds, were only 50% of their
nominal level due to late pyments by customers to the power companies and only partial payment of
such tax receipa by the power companies to the SE.
39.     WB: B, dated December 16, 1985, Form 590, Section 1I, pam. 3.
40.    Ibid.
41.    Idem., Memorardum to the Executive Directors frm the President (SecM86-967), dated August 15,
1986, p. 2, pam 5.
42.     For the longer period ..... Idem. Pmiect Brief, Yacyreti 11 daed Nov. 14, 1986, p.7, pam 3.04



- 24 -
(b)   take all measures required to provide rates of return rising from
0.5% in 1986 to 8% in 1992.
In the case of AyEE, the rate-of-return approach was substantially deferred.
AyEE's financial performance was to be measured by gradually improving
operating ratios for the years 1986-1990; thereafter, it would be measured by
a rate of return rising from 1 % in 1991 to 4% in 1994. There would also be
a study of the long-run marginal costs of supply (completion date: March 31,
1987). The study would serve as a future reference point for the level and
structure of tariffs. By not applying available remedies, in response to poor
financial performance and by agreeing to a relaxation of financial targets, the
Bank made another concession to Argentina.
4.21  Because the Government, under the conditions of high inflation, chose
not to raise tariffs as expected, the performance of the national power utilities
under the amended covenants in 1986-1987 was abysmal. In fact, actual rates
of return were well below those which had been covenanted: HIDRONOR,
1986, 1.5% vs. 3.0%; 1987, 0.1% vs. 4.0%; SEGBA, 1986, -4.7% vs. 0.5%;
1987, -13.7% vs. 2.0%. On the positive side, the actual annual cash operating
ratios of AyEE (cash operating expenses as percentage of revenues) were below
those which had been covenanted: 1986, 87% vs. 100%; and 1987, 92% vs.
93%. The rate of return for the sector as a whole was -2.1% in 1986 and -
4.5% in 1987. The SE did not provide comprehensive financial data on CNEA
and CTMSG.
4.22 Loan 2998-AR: Revenue Covenants and Financial Performance. In
connection with Loan 2998-AR, the Bank abandoned efforts to monitor CNEA
and CTMSG, adopted a semi-sectoral approach (i.e., focusing on the combined
operations of SEGBA, HIDRONOR and AyEE), and substituted combined target
annual cash operating ratios for target rates of return. Under the new financial
covenants, the Government was to cause the national utilities to maintain
consolidated cash operating ratios in the years 1988, 1989, and 1990 of not
higher than, respectively, 91%, 81%, and 79%  and a contribution ratio of
internally generated funds to investment of not less than 30%. Again, the
Government did not comply with the new financial covenants. The actual
operating ratios were, respectively, 111%, 122%, and 109%. In 1991 and
1992, the ratios were 121% and 118%. The contribution ratios were negative.
Clearly, the Bank, taking into consideration the economic and political
circumstances of Argentina, continued to accommodate the Borrower.
4.23  During the past two decades, due to inadequate tariff levels, the sector
has had to rely almost exclusively on external sources to finance expansion. In
the 1970s, internal funding covered about 10% of sector investment needs; by
the late 1980s, this ratio was -7%. In the 1970s, the sector relied on external
credit; in the 1980s, due to declining credit worthiness, the goverrnment
contributions had to cover the financing gap. Substantial decreases in working
capital basically resulted from short-term borrowing necessary to keep the sector
operational.



- 25 -
4.24  Compliance.  Table 7, Part III, summarizes the compliance with
covenants of Loans 1761-AR and 2998-AR. In addition to already discussed
revenue covenants, there was no compliance with some covenanted technical and
institutional targets either. The study on the Sector Expansion Plan (section
3.04 of Loan 2998-AR) was found unsatisfactory by the Bank. By including
new nuclear plants and not considering development of combined-cycle thermal
plants, the Government departed from the least-cost principle. The SE had
considered that the gas reserves should be used for applications other than
massive power development. The latter would, in fact, displace most of the
hydro projects into the remote future.  The SE also had reservations on
concentrating the bulk of the country's future generation on a technology which
it maintained had not been proven to their satisfaction. Since there was no
imminent decision for starting the construction of new plants, the Bank kept a
good dialogue on the unresolved issues with the SE, whose planning unit had
developed satisfactory computerized planning tools. Later on, the SE reached
agreement with the Bank on two proposed new projects: a small hydroelectric
project (Pichi-Picun-Leufu, 250 MW) which is currently under construction, and
a 300 MW gas-fired thermal project, whose only (high-cost) bid received led to
no-adjudication with the Bank's support. In fact, the Bank's agreement to a
possible thermal plant addition had been conditioned to the offer of prices and
technical/operating conditions which would justify an earlier commissioning of
such a plant with respect to its schedule in the expansion plan previously
discussed with the Bank. Recommendations of the tariff study, which was
reincorporated in Loan 2998-AR and then rescheduled, were not implemented
as proposed.  However, they provided a solid basis for the tariff changes
implemented in the second half of 1991 and early 1992, before the privatization
of the power sector took place.
4.25 Resettlement and Environment. During preparation of the Loan 1761-
AR, the Bank accepted resettlement and environmental proposals developed by
the engineering consultant which were in some cases flawed. Since Bank
preparation/appraisal missions did not include resettlement and environmental
specialists, the flaws were not detected in many cases. For example, a fish
passage facility was based upon the consultants' knowledge and experience with
fish migrations on the Columbia River in North America, where, upon reaching
upstream areas, the fish die immediately after spawning. In the case of the
Parana River, however, fish tend to return to the sea and, therefore, it would
be desirable that facilities permit passage downstream as well. This aspect was
not considered. The magnitude of the problem cannot be assessed until fish
behavior in the reservoir is studied.
4.26 Due to delays in project execution, implementation of the environmental
and resettlement programs did not materialize under Loan 1761-AR. During
preparation of 2998-AR, the Bank provided an expert to assist EBY in
reformulating the environmental program. EBY and the Bank then agreed on
a series of environmental/resettlement actions. At this point the environmental
program was considerably strengthened. It was recognized that the project
would result in: flooding the habitat of several rare animal species; increasing



- 26 -
the risk of vector-borne disease such as malaria; trapping liquid waste
discharges near urban areas; and inundating potentially important archeological
sites. The SAR, Electric Power Sector, Annex 3.1.4., described the proposed
measures for protection of water quality, aquatic fauna, animal rescue, reservoir
clearing and protection of public health.
4.27 In contrast, resettlement planning under Loan 2998-AR did not improve
dramatically. While it was recognized that new surveys were required during
implementation, little attention was given to resettlement policies that later
proved to be unworkable. For example, arrangements for the affected rural
population were not specified in the loan documents. EBY asserted that where
necessary the rural population could simply move their homes up the slope of
the reservoir. This proved not to be the case. Also, inappropriate resettlement
arrangements were not examined. For example, the replacement houses were
extremely expensive (about US$ 28,000 per unit) and did not meet the needs for
low cost and low maintenance as required by low-income people.
4.28 Notwithstanding these shortcomings, the Master Plan provided the
impetus for strengthening the planning and implementation capacity of EBY.
EBY created a properly-staffed Department of Resettlement and Environment
(DRE) to implement the Master Plan.
4.29   Due  to  budgetary  constraints, little  progress  was made  in  the
implementation of environmental measures such as the sanitation work for the
city of Posadas. The Master Plan for the city of Encarnaci6n did not reach the
detailed design stage as was envisioned.43 The Bank noted deterioration of
relations between EBY and municipal governments due to the disparity in
progress between the civil works and the environmental protection works.
4.30 Actual implementation of resettlement operations commenced in 1987
(planning for this segment of the operation began in 1984). The international
bridge, linking Posadas and Encarnaci6n, required the resettlement of 1,700
families (about 9,000 people) on the Argentina side, and was completed in 1989.
Although it was not part of the financing, the Bank was concerned that the
resettlement program was not going well. Consultants skilled in urban planning
and sociology were retained by the Bank to strengthen supervision during 1990
with the objective of drawing lessons from the bridge resettlement experience
and improving resettlement planning for the expected reservoir inundation."
The resettled families expressed satisfaction with the quality of housing, but
dissatisfaction with their inability to pay their subsidized mortgages (which
require payment of only 35 % of the housing cost), the legal fees to obtain titles
43.   idem, SR, daWd Octuber 30, 1989.
44.    Brombeig, P., 1990. 'Plan de Acci6n v Pmarania de Medio Ambient. Relocalizaciones v Desarmilo
Social - Centml Yawcvei' (Cuatmo 'Tbmos); Scombant. M., 1990. 'Erndicaci6n v Relocalizaciones de
Vwviendts: Cental Yacveti: Infone Parcial' Scombatti, M., 1990. 'Missto de Asistencia Tbcnica nam
Revisao do Piano de Remandiamenb de Povulacao c Medio Ambienle - Cental Yacvreta: Informe
Final."



- 27 -
to new property, and maintenance costs. These problems were particularly
acute for the very poor. Based on these results, EBY proposed revisions to the
resettlement plan.45
4.31   During  1990, the Bank also retained consultants to review  major
environmental aspects of the project, which were consolidated in an Action Plan
also covering Resettlement and Social Development.46  It is important to note
that this work was the basis for a detailed Resettlement and Environmental Plan,
subsequently covenanted under Loan 3520-AR.
5. Project Results
5.1    Market Developments, Internal Rate of Return  and  Least-Cost
Expansion Plan. In connection with Loan 1761-AR, the Bank accepted the SE
forecast of market growth, which eventually proved unfounded, for instead of
the expected growth rate of 8.0%-9.9% p.a. during the 1980s, the actual growth
rate was 2.1 % (Part III, Table 3). If, at appraisal (1978), sector authorities
had been able to foresee the low level of market growth which later
materialized, YacyretA would possibly have been replaced by smaller-sized
projects. With the advantage of hindsight, it can be argued that the delays in
Yacyreta's commissioning, combined with the advent of combined cycle
technology, and the increased availability of natural gas, would further
depreciate Yacyreta's selection as part of a least-cost generation expansion plan.
For the ten years beginning with the late 1980s, the annual growth rate forecast
in connection with Loan 2998-AR was about 6.1%  p.a. This growth rate may
materialize, but the starting level for 1988 sales was lower than expected,
reflecting the impact of prior events in a stagnant economy, combined with
hyperinflation, major political upheaval, and ineffective monetary and fiscal
policies. Given, however, further delays in Yacyreta's completion and the
recent recovery of the Argentine economy, Yacyreta's power production will be
fully absorbed by the market as it becomes available.
5.2    Due to the unusually long investment period (24 years) and cost
overruns, the internal rate of return, based on actual and forecast data, is
estimated at about 5.5%, well below the estimated IRR in the first appraisal,
14%, and the reference opportunity cost of capital (OCC), 12% (Part III, Tables
8 and 9). This is based on a tariff of USC4.0/kWh at the 1994 price level,
which is the prevailing average short and long-term marginal cost in
Argentina.47  Conversely, an OCC at the reasonable level of 10%  would yield
an economic cost of generation as high as USC9.5/kWh. The tariff for
45.    Entidad Binacional Yacyreti Deparnmento de Relocalizaciones y Medio Ambient. 1991. 'Infonme al
Banco Mundial Sobre Plan de Relocalizaciones".
46.    Op cit., Brombe,g. 1990.
47.    USc4.4/kWh at the supply point to distributDrs; transmission costs for Yacyreta make up for the
difference. In 1992, Puerto and Costanera, two thermal generation utilities in the Buenos Aires area,
signed eight-year supply contracts with the distribution utilities, EDENOR and EDESUR, which are
curmndy at USC4.2/kWh.



- 28 -
Yacyreta's sales according to the 1992 Treaty amendment will be US¢3.3/kWh
at year's end. At this tariff, the IRR would be 4.5% (Part III, Table 9). The
high IRR's which resulted in the two last loan appraisals (18.6% in 1988 and
24.1 % in 1992), was because sunk costs were (correctly) considered and can be
gauged by the corresponding economic generation costs (tariffs): the higher the
IRR, the lower the generating cost. Using the updated cost stream and for
OCCs in the range 10-12%, the generating costs would be USC1.4-1.6/kWh and
USC3.0-3.8 for sunk costs until 1991 and 1987 respectively. Even for the case
of sunk costs until 1987, these generation costs still compare favorably with the
marginal costs.  The Loan 1761-AR appraisal indicated an IRR of 14%
predicated on a tariff of USC1.6/kWh at the December 1977 price level. It is
ironic that this tariff inflated to December 1994 would equal the actual tariff
agreed by both countries for the beginning of operations, on the basis of
completely different considerations, the most important being the desire of the
Argentine Government to have a tariff below the expected price in their spot-
market that could still enable EBY to pay its debt during the first twenty years
or so of the project operation.
5.3   Resettlement and Environment. The agreed Master Plan under Loan
2998-AR was perceived as the most constructive approach for assisting EBY in
dealing with the potentially negative social and environmental consequences of
the dam and reservoir. However, at appraisal many important decisions were
still awaiting completion of planning studies. This was especially true of the
resettlement operations, which were not adequately encompassed in a detailed
resettlement plan. A new census of the inundation area was conducted in
1989-1990, which indicated that about half of the original families had left the
area on their own, but an even greater number had moved into the area the
majority of whom  lacked title to the lands and structures they occupied.
Because of the delay in project execution and the phased approach to reservoir
filling (para. 4.15) sufficient time became available to eventually devise a
well-formulated resettlement plan in the subsequent loan, in accordance with the
more stringent Bank policies at that time.
5.4   Bank supervision missions in 1989 also included a visit by a specialist
in indigenous development to the resettlement area set aside for them. It was
reported that the Mbya (who had left Yacyreta Island in 1987 on account of the
dam and later returned to a 370ha preserve set aside for them at the Bank's
urging) expressed satisfaction with the area, and, in particular, the fact that for
the first time in memory they have legal title to lands upon which they
depend.48
5.5   Environmental protection works also lagged considerably behind. The
detailed design work for drinking water and sewerage systems for Posadas and
Encarnaci6n did not take place, nor did the coastal protection design work
considered by local governments to be essential to the viability of the two cities
when the future reservoir is filled at maximum elevation. Protected flora and
48.    WB:B'IO Report, dated March 17, 1989.



- 29 -
fauna reserves were not created beyond a small 100 ha plot suitable for
replicating only a fraction of affected habitats. Had the power plant been
completed on time, it is likely that outstanding issues would have had to be
confronted and resolved.  Instead, the continuing delays in civil works
construction and change in the filling of the reservoir as originally planned
removed much of the urgency to collect missing data, conduct critical design
studies and take important decisions needed to advance with the environmental
protection program.  As in the case of the resettlement program, the
environmental protection program was rescheduled and detailed under Loan
3520-AR in order to match the updated power plant completion schedule and the
phased reservoir filling; this was done meeting all the objectives of the original
Master Plan.
5.6   Sector Financial Rehabilitation. The Government, overwhelmed by the
problems of hyperinflation, did not comply with the revenue covenants of Loan
2998-AR. The sector feature of this operation was no more successful in
restoring sector financing than the financial covenants of Loan 1761-AR.
5.7   Sector Restructuring. Loan 2998-AR's technical assistance component
permitted strengthening of the SE from 1989 to 1991, through financing of short
and long-term consultants. This not only facilitated the performance of some
regular responsibilities of the SE, but also the carrying out of studies and
discussions aimed at the survey of existing legislation and key organizational
aspects, to be followed by proposals for sector restructuring. The sweeping
decisions taken from mid-1991 that transformed the sector in a dramatic way
during the following two years, were nurtured by the above-mentioned efforts
made under the auspices of Loan 2998-AR.
Project Sustainability.
6.1   Yacyreta's  sustainability  can  be  assessed  in  two  stages:  (a)
Implementation process and completion of the project; and (b) Long-term
operation of the fully completed project.
6.2   Implementation process and completion of the project. The prospects
for sustainability in implementing the project are favorable. Three main areas
need to be successfully completed: (a) main civil works and installation of the
generation equipment; (b) transmission system; and (c) reservoir operation at
the ultimate design level (83 m) for full generation.
6.3   Completion of the first two areas should likely take place on schedule
since the works to be completed have been progressing well. The main civil
works and electromechanical supply and assembly are proceeding without
problems, and the concession of the transmission system is also proceeding
with the first phase of the system constructed ahead of schedule. 49
49.   Yacyreta initiated electricity generation on September 1, 1994.



- 30 -
6.4   Operation of the reservoir at full height is a key factor for the project
finances since the average generation increases from 11,880 GWh to 18,770 per
year, when the reservoir rises from 78m to 83m. Such rise requires completion
of the Resettlement and Environmental Management Program (REMP)
established under Loan 3520-AR. Despite its satisfactory execution so far, the
complexity of the REMP, especially of the resettlement operations, could readily
cause some slippage in the June 1998 target for raising the reservoir from 78m
to 83m. Also important under the environmental protection program are the
works for coastal treatment and the improvement of the sewerage systems in
Posadas and Encarnaci6n. Slippages reasonably limited to one to two years
should not affect the financial grounds for project sustainability.
6.5   The two national Governments and local authorities have demonstrated
a serious commitment to effectively implementing the REMP.  Additional
confidence is provided by new funding for the completion of the program:
US$63.7 million, out of US$137.6 million reassigned from Loan 2854-AR
(SEGBA V), and US$98.8 million, out of a US$130 million IDB loan. Also,
a Loan 3520-AR Agreement provision for an Environmental Trust Fund, to be
formed with revenues from Yacyreta's electricity sales, enhances the financing
of the REMP activities.
6.6   Long-term operation of the fully completed project. The project
should be sustainable, given the sound financial condition expected for EBY.
The revenues resulting from electricity sales would guarantee the generation of
positive cash flows and repayment of all debt by the year 2011.5° In fact,
given the current balance of energy demand and supply, and its estimated
evolution during the next five years, all energy produced by Yacyreta is
expected to be absorbed by the market. Additionally, the tariff level required
for financial self-sufficiency, including escalation adjustments, was agreed by
Argentina and Paraguay in 1992.
6.7   Prospects for project sustainability after completion would be enhanced
by private sector participation in Yacyreti. Options are now being considered
by EBY and the two Governments.51
6.8   Finally, the full generation of Yacyreta should not be affected by
sedimentation in the reservoir. In this connection, sedimentation studies and
formulation of control strategies are being developed by EBY with Bank's
financing.
50.   WB: Staff ADDraisal Report: YacvretA Hydroelectric Proiect II (Report No. 10696-
AR), dated August 31, 1992, Annex 2.6. This date could extend due to delays in the REMP
completion.
51.   The firm Morgan Grenfell presented a study regarding private capital participation
in EBY in December 1993.



- 31 -
7.    Bank Performance
Appraisal
7.1   At the appraisal of Loan 1761, the Bank foresaw the likelihood of project
delays and cost overruns because of possible difficulties in mobilizing sufficient
financial resources, which it correctly viewed as the major project risk.
Similarly, it anticipated that problems would ensue from EBY's internal
management strains, especially in dealing with procurement and environmental
concerns. It failed, however, to secure adequate safeguards to deal with these.
In addition, concerning environmental problems encountered in project
execution, many of these would have been avoided had current World Bank
policies and staff expertise existed at appraisal. This is demonstrated by the fact
that, by the time Loan 2998 was developed, a time-bound Action Plan was
agreed for implementation of the Master Plan and made part of the legal
documents. It should be noted nonetheless that these measures did not properly
examine important resettlement/relocation policies related to the provision of
replacement housing for affected rural and urban populations.
7.2   The project was the first attempt by the Bank to address the more
important sector issues: fragmented organization, weak financial situation of the
implementing agencies, and wrong investment decisions. In retrospect, Loans
1761-AR and 2998-AR may not have been an appropriate channel to introduce
reforms in these areas, as they went beyond the scope of the project. First, as
the project is a bi-national undertaking, the enforcement of Bank covenants
entailed undertakings and compliance by two different countries. Second, Loan
1761-AR did not take into adequate account the fragility of the Argentine
Government's sector decision-making processes, which bore the weight of
conditionality. (This was, however, partly remedied by the new approach taken
under the second loan (2998-AR) which had a strong sectoral focus, underlining
organizational and institutional issues.)
7.3   Concerning assumptions, Bank staff never conceived that circumstances
surrounding the project might change as drastically as they did. Of critical
importance were the forecasts of annual growth rates in the 1980's for the
economy (3%-5%) and for electricity demand (8.0%-9.9%). These forecasts
were central to the justification of Yacyreta as part of a least-cost generation
expansion sequence; they were central to the success of the original financing
plans for the sector and the project. If, at appraisal (1978), sector authorities
had been able to foresee political, macroeconomic, and market events as they
later materialized, they would not have justified the project on the grounds that
it was part of a least-cost generation expansion sequence for the 1980s (para
5.1). Moreover, the absence of such a justification would have contributed to
a sense of skepticism about arranging a credible financing plan.
7.4   For Loan 2998-AR, the Bank accepted a forecast of annual growth for
electricity of 6%, partly based on the strong historic consumption levels.
Events have not yet confirmed this forecast, even though recent high growth



- 32 -
rates are tending to offset the smaller market increases in the period of hyper-
inflation and initial macro-economic stabilization. Under Loan 3520-AR, the
Bank has confirmed the previous basic projection (high projection at 6.6% and
low projection at 5.4%). The Bank has frequently taken its decisions favoring
a more optimistic forecast rather than a pessimistic one, which is understandable
within reasonable limits, given that the cost of rationing is one order of
magnitude higher than the cost of oversupply. However acceptable in Loan
2998-AR, the forecast in Loan 1761-AR proved to be a bad judgment, given the
uneven performance of the economy in the mid-1970s and the high level of
electrification in Argentina (80%).
Implementation
7.5   Suspension  of Disbursements.   Due  to  country  and  project
considerations, the Bank did not threaten to suspend disbursements under either
loan in response to non-compliance by the Government with prevailing revenue
covenants. The Bank's forbearance did not result, however, in improved
compliance with the financial covenants of the loan agreements. Loan 2998-AR
had, however, a built-in mechanism which limited disbursements to US$170
million (57% of the Loan) unless the Bank was satisfied with the execution of
the FRP. The Bank in fact used this mechanism to obtain tariff increases and
enforce generation expansion decisions under least-cost principles.
7.6   Progress Reports. These are submitted by the Beneficiary semiannually
for the hydro-electric plant and quarterly for the resettlement and environmental
program. During critical phases of the construction or program, the Bank
should also receive key information much more frequently (perhaps monthly)
and in a simplified format (e.g. a short fax with major problems and
accomplishments). Such a scheme was successfully implemented in Loan 3520-
AR.
7.7   Financing by Others. Inadequate financing by export credits, foreign
commercial banks, and suppliers' credits has hindered progress and increased
uncertainty. Files reveal that eight months after the award of the main civil
works contract, valued at US$1.5 billion, the Bank asked EBY about the details
of the 62% foreign exchange cost financing, not covered by the Bank and IDB
loans. This seems to be a risky fashion to enter into a major international
undertaking. The files contain repeated warnings that "other financing" has not
been secured, but the Bank failed to take decisive action.
7.8   Consultant and Contractor. As pointed out in paragraphs 9.1 and 9.5,
the consultants and the contractor are conglomerations of 12 and 32 firms,
representing four and five nationalities, respectively. Although supervision
reports do not reveal any inefficiencies created by the unusually large number
of firms involved-thanks to the strong leadership provided by the two lead
firms in each case-the Bank should not as a rule accept such a large
fragmentation of the work unless the lesser firms function strictly as
subcontractors to the lead firms. The desire of the Argentine and Paraguayan



- 33 -
Governments to use the opportunity of high-level international work to improve
the quality and credentials of local firms was the reason behind the initially
large number of participants. As work progressed and financial difficulties
arose, many smaller firms sold their participation to the leading firms.
7.9   Resettlement and Environment. In connection with Loan 1761-AR,
Bank performance was hindered by the lack of properly trained staff in
resettlement and environment protection, but it improved significantly between
the first and second loans for the project in the latter area. With regard to Loan
2998-AR, Bank preparation, appraisal and supervision missions included
environmental experts.   A  time-bound  Action  Plan  was agreed  for
implementation of the Master Plan and made part of the legal documents for the
second loan. The environmental components of the plan addressed all major
environmental impact issues with suitably designed mitigation and protection
measures.  No need for major changes in the agreed Action Plan was
encountered during supervision.
7.10 Regarding resettlement, however, Bank performance did not significantly
improve between the first and second loans.  Although there was a basic
resettlement plan at the time of appraisal of the second loan, the Bank did not
analyze it critically enough in the light of major social concerns or Bank
policies. Suitable resettlement expertise was not utilized to assist the borrower
to design and plan the execution of the operation, in the same level of detail and
quality as other components of the project. Instead, the Bank and the borrower
agreed in the first loan that the resettlement plan would be completed one year
later, at a point in time when the Bank's leverage would be considerably
reduced. One result was that design flaws in the resettlement plan for the first
loan persisted during preparation and appraisal of the second loan. The Bank
employed qualified resettlement experts only when difficulties were encountered
in completing the detailed resettlement planning work. The experts failed to
make the necessary design corrections in the resettlement plan because the
resettlement operation was already launched at the time the experts were brought
in, and policy changes necessary to achieve success could not be made. With
the benefit of hindsight, the Bank should have prevailed on EBY to: (a) acquire
land and the related titles more speedily; (b) adopt housing design and standards
with manageable construction costs; and (c) take full responsibility for affected
residents' facilities that were lost, displaced or destroyed.
8.    Borrower/Beneficiary Performance
8.1   Procurement. Initially, the consultant recommended one contractor
as the lowest evaluated bidder; EBY sent the bid evaluation to the Bank,
favoring award to another contractor (paras. 4.9 and 4.10). The Bank's own
evaluation concurred with the consultant's initial recommendation and this
created an impasse that lasted for almost three years, with the Bank finally
agreeing to award the contract to a joint venture of the two lowest evaluated
bidders.



- 34 -
8.2   EBY's Project Management. EBY top management was replaced many
times. In some cases, the new managers did not have the required experience,
having been appointed for political reasons. Initially, management and staffing
of EBY  were weak.  There was a lack of technical competence and
decision-making was very slow.  The Bank expressed doubts about the
capability of the staff to carry out such a large project. The staff grew almost
uncontrollably and, as a result, many had very little to do.
8.3   In 1985, the Government appointed new management with instructions
to carry out an in-depth review of the project, seeking its optimization. The
project design was changed, contracts were renegotiated with contractors,
engineers and suppliers and the schedule was modified to adapt to EBY's more
compatible management and financial capacities, which in turn fit well the new,
updated demand projections. As a result, some important reductions in costs
were achieved.
8.4   During the first and second loan periods EBY defined the resettlement
and environmental protection works as ancillary to the construction of the civil
works. This reflects most clearly the absence of qualified and experienced
managers in EBY to administer the design and implementation of resettlement
and environmental protection programs. Within EBY's management, there was
no professional with proper qualifications and experience in resettlement and
environmental protection during the first and second loan periods. While a
large department to implement these programs was created, policy decisions
were taken at the managerial level without benefit of professional advice and
guidance. Resettlement, in particular, was seen by top management simply as
a housing construction endeavor. Although the technical staff appointed to the
Department of Resettlement and Environment were well qualified professionals,
they were powerless to influence policy decisions made by management.
8.5   This did not prove to be a major obstacle to get results in the case of
environmental protection probably because the policy and design decisions were
reviewed during preparation and appraisal of the second loan by a Bank expert
in the subject, and also because major implementation of the program was not
taken up by EBY (and, in fact, not strictly required) in light of the slow
progress of the project. EBY weakness in resettlement performance, however,
was not corrected by the Bank and the absence of influential resettlement
expertise in EBY resulted in failure to correct past errors.  Professional
qualification and experience present in EBY were located too low in the
hierarchy to influence the outcome.



- 35 -
9.    Consultant and Contractor Performance
Engineering Consultants
9.1   From  pre-feasibility to design, preparation of bidding documents,
supervision of contractors, etc., the consultants' performance has been in
general acceptable. They have provided and fielded some very qualified staff,
and throughout the development of the project the consultants had control of all
technical aspects of the work related to the safety of construction and
appropriateness of temporary and permanent structures. The river diversion was
carefully planned and supervised; it resulted in a smooth and highly successful
operation. They have in general maintained a satisfying working relationship
with the client and the contractors. The consulting entity is a joint venture of
12 firms representing four nationalities. Ordinarily, such a large number of
firms would lead to an unacceptable fragmentation of the work; however, a
supervision report of the Bank states that, due to the strong leadership provided
by the two principal firms, this does not appear to have affected the consultants'
performance.
9.2   With respect to the award of the main civil works contract (paras. 4.9
and 4.10), the consultants permitted EBY to change their recommendation to
award the contract to a contractor who was not the lowest evaluated bidder. This
complicated the award problem further, but, in the final analysis,
it is doubtful that the consultants' change of stance affected the outcome.
9.3   Preparation of bidding documents and recommendations for awards for
equipment have been well accepted by the client. More recently the handling
of the SF6 substation equipment and the computerized supervisory control
system has not been consistent with the previous client satisfaction. It seemed
that the consultant delayed the strengthening of its electro-mechanical area,
which should have occurred before assembly of this equipment gained
momentum. Given the history of stop-and-go of the project, perhaps the
consultant wanted to have higher assurance that finally there would be no
setbacks in the decision to proceed at full steam, before bringing qualified
people to the project site.
9.4   The consulting entity provided some environmental expertise during
project planning and design activities, particularly as regards the problem of
migratory fish passage facilities. Unfortunately, it failed to base planning and
design recommendations on empirical knowledge of the behavior of the fish
species nor their habitat requirements. Instead, a design was imported from
another country and recommended to the borrower.  The results are still
uncertain, because there were subsequent design improvements (para. 4.25) and
the fish passages are not yet in full operation.  What is clear is that
environmental design decisions such as this one were recommended without
adequate primary data to ensure technically satisfactory performance. The
consulting entity was not involved in the detailed planning and design work for



- 36 -
resettlement. However, its concept for resettlement housing in the feasibility
phase of the project would only have been appropriate for major urban settings.
9.5   Board of Experts.  In April 1983, a board of four consultants of
international renown on engineering aspects was appointed at the Bank's urging.
Later, a panel of social and environmental experts was also appointed. These
consultants meet regularly and have provided valuable input to the project.
9.6   Contractor. The civil works contractor has performed well, so far.
During the ten years since 1984, the contractor has maintained a presence at the
site in spite of the financial difficulties of the Government, which have resulted
in EBY's going into arrears of up to a year or more in its payments to the
contractor. Currently, the percentage of completion of works is estimated at
90%.  No delays or major inconveniences resulting from the contractor's
performance have been reported to date, even though the contractor is a
conglomeration of 32 firms representing five nationalities.
10. Lessons Learned
i0. 1 Resettlement and Environment. One lesson concerns "ownership" of
the resettlement and environment components. Throughout implementation, it
has been apparent that progress made was in large part due to the urging of the
Bank. Where the Bank failed to detect significant problems, the management
of EBY was ill-equipped to identify and solve them on its own. In future the
Bank should seek the appointment, at the policy making level of the project
entity, of a person(s) suitably qualified in resettlement and environmental
problems.
10.2  In an effort to resolve resettlement and environmental problems, the
Bank and EBY cooperated from the outset in staffing EBY with suitably
qualified and experienced professionals to design and implement the relevant
programs. No effort was initially made to include the local and provincial
governments of the affected people and localities in the identification, planning
and implementation of the selected programs. (This was corrected in Loan 3520-
AR.) Efforts should be made to continue strengthening the capacity of local
governments to monitor compliance with environmental requirements and
manage any required operations once construction is completed.
10.3 Risk Assessment. During the original appraisal, the Bank correctly
identified as a major risk the delays to project execution due to lack of
financing-the result of a possible deterioration of the economic situation of
Argentina, low tariffs, and a low level of foreign lending (para. 3.21). Having
identified variations in economic and financial conditions as sources of
uncertainty and risk, the Bank tested the economic justification of the project by
varying its costs and those of other generation options, but did not test the
economic soundness of the project in a manner which was consistent with the
perception of risk. Sensitivity analysis on the rate of return varied costs or
benefits by 10% but this was really a test of the adequacy of consumer charges



- 37 -
rather than a test of the economic soundness of the project (para. 3.7). Project
planners did not anticipate the deterioration of the economy, of the power
market, and of the financial position and capacity of Argentina; nor did they
anticipate that important implementation delays would materialize. In short,
their assessment of the impact of varying conditions on the economic soundness
of a project of this size was incomplete.
10.4 Clearly, a lesson to be learned is that the economic analysis of a project
should be expanded to include a variation of economic and financial scenarios,
the breadth of which is consistent with the perception of risk (including a critical
evaluation of the credit standing and financing capacity of the borrower). The
least-cost exercise should be broadened to include an appropriate variation of
load patterns, financial flows, and project costs, leading to the identification of
solutions which apply under multiple scenarios. Project planners can not foresee
the full spectrum of events affecting the economic soundness of a project, but
they can broaden their analysis to reflect that fact of uncertainty.
Correspondingly, the project agreements should include workable safeguards to
address the perceived financial risks and thus minimize them.
10.5 Continued Project Support in Deteriorating Circumstances. The
Government's persistent failures to keep Yacyreta on track and to resolve the
sector problems raise questions as to whether the Bank's continued support of
the project was justified. This continuity was based initially on the view that
Yacyreta, being the largest public investment activity, was the best vehicle for
seeking to influence Government public finance and state enterprise reforms.
In addition, the extended project support reflected the continuing belief that
Yacyreta's completion (in place of other power sector alternatives) was not only
the least-cost solution, but also had a scale commensurate with Argentina's long-
term economic needs. Other factors included the difficulties of applying "stop-
and-go" tactics on large, unitary civil works, EBY's heavy dependence on the
Bank for the project's survival, and the Argentina's subsequent emergency-type
aid requests for its ultimately successful public sector reforms.
10.6 At the same time, while reluctant to abandon Yacyreta, the Bank
toughened  its  position  several times  to  stimulate  better  Government
performance. It initially deferred the effectiveness of Loan 1761 until receipt
of pledges of stricter sector financial management.  Later, it delayed the
processing of new loans for the sector, which it conditioned on major policy
actions, and repeatedly pressed the economic team for stronger Government
backing. Unfortunately however, these measures netted only limited returns.
On reflection, therefore, the principal conclusions are that:
(a)    Support of a multi-year, lumpy civil works project was an
ineffectual tool for advancing sector policy and institutional
reforms, particularly because of country conditions after the late
1970s. This approach proved to be unduly ambitious, even
though it may have appeared to be necessary under the
circumstances.



- 38 -
(b)   On the other hand, a sector loan (such as 2998-AR) which
includes financing of a specific project may defeat the latter
purpose as non-compliance with agreed sector conditionalities
likely results in interruption of disbursements for the project.
Under both approaches, the project experience demonstrated that
it was infeasible to obtain the needed sector reforms while the
Government had neither the political will nor the strength to
carry them out. A pure sector approach would have equally failed
under the circumstances.
(c)   However the Bank's continued support of Yacyreta must also be
seen in the light of the foreseeable benefits of added power and
energy, in addition to the opportunities it afforded for
participating in the recent sweeping public sector changes. Had
the Bank abandoned the project, it would have been in a weaker
position to actively influence such a sector reform.
10.7 Agenda for a future evaluation. The assumptions considered in the
section for Project Sustainability should be revisited, giving special attention to
the REMP component and the operation of the reservoir at the ultimate design
level (83 m). In general terms, the evaluation of the REMP program should be
quantitative, in terms of the compensatory areas assigned, water quality
measurements, and the number of people resettled; and qualitative, in terms of
the quality in the implementation and the effectiveness of the program. A future
evaluation should verify whether there were a reduced number of environmental
mitigation issues to be considered when raising the reservoir level from 76 to
78 m, as was foreseen in the REMP. The resettlement issues, also considered
in the program, should be reviewed in terms of effectiveness of the results, in
particular the participation of the community in the program and the
improvement in the living conditions of the people resettled.  For these
evaluations, the project's independent monitoring program would be a good
source of information.
10.8 Another issue of importance is the recalculation of the rate of return of
the project and the comparison with the value calculated in the Loan 3520-AR
(Yacyreta II) and the estimations made in the present report with and without
sunk costs.



- 39 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEWED FROM THE BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE
The following is a translation of a fax from EBY sent June 29, 1994. The
confirmation from the Secretariat of Energy, representing the Borrower, was
sent September 8, 1994. The originals are available in the project file.
The Entidad Binacional Yacyreta (EBY) and the Secretariat of Energy
(SE), as beneficiaries of the loan, prepared Part II of the Interim Project
Completion Report, based on information available in both entities.
EBY and SE also reviewed Part I and the Statistical Annex of this report
that was sent to EBY and SE for comments. Several comments were made
based on the Aides-Memoire from the Bank's previous missions.
LOAN 1761-AR
The central objective of this loan was the financing of the Yacyreta
Project, which had three components:
(a) construction of the main work;
(b) relocation of infrastructure works; and
(c) resettlement.
The expected completion date was December 31, 1990.
Substantial delays occurred beginning at the initial stages. The signature
of the loan was on September 21, 1982. The effectiveness date was November
18, 1982 and disbursements between November 18, 1982 and December 31,
1985 amounted to only US$35.5 million of US$210 million.52
The disbursements advanced on a more regular basis after end-1986,
when the loan agreement was renegotiated. During renegotiation, a review of
the original amortization plan took place, and the closing date was extended to
June 30, 1988.
Even thought there were implementation delays, the objectives of
component (a) were achieved. However, this was not true for components (b)
and (c), given the erratic performance of EBY and the lack of strict supervision
from the Bank's side. The project thus lost credibility, which still remains a
problem for EBY.
In this loan, as well as loan 2998-AR, the components of Resettlement
and Environment were considered secondary to the construction of the main
civil works.
52.   These dats were corrected by the Bank since they were inaccumate in the Borrower's fax.



- 40 -
The electro-mechanical supply was delayed due to difficulties in
obtaining the necessary funding from the Export Agencies. The civil works for
infrastructure and the resettlement program also caused a delay in the envisaged
program due to the financing difficulties of the project. Since the civil works
were delayed, there was no clear work program for environmental and social
programs.
The advance of the project normalized as EBY began to comply with
project covenants-after rescheduling of the civil works. The loan was then
renegotiated and disbursements reactivated. The need for financing and the
funds available increased proportionally.
In 1988, the World Bank authorized a new loan for the Yacyreti
Hydroelectric Project, after analyzing the financing structure and participation
of the funds involved in financing.
LOAN 2998-AR
As per request of the Argentine Government, in 1988 the World Bank
authorized a new loan of US$252 million to finance three components:
(a) Financing program of Yacyreta for civil works and engineering;
(b) Technical Assistance for the institutional strengthening of SE; and
(c) Interest due on loans 1761-AR and 2998-AR.
Given that the loan was for the financing of investments and financial
expenses of the Yacyreta Project, a detailed analysis of investments, expenses
and the financing plan was prepared for the whole construction period. The
main objective was to determine the differences between the planned and
executed program.
Despite the profound economic and political crisis that the Republic of
Argentina went through, the project substantially advanced during the period
1989-91, particularly in the main civil works, given the financial support of the
World Bank and the IDB. However, in the manufacturing of the electro-
mechanical equipment and in the areas of resettlement and environment, the
program fell behind schedule due to difficulties with the disbursements of
external credits and the lack of counterpart funds from Argentina.
A. Year 1989
Main Civil Works
Among the achievements was the deviation and closing of the main arm
of the Parana River, which started on April 26, 1989 and was completed on
June 8, 1989. The closing impedes the navigation in the Parana river up to the
navigation floodgate.



- 41 -
However, no major improvement occurred for equipment and
construction plants for the civil works.
Electro-mechanical Contracts
The development continued with some complications due to difficulties
with disbursements from export agencies of supplier countries, including
Argentina. This situation led to legal claims and delays from contractors.
Resettlement and Environment
Important delays occurred in the studies and development of projects and
civil works, again caused by lack of financial resources.
B. Year 1990
Important delays occurred in 1990 due to economic difficulties in the
country as well as institutional changes in EBY.
The delays and contractual problems resulting from lack of financing
which prompted the execution of a new study for reprogramming the civil
works, the electro-mechanical contracts, and the resettlement and environmental
programs. The former program dated from 1985.
Also during this year, the study and implementation of the administrative
reorganization of EBY began, and the disbursements of IDB Loan 585-OC/RG
started and Loan 2998-AR from the World Bank continued.
Negotiations with the EXIMBANK also began, with the intention of
producing an amendment to the current contract so as to disburse the funds on
a regular basis, in particular for the provision of turbines.
Main Civil Works
The development of the works continued on all fronts, since this was
least affected by lack of funds.
Resettlement and Enviromment
Given the financial constraints and the priority to assist the main work,
programmed goals were not met. Nevertheless, the construction of resettlement
housing and service networks in the areas of Posadas and Encarnaci6n
continued.  The evaluation and programming for the Master Plan for
Environmental Management also continued.



- 42 -
Administrative Reorganization
The reorganization of EBY took place for the purpose of reducing
expenses and optimizing the personnel complement. This process included a
voluntary retirement plan, sale of real estate and vehicles, and reduction of
services.
EBY initiated a feasibility study for the concessioning of services such
as telecommunications, water supply, sewage, electricity, and public relations.
This process reduced by 60 people the number of personnel in the
Administrative Department of Yacyreti.
C Year 1991
During this year, changes in the Yacyreta took place in order to
reactivate the project according to the new economic plan of the Government
established in March 1991. The application of new policies allowed room to
renegotiate undisbursed loans and the soliciting of new lines of credit, especially
from the World Bank and the IDB.
The main objectives were to set firm dates for initiating power generation
in 1994, to establish a policy for resettlement and environment, and to
reorganize the participation of the private sector in the project.
To achieve these objectives, the collaboration of the Governments of
Argentina and Paraguay was necessary, which materialized with the signature
of diplomatic notes (Treaty Amendment) on January 1992.
It was possible to define a generation program starting at a reduced level
of 76 m, and a new schedule for the project, synchronizing the program for
resettlement and environment with the main civil works.
Additionally, the tariff for electric generation was negotiated, making it
compatible with the financing needs of the project and the actual situation of the
electricity market in Argentina and Paraguay.
Main Civil Works
The Main Contractor presented the reprogramming of the works and
more favorable costing.
Electro-mechanical Contracts
The design, manufacturing, and assembling also progressed with
financial difficulties, and the contracts were reprogrammed according to the new
schedule for works.



- 43 -
The legal claims and delays of the contractors continued due to the lack
of efficiency in the credit lines of EXIMBANK (USA), EDC (Canada), and the
regulations of OPRAC (Argentina).
Resettlement and Enviromment
The financing restrictions obstructed the achievement of the programmed
objectives. However, the construction of the housing and service network for
Posadas and Encarnaci6n continued. Some tasks in the environmental field, and
the civil works that accompanied the Main Work also continued, and a definitive
plan to synchronize them with the Main Works began.
Administrative Reorganization
The process of reorganization of EBY continued in an effort to reduce
expenses and use personnel more efficiently.



-44 -
PART m. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Year of       Amount
Loan                Title            Approval  (in US$ million)  Status a/
L 308-AR      SEGBA I Power                 1962             95.0         D
L 525-AR      SEGBA 1I Power                1968             55.0         D
L 577-AR      El Choc6n Hydro Plant         1968             82.0         D
L 644-AR      SEGBA 11 Power               1969             60.0         D
Distribution
L 1330-AR     SEGBA IV Power                1976            115.0         D
Distribution
L 1761-AR     YACYRETA Hydroelectric        1979            210.0         D
Power
L 2751-AR     Power Engineering             1986             14.0         D
L 2854-AR     SEGBA V Power                 1987            276.0         U
Distribution
L 2998-AR     Electric Power Sector         1988            252.0         D
L 3520-AR     YACYRETA Hydroelectric        1992            300.0         U
Power II
TOTAL                               1,459.0
a]      D: Disbursed: U: Under disbursemnent



- 45 -
Iable 2: Project Timetable
Loan 1761-AR
Title            Date Planned         Date Revised          Date Actual/Expected
Identification                                                  August 1975
Preparation                                                     December 1977-April 1978
Appraisal Mission                                               July 24, 1978
Negotiations          March 5, 1979                             May 4, 1979
Board Approval        April 24, 1979                            October 16, 1979
Loan Signature                                                  September 21, 1982
Loan Amendment                                                  June 22, 1981 _/
October 31, 1986
November 25, 1986
Loan Effectiveness   February 6, 1980       May 6, 1980 b/    November 18, 1982
November 6, 1980
February 6, 1981
May 6, 1981
Loan Amendment                                                  November 18, 1986
Effectiveness
Loan Closing          June 30, 1987         June 30, 1988       June 30, 1988
Expected Project      December 1986 c/                                dl
Completion           to December 1990
l,oan 2998-AR
Title               Date Planned           Date Revised       Date Actual/Expected
Preparation                                       December 1987        December 1987
Appraisal Mission        April 1988               May 1988
Negotiations             August 1988              September 1988       September 1988
Board Approval           September 15, 1988       September 1988       October 27, 1988
Loan Signature                                    November 18, 1988  November 18, 1988
Loan Amendment                                                         March 23, 1990
Loan Effectiveness       November 1988            December 6, 1988   December 6, 1988
Loan Closing             June 1990                June 1991            June 1991
Expected Project         February 1993 c/ to                                 d/
Completion               September 1996
a/      In order to declare covenants by substituting tariff levels based on marginal Cost.
b/      Pbstponemenzs of Effectiveness Date relflect poor financial performance of the sector.
c/      Installation of the first unit.
d/       The current dates expected for project comnpletion are September 1994 (first unit) to June 1998 (last unit), as established
under loan 3520-AR (ayreta 11). Project Conpletion is progressing under schedule.
Source: Project Files



lible 3: GDP Levels & Public Service Consumption: Actual and Forecast
Real GDP a/  % Cong Over Actual b/    % Chlng         Fore1ARt              % Chhng Act.              ChFg over % Chg Act. over
(19K ~~~~~~~E) ~~(1761-AR) % Cling over                                    (
Mar      gh4ubn)                                             (GWh) Prior Year   (GWh)  over Prior Year  over Fomast)   Prior year  Forecast
1980         10,331         --      29,453            --        32,491        --          -9.4
1981          9,738         -5.7    29,117            -1.1      35,287        8.6        -17.5
1982          9,431         -3.1    29,666             1.9     39,142        10.9        -24.2
1983          9,783          3.7    31,546             6.3     42,185         7.8        -25.2
1984          9,962          1.8    33,093             4.9      45,480        7.8        -27.2
1985          9,303         -6.6    32,841            -1.4      49,275        8.3        -33.8
1986          9,984          7.3    35,640             9.2      53,364        8.3        -33.2
1987          10,242         2.6    38,396             7.7      57,795        8.3        -33.6      38,396
1988          10,049         -1.9    38,391           -0.0      62,589        8.3        -38.7      41,058        6.9              -6.5
1989          9,424          -6.2    36,160           -5.8      67,783        8.3        -46.7      43,813        6.7             -17.5
1990          9,430          0.1    36,397             0.7      73,409        8.3        -50.4      46,484        6.1             -21.7
1991         10,270          8.9    38,754             6.5      79,500        8.3        -51.3     49,552         6.6             -21.8
Growth Rates
1980-1985                    -2.07                     2.10                   8.66                 NA
1985-1990                    0.27                      2.19                   8.25                 NA
1980-1990                    -0.91                     2.14                   8.50                 NA
a/     Sourne: Series maintained by WB based on data provided by CenLral Bank (I Peso= 10.000 Australes).
_/     Sourme: Staff Appis5al Report. Yyrehd 11, (Report No. 1096-AR). dated August 31. 1992. Anris 1.3, Atachnenr 1.



- 47 -
Table 4: Appraisal Fbrecasts: Cost and Financing Plan
(in current US$ millions)
1761-AR      2998-AR      3520-AR
(1978) ./     (1988)        (1992)
A.     Project Cost                       1978-1989     19754996    1975-198
Direct Construction Costs                 1,903.10      2,284.2     2,595.5
Preliminary works                        116.2         336.0       337.4
Operators' village                        --          256.0       256.5
Civil works                            1,786.9       1,445.2     1,619.5
Arroyos protection works                  --            --         118.2
Construction equipment                    --           247.4       263.9
Generation & Electro-mechanical             726.8         770.4     1,089.9
equipment
Generation equipment                      --           510.0       583.6
Electro-mechanical equipment              --          260.4       506.3
Compensations, Land & Land rights           114.3         137.8       271.5
Relocation, Resettlement & Environment      590.3         339.5       505.3
Engineering and Administration              371.8       1,059.3     1,093.3
Total Project Cost               3,706.3       4,591.2     5,555.5
B. EBY Cash Financing Requirements           7,037.7       8,169.6     8,822.7
Project Cost                              3,706.3       4,591.2     5,555.5
Interest (IDC & int. exp.)                1,646.2       2,395.1     2,490.5
Amortization                              1,610.5       1,429.1     1,303.6
Net Clhng., working capital                  74.7        -245.8      -526.9
C  Sources of Financing                      7,037.7       8,169.6     8,822.7
Net Internal Cash Generation              1,884.3       1,678.9     1,390.8
Equity Contributions                         50.0          96.7        96.7
Local Borrowings                          2,910.4       3,468.7     4,225.8
Government/Energy Funds                2,610.4       3,284.2     4,144.0
Banks                                    300.0         184.5        81.8
Development Banks                           418.2       1,318.5     1,547.1
IBRD 1761-AR                            208.2         208.5       208.5
IDB 346/OC-RG                            210.0        210.0       210.0
IBRD 2998-AR                              --           250.0      250.0
IDB 355 & 583/OC-RG                       --          250.0       499.6
IBRD 3520-AR                              -             -         299.0
Future IBRD/IDB (potential loans)         --          400.0        80.0
Credits: Suppliers & Export                 829.5         693.5       982.3
Foreign Loans and others                    945.3         913.3       S83.0
a/     Ibis Appmisal Repon does not include the invement made durin the perid 1975-77. which amounted to USS 44 million in aen prices. (US$42 milliob in Er4gin.
and Admin.. and US$2 million in Preliminary ,rku. The o amount of US$44 million wu financed with GovArnm Loans).
Source: Staff Appraisal Reports.



- 48 -
Table 5: Estimated and Actual Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements
(in millions of US$)
Loan 1761-AR
IBRD Fiscal Year           1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   198S   1986   1987   1988
Appraisal Estimates a/      24.8   75.8   110.8  145.6  179.4  203.0  210.0
Actual Disbursements b/                      9.1   12.0   23.0   34.5  102.5  197.1  210.0
Actual as % of               0.0    0.0       8.2    8.2   12.8   17.0   48.8   93.8  100.0
Estimated
a/      In the SAR. the closing date was indicated as June 30. 1986. However, in the Loan Agreement it was established as June 30. 1987.
b/       Delayed disbuwsementa reflect most of the problems affecting the project (procurement. political. macroeconomic, financial, etc).
Loan 2998-AR
BRDF 1 scal Year                             1988         1989           1990          1991
Appraisal Estimates                                         151.0         252.0
Actual Disbursements                            99.7        184.2         249.2         252.0
Actual as % of Estimated                                    122.0          98.9         100.0



Table 6: Sector Sources and Applications of Funds
LOAN 1761-AR
(Stated in constant 1977 US$ millions)
Funds          1978  1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985    Actual    % of    Forecast   % of    Actual
Summary   Total   Summary   Total   as a % of
1918-85             1978-85             Forecast
Sources
Internal Funding         172    79    129   235    113    78    131   -32             906   18.0         6,477  54.4        -86.0
Less: Debt Service       202    143   195    543    315   431    274   428          2,532   50.4         3,733  31.4        -32.2
Net Internal Funding     -30    -64   -66   -309   -202   -353   -144  -460         -1,626  -32.4        2,744  23.1       -159.3
Customer Contributions   199   293    377    332    188   161    160   283           1,992   39.7        4,449  37.4        -55.2
Net Sectoral Funds       169   229   311       24    -14   -192     17  -177          366    7.3         7,193  60.4        -94.9
Other Contributions       36    33    51    51    83   397    196   279              1,125   22.4          568   4.8         98.0
Borrowing & Other        700   403    560    609   402    265    213    381         3,533   70.3         4,140  34.8        -14.7
Total Sources            905   665    922    683    470    470    426    482        5,024  100.0        11,901  100.0       -57.8
Applications
Investments        -     861   705    973    730   521    551    434    560         5,336  106.2        11,071  93.0        -51.8
Net Chng., WC 1/          44    -40    -51    -47   -51    -81       -8   -78        -312   -6.2           830   7.0       -137.6
Total AppLcations     905   665    922   683    470    470    426   482          5,024  100.0        11,901  100.0        57.8
1.    NatO: V- Wwking Cisal



- 50 -
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Loan 1761-AR
Documnent  Section                   SubJect                   Deadline  Compliance
Loan Agreement/Amendment Agreement
LA           2.02  Government to open and maintain a special     n/a         yes
account
LA          3.01(a) Government to re-lend to EBY under a         n/a         yes
Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA)
3.01(b) No amendment to SLA without Bank             n/a         yes
agreement
AA          3.01(c) Government to provide to EBY (i) at least  During the    no
$2,765,000,000 or assistance to carry out Parts   period
A, B and C a/ of the Project; (ii) such amounts 1979-1991
as shall be required by EBY
LA          3.02(a) Permit EBY to obtain $300 mill. from foreign  n/a        yes
sources
3.02(b) Allow EBY use foreign funds in Australes     n/a         yes
LA           4.01   Secretaria de Energia to carry out studies to  n/a       yes
design the future national transmission system
and on the use of small hydroelectric power
plants in isolated regions
LA           4.02  SE to employ consultants for 4.01             n/a         yes
LA           4.03  SE to use funds for assigned purposes         n/a         yes
LA           4.04  Government to (i) maintain records of the     n/a         yes
Studies; (ii) furnish to the Bank information
concerning Studies
LA          4.05(a) Information on financial and general operation   April, 30  yes
of power sector, SEGBA, AyEE and           each year
HIDRONOR                                  starting on
1980
LA           4.05  Replaced by section 5.01 LA 2998-AR           n/a         n/a
(b,c,d)
AA          4.06(a) Action programs (i) reducing the National  October       yes
Utilities' b/ energy losses; (ii) improving  31, 1986
collection of the Electric Funds surcharges
AA         4.06(b) Carry out such action programs                n/a         no
AA          4.07(a) Prepare tariff study                      March 31,      yes
1987
AA         4.07(b) Furnish results to Bank                       n/a         yes
AA          4.07(c) Include results in projections               n/a         yes
AA           4.08  SE to appoint professional for financial    October       yes
projections                                31, 1986
AA           4.09  SE to carry out a diagnostic study of the  March 31,      yes
Electric Power Sector and the National Utilities    1987
LA           5.01  Prohibition of preferred liens                n/a         yes
LA           5.02  Borrower to prepare a financial plan for   One year       yes
transmission system related to Part A, build it,  after the
provide funds                             date of the
LA



- 51 -
Loan 1761-AR
Document  Secidon                    Subject                    Deadline  Compliance
LA          5.03(a) Government to carry out the construction of its  n/a      yes
inter-regional HV transmission system
5.03(b) Government to establish and maintain       December       yes
transmission charges                        31, 1979
AA           5.04  Revaluation of fixed assets                  Not later     yes
than June
30, 1987
and each
year
thereafter
AA           5.05   Rate of return and operating indices for      n/a         no
SEGBA, HIDRONOR, AyE, CNEA
AA           5.06  Enable National Utilities to increase their    n/a         no
electricity rates
AA           5.07   Enable National Utilities to levy surcharge  May 31,      yes
instead of provincial taxes                  1987
AA          5.08(a) Enable National Utilities to convert their short  n/a     yes
term debt into long term debt
AA          5.08(b) Cause National Utilities to prepare plans to  October     yes
achieve the short term debt limit           31, 1986
AA           5.09  Government to support SEGBA and AyE to         n/a         yes
(a,b)  obtain investment financing
5.09(c) Assign funds to CNEA only after needs of      n/a         yes
National Utilities are covered
AA          5.10(a) Exchange views with the Bank on the           n/a         yes
Borrower's power sector
5.10(b) Report on the legal and procedural details of  October    yes
the transfer of AyE's assets to the Provincial  31, 1986
Utilities
LA          5.11(a) (i) Audit of the Special Account; (ii) Furnish  (i) Each  yes
certified copy of such audit               fiscal year
(ii) April
30 of each
year
5.11(b) Maintain separate records and accounts of the  n/a        yes
statements of expenditure and include them in
the annual audit
Project Agreement
PA           2.01   EBY to carry out Parts A, B and C of the      n/a         yes
Project
PA          2.02(a) Employment of consultants to carry out Part A  n/a        yes
2.02(b) Employment of experts to ensure safety of the  n/a        yes
dam
PA           2.04  Carry out Parts B and C of the Project in      n/a         yes
accordance with programs satisfactDry to the
Bank
PA          2.05(a) Furnish documentation for Parts A, B and C of    n/a      yes
the Project



- 52 -
Loan 1761-AR
Document  Section                     Subject                   Deadline  Compliance
2.05(b) (i) Maintain records and procedures to record  (iii) at    yes
the progress of the Project; (ii) enable Bank's    regular
representatives to visit the facilities; (iii)  intervals
furnish information concerning Parts A, B and
C of the Project
2.05(c) Furnish reports about each Part of the Project  After      yes
completion
of each
Part of the
Project
2.05(d) Examination by Bank's representatives          n/a         yes
PA           2.06   Exchange views with the Bank with regard to    n/a         yes
the progress of Parts A, B and C
PA           2.07   Respect for ecological and environmental       n/a         yes
factors
PA           2.08   Acquisition of land                            n/a         yes
PA           2.09   Performance of obligation under Subsidiary     n/a         yes
Loan Agreement
PA           3.01   Maintenance of rights and concessions          n/a         yes
PA           3.02  (a) Maintenance of plants and property; (b)     (b)         yes
inspections                                periodicall
y
PA           3.03   Not sell or transfer properties or assets      n/a         yes
PA           3.04   Performance in accordance with appropriate     n/a         yes
practices
PA          3.05(a) Insurance                                      n/a         yes
3.05(b) (i) Advise by insurance experts; (ii) furnish to  (i)      yes
the Bank recommendations by such experts    November
30, 1979
PA           4.01   Appropriate Accounting Practices               n/a         yes
PA/AA        4.02  (a) Auditing of Accounting; (b) Furnish      (a) April      yes
Auditing of Financial Statements; (d) furnish  30 each
evidence of the employment of auditors      year; (b)
October 30
each year
PA/AA       4.03(a) Evaluation of accounting procedures in audit   n/a         yes
report for fiscal year 1980
4.03(b) Furnish evidence of an adequate accounting  December       yes
system                                      31, 1986
PA          4.04(a) (i) Report on long-term debt; (ii) exchange  (i) October   yes
views with the Bank                          31 each
year
4.04(b) Limits on contracting of short-term debt       n/a         yes



- 53 -
Loan 1761-AR
Document   Section                              Subject                           Deadline   Compliance
PA             4.04(c)  Furnish a report on short-term  debt                       October           yes
31, 1986
Owners Agreement
OA                 6     Cause EBY to furnish to the Bank a program               6 months           yes
on the rate system                                      before the
date on
which the
power
plant is
scheduled
to start to
operate
OA               8(a)    Exchange views with the Bank with regard to                  n/a            yes
the progress of Parts A, B and C and the
performance of obligations under LA and PA
8(b)   Inform  the Bank of any condition which affects              n/a            yes
the progress of the Project
a/        Prt A: 1. Construction of the dam; 2. Spillways; 3. Ptower house; 4. Fish passage facilitates; 5. Navigation lock; 6. Irrigation intakes; 7. Dikes; 8. Housing.
Part B: Relocation of infrastructure works.
Part C: Resettlement on both river banks as a result of the creation of a main reservoir.
bh        'National Utilities' means SEGEA, AyEE, HIDRONOR, YACYRETA, CNEA and CTMSG referred to collectively or to some of them.



- 54 -
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Loan 2998-AR
Section   Subject                                          Deadline     Compliance
Loan Agreement
2.02(b)   Government to open and maintain a special          n/a           yes
account
3.01      Government to carry out Parts A.4 and B a/, and    n/a            no
to cause AyE and HIDRONOR to carry out Part
A.2, and AyE and SEGBA to carry out Part A.3
with efficiency and to provide funds
3.02(a)   Borrower to on-lend funds to EBY under a           n/a           yes
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
3.02(b)   Subsidiary Loan Agreement                          n/a           yes
3.04      Government to: (a)f(b) complete and furnish to the   (a) March 31,   yes (a), (b)
Bank a diagnostic study on Electric Power Sector  1989          & (c)
and National Utilities; (c) prepare plans or                    no (d)
programs taking into account the study and Bank's
comments; (d) implement such plans or programs
3.05      Government to complete: (a) an update of the   (a) April 30,     yes
Sector Expansion Plan and of the financing     1989 and by
schemes for major projects included in the Sector    each April 30
Expansion Plan; (b) furnish a copy to the Bank  thereafter
3.06      Government to implement the results of tariff      n/a            no
study being carried out under Yacyreta Loan
Agreement
3.07      Government to pay overdue balances on their    December 1,        no
accounts to National Utilities                    1989
3.08      Government to provide to the Bank a plan for  May 31, 1989        no
completing the financing of the YacyretA Project;
and such plan to be reviewed annually
3.09(a)   CNEA's tariff to DUC not higher than bulk tariff   n/a           yes
of utilities
3.09(b)   Limitation of Electric/energy funds to CNEA        n/a           yes
3.10      Government to carry out a study on power      April 30, 1989     yes
generation options to be used in updating of Sector
Expansion Plan
4.01(a)    Maintenance by Borrower of adequate records of    n/a            yes
operations related to the project
4.01(b)   Borrower is to (i) have the records referred in (a),   (i) Within four  yes
including the Special Account, audited; (ii) furnish   months of the
Bank with reports of said audits               end of each
fiscal year
4.01(c)   Borrower to (i) maintain adequate records     (ii) until at least  yes
regarding withdrawals from Loan Account; (ii)  one year after
retain these records evidencing such expenditures;    the bank has
(iv) ensure that records are included in the annual    received the
audit                                         audit report for
the fiscal year
4.02(a)   Government to cause to National Utilities to       n/a            no
maintain for 1988, 1989, 1990 a ratio of total
consolidated operating expenses/operating revenues
not higher than 91%, 81% and 79% respectively



- 55 -
Loan 2998-AR
Section    Subject                                         Deadline     Compliance
4.02(b)   Government to review whether the National       By May 31,        yes
Utilities would meet the requirements set forth in  1989 and by
(a)                                               May 31
thereafter
4.03(a/b)  Prepare consolidated forecasts for SEGBA, AyE  By May 31,        yes
and HIDRONOR, for each year beginning in        1989 and by
1988, indicating projected ratio of funds from   May 31
internal sources to annual capital expenditures  thereafter
4.04(a)    Government to take or cause NU to comply with   Annually          no
the financial indicators agreed between the     revision of
Borrower and the Bank                           indicators
5.01      Government and Bank to carry out an annual      May 31,1989       yes
review of (i) perfbrmance of the Borrower's  and by each May
electric power sector; (ii) the update of the Sector  thereafter
Expansion Plan; (iii) the update of the plan for
completing the financing of YACYRETA as
provided in 3.08
5.02      Limitation of new generation/transmission project   n/a           yes
5.03      SE to issue regulations on new sector projects      n/a           yes
concerning environment and resettlement
6.01      Send to the bank a report on the operational safety   May 31, 1989
of nuclear power plants
Project Agreement
2.01      EBY to carry out Part A.1 of the Project in         n/a           yes
accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 2
2.02      Procurement according to Schedule I                               yes
2.03      EBY to comply with Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,       n/a           yes
9.08 and 9.09 of General Conditions
2.04      EBY to performance under Subsidiary Loan            n/a           yes
Agreement
2.05      (a) EBY to exchange views with the Bank with        n/a           yes
regard to the progress of YACYRETA; (b) to
inform of any condition which interferes with the
Project
2.06      (a) EBY to ensure that Project execution is carried  n/a          yes
out with due regard to ecological and
environmental factors; (b) to acquire land and land
rights as necessary; (c) to carry out
ecological/resettlement Plan of Action (Schedule 3)
2.07      EBY to maintain experts and dam safety reviews  Program to be
submitted to the
Bank not later
than January 1,
1990
2.08(a)    EBY to furnish documents on request to the Bank    n/a           yes
2.08(b)   EBY (i) to maintain adequate records on Project  (iii) at regular  yes
progress; (ii) to allow visits and inspections; (iii)  intervals
to furnish cost/expenditure information



- 56 -
Loan 2998-AR
Setion:  Subxjet         V                                    Deadline     Compliance
2.08(c)    EBY to prepare and furnish Project Completion  After completion      no
Report                                           of the Project
2.08(d)    Allow inspections to all sites                        n/a            yes
3.01      EBY to maintain concessions and franchises            n/a            yes
3.02      EBY (a) to maintain plants and equipment and     (b) Periodically     yes
make repairs; (b) to have dam inspected
3.03      No unauthorized sale of assets, properties            n/a            yes
3.04      EBY to performance in accordance with                 n/a             yes
appropriate business, financial and public utility
practices
3.05      EBY to maintain appropriate insurance                 n/a            yes
4.01(a)    EBY to maintain adequate accounting records           n/a            yes
4.01(b)    EBY to (i) have its accounts audited; (ii) furnish  (i) Each fiscal  yes
audit reports to the Bank; (iii) furnish other       year
relevant financial information; (iv) furnish to the  (ii) Within 4
bank evidence of having employed auditors        months of the
referred to in (b) (i)                          end of the fiscal
year
(iv) October 31
each year
4.02(a)   (i) EBY to furnish a report on the long-term debt;   October 31 each
(ii) exchange views with the Bank                    year
4.02(b)    Short-term debt limitation                                           yes
Second Owners Agreement
6         Cause EBY to furnish to the Bank a program for    6 months before
putting into effect the rate system provided for in  the date on
the Treaty                                      which the power
plant is
scheduled to
start to operate
8(a)      Exchange views with the Bank with regard to the
progress of the Project and the performance of
obligations under LA and PA
8(b)      Inform the Bank of any condition which affects the
progress of the Project
htd A: lnvetment Prgra
Pdt B: Instiutaonal Sureugthig



- 57 -
Table 8: Economic Impact
Economic Internal Rate of Return
Actal
Loan                         Appraisal Estimate                           (at flnal Development)
1761-AR                                                            14.0
2998-AR                                                            18.6 a/                     5.5%  c/
3520-AR                                                            24.1 bl
Considering as sunk costs the expenditures before 1988. which amount to 42% of toal project costs.
Considering as sunk costs the expenditures befcre 1992. which amount to 59% of total project costs.
Considerirg investments as they actually occurred until 1993 and as planned from 1994 to 1998.



- 58 -
Table 9: Yacyreti's Economic Generation Cost
Investment USS mition     O & M       Ibtal Cost  Generation
Year       Current prices 1994 prices   1994 Prices   1994 Prices   (GWh)
1975           18.0         44.1                     44.1
1976           12.0         29.1                     29.1
1977           14.0         30.8                     30.8
1978           50.0         95.7                     95.7
1979           167.0       282.1                     282.1
1980           393.0       604.9                     604.9
1981          277.0        425.1                     425.1
1982           89.0        138.6                     138.6
1983           76.0        121.1                     121.1
1984           199.0       324.1                     324.1
1985           162.0       261.8                     261.8
1986          272.0        372.8                     372.8
1987          320.0        399.1                     399.1
1988          443.0        515.4                     515.4
1989          369.0        432.2                     432.2
1990          313.0        346.7                     346.7
1991          233.0        252.4                     252.4
1992          378.3        393.1                     393.1
1993          392.7        406.0                     406.0
1994          383.1        383.1         3.0         386.1       305.0
1995          207.8        202.0         6.0         208.0      2,934.0
1996          268.1        252.8         7.0         259.8      8,481.0
1997          325.4        298.7         8.0         306.7     11,471.0
1998           192.9       172.5         9.0         181.5     16,021.0
1999-2025                                  9.0          9.0       19,206.0
NPV        10% OCC                                  2,134.8    22,402.9
12% OCC                                  1,766.6    12,956.0
Economic     Without Sunk   Sunk Cost  Sunk Cost till
Generation Cost  Cost         till 1987      1991
(US$/MWh)
10% OCC          95.3         30.4         14.1
12% OCC          136.4        38.3         16.9
4.5% OCC          33.0
5.5% OCC          40.0
Sources: Loan 3520-AR Files. 0 & M cost is based on 'Evaluation of options fbr the Private Sector Participation in EBY', Final
Report Nov. 1993, by Morgan Grenfell & Co. LTD, LE Energy and Coopers & Lybrand.



59 -
lible 10: Use of Bank Resources
Staff Inputs (in staff weeks)
Loan 1761-AR
Stage of   75  77   78   79   80  81  82  83  84  85  86  87  88 89 92 93
Project Cycle
and FY
Preparation   4.0 19.7  8.5
Appraisal              50
Negotiation            5.4 10.3  2.6
Supervision                      12.5 3.6 15.3 30.7 1.0 21.9 30.1 20.2 4.2 1.3
Project                                    --  --  --  --           0.1 0.4 2.4 1.4
Completion
TYOTAL    4.0 19.7 18.9 10.3  15.1 3.6 15.3 30.7 1.0 21.9 30.1 20.2 4.3 1.7 2.4 1.4
TIOTAL Staff Weeks:    200.6
Loan 2998-AR
Stage of Project    1986   1987   1988   1989   1990    1991    1992    1993
Cycle and FY
Preparation          2.6    9.5   49.8
Appraisal                          13.8   32.8
Negotiations                               6.4
Supervision                               27.2   39.7      4.1     4.2      1.0
Project Completion                                                          0.3
TOTAL          2.6    9.5   63.6   66.4   39.7       4.1      4.2      1.3
TOTAL Staff Weeks:    191.4
Sources: World Bank MIS and Project Files



-60 -
Table 11: Mission Data
Loan 1761-AR
Stage of Project          Number   Days in    Specialization
Cycle       Date    o Persont   Fbild      Represented a/     Problem:bJ
I. Through Appraisal
Reconnaissance    08175          2         16 PE
Preappraisal     04/77           1        26 PE
Preappraisal     12/77           6        20 PE, C, LO, FA
Preappraisal     12/77           1          1 E
Preappraisal     04/78           1         8 E                  T
Preappraisal     04/78           4         16 PE, FNA, PE, LO   F, M
Financial        07/78           1         11 PE                F
Appraisal        07-08-          9        42 PE
09/78
11. Appraisal through Board Approval
Resettlement     12/78           3         13 RES
Resettlement     02/79           2         6 UC,
Post Appraisal   04/79           1          1 PE                T
Post Appraisal   04/79           3          8 LO, C, PE         F
Post Appraisal   06/79           3          3 PE, E             T
m. Board Approval through Effectiveness
Resettlement    10-11/79         2         14 S, C
Resettlement    01-02/80         2         9 S, C
IV. Supervision
04/80           1         8C                  R
07/80          3         12 S, RES            T, R
07/80           3        15 PE, FA            F
02/81           1         7PE                 F
07/81           1         5RES                E
11-12/81         1        20 LO                 F
08/82           1        12 LO                F, M
02-03/83         2        10 LO                 F
02/83           1         5 PE                 F
05-06/83         4        14 PE, FNA, L         F
08/83           1         1RES
12/84          1         10 PE                F
12/84          1          2RES                E
06/85          2         16 PE, FNA           M, F
09/85           1        10 PE                F
12/85          2         21 LO, FNA           M



- 61 -
Loan 1761-AR
Stage of Project                  Number         Days in        Specialization
Cycle            Date    of Persons         Field        Represented at            Problem  b/
09/86                1             5  RES                     R
09/86                2            18  LO, FNA                 F
09/86                1            16  C                       M
02/87                1             5 C                        R
10/87                3           19  PE, FNA
11/87                1             5  PE
PE - Pbwer Engineer; FNA - Financial Analyst; LS - Legal Specialist; LO - Loan Officer; C - Consultant; S - Sociologist; RES - Resettlement and
Environmental Specialist; E - Economist.
b/        F- Financial; M- Manrgriai; T= Technical; R= Resettlemrent; E= Evimrunental.



- 62 -
Table 11: Mission Data (continued)
Loan 2998-AR
Stage of Project                    Number of    Days in         Specialization
Cycle              Date         Persons        Field       Represented a/  Problem bI
I. Through Appraisal
Preparation                11/87                 3            22 FNA, PE             T
Pre-appraisal              02/88                  1            10 PE                 T
Appraisal                  05/88                 3             18 FNA, PE            T, F
II. Appraisal through Board Approval
Implementation             11/88                  1            11 PE                 M
HI. Supervision
12/88                 2            15 FNA                M, F
Limited Supervision        03/89                 3            23  FNA, PE            M, F
07/89                 1             7 PE                 M
09/89                 1             7 PE                 M
11/89                4             21 PE,FNA             M
C/    04/90                  3            18 PE,FNA             M,R,E
C/    08/90                  1             5 PE                 M
C/     11/90                 1            11 PE                 M
C/    02/91                  2            22 PE,FNA             F,R,E
C/    04/91                  3            10 PE,FNA             F
c/    06/91                  2             4 FNA                F
C/    07/91                  2            29 PE,FNA             F
C/     10/91                 5            14 PE,FNA             E,R
12/91                3             11 E,R,PE,FNA         E,R
c/
a/       PE -vwer Engineer; FNA - Financial Analyst; LS - Legal Specialist; LO - Loan Officer; C - Consultant; S - Sociologist; RES - Reseulenent and
Environmental Specialist; E - Economist.
b/       F= Financial; M= Managerial; T= Tedchical; R= Resetlexment; E= Enviromnental.
c/       Preparation mission for the Power Sector Project II and supervision for SEGRA V, but with an important eleenent of supervision for this project.



- 63 -
able 12: Project Studies
Purpose as defined at appiul         Status               Impact of study
L. Loan 1761-AR "
(Studies inder the responsibility of the SE)
Transmission  Development of the high voltage (above  Completed 500 kV system defined by the study is
220 kV) transmission system in Argentina.          being implemented.
Generation   Determine the possibility of using micro  Completed Preference has been given to bigger plants
and/or small hydroelectric power stations to       and expansion of the high voltage network
provide electric energy to isolated regions.       to integrate isolated areas.
Tariff       Study on the long-run marginal costs of  Completed This study was expanded under Loan
electric services in Argentina.                    2751-AR. It served as the basis for
restructuring the tariff system in 1991 and
later in 1992 provided the background for
the organization of the spot market pricing
by the use of a marginal cost formulation.
Sector       Diagnostic of the organization and      Completed This study was expanded under Loan
Organization  operational efficiency of the Argentina's         2998-AR.
and          Electric Power Sector and the National
Operation    Utilities.
H. Loan 2998-AR "'
(Studies under the responsibility of the SE)
Nuclear      Assessment of the operating safety of the    Completed Assessment was positive and no major
Plant        nuclear plants in Argentina.                       modifications were necessary in the
Operations                                                      operational procedures.
Sector       Study on the organization and operational   Completed While it was not implemented during the
Organization  efficiency of the Argentina's Electric Power      Loan 2998-AR, it served as a basis for the
and          Sector and the National Utilities.                 restructuring that took place in the sector
Operation                                                       from 1992 on.
Regulations   Regulations in connection with new power   Completed Regulations were issued by the
for new      sector projects concerning protection of the       Government and facilitated acceptance of
power sector  environment and mitigation of the economic        REMP under Yacyreta II Project by the
projects     and social effects of involuntary                  Argentine Government.
resettlement.
Power        For the generation of the National      Completed Assessment of the thermal plant conditions
Generation   Interconnected System (NIS):                       was key for defining the strategy for their
Options      a) define operating conditions of the              privatization, which was very successful.
existing thermal plants and recommend              SE accepted the use of gas-fueled CC in
rehabilitation plants;                            their generation planning with well defined
b) recommend the future role of gas-fueled         values for economic cost of gas. Private
Combined Cycle (CC) thermal plants;                generation, recently added or contemplated
c) recommend a set of values for the              in the near future, is CC burning gas.
economic cost of gas.
53. SAR. Yacvreta 1, p.17 para. 4.06 and Loan Agreement sections 4.01, 4.07 & 4.09.
54. SAR. Electric Power Sector Proiect, p. 30 & 31, and Annex 2.3.3, p.1; and Loan
Agreement sections 3.04 & 3.10.


















