Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2342-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA - PARAGUAY
YACYRETA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
September 21, 1979
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents 1/
Currency Unit       =      Argentine Peso ($a)
1US$                =      1,000 $a
Weights and Measures
kW                  =      Kilowatt
MW                  =      Megawatt (19000 kW)
GW                  =      Gigawatt (1,000 MW)
kWh                 =      Kilowatt hour
MWh                 =      Megawatt hour (1,000 kWh)
GWh                 =      Gigawatt hour (1,000 MWh)
kv                  =      Kilo volt (1,000 volts)
kvA                 =      Kilo volt-ampere
MVA                 =      Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kvA)
km 2                       Kilometer (0.6214 mile)
ke                  =      Square kilometer (0.386 sq. mile)
m 3                         Cubic meter
hm3                         Cubic hectometer
kcal                =      Kilocalorie (3.968 BTU)
t.o.e.              =      Tons of oil equivalent
Glossary of Abbreviations
a.c.                =      Alternating Current
d.c.                =      Direct Current
AyEE                =      Agua y Energia Electrica
ANDE                =      Administracion Nacional de Energia E½ectrica
(Paraguay)
CIAE                =      Compania Italo Argentina de Electricidad S.A.
CIDY                       Consultores Interacionales de Yacyreta
CNEA                =      Comision Nacional de Energia Atomica
CONCAP                     C Comision Nacional de la Cuenca del Plata
CTMSG               =      Comision Tecnica Mixta de Salto Grande
DEBA                =      Direccion de Energia Electrica de la Provincia
de Buenos Aires
DUC                 =      Despacho Unificado de Carga
EPEC                =      Empresa Provincial de Energia de Cordoba
FC                  =      Fondo de Combustibles
FCCC                =      Fondo Chocon-Cerros Colorados
FEDEI               =      Fondo Especial para el Desarrollo Electrico
del Interior
FNE                 =      Fondo Nacional de Energia
FNEE                =      Fondo Nacional de Energia Electrica
FNGO                =      Fondo Nacional de Grandes Obras Electricas
HIDRONOR            =      Hidroelectrica Norpatagonica, Sociedad Anonima
SDR                 =      Special Drawings Rights
SEGBA               =      Serviciss Electricos del Gran Buenos Aires
YACYRETA            =      Entidad Binacional Yacyreta
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
1/   As of December 31, 1978



PREFACE            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
1.        This report is based on findings of a joint Bank/IDB appraisal
mission carried out in July-September 1978. Because of delays in the
prequalification process of the main civil works contractors (six months)
and in the resolution of complex issues on dam alignment and financial
compensation between the Governments of Argentina and Paraguay (another
six months), the bidding procedures are now expected to start in November
1979 instead of November 1978, as envisaged during appraisal (see para.
4.18) and as a result the commissioning of the first units of the Yacyreta
hydroelectric project will be delayed by about 12 months. This delay is
likely to cause an increase in the cost of the project (in current dollars),
of about US$150 million, i.e. 6% of total construction cost of the project
because of price escalation.
2.        No difficulties are anticipated in this additional amount being
financed by US$50 million of additional export credits and by US$100 million
in additional borrowings from the Electrical Funds, (from US$2.6 to US$2.7
billion). With this exception, the structure of the overall financing
scheme for the project is unchanged in relation to the appraisal forecast.
3.        The resolution of the dam alignment and compensation issues
between the two Governments has been confirmed by the signing on August
30, 1979, of side letters to the Yacyreta Treaty, in which the final agree-
ments are incorporated. The dam alignment remains virtually unchanged from
the one appraised. Under the new compensation arrangement, not considered
in this report, YACYRETA would pay compensation for the flooding of Paraguayan
and Argentine territories, once the power plant was in full operation. From
1990 onwards, Paraguay would receive some US$21 million per annum and
Argentina some US$6 million per annum (both in 1979 prices - adjusted
annually to maintain its value in real terms). This compensation will be
payed by Argentina's power consumers in the form of a special tariff
surcharge representing only a 0.5% of the tariff in 1990. It is not expected
to affect the demand growth, and will decrease thereafter as power consump-
tion grows. YACYRETA will only act, in substance, as an agent for the
transfer of these funds and therefore its financial viability, which is
protected by the terms of the Treaty, will not be affected.
4.        A revised economic justification analysis, taking into account
current fuel costs, capital cost of nuclear power plants, and the new
compensation arrangement, shows that an expansion program that includes
Yacyreta coming on line in 1986 is the least-cost solution for meeting
Argentina's power needs for all discount rates up to above 20% when
compared with an expansion program that excludes it. The return on
investment remains at 14%.
5.        With reference to the development of the relocation/resettlement
program satisfactory to the Bank mentioned in paragraph 4.35, further
progress has been made in recent months. A more detailed version of the
program has been undertaken and is expected to be reviewed by the Bank in
October 1979.
9/21/79
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
i their odicial dutis. Its cotents my not othteise be discmked withet Woid Bank authorinitim.






ARGENTINA-PARAGUAY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT ON THE YACYRETA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I. THE SECTOR       ....................................           1
Paraguay's Energy Resources and the Parana River  1..... 
Argentina's Energy Resources .................              2
The Role of the Sector in the Economy      .     .          3
History of Bank Involvement with Sector ....   .........    3
Sector Organization and Regulation ................         4
Revaluation of Assets .    ..................... .          6
Power Tariff Regulation ..............................      7
Power Tariffs .................                             7
Tariff Structure .................                          7
Electricity Consumption ..... ...............               8
Existing Facilities ..................................      8
Sector Investment Program ..... ..............              9
Constraint on Sector Development .................          9
Coordination beween the Bank and IDB ....    .............  9
II.  THE BENEFICIARY ..........................                     9
General Description ..................................      9
Organization and Administration .......... .. ..........   10
Personnel ....                                             10
Accounting and Financial Systems ................... ..    11
Auditing ............................................      1]
Insurance        ............................................  11
III.  THE POWER MARKET .........................................    12
Public Service Consumption ...........................     12
Captive  Generation  ...................................   13
Total Consumption in Relation to Economic Growth  .....    14
Generation Forecasts ....................                  14
Expansion Plan for the Period 1978-1985 ....   ..........  14
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Argentina and Paraguay during July/August 1978. The mission comprised
Messrs. Manfredo Linder, Alain Barbu, Claude Besse, Kunio Kikuchi, Raghuvir
Vinekar, Alejandro Funes, Andres Rigo, Earl Kessler (Consultant) and Ms. Paula
Stone. The appraisal was carried out jointly with an IDB appraisal mission
composed of Messrs. Daniel Camp, Luis Rubio, Patricio Millan, Roberto Pastor,
Jose de la Torre, and IMs. Cristina Ortiz and members of IDB offices in Buenos
Aires and Asuncion.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
IV.  THE PROJECT   ..............................................          15
Background   ..15
Project Description and Objectives        .      .15
Studies   . .17
Transmission System    ..18
Status of Engineering Design    .             .19
Project Execution ............................            .      19
Procurement ..     ........................................      20
Disbursements    ..21
Environmental Aspects    ..21
Risks  ..23
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING    ..25
Project Costs                 ..25
Basis for Cost Estimates    ..26
Project Financing    ..28
VI. FINANCES .32
Sector Finances ..... 0 ................................         32
Electrim.'i Funds .36
YACYRETA's Capital .37
YACYRETA's Tariff .37
Other Financial Arrangements under thw. Yacyreta Treaty          38
YACYRETA's Financial Outlook .39
Performance Indicators and Reporting .40
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .41
Least cost Solution .41
Sensitivity Analysis .................................           42
Verification Models .44
Least-cost Solution - Summary and Conclusions                    45
Navigation .45
Irrigation .46
Fishing .46
Return on Investment .46
Rate of Return of Navigation Lock .47
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .48
Annex A  -  Relocation Aspects
Annex B  -  Special Funds for the Electricity Sector
Annex C  -  Supporting Tables
Annex D  -  Attachments
Annex E  -  Conte'ii: -E Project File
MAPS



ARGENTINA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YACYRETA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
CHAPTER I
THE SECTOR
Paraguay's Energy Resources and the Parana River
1.01      Besides its share of the enormous hydroelectric potential of the
Parana river, which forms the international boundary between Brazil and
Paraguay and between Argentina and Paraguay along parts of its length,
Paraguay has no other known important energy resource that can be developed.
1.02      The Parana river has a length of about 4,300 km between its source
in Brazil and its confluence with the Rio de la Plata. It is one of the
largest rivers in the world in terms of flow and a drainage basin of about
3 million km2 with an average annual rainfall ranging from 1,200 to 1,600 mm.
The average river flow ranges from 9,000 to 12,000 m3/sec in the section3
forming the international bounderies with Paraguay and is about 11,000 m /sec
at the height of the Yacyreta-Apipe Islands.
1.03      With a view to harnessing the hydroelectric potential of the Parana
river, Paraguay signed treaties with Brazil and Argentina in April and December
1973 to build the hydroelectric power projects of Itaipu and Yacyreta with
capacities of 12,600 and 2,700 MW and with average annual generation of
60,000 and 17,500 GWh respectively. Under both treaties, Paraguay would
be entitled to half the power output of both projects, would not be required
to invest any money in the projects which would be completely financed by
Brazil-and Argentina respectively, but would acquire 50% ownership of the
projects i.e. including dams, navigation lock in the case of Yacyreta, power
house etc, to be paid for out of its share of the revenue from power sales
(para. 6.15).
1.04      Paraguay's electric power system is one of the least developed in
Latin America. Only about 35% of the population of 2.7 million inhabitants
have access to electricity, and the average per capita consumption is 110 kWh
p.a., roughly one tenth that of Argentina. Total installed public service
capacity in 1977 was 268 MW, of which 190 MW corresponds to Acaray, a hydro-
electric project on the Acaray river, the remaining 78 MW being thermal.
Captive plant amounted to 14 MW. Total public service consumption in 1977
was 365 GWh, 76% of which was consumed in Asuncion the capital of Paraguay.
IDB, which has made several loans to Administracion Nacional de Electricidad
(ANDE), the national entity responsible for the country's electric power
development, estimates that public service consumption will grow at an average
rate of 12% in the foreseeable future. Under these assumptions, existing
generating plant is sufficient to cover the power needs of Paraguay until
1985/86, i.e., beyond the commissioning time for the first unit of Itaipu
presently estimated in 1983.



- 2 -
1.05      The future power needs of Paraguay beyond 1985/86 are expected to be
supplied by Itaipu, because the Itaipu treaty specifies lower cost for Paraguay
on the use of energy from Itaipu than the Yacyreta treaty for energy from
Yacyreta. Hence, in the foreseeable future all the output of Yacyreta is
expected to be consumed by Argentina. In any case, as shown in para 1.04,
Paraguay's power needs under current projections would only requires a minimum
proportion of the total estimated output of these plants and therefore only
Argentina's power sector is analyzed in detail in this report.
Argentina's Energy Resources
1.06      The principal source of energy in Argentina is petroleum which in
1977 accounted for about 64% of total primary consumption of energy estimated
at about 37 million t.o.e. 1/, while 23% was in the form of natural gas,
5% of hydraulic origin, 1% nuclear, 2% coal and 5% wood products and sugar
cane bagasse.
1.07      The mix of Argentina's energy resources is completely different from
the above consumption pattern as the hydroelectric potential (measured over
a period of 50 years and converted to t.o.e. at 2,500 calories/kWh) represents
about 67% of total energy resources, while proven reserves of oil and gas
account for only 10% and 7%, respectively, the remaining 16% corresponding to
coal, uranium, wood products and sugarcane bagasse.
1.08      Argentina's proven oil and gas res rves are somewhat limited amounting
to 370 million tons of oil and 250 billion m of gas and present domestic pro-
duction covers about 89% of the country's requirements. In 1976 and 1977,
Argentina had to spend about US$500 million yearly on imports of oil and gas.
To increase domestic production the Government intends to improve productivity
of the existing wells by increasing secondary production,.and to increase ex-
ploration. The Government is seeking to attract the participation of foreign
firms in the exploration and possible exploitation of the oil reserves and has
passed legislation that will allow it to sign risk contracts to this effect.
1.09      Argentina's proven coal reserves amount to about 450 million tons
of which about 120 million tons are considered to be commercially exploitable.
However, coal extraction is costly because it necessitates shaft mining. Also,
the mines are located in the south of the country, far from the possible
consumption areas, and therefore costly investments would be required in trans-
port infrastructure to utilize any increased coal output.
1.10      Argentina is well endowed with hydroelectric resources (at least
45,000 MW of installed capacity) but the majority of these are relatively
high-cost and far from the load centers, therefore requiring heavy trans-
mission investment. Only about 4% of this potential has been developed up to
the present. Projects totalling another 8% of the known potential are under
construction. In 1977, only about 17% of total electricity generation was of
hydroelectric origin and about 75% of fossil fuel origin.
1/   T.o.e. = Ton of oil equivalent i.e. 10  K calories.



-3 -
1.11      Argentina's indigenous uranium resources amount to about 30,000 tons
of U 0   based on a cost of below US$36/lb.  Another 10,000 tons would be
available at a cost of US$60/lb. Based on these resources Argentina was the
first Latin American country to develop a nuclear energy program based on
natural uranium fuel and commissioned its first unit in 1974 with a capacity
of 340 MW subsequently upgraded to 370 MW. A second unit of 644 MW (CANDU) 1/
is being installed and is expected to be commissioned by 1982/83. Argentina
is making great efforts to become independent of foreign suppliers for its
need for heavy water and fuel rods and intends to build facilities shortly to
enable it to produce both heavy water and fuel rods. The Government has
decided, in order to maintain and augment its nuclear technical know-how, to
install further natural uranium fueled units of 600 MW capacity at the rate
of about one every five years (see para. 7.08).
1.12      Other fuels (wood and sugar cane bagasse) amount to about 5% of
total primary consumption and their usage is expected to remain stable in
the future so that they will represent a decreasing proportion of the total.
1.13      Of the non-conventional sources of energy, it appears that Argentina
has a sizable potential for tidal, geothermal, solar and wind energy, with
perhaps the largest potential being for developing tidal energy. Preliminary
studies mention a possible annual production of 15,000 GWh from tidal energy
resources. However, more research needs to be carried out before these non-
conventional resources can be developed commercially and none are expected
to contribute significantly to Argentina's energy production in the foreseeable
future.
The Role of the Sector in the Economy
1.14      When compared to other Latin American countries, Argentina is a
highly electrified country as about 80% of the population had access to
electric energy with a per capita consumption of 1050 kWh in 1977. In that
year public service generation amounted to 27,200 GWh and captive generation
was about 5,000 GWh. Total installed capacity was 9,300 MW of which about
2,000 MW corresponded to captive plant. Industry accounted for 54% of total
electric energy consumption. Historically, industrial consumption has grown at
an average rate of 11% p.a. while residential consumption has grown at an
average rate of 7% p.a. The planned installation of a number of electricity-
intensive industries will increase the proportion of electricity consumed by
industry in the future. For the period 1962-1974 (excluding the recessionary
years 1975-1977) a very good correlation has existed between total electricity
consumption and GDP; the rate of growth of electr:'city consumption was 1.55
times that of GDP. This relationship should increase in the future due to the
incorporation of electricity-intensive industries (See Chapter III).
History of Bank Involvement with Sector
1.15      Since 1962, when the Bank made its first loan to Servicios Electricos
del Gran Buenos Aires (SEGBA), the Bank has made a total of five loans to
1/   Canadian design, natural uranium fuelled, moderated with heavy water.



-4-
Argentina's power sector, four of which were to SEGBA to help fi4nance oil-fired
thermal generation plant as well as transmission/sub-transmission/distribution
equipment and one to HIDRONOR for the construction of the 1,230 MW El Chocon
hydroelectric power plant. The four loans to SEGBA helped build up that
institution and, through the last loan (1330-AR approved in November 1976),
the Bank has been instrumental in helping Argentina prepare a national power
expansion program based on least-cost criteria for the period 1985-2000.
Project performance audit reports have been distributed to the Executive
Directors on all loans that have been completely disbursed. 1/ These reports
conclude that while the physical objectives of the projects were largely met,
the financial objectives were not. In effect, only in the years 1968 and 1969
did SEGBA achieve its covenanted rate of return of 8% and only in 1978 did
Hidronor achieve its covenanted rate of return of 8%. Because oF this unsatis-
factory financial performance, the Bank has had continuous discussions during
1976 and 1977 on this subject with the Argentine authorities, which may have
helped the present Government to implement, since the beginning of 1978, a
more realistic pricing policy for all energy products, including electric
energy.  Present prices are generally in line or nearly so, with their economic
costs.
Sector Organization and Regulation
1.16      The Argentine power sector, although essentially owned by the National
Government, has a fragmented organization. It is regulated partially by the
Secretaria de Energia, a branch of the Ministry of Economy. The only privately
owned company is Compania Italo Argentina de Electricidad S.A. (CIAE), 2/ which
serves one third of the city of Buenos Aires and has an installed generating
capacity of 585 MW. There are a number of provincially owned electric utilities
whose principal function is to distribute electric energy although some own
generating installations.
The major entities involved in the power sector are (in alphabetical
order):
-   AyEE      Agua y Energia Electrica (operates in the whole country
and also is in charge of irrigation).
-   CONCAP    Comision Nacional de la Cuenca del Plata (controls the
Argentine representatives in the two international entities
YACYRETA and CTMSG).
-   CIAE      Compania Italo Argentina de Electricidad, S.A. (a private
company operating in Buenos Aires 2/).
1/   Loans 308-AR and 525-AR, see IBRD Report No. Z-17/1.
Loan 644-AR, see Sec M 76-121.
Loan 577-AR, see Sec M 76-772.
2/   Agreement has been reached between the Government of Argentina and the
Shareholders of CIAE (mainly Swiss) for Argentina to purchase CIAE,
which will subsequently be absorbed by SEGBA, once the purchase of
CIAE is finalized.



-5-
-   CNEA      Comision Nacional de Energia Atomica (in charge of nuclear
energy; constructs and operates the nuclear power plants).
-   CTMSG     Comision Tecnica Mixta de Salto Grande (the Uruguayan-
Argentine binational authority in charge of building and
eventually operating the hydroelectric project of Salto
Grande).
-   DEBA      Direccion de Energia Electrica de la Provincia de Buenos
Aires (provincial electric utility serving a part of
Buenos Aires province).
-   EPEC      Empresa Provincial de Energia de Cordoba, the provincial
electric utility serving the Cordoba region.
-   HIDRONOR  Hidroelectrica Norpatagonica, Sociedad Anonima (the
utility in charge of the development and operation of
the hydro resources of the North Patagonian region.
It has completed the El Chocon hydroelectric project
(1,200 MW) and the Planicie Banderita hydroelectric
power plant (450 MW), and is commencing the construc-
tion of the Alicura hydroelectric power plant.
-   SEGBA     Servicios Electricos del Gran Buenos Aires (the major
utility serving the Buenos Aires region).
- YACYRETA Entidad Binacional Yacyreta (the binational Paraguayan-
Argentine authority in charge of the planning, construction
and eventually operation of the Yacyreta hydroelectric
project on the Parana river).
1.17      The regulation carried out by the Secretaria de Energia consists of:
-(a) the granting of concessions for electric power supply; and
(b)  the approval of electric tariffs.
However, the Secretaria de Energia does not (i) grant concessions for the
installation of nuclear power plants, which are authorized directly by the
President of the Republic; (ii) grant concessions for the construction of
generating facilities by the companies owned by the Provincial Governments;
and (iii) approve the tariffs of these companies. Also, it has little voice
in the decisions regarding binational projects which up to the moment have
been made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
1.18      Although the Government owns virtually all major generation, trans-
mission and distribution facilities of Argentina, the manner of controlling
the various entities is not uniform (see Annex D - Attachment 1-1). As can be
seen, the Secretary of Energy controls SEGBA, HIDRONOR and AyEE, the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs controls the Argentine representation in the two binational



- 6 -
entities YACYRETA and CTMSG, the President of Argentina controls CNEA, and the
Provincial Governments control the two main provincial electric utilities EPEC
and DEBA.
1.19      This situation has resulted in the past in a number of unsatisfactory
investment decisions and the present Government, fully aware of this situation,
is preparing the first comprehensive national power expansion program (through
the year 2000) and a sector organization study. Both these studies (financed
by the proceeds from loan 1330-AR to SEGBA), are nearing completion and should
be finished by end 1979. As a first step towards rational sector organization,
the Secretaria de Energia has submitted to the pertinent Government authorities
a reorganization plan of the Subsecretaria de Energia Electrica, calling for
centralization in the Secretaria of planning and financial responsibilities as
well as the setting of electricity tariffs. On a more long-term perspective,
the Secretaria intends to organize the sector entities so that the national
bulk hydro and conventional thermal generation and transmission would in the
future, be the responsibility of one or more national institutions (possibly
HIDRONOR and a modified AyEE), and subtransmission and distribution and sales
to ultimate consumers, would be the responsibility of provincial (regional)
distribution entities. During negotiations, the Government of Argentina has
agreed to exchange views with the Bank, from time to time, on the evolution
of the organization of the power sector.
1.20      To ensure the most economical use of sector bulk supply facilities
to meet load, generation by these utilities their operation is coordinated by
a central dispatching system, "Despacho Unificado de Carga (DUC)", operated
by AyEE.
1.21      Basically the DUC operates satisfactorily as follows:
(a) daily load forecasts (for half-hour periods) of the system are
made one day in advance;
(b) the availability of all system components (generating units,
transmission circuits, etc.) is determined one day in advance;
(c) based on the availability and incremental generating cost of
each component, the most economical loading of the generation and
transmission system is determined with the help of a computer;
(d) DUC is responsible for calculating the average monthly
power and energy bought and sold by each interconnected
entity for billing purposes; and
(e)  DUC is also responsible for the medium-term (up to two years)
operational planning of: (i) the timing of maintenance of generating
units; and (ii) the use of reservoirs.
Revaluation of Assets
1.22      There is no consistent approach to revaluation of power sector
assets: e.g. SEGBA's concession stipulates using historic US dollar value
adjusted only by the effect of the US dollar parity as stipulated by IMF,



7-
while and other entities use different methods. As part of the sector organi-
zation study, the Secretaria de Energia intends to formulate proposals for a
methodology of revaluation of assets taking into account both local and
international inflation, such methodology to be applied uniformly in Argentina
to enable all the power utilities to maintain a realistic value of their
assets. This methodology will be applied in 1981 and 1982 and thereafter
(see para 6.05). The Government has agreed during negotiations to exchange
views with the Bank on a proposed methodology for asset revaluation, to be
carried out in accordance with sound economic and financial principles, taking
into account both local and international inflation.
Power Tariff Regulation
1.23      The tariffs charged by SEGBA, HIDRONOR, AyEE and CIAE are approved
by the Secretaria de Energia and in the case of the provincial enterprises
DEBA and EPEC by the Provincial Governments. CNEA's tariffs are fixed under
agreements with the Secretaria de Energia to make them compatible with those
charged by HIDRONOR.
Power Tariffs
1.24      Historically, tariff levels in Argentina have nearly always been
set more on political rather than on financial/economic grounds. As a result,
sector internal cash generation contributed only marginally to sector expansion
in the last two decades. The Government, however, has instituted built-in
fiin-nrina mnchanisms through the utilization of specific Funds for sector
expansion. These Funds are based on taxes on hydrocarbons and electricity
sales, (see Annex B for a detailed explanation of the funding and use of these
Funds) and they provide a useful mechanism for channeling resources from
energy consumers to priority projects. This would otherwise be difficult,
given the fragmented organization of the power sector. For example, these
funds helped HIDRONOR and CTMSG to build the Chocon and Salto Grande hydro-
electric power plants and would also be used for the proposed project.
Because of inadequate tariffs SEGBA has had to rely heavily on foreign and
local borrowings to continue with its on-going expansion program. Only since
the end of 1977, following extensive discussions between the Government and
the Bank, have tariff levels reached reasonable values for all entities except
AyEE which is expected to do so by 1981, (see para. 6.05). Due to the extreme
inflationary process underway in Argentina, the Government, with a view to main-
taining tariffs in line with costs, has since the beginning of 1978, granted
monthly tariff increases, averaging about 6% per month. Besides the taxes on
electricity sales to finance the Electric Funds, sdding up to 15% of the
consumers' electricity bills, the different entities collect a variety of
municipal and other taxes which tend to distort the levels of tariffs between
the various regions of the country. Based on the results of the sector organi-
zation study (para 1.19), the Government intends to improve this situation.
Tariff Structure
1.25      The pattern of relative price levels for the different categories
of consumers appears in general reasonable e.g., large residential consumers
subsidize the low "social" price levels of smaller residential consumers.



-8
However the relative level of industrial tariffs appears to be high when
compared with other Latin American countries, and the Government authorities
have received numerous complaints from industrialists. The Government has been
using the monthly increases mentioned in para 1.24 to improve the relationship
between the levels of the different consumer categories by e.g. increasing
residential tariffs more than the industrial tariffs.
Electricity Consumption
1.26      Historical public service consumption per category is shown in
Annex D - Attachment 1-2. Data for some key years are shown below:
ARGENTINA
Historical Public Service Consumption per Consumer Category
Residential  Commercial  Industrial   Others    Total
Year              GWH          GWH          GWH         GWH        GWH
1962            2 735           936      2 352         1 203     7 226
1970            4 987         1 853       5 241        2 013    14 094
1975            6 599         2 217       9 073        2 644    20 533
1976            6 957         2 229       8 993       2 830    21 009
Average Growth
Rates % p.a.
(1962-1975)   7.0               6.9         10.9          6.2       8.4
(1962-1976)   6.9               6.4         10.1          6.3       7.9
During this same period, captive generation has grown slowly from 4,000 to
5,000 GWh p.a.
Existing Facilities
1.27      Total installed capacity in Argentina was about 9,300 MW at the end
of 1977, of which 7,324 MW corresponded to public service generation, the
latter breaking down as follows:
Installed              Firm/Effective
Type                       Capacity (MW)      %     Capacity (MW)       %
Steam Turbines                3,760         51.3        3,346         50.2
Gas Turbines                  1,282         17.5        1,241         18.6
Nuclear                         370          5.1          352          5.3
Hydroelectric                 1,912         26.1        1,722         25.9
Total:                        7,324        100 %        6,662        100 %



-9 -
The existing transmission system is shown in map No. 14129. It can be seen
that except for interconnections in the Litoral-Buenos Aires regions the other
regions operate substantially independently.
Sector Investment Program
1.28      Investments of the major power sector entities to AyEE, SEGBA,
HIDRONOR, CNEA and Salto Grande and including the transmission system related
to Yacyreta) for the period 1978-1985 amount to US$8,650 million (December
1977 prices) (see Annex D, Table 6-1 for details).
Constraint on Sector Development
1.29      The major constraint on sector development, given the high level of
the investment required, is the availability of local funds, and consequently
the feasibility of maintaining tariff levels in line with the basic assumptions
underlying the financing plan for the sector (see para. 6.05). The latter
is directly related to the effectiveness of the Government's fight against
inflation.
Coordination between the Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)
1.30      In August 1976, the Minister of Economy of Argentina and the Minister
of Finance of Paraguay sent letters to the Bank and IDB, requesting the
participation of both Banks in the financing of the Yacyreta project. This
request was later supplemented by letters from YACYRETA in October 1976. As
a result, from then onwards, both Banks carried out joint missions to Argentina
and Paraguay to review the project and, whenever meetings were held in
Washington with representatives of the Governments of Argentina and Paraguay
and of YACYRETA, such meetings were attended by staff of the two Banks. All
policy decisions were agreed upon by both Banks and in general, the Banks
have rwerked jointly ir. the preparation of the project and in the processing of
their -espective loans.
CHAPTER II
THE BENEFICIARY
General Description
2.01      The "Entidad Binacional Yacreta" (YACYRETA) was constituted under the
Yacyreta Treaty between Argentina and Paraguay signed on December 3, 1973 and
ratified by laws No. 20646 of Feb. 22, 1974 and No. 433 of December 28, 1973,
by each country respectively; YACYRETA, whose Statutes are included in Annex A
of the Treaty, was formally established on September 6, 1974 as a Binational
Entity, with headquarters in Buenos Aires and Asuncion, and a capital of
US$100 million equally shared between AyEE for Argentina and ANDE for Paraguay
(see para. 6.12).



- 10 -
Organization and Administration
2.02      YACYRETA is administered by a Board of Directors ("Consejo de Adminis-
tracion") and an Executive Committee ("tComite Ejecutivo") whose respective
functions and responsibilities are spelled out in the Statutes of YACYRETA.
The Board of Directors establishes the general policies of YACYRETA and approves
important proposals made by the Executive Committee, such as loan contracts
and annual budget. The Board consists of 12 members appointed by the two
Governments (six for each country) for a four-year period. The Executive
Director and his alternate participate as non-voting members in the Board's
deliberations, which are held at least every other month. Decisions are taken
with a majority of votes and, in case of a tie, are submitted for the consider-
ation of both Governments.
2.03      The 12-member Executive Committee is in charge of the day-to-day
management of YACYRETA. It includes the Executive Director and the five Directors
for its legal, technical, administrative, financial and coordination functional
areas as well as their respective alternates of the other nationality. Each
Government appoints three directors and three alternate for each country, as
proposed by AyEE and ANDE respectively for five-year periods. The Executive
Committee meets at least twice a month and decisions are taken with a majority
of votes. In a side letter signed simultaneously with the Treaty, the two
Governments agreed that during the first two five-year periods, i.e. until
1983, the Executive, Technical and Financial Directors would be appointed by
Argentina and the Legal, Administrative and Coordination Directors by Paraguay
(and vice-versa for their alternates).
2.04      On the basis of the broad responsibilities and functions defined in
its Statutes, YACYRETA has, with the help of international consultants, finalized
its organizational structure for the period of the project execution (see
Annex D - Attachment 2-1). YACYRETA is presently also studying, with the help
of consultants, the optimization of intra-company information flows for the
construction period. Its organizational structure and definition of responsi-
bilities have been reviewed by the Bank and found acceptable, taking into
account the constraints imposed by the binational character of YACYRETA in
particular with regards to staffing and decision-making procedures. Beyond
1985 YACYRETA's organization will necessarily evolve, however, as the Entity
enters progressively into its operating/commercial stage.
Personnel
2.05      YACYRETA's staff numbered 375 as of June 30, 1978.  These were approxi-
mately equally distributed between the Buenos Aires and Asuncion offices, in
accordance with the terms of the Treaty (Article XI) which stipulates that,
in as much as possible, equal manpower, skilled and non-skilled, should be
used from the two countries. This policy is expected to be applied during the
whole life of the project. YACYRETA has been, and is expected to continue to be
able to attract qualified and experienced staff thanks to competitive salaries
and benefits.



- 11 -
Accounting and Financial Systems
2.06      YACYRETA has qualified staff in the area of management systems.  It
has, for example, been able to develop its own computer model for financial
projections. However, present accounting procedures, primarily manual, are
likely to prove inadequate when major construction starts. So far, preparation
of financial statements has, on average, taken two months, which is excessive
in view of YACYRETA's presently limited activities. Within 12 months of loan
signature, YACYRETA has agreed to provide the Bank with evidence that it has
implemented an acceptable accounting system for the project execution phase,
and will, if the Bank deems it necessary, hire consultants to assist in
improving it.
2.07      YACYRETA decided on July 27, 1976 to choose the Special Drawing Right
(SDR) as the currency of account 1/. However this decision may result, in
the future, in burdensome bookkeeping reconciliations since (i) most of the
foreign transactions (i.e. relative to equipment contracts and loans) are
likely to be expressed in US dollars, and (ii) the Treaty itself implicitly
recognizes the US dollar as the currency of reference 2/. The external
auditors, in their first report, should express their Judgement on the adequacy
of the present procedures and propose changes if necessary (para. 2.08).
Auditing
2.08      YACYRETA's internal auditing section reports directly to the Executive
Director and its work is considered satisfactory; its staff will be increased
as the volume of transactions rises. YACYRETA's financial statements for 1975,
1976, 1977 have been externally audited by individual Argentinian and Paraguayan
CPA's; a similar arrangement has been considered acceptable for the 1978
accounts in view of the relatively small volume of transactions during that
year. YACYRETA has agreed during negotiations, to have its financial statements
(including a sources and applications of funds statement) audited, starting in
1979, by an independent CPA firm acceptable to the Bank; their first report
will include an evaluation of YACYRETA's accounting procedures, in particular
with respect to the present currency of account, and their recommendations for
changes, if necessary; YACYRETA has agreed to discuss these recommendations
with the Bank.
Insurance
2.09      YACYRETA will, at the suggestion of the Bank, hire an international
expert to advise it on insurance policy by September 30, 1979. 3/ YACYRETA has
agreed dtr iit- llegotiations to discuss the expert's recommendations with the Bank.
1/   Transactions are first registered in their original currency and then
converted in SDR at the prevailing exchange rate between the SDR and
this currency at the time of the transaction.
2/   By relating the escalation formula to the variations between the
US dollar and the SDR, and other indices expressed in US dollars.
(see Annex C, Table A-1).
3/   Later (August 1979) changed to November 30, 1979.



- 12 -
CHAPTER III
THE POWER MARKET
3.01      The Secretaria de Energia carried out a detailed analysis of
the historical power market of Argentina. For this purpose the country
was subdivided into nine different electrical regions as-follows:
(a) Greater Buenos Aires (GBA);
(b) Litoral, covering the Provinces of Santa Fe and Entre Rios and
the northeast of the Province of Buenos Aires;
(c) Comahue, covering the Provinces of Neuquen, Rio Negro and
La Pampa;
(d) Buenos Aires Sur (BAS), covering the southern part of the
Province of Buenos Aires not covered by GBA;
(e) Centro, covering the Provinces of Cordoba and San Luis;
(f)  Cuyo, covering the Provinces of San Juan and Mendoza;
(g) Northeast Argentina (NEA), covering the Provinces of
Corrientes, Chaco, Formosa and Misiones;
(h) Northwest Argentina (NOA), covering the Provinces of Jujuy,
Salta, Tucuman,, Catamarca, Santiago del Estero and La
Rioja; and
(i) Patagonica, covering the Provinces of Chubut and Santa Cruz.
3.02      Five regions, GBA, Litoral, Comahue, BAS and Centro, are electrically
interconnected and form the "Sistema Interconectado Nacional" (SIN). An
analysis was carried out for those regions not connected to the SIN, as to
what would be the least cost solution for meeting the growing demand in those
regions through 1985, and it was shown that the least cost solution for
discount rates up to at least 20% would be to interconnect these regions with
the SIN. (See Map No. 14129)
Public Service Consumption
3.03      The forecast of public service consumption for the period 1978-1985
is based on estimated regional growth rates. To prepare these regional
forecasts, the historical regional trends for the periods 1965-1972, 1965-1973
and 1965-1974, 1/ were analyzed and the lowest of these historical growth
1/   Historic data is shown in Annex D - Attachment 3-4.



- 13 -
rates were used as the base forecast for the future. The years 1975 and 1976
were not included in the analysis because it was thought that it would be
unrealistic to consider years corresponding to an extremely serious period of
economic recession.
3.04      The base average annual growth rates of public service sector
consumption that were adopted for each region are the following: GBA: 7%;
Litoral Subregion A 1/: 9.9%; Subregion B 2/: 11.7%; Comahue: 13.3%; BAS:
11.0%; Centro: 7.5%; Cuyo: 12.5%; NEA: 11.7%; NOA: 12.2%; and Patagonica:
4.2%. These average growth rates were projected from 1978 onwards in all
regions. 3/ The resulting average annual growth rate for the whole country is
8.8% for the period 1978-1985 and 8% p.a. for the period 1975-1985.
3.05      A number of important industrial projects under construction such as
aluminum smelters, electric furnaces for the steel industries, and heavy water
production facilities cannot be considered to be covered by the above histo-
rical trends because of their special electricity-intensive characteristics.
These special industries have been estimated to consume 5960 GWh in 1985 with
a maximum demand of 910 MW; 95% of this load is expected to be connected by
1982.
3.06      Adding these special industries to the base forecast, the average
annual growth rate increases to 9.9% for the period 1978-1985 and 9.1%
for the period 1975-1985. The growth rate is higher at the beginning
of the period due to the incorporation of the special industries mentioned
above and tapers off to reach 8.3% for the year 1984-1985. These projections
are reasonable when compared to historical growth rates; for the period 1965-
1974, the average annual growth rate was 8.6% and for the period 1967-1972,
one of economic stability in Argentina, the average growth rate was 10.7%.
3.07      For the period 1985-2000 the public service growth rate was assumed
to continue at the same rate as at the end of the 1978-1985 period, i.e.,
8.3% p.a., which corresponds to the historical load growth on a more long-
term basis.
Captive Generation
3.08      Captive generation has historically grown at a lower rat  than public
service. While it accounted for nearly 30% of total consumption in 1965, its
share had decreased to 17% in 1977. The Secretaria de Energia has projected
the increase of captive generation so that by the year 2000, it would not
represent more than 5% of total consumption, which is reasonable. This
corresponds to an average annual increase of 2.7%.
1/   Excluding the northeast of Buenos Aires Provinces.
2/   Northeast of Buenos Aires Province.
3/   In Comahue and Cuyo, they were used from 1979 onwards, using lower
figures for 1978 (See Annex D - Attachment 3-4).



- 14 -
Total Consumption in Relation to Economic Growth
3.09      Total consumption, public service and captive is expected to grow at
an annual average growth rate of 9% for the period 1978-1985 and 7.9% for the
period 1986-2000, averaging 8.3% for the total period 1978-2000. (See Annex D,
Attachment 3-2.)
3.10      This market forecast was checked against macroeconomic assumptions
by correlations between GDP and total consumption, exclusive of the electricity-
intensive consumers for which no historical data exist and which should have
little influence on the GDP. The base forecast correlates well with an
average annual GDP growth of 5.5% p.a., which is the Government's goal for the
period 1978-1985, and which compares with an annual GDP growth of 5.7% during
the period 1968-1974, when economic stability prevailed in Argentina.
Generation Forecasts
3.11      For the purpose of preparing energy and demand balances, losses in
distribution, subtransmission and transmission were added to convert the
consumption forecast to the generation forecast, and the load factors of the
different regions were used to calculate the regional maximum demands. To
arrive at total maximum demand, decreasing diversity factors were used during
the period until total interconnection is achieved (1984). (See Annex D -
Attachment 3-2.)
Expansion Plan for the Period 1978-1985
3.12      During 1977, the Secretaria de Energia completed the first phase
(1977-1985) of the national power expansion program which is now under
construction and which adds 7,877 MW of installed capacity of which 5000
MW is hydroelectric. During this same period, 900 MW of obsolete thermal
plant will be eliminated. Annex D - Attachment 3-1 shows the list of the
addition of generating capacity through 1985 (see para. 1.27 for existing
facilities). This investment program is the result of previous commitments
made by the previous Government and which were not always based on choosing
the least cost alternative but rather were motivated by political or other
non-economic considerations. The present Government, given the constraints
of the commitments, has optimized the commissioning sequence of the individual
projects so that each project is completed when needed and unnecessary
premature investments are avoided. Under these conditions this program is
reasonable. From 1985 onwards the expansion program is based on the least
cost alternative approach (see paras 7.01 through 7.04).



- 15 -
CHAPTER IV
THE PROJECT
Background
4.01      The Yacyreta hydroelectric project has its origin in studies carried
out since the beginning of this century initially with the main objecJive of
improving navigation on the Parana river at the rapids of Apipe. In 1958 the
Governments of Argentina and Paraguay formed the "Comision Mixta Tecnica
Paraguayo-Argentina" (CMT) for the purpose of studying the hydroelectric
potential of these rapids and improvements in navigation. The prefeasibility
study was completed in 1964, and in 1971 an international consortium of
consultants, formed by Harza Engineering Co. (U.S.), Lahmeyer International
GMBH (Germany), A.D.E., S.A. (Argentina), Yacyreta S.A. (Paraguay) and Cuyum,
S.A. (Argentina) was hired to prepare a feasibility study. This study was
completed in December 1973, and its conclusions provided the basis for the
preparation of the Treaty of Yacyreta which was ratified in that same month by
both Governments.
4.02      The more important aspects contained in the treaty relate to:
(i) the creation of "Entidad Binacional Yacyreta" (YACYRETA) to
study, design, build and operate the Yacyreta hydroelectric
project and related works;
(ii)  the co-ownership of the works to be constructed;
(iii) the ratification of the principle of free river navigation and
the construction of the necessary facilities to this effect;
and
(iv)  the rules on the use of energy produced by the project.
The Treaty has three annexes:
(a)  statutes of YACYRETA;
(b)  description of the works for electricity production,
navigation improvements, complementary works for
other uses of the Parana, e.g. irrigation; and
(c)  financial agreements on level of tariffs, escalation,
etc. (see Chapter VI).
4.03      A further step in the preparation of the project was taken in 1974,
when YACYRETA hired the consortium Harza, Lahmeyer and Associates to prepare
the final design for the proiect which has been practically comple-cd during
the period 1974-1978.
Project Description and Objectives
4.04      The project is located on the Parana river, the international
boundary between Argentina and Paraguay (see Map No. 14128), about 80 kms.
downstream from the towns of Posadas (Argentina) and Encarnacion (Paraguay).



- 16 -
The main objective of the project is to provide base-load hydroelectric energy
for Argentina's power sector. Other objectives are to improve navigation on
the Parana river by eliminating the rapids of Apipe and to provide possible
irrigation for both Argentina and Paraguay in the provinces of Misiones and
Corrientes and the Department of Itaipu, respectively, and to augment the
fishery industry of the region. Article VI of the Yacyreta Treaty stipulates
that Argentina and Paraguay would carry out the demarcation of their common
boundary in the project area as established in Article I of the Boundary Treaty
of February 3, 1876. During negotiation, Argentina and Paraguay agreed to
take all necessary steps to satisfy this requiremernt for the project area six
mo-iths before taking any project related action which would affect the natural
n-arse of the Parana river. As a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan,
Argentina and Paraguay agreed to take initial measu.res satisfactory to the
Bank with respect to Article VI of the Treaty.
4.05      The project comprises:
(a)  an earth dam, approximately 70 km long 1/ (including power house,
spillways and navigation lock), with a uniform elevatiora above
sea-level of 86 m, and a maximum height of 33 m, creating a
reservoir with an area of about 1,700 km2 and a total storage
capacity of 21,000 hm3;
(b)  two spillways with a total discharge capacity of 95,O0  m 3/sec;
(c)  a conventional covered power house with 20 Kaplan turbines 2/
of 135 MW, operating at 71.4 rpm; 20 generators of 150 MVA, with
a power factor of 0.9, operating at 50 c/s, 13.2 kv; and trans-
formers, control equipment, etc.;
(d)  fish passage facilities to preserve the enormous fishery
resources of the Parana river;
(e)  a naviL;iaion lock which would allow the passage of ships with
a maximum draft of 12 ft;
(f)  irrigation intakes, one in each country each with a maximum intake
capacity of less than 1% of average river flow, to permit the
development of agriculture in the lands bordering the reservoir.
The project only includes the intake structure. The irrigation
infrastructure will be designed ;-rid built by the corresponding
national authorities;
(g)  the Aguapey dike, 3/ with the same eievation as the main dam, to
avoid flooding of potentially rich agricultural land in Paraguay;
1/   Total earthfill 58 Mm3, with concrete works totalling 3.3 ML 3.
2!   The power house will contain intake structures for 10 additional units
to be possibly installed in the future when the extra peaking capacity
would be justified.
3/   During negotiations between Argentina and Paraguay in 1979, three minor
di'-es, having marginal additional costs, were included in the Project.
These dikes are: Tacuary, Caraguata and San Martin.



- 17 -
(h) permanent villages to house supervisory personnel during
construction and, afterwards, the personnel in charge of
operation;
(1) about 90 km. of access roads which will be incorporated to the
road systems of both countries;
(j) a bridge, 1500 m. long, over the Ana-Cua branch of the river
needed for access to the project site;
(k) the relocation of infrastructure works such as railways,
ports, highways, sanitation works and electric and telephone
installations;
(1) the resettlement of about 33,000 persons on both riverbanks as
the result of the creation of the main reservoir (see Annex A);
and
(m)  studies to be carried out by the Secretaria de Energia related
to the power sector, consisting of (see para. 4.06):
(i) design for the future national transmission system, and
(ii) the use of micro and/or small hydroelectric power plants
in isolated regions.
Studies
4.06      The Secretaria de Energia has requested, following the example of
the Bank's loan to SEGBA (Loan 1330-AR), that the Bank loan for the Yacyreta
project also help finance studies to be carried out by the Secretaria.
These studies would be:
(i) Feasibility studies including technical studies such as stability,
short-circuit, etc. and the necessary engineering for preparing
bidding documents for the development of the high voltage (above
220 kV) transmission system of Argentina. These studies would take
about 24 months with a total input of about 530 staff-months of
consultant input. Foreign consultants (30% of total) are estimated
to cost US$6,000 per staff-month and local consultants (70%) from
US$4,000 to US$5,000 per man-month.
(ii) Studies to determine the possibility of using micro and/or small
hydroelectric power stations to provide electric energy to isolated
regions. This would include all the necessary studies up to and
including the preparation of a feasibility study. These studies
would take about 12 months with a total input of about 140 staff-
months of consultants input of which about 20% is estimated to be
foreign cost calculated at US$8,000 per month (short-term services
of high-level experts) and 80% of local cost estimated at an average
of about US$3,500 per staff-month (principally field exploration).



- 18 -
Transmission system
4.07      Although the transmission system associated with Yacyreta would not
be financed by the Bank loan and does not form part of the project, 1/ it
has been analysed and its costs have been estimated (see paras. 4.08-4.10).
4.08      The Secretaria de Energia, as part of the national power expansion
study financed by the Bank through Loan 1330-AR to SEGBA has carried out a
prefeasibility study of the expansion for the national high voltage transmis-
sion system for the period 1982-1994. This study, based on the demand forecast
and generation expansion program, considers the nine different electrical
regions of Argentina (see para 3.01) and analyzes different alternatives for
transmission voltages ranging from 220 to 750 kv alternating current and from
+250 to +600 kv direct current. The method of optimization was based on a
linear programming model and its conclusions are complemented by load flow,
stability and short-circuit studies.
4.09      The study concludes that for the development of the national high
voltage transmission system 500 kv a.c. is the least cost solution for
discount rates up to at least 20% except for the interconnection between the
North-East and North-West regions. In this latter case, +400 kv d.c. appears
to be the least-cost solution, subject to further studies to confirm the
solution for this interconnection. These conclusions do not exclude the
possibility of a future interconnection with Brazil, which would have to be in
direct current anyway given the different frequencies used in the two countries
(60 Hz-Brasil, 50 Hz-Argentina). Such an interconnection would allow both
countries to benefit from the diversity between the patterns of load curves
and hydrological conditions of the two electric systems leading to savings in
power sector investments and operational costs in both countries. An inter-
connection, for example, could be possible once negotiations are concluded to
build Corpus, a binational Argentina/Paraguay hydroelectric project further
upstream on the Parana river, or Roncador and Garabi, two binational Brazil/
Argentina hydroelectric projects, on the Uruguay river.
4.10      This study also identified the specific transmission system related
to Yacyreta and its construction chronogram (1982-1988) is shown in Annex D -
Attachment 4-1. The estimated cost is US$512 million (December 1977 price levels)
and this figure was used in the economic justification of the project.
4.11      The Secretaria de Energia has decided that, with the exception of
the transmission systems related to hydroelectric projects built by HIDRONOR
in the Comahue region, all other transmission developments in Argentina will
be built in the future by AyEE. For this purpose AyEE has created a special
group within its organization, reporting directly to the General Manager, which
is in charge of the engineering, procurement and supervision of construction of
the high voltage transmission system. The activities of this group will be
1/ The construction of this transmission system is the responsibility of
the Argentine Government (through AyEE).



- 19 -
coordinated by the Secretaria de Energia who has appointed a high-level
official to carry out this coordination. The Secretaria will be responsible
for the planning of the future transmission network and for the channelling of
the necessary funds.
4.12      Given the importance that the timing and execution of the trans-
mission system related to Yacyreta has for utilization of the project's energy
production, the Argentine Government has agreed during negotiations that
within 12 months after the signing of the loan, a satisfactory overall financing
plan would be prepared for this transmission system and that it would provide
adequate funds for its construction.
Status of Engineering Design
4.13      The preparation of the designs and bidding documents for the main
civil works and the electromechanical equipment is practically completed.
4.14      The engineering and design of all infrastructure works to be re-
located are well-advanced. Bidding documents are under preparation, requiring
only the results of some topographical and geological studies currently under-
way and which should be completed very shortly. These designs have been
approved in each country by the corresponding competent authority responsible
for these services.
4.15      The designs for the dwelling and community facilities for resettle-
ment of the people affected by the flooding caused by the reservoir, in
Encarnacion (Paraguay) are satisfactorily advanced, but those in Posadas
(Argentina) have been delayed because of redesign requested by the Bank and
IDB. Bank and IDB staff are actively involved in assisting YACYRETA to
formulate adequate policies for resettlement (see Annex A).
Project Execution
4.16      YACYRETA has decided to continue with the services of Harza Eng. Co.
(U.S.A.) together with Lahmeyer International (Germany) and their Argentine
and Paraguay associates for the preparation of final designs and for the
technical supervision of the execution of the project. This new consortium
called "Consultores Internacionales de Yacyreta" (CIDY), has negotiated and
signed a contract with YACYRETA, satisfactory to the Bank and IDB. CIDY will
have total responsibility for supervising the execution of the project, and
YACYRETA intends to control the activity of its consultant by establishing
on the project site a superintendent of works with a small group of qualified
professionals. (See organization chart in Attachment 2-1 of Annex D).
Given the exceptional size of the project both in physical and in financial
terms, YACYRETA has agreed during negotiations to hire a panel of well-known
international experts satisfactory to the Bank in different disciplines
(geology, hydraulics etc.), to review the concept of the dam and related
structures and the adequacy of their design and to conduct periodic reviews



- 20 -
of the dam and structures during construction.  YACYRETA also agreed to
propose to the Bank for review not later than one year before the expected
completion of the dam, appropriate arrangements to periodically inspect
the dam and related structures during the operation of the project.
4.17      The execution of the main civil works contract which is the
critical path of the project, will commence with mobilization of the con-
tractor, foreseen for November 1979 and will be completed in approximately
10 years when the last of the 20 units will be installed. This period can
be divided into three main stages as follows:
(i)  First stage.  During the first stage of about 47 months the river
will flow normally. The preparatory works will be completed, the
first stage of the spillways will be built, the navigation lock will
have been completed and construction of the powerhouse, side
embankments and the main dam will have begun;
(ii)  Second stage.  During this period of about 10 months, the building
of the cofferdams and river diversion will be carried out; and
(iii)  Third stage.  This last stage of about 63 months includes the
completion of the main dam, the dikes, spillways and powerhouse
and the erection of the 20 units commencing in 1985 and ending
in 1989. The reservoir will be filled at the beginning of
1985.
Procurement
4.18      For the execution of the project the following bidding chronogram,
corresponding to the more important project components, Ls foreseen.
Start of               Receipt
Item                   bidding procedure            of bids            Bid award
Turbines and
generators            November 1978               May 1979          October 1979
Gates                   November 1978               March 1979        June 1979
Main civil works
contract              November 1978               May 1979          October 1979
The procurement program for the remaining project components considers placing
practi.c.;ly all the orders during 1980 and 1981.  The contracts for the
construction of the relocation works (infrastructure and dwellings) will be
placed in agreement with the requirements of the relocation program (see
Annex A).



- 21 -
4.19      The Bank-financed portion of the project, i.e., the civil works
(ontract, would be awarded through ICB under procedures in agreement with the
Bank's guidelines for procurement. The bulk of the construction equipment for
the civil works con:ract would be financed by export credits (see para. 5.14)
obtained by YACYRETA from the major industrialized countries. Bidders will
be obliged to make use of these credits for "major" construction equipment
(unit price above US$100,000) 1/ and will be free to use them or not for minor
equipment leaving the choice of supplier and country up to the bidder. Bidders
will quote on the one hand, unit prices excluding the cost of the construction
equipment financed by export credits from such unit prices, and on the other
hand the cost of the construction equipment, both major and that portion of
the minor financed by these export credits. Bids will be evaluated on a
cash basis by adding the two items mentioned above without taking into account
financing charges. All other contracts for goods and services will be awarded
as the result of public bidding for all contracts with a value above US$500,000;
contracts for relocation and resettlement works will be restricted to Argentine
and Paraguayan contractors.
4.20      Given the size of the main civil works contract and the importance of
the contracts for generating equipment, YACYRETA has carried out prequalification
exercises for both civil works contractors and suppliers of turbines, generators
and regulators. In the case of the civil works contractors, of 15 interested
bidders five were prequalified and in the case of suppliers for generating
equipment all the interested major international manufacturers were prequalified.
Disbursements
4.21      Disbursements for the Bank loan of US$210 million would be as
follows: (a) 38% of foreign expenditures for the main civil works contract
(excluding construction equipment financed by export credits), during the period
1979-1985, the latter being the year when the major part of the civil works
will have been completed and the first generating units will have been com-
missioned; (b) 50% of foreign expenditures for engineering services for project
execution during the loan disbursement period, 1979-1985; and (c) 50% of
expenditures for consulting services for studies related to the power sector
to be carried out by the Secretaria de Energia. Disbursements would be made
against normal documentation duly certified by YACYRETA. The estimated schedule
of loan disbursement is shown in Annex D - attachment 4.2.
Environmental Aspects
4.22      The environmental impact that the project will cause is related
to the transformation of the river's natural flow conditions (see para. 4.23)
and the flooding of areas in Argentina an(d -vraguay (see Annex A). Research
on the ecological aspects of the project began in 1972, and to date several
field studies have been completed. In September 1978, YACYRETA approved a long-
range program for the environment coordinated with project implementation that
includes studies on water q-uality, fishery resources, river-bank forestry
1/   This does not actually cause any restriction on procurement as this type
of equipment is only manufactured in a limited number of industrialized
countries which have offered these export credits (see para 5.14).



- 22 -
species, development of natural reserves, animal rescue, reservoir cleaning
and public health. This program is acceptable to the Bank, and during nego-
tiations YACYRETA agreed that this program would be carried out.
4.23      One of the outstanding ecological features of the Yacyreta project
is the proposed construction of up-stream migration fish passage/facilities
using modern technology. Construction of the Yacyreta dam without these
facilities would mean closing off 650 km of the river to fish migration with
possible adverse effects on reproduction of the species and fishing all along
the river. The planned fish passage facilities provide for the passage of
species with a broad range of behavioral patterns such as displacement velocities
and normal depth habitat. Downstream migration of the fish will be allowed
through the spillways, navigation lock and the turbines themselves. In order
to develop the fishery potential of the Yacyreta reservoir, YACYRETA has decided
to set up a special program to study fishery resources. The first phase will
include research on the bioecology of major fish species and on inventory of
fish industries and fishery conditions in the zone. These studies will serve
as the basis for the formulation and implemention of a program to develop and
manage fish production.
4.24      Conversion of the river into a reservoir will produce changes in
water quality such as turbidity, conductivity, alkalinity (pH factor) and
biological productivity of phytoplankton. However, these changes will not
have damaging effects since the power plant will be operated as a "run-of-the
river" plant to permit a steady flow of the water. The most negative effects
will be felt immediately after the reservoir is filled because of the decompo-
sition of organic material in the flooded area. YACYRETA is preparing
guidelines for clearing as much of the dam area as necessary to achieve
acceptable quality of water including ways of utilizing the resulting timber.
The correct implementation of this program should decrease significantly the
negative effects during the early years.
4.25      Over the long run water quality can be negatively affected by
pollution resulting from population growth and industrial development in the
area. Treatment plants for liquid waste are envisaged in the Posadas and
Encarnacion resettlement projects, and since these cities do not have such
facilities at this moment, river pollution from this source will decline.
YACYRETA will install in the near future a hydrobiological laboratory in
Posadas to monitor water quality.
4.26      The experience of other dams in similar climates indicates that it
may be possible to develop in the Yacyreta reservoir conditions that will
discourage water hyacinths and ferns. The problem will be more serious in
shallow areas. Clearing of the reservoir will help to impede development of
that vegetation, which needs a suitable bottom in which to anchor. However,
control measures may have to be adopted in the future. Eutrophication, that
is, the reduction of oxygen levels, transformation of organic material into
gases such as toxic hydrogenated sulphurs, are not expected to be important
because Yacyreta is a run-of-the-river plant, but the process will have to
be carefully monitored.
4.27      The flooded areas, mainly on the Island of Yacyreta, contains
certain species of animals in danger of extinction. These include swamp deer,
maned wolf (aguara-guazu), alligator (yacare) and possibly two species of
otter. YACYRETA has decided to create a natural reserve park in Paraguayan



- 23 -
territory for transfer of the wild animals in the area. Preliminary studies
have already been made for the placement of that reserve, since transfer of
the species on Yacyreta Island should be carried out at the time construction
begins in the area.
4.28      Operation of the Yacyreta plant will produce certain fluctuations
in river level downstream of the dam. However, no significant erosion is
expected to occur because of its development nor will it have any harmful
effect on navigation. Proposed operation of the plant stipulates that minimum
water discharge will be very similar to the minimum average river flow and,
since this is a "run-of-the-river" plant, the difference in water level
between dry and rainy seasons will closely follow normal river behavior.
4.29      Project construction will not exert negative effects on the life
cycle of fish and other aquatic organisms living downstream from the dam.
The variation in oxygen level from water discharge will not be expected to be
significant. A 4.5 Km section of the Ana-Cua arm would be dried up when the
spillway located on that arm is not in use (78.5% of the time). Another 6 Km
of that arm would receive only water from the Atinguy arroyo. Since this will
form shallow pools of water with unfavorable ecological and health effects,
the problem is being studied by YACYRETA, which is considering the possibility
of maintaining a minimum water flow in the Ana-Cua arm.
4.30      Conservation of river bank forestry species is an important aspect of
ecology in the project zone. YACYRETA has decided to carry out a program aimed
at making recommendations on proper use and conservation of the forest and
river-side habitat. This will not only help reduce evaporation and waves but
will also reduce erosion and increase the esthetic value of the project, which
is highly important for tourism.
4.31      YACYRETA, since 1975, has conducted studies on health aspects in the
project zone, ascertaining that water-borne diseases are present in the
area. Seventy percent of the population suffers from intestinal parasites.
There is also the risk of contracting diseases transmitted by vectors (malaria,
Chagas disease, yellow fever, etc.). The construction contracts contain pro-
visions on health actions designed to control endemic diseases in the area.
Moreover, YACYRETA has asked the Ministries of Health in Argentina and Paraguay
to request public health specialists from the Pan American Health Organization
to advise it in this matter, and YACYRETA's ecology unit will monitor all health
aspects from now on.
4.32      Finally, archaeological reconnaisance and, if necessary, salvage will
be undertaken by the Universidad Nacional de Misi-nes in Argentina, and by
Paraguayan archaeologists in Paraguay.
Risks
4.33      No special physical risks are foreseen in the execution of the
project, given (a) the advanced stage of topographical and geological studies
and of the engineering design; and (b) the competence of the consultant
consortium which will be in charge of the supervision of project execution.



- 24 -
4.34      The major foreseeable risk is of a financial nature, namely the
availability of local funds and the capability of Argentina to obtain the
necessary loans from the international banking community. If the economic
situation of Argentina were to deteriorate in the future and the authorities
were unable to increase tariffs as needed (in nominal terms) and/or YACYRETA
would be unable to obtain the foreign loans as assumed, the project might be
delayed, and as a result have important cost-overruns and in general enter
into difficulties in its execution. Another possible risk, given the bi-
national nature of YACYRETA (para 2.04), is that management effectiveness
might be strained when taking important decisions on procurement and in
carrying out satisfactorily the relocation/resettlement program (para 4.35).
4.35      The resettlement program for the 33,000 persons affected by the
flooding of the reservoir area is complex (see Annex A), and YACYRETA has
recognized the difficulty of and the enormous importance of this component
of the project. With the assistance of Bank and IDB staff, YACYRETA is taking
satisfactory steps to prepare a complete resettlement program by 1980. For
example, YACYRETA has (i) established a unit of qualified professionals re-
sponsible for the planning and implementation of the resettlement program;
(ii) prepared a skeleton chronogram, satisfactory to the Bank, for its imple-
mentation; (iii) taken steps to accelerate the acquisition of land identified
for resettlement programs in Argentina and Paraguay; (iv) established an
office of property assessment; (v) initiated publicity programs; and
(vi) made substantial progress in the preparation of rural resettlement
programs. During negotiations YACYRETA has agreed to carry out the resettle-
ment agreed to carry out the resettlement component according to programs and
timetables satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank, on its part, is planning to
review progress of this component with frequent supervision missions to the
project area.



- 25 -
CHAPTER V
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Project Costs
5.01      The project cost estimate for the construction period 1979-1990 is
summarized below:                                       1/
Millions of US dollars - (December 1977 price levels)
A.  Project Works                    Local Cost      Foreign Cost      Total        %
Direct Construction Cost
Preliminary works                      103.3             -             103.3        3
Main civil works                       516.8           557.7         1,074.5       28
Generation equipment                    12.8           232.4           245.2        6
Electro-mechanical equipment            66.0            90.3           156.3        4
Navigation lock                         78.8            51.4           130.2        3
Land                                    66.4             -              66.4        2
Relocation/Resettlement (economic)   172.7               -             172.7        5
Relocation/Resettlement
(improvements)                       189.3             -             189.3        5
Sub-Total                    1,206.1            931.8         2,137.9      56
Engineering and Administration
Engineering and Supervision             79.5            53.0           132.5        4
Administration                          90.0             -              90.0        2
Sub-Total                       169.5            53.0           222.5        6
TOTAL DIRECT COSTS                   1,375.6           984.8         2,360.4       62
Physical contingency                   168.4           128.5           296.9        8
Price contingency                      643.1           405.9         1,049.0       28
TOTAL ESTIMATED CONSTRUCTION         2,187.1         1,519.2         3,706.3       98
COST 2/
Working capital                         74.7             -              74,7        2
TOTAL                        2,261.8          1,519.2         3,781.0      100
B. Studies
Base cost                                2.2             0.9             3.1       81
Contingencies                            0.4             0.2             0.6       19
TOTAL                             2.6             1.1             3.7      100
1/ Given the high rate of inflation in Argentina (about 170% during 1978). it
would not be meaningful to estimate local price contingencies, and thus overall
project costs in Argentine currency.
2/ Without financial charges.
September, 1979



- 26 -
Basis for Cost Estimates
5.02      The original cost estimate was prepared by Harza, Lahmeyer and
Associates (the consultant) with July 1976 price levels. At the request of
the Bank and IDB at the end of 1977, an independent cost estimate of the cost
of the main civil works contract and the electro-mechanical equipment was
prepared by A.A. Mathews, Inc., a consulting firm with special expertise in
preparing cost estimates. The costs of the Aguapey dike, preliminary works
and relocation were revised jointly by YACYRETA and the consultant. A.A. Mathews
was also required to update the overall cost to December 1977 prices and to
propose escalation coefficients for local cost during the construction period.
A.A. Mathews' final figures were substantially the same as the consultant's
original figures and were those finally adopted.
5.03      The direct cost estimate of the main civil works contract was
based on an analysis of unit prices of labor, equipment and materials and on
quantities derived from the engineering analysis. General expenses and
mark-up by the contractor were then added. To establish local and foreign
components of this cost the following assumptions were made:
(a) All labor would be local (Argentine and Paraguayan) with the
exception of a small number of foreign experts to initially
help train local labor and to supervise erection of equipment.
(b)  Construction equipment costs were based on the unit costs
used by the U.S. "Construction Equipment Cost Reference
Guide", adjusted for local conditions. Internal transport,
maintenance personnel, fuel, lubricants and general expenses
were considered local cost while the C.I.F. price of equipment
and spare parts was considered foreign costs.
(c) All construction materials were assumed to be of local origin.
5.04      The cost of the electromechanical equipment was estimated on the
basis of recently known bids and from information obtained from major
international manufacturers. Turbines, generators, regulators and control
equipment were assumed to be foreign cost while transformers, cranes, gates
and auxiliary equipment were assumed to have the same foreign/local cost
composition as in similar equipment used in the Salto Grande project.
Erection was assumed to be carried out according to normal practice i.e.
supervision by the manufacturer using locally hired contractors.
5.05      The cost of the preliminary works, assumed to be totally local,
was estimated on the basis of recently awarded local bids.
5.06      The estimate of the costs - assumed local - of the relocation of
affected infrastructure works and the resettlement of about 33,000 persons
was prepared by the consultants in agreement with the corresponding national
agencies for the different infrastructure works and was reviewed by YACYRETA.
These cost estimates, although apparently conservative, were considered to be



- 27 -
approximate given the status of the design of the different components and
therefore a physical contingency of 20% was applied to all the relocation-
resettlement costs. For the purpose of project economic and financial analyses,
the relocation costs were analyzed from two different points of view, namely
(i) their so-called economic cost, the portion of these costs attributable to
the project, which was used in the project economic analysis and (ii) the
financial cost to YACYRETA which includes the improvements desired, and agreed
upon by, the Governments of Argentina and Paraguay in the infrastructure works
and in the living conditions of the people affected by the project. Attachment
5-1 of Annex D shows a breakdown of both the economic and financial cost, per
country. The financial projections assume that, in the case of Argentina, this
additional cost would be borne by YACYRETA, which in turn would pass it on to
the electric power sector of Argentina through its tariffs, although it is ex-
pected that agreements would be reached eventually with Argentine institutions
that will benefit from this additional investment (e.g. Ministries of Housing
and Transportation) to restitute the corresponding funds to the power sector.
In the case of Paraguay, the Argentine Government has agreed to finance the
improvements in Paraguay through the Argentine power sector.
5.07      The cost related to engineering and supervision, which represent
about 6.7% of the direct construction cost of the project, is based on a
negotiated contract with CIDY. The proposed contract stipulates that Harza
would be leader of the consortium and that the local (Argentina and Paraguay)
contribution would be 70% in volume. The total cost is based on an average
staff-month cost of foreign consultants of about US$6,000 and of local
consultants of about US$4,000.
5.08      The administration costs during the construction period were
estimated on the basis of YACYRETA's 1978 budget.
5.09      The values of physical contingencies were esttmated as follows:
civil works                               15%
electromechanical equipment                8%
relocataon and resettlement               20%
engineering and supervision               12%
5.10      Price contingencies adopted for the foreign cost component of the
project are the following:
Equipment        %        Civil Works
1978                         7.0                         8.0
1979                         6.5                         7.5
1980 and thereafter          6.0 p.a.                    7.0 p.a.
These figures give a total foreign cost price escalation of 36% over
the construction period.



- 28 -
5.11      Price contingencies for the local cost component of the project were
analyzed by "Fundacion Investigaciones Economicas Latinoamericanas," an
Argentine firm specialized in economic studies, subcontracted by A.A. Mathews
Inc. (para 5.02) and reviewed by Bank and IDB staff. Fifteen different
elements for the project's local cost were analyzed separately, resulting in
the following final escalation coefficients for the most important items:
Labor       Steel        Cement
1977                        1.00         1.00        1.00
1978                        1.035        1.047       1.006
1979                        1.123        1.130       1.039
1980                        1.259        1.198       1.075
1981                        1.407        1.270       1.112
1982                        1.581        1.347       1.149
1983                        1.733        1.427       1.189
1984                        1.893        1.513       1.227
1985                        2.068        1.604        1.271
1986                        2.259        1.700       1.314
1987                        2.468        1.822       1.359
1988                        2.697        1.910       1.409
1989                        2.946        2.024       1.453
Average annual
% of growth               9.42         6.05        3.16
Labor costs were assumed to increase in real terms 1/ during the construction
period due to the current depression of wages in Argentina, and cement costs
were assumed to decrease in real terms due to technological improvements
presently being implemented in the industry. Total local cost price escalation,
expressed in US dollars, over the construction period is 42%.
Project Financing
5.12      Total financial requirements for YACYRETA over the 1978-1990 period
are estimated at US$7,038 million, including:
(i) the basic cost of the project of US$3,781 million (para. 5.01); and
(ii) debt service of US$3,257 million.
Total foreign exchange requirements are estimated at US$4,107 million, i.e.,
58% of the total. Foreign sources of financing, which include the Bank, IDB,
Buyers' Credits and foreign commercial banks are expected to cover 48% of
total direct project expenditures (excluding debt service and working capital
requirements) and 31% of total financial requirements during the period.
Local financing includes capital contributions, loans from the Electrical
Funds, local bank loans, and YACYRETA's gross internal cash generation.
YACYRETA's overall financing plan for the period 1978-1990 is summarized
below:
I/   An average of 4.5% p.a. for the period 1979-1983, when it was assumed
that salaries would regain the purchasing power of 1975, and 2% p.a.
thereafter.



ARGENTINA
ENTIDAD BINACIONAL YACYRETA
Overall Financing Plan 1978-1990
(in millions of current US$)
Financial Requirements    -         ------------------Financil} Sources--------------------------------
Suppliers'   Foreign-    Local   Electric.   Int.Cash
Direct Cost of Project         'YC      LC       Total    IBRD      IDE    Credits        Banks       Banks    Funds        Generat.    Capital
Engineering and Adm.           75.4   296.4    371.8    32.2    32.2           -            1.8        56.1      199.5          -         50.0
PrE,niminary works              -      116.2    116.2      -                   -  2/       20.7         -         95.5          -          -
Civil works                   868.3   918.6  1,786.9   176.0   175.7         257.3-       406.6       243.9      527.4          -          -
Generation and Electro-
mechanical equipment        575.5   151.3    726.8        -        -       572.2          32.2        -        122.4          -          _
Indemnizations                  -      114.3    114.3      -        -          -           50.9         -         63.4          -
Relocation                      -      590.3    590.3      -        -          -           29.6         -        560.7          -          -
Sub-total                1,519.2 2,187.1  3,706.3   208.2   207.9          829.5        541.8       300.0   1,568.9           -         50.0
Debt Service
Amortization                1,310.6   300.0  1,610.6       -        -          -            -           -        604.2      1,006.3        -
Interests paid              1,276.8   369.4  1,646.2       -        2.1!!      -          403.5         -        369.4        871.2        -
Sub-total                 2,587.4   669.4  3,256.8       -        2.1        -          403.5         -       973.6      1,877.5        -
Increase (dec.) in
working capital                -       74.7      74.7     -        -          -            -           -         67.9          6.8        -
TOTAL               4,106.6 2,931.1  7,037.7   208.2   210.0         829.5        945.3       300.0   2,610.4       1,884.3       50.0
Percentages:           58.4    41.6    100.0       3.0      3.0       11.8         13.4         4.3       37.1         26.7        0.7
1/ Includes loan of US$15 million already signed with European Banking Co.
2/ Heavy construction equipment.
3/  IDB's inspection fee (1% of loar amount).
November 1978



- 30 -
5.13      The Bank loan of US$210 million would have a maturity of 15 years,
including 6 years of grace 1/ due to the unusually long construction period
(7 years) of the Yacyreta project and the need to minimize refinancing during
the early years when the project cannot yet generate substantial revenues.
The loan would be made to the Republic of Argentina since a direct Bank loan
to YACYRETA would have had to be guaranteed by the Republic of Paraguay which
Paraguay is not willing to do because Argentina has specifically agreed to
guarantee all loans made to YACYRETA. Of those US$210 million, US$208.25
million would be on-lent to YACYRETA on the same conditions 2/ and the exchange
risk would be assumed by YACYRETA 3/ The Bank loan would finance about 38% of
the foreign exchange cost of the main civil works contract (excluding construction
equipment), 50% of the foreign exchange cost of engineering and supervision
between 1979 and 1985, and US$1.75 million would finance 50% of the cost of
studies to be undertaken by the Secretaria de Energia (para. 4.06).
5.14      IDB approved in 1978 a loan of US$210 million to YACYRETA with a
maturity of 20 years including a 6 year grace period. The IDB loan will finance
the main civil works contract as well as the engineering and supervision and
main civil works contract in about the same proportions as the Bank loan. A
condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan will be that all conditions prior
to the initial disbursement of the IDB loan had been met. The foreign ex-
change cost of the heavy construction, generation and electro-mechanical
equipment (US$830 million) is expected to be financed by export credits with
a maturity of 18 years (including 8 years of grace).  After sending a mission
in July 1978--in which staff of both Banks participated--to visit export
credit agencies in Europe, America and Japan, YACYRETA received, in October
1978, "Letters of Intent" from the major supplier countries (Annex C, T-8)
which support the assumptions made in the financing plan as regards to
conditions (Annex C-T1). "Master Agreements" are expected to be signed with
each country during 1979.
5.15      Other foreign loans, totalling about US$945 million, mainly between
1980-1984, would help in (i) refinancing foreign financial charges (US$404
million) 4/; and (ii) financing direct project expenditures, of which approxi-
mately US$430 million would be local costs. In addition to the standard
general commitment from the Argentine Government to finance any shortfalls in
the financing of the project, the Loan Agreement includes the Government's
agreement to authorize YACYRETA to borrow from abroad any additional funds
necessary to carry out the project, and to use the funds so obtained to
finance foreign and local expenditures. YACYRETA has agreed to submit to
the Bank, as a condition of loan effectiveness, satisfactory evidence that
it will be able to obtain financing from foreign commercial sources in 1980
and 1981 as estimated to be required for those years in the financing plan
(Annex D - Attachment 6-2).
1/   Instead of the 3 year grace period normally included in Bank loans to
Argentina.
2/   A rate of interest of 8% was assumed in YACYRETA's financial projections.
3/   There is presently no domestic lending institution involved in this
type of long-term financing.
4/   Refinancing needs are due to the project's long construction period
and the provisions of the Treaty which limits equity contributions
to US$100 million (1973 price levels), (see paras. 6.12 and 6.16).



- 31 -
5.16      With the assistance of its financial adviser (First Boston Corp., U.S.),
YACYRETA prepared a strategy to optimize the type, size and timing of its
borrowings in foreign capital markets, including the Bank's co-financing and
the IDB's complementary financing. YACYRETA is finalising a first borrowing of
US$200 millions from the international syndicated bank loan market at excep-
tionally favorable terms. 1/ Two further borrowings in early 1980 and 1982 are
scheduled to be co-financing operations in order to obtain better terms than
would otherwise be possible. Since the international financial community has
shown keen interest to participate in the financing of this project in asso-
ciation with the proposed Bank loan, the Bank has indicated its willingness
to co-finance up to US$500 million equivalent in up to three tranches.
YACYRETA intends to obtain through IDB's complementary financing scheme
additional US$210 million equivalent in two tranches, probably in early 1980
and 1982. Such a strategy is considered reasonable by the Bank since it
should permit YACYRETA to:
(i)  take immediate advantage of still extremely favorable market
conditions (in terms of spreads and maturities) at a time
when the Argentine Republic's credit standing is viewed as
excellent by lenders; and
(ii)  establish a strong working relationship with a group of
lenders (well distributed geographically) who will have the
resources to sustain their committment throughout the project
construction period.
5.17      Local financial resources during 1978-1990 will consist mostly of
(i) loans made to YACYRETA by Argentina from the proceeds of Electrical Funds
(para. 6.11); and (ii) gross internal cash generation starting in 1986, which
altogether total US$4,500 million, i.e., 64% of YACYRETA's total financial
requirements during the period. Of these total local resources, about US$2,182
million equivalent will be used to service foreign currency debt between 1984
and 1990; such payments are not expected to strain Argentina's balance of
payments position. During negotiations, the Argentine Government has agreed
to provide YACYRETA with at least US$2.7 billion equivalent (current dollars)
from the Electrical Funds, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Certain assumptions have been made in YACYRETA financial projections as regards
to (i) the conditions of the loans from Argentina; and (ii) the level of
YACYRETA's tariffs during the 1985-1990 interim operational period, which provide
for tariffs compatible with economic costs while in the spirit of the Yacyreta
Treaty. Agreement between Argentina and YACYRETA on the terms and conditions
of the loans from the electrical funds is a condition of loan effectiveness
(para. 6.17).
5.18      Other local sources of financing include: (i) Paraguay's equity
contribution of US$50 million to be made in several installments between 1979
and 1984 (Argentina's share has already been paid-up); and (ii) local medium-
term bank loans estimated at US$300 million equivalent, during 1981-1983.
During negotiations, the Argentine Government has agreed to authorize YACYRETA
to borrow locally at least US$300 million.
1/   Expected terns are a 12-year maturity (including 7 years of grace), at
3/4% over LIBOR, with a two-year drawdown period.



- 32 -
CHAPTER VI
FINANCES
Sector Finances
6.01      Excluding interest during construction, total investment expenditures
of the Argentine power sector's major entities 1/ will reach about US$11.1
billion (constant 1977 US dollars) over the period 1978-1985 of which US$2.4
billion (i.e., 22%) is for Yacyreta. Because of this large share of Yacyreta
in the overall sector investment program and because a large part of this
project's financing is to be covered by Sector Funds (para 6.11), it was felt
that a review of sector finances should form an integral part of the appraisal.
6.02      Sector finances deteriorated sharply between 1970 and 1976, as a
result of the previous Governments' unwillingness to raise tariffs in line
with the increases in the entities' costs produced by inflation and a signifi-
cant drop in productivity. During this period, the annual rates of return on
net fixed assets in operation of the two largest entities, SEGBA and AyEE 2/,
were far below the 8% stipulated in their Concessions and the return was even
mostly negative in AyEE's case. The consolidated sources and application of
funds statements of the five major entities of the sector in 1976 (Annex D -
Attachment 6-1) show that net internal cash generation of the sector plus the
proceeds of the Electric Funds 3/ accounted for only 19% of total investments.
6.03      The tariff increases granted by the Government during 1977 permitted
only a modest improvement in the companies' operating results with SEGBA's
and AyEE's rate of return increasing to 1.6% and 2.9% from -1.5% and 0.3% in
1976 respectively. At the same time, however, the overall investment expendi-
tures of the sector almost doubled (up to US$1.2 billion), which led to heavy
borrowings by the companies, a large part of it short-term debt due to the
absence of medium- or long-term funds in the local capital market. At the end
of 1977, SEGBA's and AyEE's short-term debts had reached US$34 million and
US$246 million respectively representing, 11% and 47% of total debt.
6.04      Tariff increases of about 50% were granted in December 1977 and
monthly increases of about 6% in 1978. For 1979, the Government has fixed
monthly increases in tariffs which would be in line with costs if the goals
regarding inflation were to be met. Under these conditions the operating
income of the five main power 1/ companies improved in 1978 and will improve
in 1979 (Annex C, TIO-T14).  Progress was most notable in the case of SEGBA,
which raised its operating income.from US$24 million 4/ in 1977 to US$105
million 4/ in 1978, and whose rate of return on net fixed assets reached, on
1/   SEGBA, AyEE, Hidronor, CNEA, CTMSG and YACYRETA.
2/   Which together account for about 75% of the country's electricity sales
to final consumers.
3/   I.e., including certain surcharges on fuel channeled to power sector
investments (see para. 6.10).
4/   In current prices.



- 33 -
average, 8% during 1978, on a monthly basis 1/. SEGBA's rate of return,
however, is estimated to have been only about 5% in 1978, if calculated
according to its Concession 2/. This is in contravention to the rate of
return covenant in Loan 1330-AR to SEGBA.  The Government has argued that
the literal interpretation of the concession was not warranted in periods
of high inflation and that only an 8% monthly rate of return should be
abided by. The Bank has not insisted on a literal application of the
SEGBA's concession in view of satisfactory financial prospects shown by
both SEGBA and the sector as a whole (paras. 6.07 and 6.08). AyEE, whose
rate of return is estimated at 2% in 1978, is still impaired by a low
productivitv, but the appointment of a new management team for AyEE in
April 1978 plus slight tariff increases in real terms during 1979, 1980 and
1981 should enable it to attain an 8% rate of return in 1981 (para. 6.05).
In spite of the tariff increases and the resulting improved operating
income mentioned above, the net internal cash generation of the sector 3/
in 1978 and 1979 will remain negative 4/ due to the following: (i) a
heavy debt service resulting from 1977 and 1978 short- and medium-term
borrowings (Annex D, Attachment 6-1), required to carry out the investments
programs; and (ii) the contributions from the sector entities to the Treasury,
which in 1979 will amount to about US$149 million (in 1977 prices). During
negotiations, the Government agreed that, starting in 1980, any contributions
to the Treasury or taxes to be paid by the sector entities will be recuperated
by tariffs or compensated by the Government.
6.05      The Secretaria de Energia, as part of the power expansion program
study financed under the Bank's loan to SEGBA (1330-AR), prepared investment
plans and financial projections for the sector's five major entities 3/, in
addition to YACYRETA. The financial projections (in constant December 1977
(US$) are based on the following main assumptions:
(a) corrective assets revaluations 5/ in 1981 and 1982, and annual
assets revaluations to compensate for inflation 6/ from 1983 on;
(b) tariff increases sufficient to allow for an 8% return on revalued
rate bases for HIDRONOR, CNEA and CTMSG from 1979 onwards and
rates of return of 4% in 1979, 6% in 1980 and 8% in 1981 and
thereafter for AyEE;
1/   i.e., on a rate base expressed in U.S. dollars and converted into pesos
at the exchange rate of each month.
2/   Which provides that the rate base should be converted into pesos at the
year-end exchange rate.
3/   SEGBA, AyEE, HIDRONOR, CNEA and CTMSG.
4/   However, in the case of SEGBA, the actual internal cash generation
in 1978 was US$34 million (December 1977 US dollars), substantially
increased from the amount of US$4 million estimated at the time of
appraisal.
5/   i.e., to offset present undervaluation of the entities' assets.
6/   This is taken care of in the forecasts by expressing rate bases in
constant December 1977 US$.



- 34 -
(c) maintenance of SEGBA's tariffs at their January 1979 levels in
real terms until 1981, and increases sufficient to allow for
annual returns of 8% starting in 1982; and
(d) institution of a "billing" (transmission) charge of about US mills
5.5/kWh (see Annex C - Table 9 for details) to compensate AyEE
(mainly) for its investment in the future national transmission
system. This charge would be added on top of the normal bulk tariff
charged by DUC (para 1.20) and would represent additional revenues
for AyEE, thus avoiding that AyEE's customers bear the full burden
of the national transmission investments.
These assumptions provide for a realistic way to put the power sector back on
a sound financial footing within a reasonable timeframe; they have been dis-
cussed at length with the Argentine authorities and represent formal commit-
ments on their part which are included as covenants in the proposed loan. In
the particular case of SEGBA, the Government agreed during negotiations to
(i) increase SEGBA's tariffs on January 1, 1980 to a level which would reflect
the maintenance of SEGBA's tariffs (at January 1, 1979 levels) in real terms
related to a composite index of SEGBA's total costs; 1/ (ii) make its best efforts
to recuperate any revenue shortfall for the year 1979 during 1980 and 1981; and
(iii) during 1980 and 1981 adjust SEGBA's tariffs whenever these fall 3% below
the level they would have achieved if they had been adjusted monthly to reflect
changes in SEGBA's composite cost index. The Government has agreed during
negotiations to institute a system of billing charges by December 31, 1979.
6.06      Summary financial projections (in constant 1977 US$) for each indivi-
dual company are shown in Annex C, TIO-T14. A consolidated funds statement
for the power sector is summarized below:
1/   This composite cost index is expressed as follows:  Labor-22%, Fuel-32%,
rate of exchange of US$-26%, wholesale price index-12%, and construction
cost index-8%. It was established by analyzing SEGBA's cash-flow cost
structure for 1980 and was agreed with the Government.



- 35 -
ARGENTINA
POWER SECTOR -
Sources and Applications of Funds
(in millions of constant 1977 US$) 5/
Total 1978-81          Total 1978-85
US$      %             US$      %
SOURCES
Gross internal cash generation               1,931     32           6,477     54
Less: Debt service 2/                       (1,481)   (24)         (3,733)   (31)
Net Internal cash generation                   450      8           2,744     23
Electrical Funds                             1,908     31           4,449     37
Net Sectoral Funds                           2,358     39           7,193     60
Borrowings 2/                                2,376     39           4,140     35
Others (incl. equity)                           86      1             114       1
TOTAL SOURCES                              4,820     79          11,447     96
APPLICATIONS
Investments (excl. IDC)                      5,523     90          11,071 3/  93
Increase in working capital                    598     10             828      7
Other                                            2      -               2      -
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                         6,123    100          11,901    100
Surplus (deficit)                           (1,303)   (21)           (454)    (4)
Financing of deficit
New borrowings 4/                            1,577     26           2,232     19
New debt service                              (274)    (5)         (1,512)   (13)
New surplus (deficit)                           -       -             266      2
New net intern. cash generation                176      3           1,232     10
New net sectoral funds                       2,084     34           5,681     47
1/ AyEE, SEGBA, HIDRONOR, CNEA, CTMSG, and YACYRETA.
_/ Existing and easily obtainable (i.e. suppliers') loans.
3/  Includes transmission system related with Yacyreta project.
4/  Sum of borrowings necessary to cover AyEE's and SEGBA's deficits taken individually.
Assumed conditions are 9% interest rate and 9 years (incl. 3 years of grace).
5/ YACYRETA's forecasts in current US$ have been deflated by the forecast index
of international inflation on a yearly basis.
May 1979.



- 36 -
6.07      These forecasts point to a financing gap 1/ for the sector (exclud-
ing YACYRETA) of about US$1,300 million (constant December 1977 US$) during
1978-1981, shared between AyEE (US$1,100 million) and SEGBA (US$200 million).
These gaps are considered to be manageable through medium-term external
financing if the two entities can borrow sufficient funds on. reasonable terms,
including from foreign sources if medium- or long-term local financing continues
to be unavailable. The Government has agreed during negotiations to allow
local and/or foreign borrowings on reasonable terms by AyEE and SEGBA as
needed by their investment programs, or to make available equivalent funds.
6.08      Assuming coverage of the above-mentioned financing gaps through
reasonable medium-term financing 2/, the sector's projected funds statement
shows a net sectoral 3/ contribution to investments of 34% during 1978-81
and 47% during 1978-85; those levels can be considered as sound, and represent
a dramatic improvement over recent years.
Electrical Funds
6.09      Financial flows in the Argentine power sector are characterized
by a rather complex system of consumer contributions to various Electrical
Funds through surcharges and special taxes (Annex B). The Secretaria de
Energia is presently studying the pertinent legislation with a view to improve
and simplify the administration of the Electrical Funds. The four largest
Funds are the Fondo Nacional de Grandes Obras Electricas (FNGOE), the Fondo
Chocon Cerros Colorados (FCCC), the Fondo Nacional de la Energia Electrica
(FNEE) and the Fondo Nacional de la Energia (FNE), which altogether are
expected to have provided in 1978 about US$400 million to major entities and
projects of the power sector, namely AyEE, CTMSG, HIDRONOR, CNEA and
Yacyreta; a fifth Fund, the Fondo Especial para el Desarrollo Electrico del
Interior (FEDEI), has its resources earmarked for power supply to the interior
of the country and rural electrification.
6.10      The Electrical Funds are financed by (i) taxes on hydrocarbons
comprising a portion of the sales taxes on petroleum derivatives and natural
gas and a special tax on the value of crude oil refining; and (ii) surcharges
on electricity sales. The share of electricity surcharges on electricity
sales in total Electrical Funds resources is estimated at 36% for 1978 and is
expected to increase progressively to 46% by 1985.
1/   Meaning financing resources not (i) already committed or (ii) easily
obtainable (e.g., suppliers' credits).
2/   Nine years maturity including 3 years grace period and 9% interest
rate, which is in line with terms recently obtained by Argentine public
borrowers.
3/   Including surcharges on fuel (para. 6.10).



- 37 -
6.11      The Government has decided to assign to YACYRETA all resources
still available from the Electrical Funds after commitments with other reci-
pients 1/ have been met. Of a total of US$4,450 million (constant 1977 US
dollars) to be provided to the power sector over the period 1978-1985, about
US$1,300 million is expected to be made available to YACYRETA, essentially
from FCCC and FNGOE.
YACYRETA's Capital
6.12      The Treaty of Yacyreta (Annex A, Chapter II) provides that YACYRETA
shall be owned equally by ANDE (for Paraguay) and AyEE (for Argentina), with a
total capital of US$100 million (in 1973 US dollars 2/), to be paid-in before
the start-up date (1985); advance equity contributions made before 1985 shall
be indexed 3/ and shall bear interest at 6% p.a. (Side Letter No. 12, dated
April 22, 1977); the indexed contributions and, if necessary, the 6% compounded
interest, shall form YACYRETA's capital. An issue arises from the fact that,
given the agreed time schedule of Paraguayan contributions 4/ (see Annex D -
Attachment 6-2), ANDE's share (including indexation and interest) would not,
in all likelihood, reach by 1985 50% of the US$100 million indexed from 1973.
It was assumed in YACYRETA's financial forecasts (Annex D - Attachment 6-4)
that YACYRETA's paid-in capital would equal only two times the smallest--
Paraguayan--contribution (including indexation and interest), and that the
excess of Argentina's contributions over 50% of this capital would be
considered as a loan from Argentina to YACYRETA. 3/ Argentina and Paraguay
have agreed during negotiations to provide the Bank with a method agreed-upon
between the two countries for valuation of YACYRETA's paid-in capital at least
six months before starting the operation of the project.
YACYRETA's Tariff
6.13      Under an arrangement similar to the ones included in the Treaties
of Itaipu (Brazil-Paraguay) and Salto-Grande (Argentina-Uruguay) for two
other binational hydroelectric projects, the Yacyreta Treaty (Annex C,
Chapter III), provides for a "financial tariff,",to cover all its annual
cash obligations, namgly:
(i) debt service;
(ii) cash operating costs;
1/   AyEE, HIDRONOR, CTMSG and CNEA.
2/   The Treaty provides for a specific indexation formula (see Annex C, A-1).
3/   The Treaty (Side Letter No. 20) provides that ANDE's'(Paraguay) con-
tribution of US$50 million shall be financed by a loan from the Government
of Argentina on specified conditions (6% p.a. on indexed principal, 40
years maturity including 8 years grace).
4/   Bearing interest at 6% p.a. over indexed principal, and with a 50 year
maturity (including 25 years of grace), as provided in Side Letter No. 12.



- 38 -
(iii)  dividends to ANIDE and AyEE at the rate of 12% p.a. on paid-in
capital;
(iv)  mandatory payments ("Resarcimiento") to ANDE and AyEE as
defined in the Treaty at the rate of US$166 per Gwh generated 1/;
and
(v)  adjustment for any negative or positive balance in the prior
year's cash flow.
6.14      Given YACYRETA's very heavy debt-service requirements between 1985 and
1990 (averaging US$450 million a year) and the fact that YACYRETA's generation
will reach full capacity only at the end of this interim operational period, the
literal application of the Treaty's provisions during 1985-1990 would lead to
wide fluctuations in YACYRETA's tariffs which would ultimately harm Argentina's
overall tariff policy. However, this can be avoided if (i) YACYRETA refinances
part of its debt service during the interim period through loans from the
Electrical Funds, and (ii) Argentina adjusts the terms and conditions for such
loans, so as to smooth out variations in YACYRETA's tariffs. This is what has
been assumed in YACYRETA's financial projections (see para. 6.17). Those
conditions will be met if the Argentine Government promulgates a decree (the
draft of which has been reviewed by the Bank), which would specify the terms
and conditions, including amounts and timing of drawdowns, of the Electrical
Funds loan to YACYRETA. Promulgation of the decree and its acceptance by
YACYRETA on terms satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of loan effec-
tiveness. Argentina and Paraguay have also agreed to provide the Bank, at least
six months before the plant enters into operation, with a program for putting into
effect the rate system specified in the Treaty for Yacyreta. Subject to compliance
with the above, the arrangements for tariff setting provided by the treaty are
satisfactory.
Other Financial Arrangements Under the Yacyreta Treaty
6.15      The Treaty (Articles XIII and XIV and Annex C, Chapter II) provides
that all the power generated by Yacyreta will be purchased by ANDE and/or AyEE,
or their local designatories, under successive 8-year contracts; since Paraguay
will be able to purchase energy at a lower cost from the Itaipu plant, it is
expected that Argentina will be the only buyer in the foreseeable future. By
reselling to Argentina the power to which it is entitled (50% of total gene-
ration), Paraguay will be receiving "compensation payments" (i.e., royalties)
from the Argentine Government 2/ at the rate of about US mills 3 per kWh (1973
US dollars 3/); this represents about US$25 million per year with full genera-
tion (1973 prices).  Otbeir financial clauses include tax exemption for YACYRETA
(Article XII), Governments' guarantee of foreign exchange conversion as needed
for YACYRETA's debt service (Article X), and the Argentine Government's
agreement to guarantee fully all loans to be contracted by YACYRETA. The
Treaty finally provides that the main financial arrangements shall be renego--
tiated 40 years from its effective date (1973).
1/   At 1973 prices, to be indexed under the Treaty formula (Annex C, A-1).
2/   The Argentine Government intends to fund these compensation payments
through a special surcharge on electric bills, starting in 1985.
3/   To be indexed yearly under the Treaty formula (Annex C, A-1).



- 39 -
YACYRETA's Financial Outlook
6.16      YACYRETA's forecast financial statements (Funds Statements, Income
Statements and Balance Sheets) until 1995 are shown in Annex D - Attachments 6.2
through 6.4. In analyzing these forecasts, however, it is important to
realize that, due to the Treaty's peculiar financial provisions and the fact
that YACYRETA is a one-project entity, YACYRETA's finances cannot be assessed
only on the basis of traditional financial criteria; commonly used concepts such
as rate of return on revalued assets 1/, net internal cash generation, or long-
term debt ratios, in particular, are not relevant to YACYRETA's case. In spite
of its basic reliance on borrowings, YACYRETA is fundamentally free of major
financial risks due to the provisions of the Treaty which guarantee a market for
whatever power it generates, at prices sufficient to cover all of its cash require-
ments. The Loan Agreement specifies that the present financial provisions of the
Treaty, particularly as regards to purchase of energy and setting of tariffs,
will be applied during the life of the loan unless the Bank otherwise agrees.
6.17      YACYRETA's financial projections assume that, in order to minimize
tariffs fluctuations during the interim 1985-1990 period (para. 6.14), drawdowns
on loans from the Electrical Funds and debt service on these loans would be
adjusted so as to (i) provide for a tariff approximately in line with economic
costs 2/, starting in 1985; 4/ and (ii) keep it constant (in real terms) as long
as possible; correspondingly, the forecasts assume that (i) YACYRETA would re-
finance about US$800 million of its debt service between 1985 and 1987 through
loans from the Electrical Funds; and (ii) debt service on those same loans would
be mostly deferred during the forecasting period 3/.
6.18      YACYRETA's rate structure during (a) the interim operational period
(1985-1990); and (b) the first 5-year period of generation at full capacity
is summarized below:
1/   The adequate cost recovery objective of the traditional rate of return
covenant is already taken care of by the treaty's specific tariff setting
arrangements (paras 6.13 and 6.14).
2/   A tariff level of US mills 15.8/kWh (December 1977 prices) was used in
the projections; it was calculated on the basis of the project's economic
cost of US$2,430 million (December 1977 prices), assuming a life of 50
years, a cost of capital of 11% and annual operating costs estimated at
0.3% of total investment.
3/   No amortization at all; interests to be pa§d starting in 1989, and only
partially (42% of interests incurred during 1989-1995 would be deferred).
4/   The financial projections of YACYRETA were prepared under the assumption
that the mobilization of the main civil works contractor would take place
in Septembver/October 1979 which would have allowed the commissioning of
first machines in late 1985, thus generating revenues in that year.
However, delays in the bidding process (prequalification of bidders)
have delayed the mobilization of the contractor to at least June 1980
(para. 4.16) thus delaying the start-up of the first units until mid-1986.



- 40 -
1985-1990              1990-1995
current                  current
US$106         %         US$106        %
Debt service                  1,884.3      89.7       3,075.6       88.8
Operating Costs                  98.3       4.7         206.8        6.0
Dividends                        91.6        4.4        143.2        4.1
Mandatory payments               25.7        1.2         40.0        1.1
Total cost of service        2,099.9      100.0       3,465.6      100.0
Sales (GWh)                 70,284                   87,505
Average tariff
(US mill/kWh)                 29.9 /1                  39.6 /1
/1   in current US dollars; Average tariff would remain constant in real
terms.
6.19      Terms and conditions assumed for YACYRETA's borrowings (Annex C-T7)
are conservative estimates of what YACYRETA should be able to obtain over the
next ten years. YACYRETA has agreed during negotiations to provide the Bank,
two months before the end of each year starting from 1980 with detailed reports
on (i) its actual borrowings during the past year; and (ii) proposed borrowing
operations for the next year. YACYRETA also agreed to exchange views with the
Bank on the contents of these reports. YACYRETA has also agreed during negotia-
tions not to accumulate at any time without the Bank's consent, short-term debt
(less than 1 year terms) in excess of (i) 10% of total debt; or (ii) 100% of
contracted but undisbursed loans from private banks (excluding export credits),
whichever amount is greater.
6.20      During negotiations the Governments of Argentina and Paraguay agreed
that, whenever the two Governments would cause YACYRETA to undertake new projects
or expansion or modifications of the project described in this report, they
would take measures satisfactory to the Bank to ensure that such project, expan-
sion or modifications shall not adversely affect the execution or operation of
this project.
Performance Indicators and Reporting
6.21      A number of financial indicators are shown with the financial fore-
casts for each of the sector's 5 major entities (Annex C, Tables T-10 through
T-14); the Government has agreed, during negotiations, to send the Bank not
later than 4 months after the end of each year of the construction period, a
statement including the year's main performance indicators for each of these
5 entities. Some key financial indicators for YACYRETA are included in
YACYRETA's forecast financial projections (Annex D - Attachments 6-2 through
6-4). YACYRETA has agreed, during negotiations, (i) to provide the Bank with
YACYRETA's audited statements not later than 4 months after the end of each
fiscal year; and (ii) to prepare such other reports as the Bank may reasonably
request, including a project completion report. The Argentine Government also
agreed to prepare reports such as the Bank may reasonably request including
progress reports on the strdies (para 4.06).



- 41 -
CHAPTER VII
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
7.01      The Secretaria de Energia prepared an energy and maximum demand
balance for the period 1978-1989 based on the demand projections (see Chapter
III) and on the existing generation facilities and those under construction
for the period 1978-1985. The analysis carried out shows that base-load
energy would be needed by 1985. If additional energy were not available in
that year, the existing inefficient thermal units (diesel and gas turbines)
would be called upon to be used at a high operating cost and dry hydrological
conditions would cause load shedding. (See Annex D - Attachments 7-1 and 7-2
for energy and maximum demand balances.)
Least Cost Solution
7.02      The methodology used to determine the least cost expansion program
for the Argentine power sector is a comprehensive one based on:
(i) a steady state, continuous variable, linear programming model
to determine the size and sequence of projects as well as
regional energy network linkages;
(ii)  a load dispatching model to determine the most economical
loading of hydro and thermal plants, thereby generating
fuel cost input into (i) above;
(iii) a hydrology verification model to test the ability of the
alternative expansion programs to meet demand under critical
hydrological conditions; and
(iv)  a reserve verification model to test the electric system's
capacity to meet demand with a preset degree of reliability
and to measure the reliability of supply.
7.03      The set of projects considered consists of all known possible hydro
projects (26 altogether), oil and coal fired thermal-steam plants, nuclear
plants (natural uranium fueled-CANDU type) and gas turbines. The costs used
for its hydroelectric plants were analyzed and compatibilized by a reputable
Argentine consulting firm and the cost data used for thermal plant is as
follows: 1/
1/   Base cost including engineering and physical contingency but excluding
interest during construction and escalation (December 1977 price level).



- 42 -
Capital Cost                 Fuel Cost
Steam plant            US$510/kw               US$12.5/bl of fuel oil
US$50/ton of coal
Nuclear plant          US$1,000/kw 1/          US mills 4/kwh (based on
US$45/lb of U 308)
Gas turbines           US$250/kw               US mills 28/kwh
(30 MW units)
7.04      The objective of the linear programming model is to minimize the
summation of total costs (investment plus operating costs) over the planning
period thus providing the least-cost investment program. The model selected
the following sequence as the optimum one using a 12% discount rate;
Installed                  First Unit
Capacity      Type    CommissioninR  Date
Yacyreta                    2,700 MW       Hydro          1985
Los Blancos                   350 MW        "             1986
Piedra del Aguila           1,060 MW        "             1987
Pichi Picun Leufu             300 MW        "             1987
Roncador (binational
with Brazil)              1,500 MW        "             1988
Corpus (binational          3,440 MW        "             1989
with Paraguay)
Cordon del Plata            1,300 MW        "             1990
Michihuao                     380 MW        "             1992
Pati                        1,712 MW        "             1992
Garabi (binational            760 MW        "             1993
with Brazil)
Cuyo                          600 MW      Nuclear         1994
Sensitivity Analysis
7.05      Then, in order to test the sensitivity of the optimum solution
(Alternative 1), three alternatives were generated by imposing the following
constraints on the model:
Alternative 2:  exclude Yacyreta;
Alternative 3:  impose the commissioning of Yacyreta in 1986;
Alternative 4:  impose the entry of nuclear plants according to the schedule
defined by the National Atomic Energy Commission (one unit about
every five years).
1/   Including the first charge of fuel and heavy water estimated to cost 20%,
i.e., US$200/kw.



- 43 -
7.06      The model selected slightly different sequences than the one shown
in para. 7.04 above for the optimum solution for each constraint. The exclu-
sion of Yacyreta would result (i) in the commissioning of a nuclear plant
in 1985 and (ii) would also mean that thermal plant (steam, diesel and gas
turbines) operate at full capacity in 1986, which is also the case if Yacyreta's
commissioning were delayed until 1986. With a forced entry of nuclear plants
under a predetermined schedule--Alternative 4--the model again selects 1985 as
the commissioning date for Yacyreta.
7.07      The costs of the four alternatives thus defined are shown below, on a
present worth basis using discount rates ranging from 8% to 20%:
(Millions of December 1977 dollars)
Discount rate    Alternative 1   Alternative 2   Alternative 3   Alternative 4
8           10,808.9*        11,544.1         10,922.3         10,965.5
10            8,436.6*         8,944.8          8,497.5          8,591.0
12            6,766.8*         7,110.7          6,786.8          6,913.0
14            5,541.6          5,765.2          5,528.2*         5,677.8
16            4,612.8          4,747.6          4,573.6*         4,738.9
18            3,890.3          3,959.3          3,831.0*         4,007.0
20            3,316.9          3,337.0          3,241.9*         3,424.9
*  Identifies the minimum cost in each line of the table.
7.08      As can be seen in the table, or interpolated from it:
(i) The expansion program that includes Yacyreta entering in 1985
is less costly than that excluding it for discount rates up to at
least 20%;
(ii)  The commissioning of Yacyreta in 1985 is more economical
than in 1986 for discount rates up to 13.2%;
(iii) The expansion program that includes Yacyreta entering in 1986
is less costly than that excluding it for all discount rates up
to at least 20%; and
(iv) The imposed entry of nuclear power plznts results in total
present worth only at a maximum 2% higher than the optimum
expansion plan for all discount rates up to 20%.
7.09      Additional sensitivity analyses were carried out to evaluate the
influence of variations in (i) the cost of Yacyreta; (ii) the cost of nuclear
plants; (iii) fuel costs and load forecast assumptions. The analyses show
that:
(i) an increase of 29% in the cost of Yacyreta would be needed
to reduce to 12% the equalizing discount rate between alter-
natives I and 2;



- 44 -
(ii)  an increase of 16% in the cost of Yacyreta would be needed
to reduce to 12% the equalizing discount rate between
alternatives 1 and 3;
(iii) a decrease of 50% in nuclear power plant investment cost
would be needed to reduce to 12% the equalizing discount rate
between alternatives 1 and 2;
(iv)  a decrease of 180% in the cost of fuel (fuel oil and nuclear)
would be needed to reduce to 12% the equalizing discount rate
between alternatives 1 and 2;
(v) a lower load forecast of 9.0% p.a. average annual growth rate,
corresponding to an average G.D.P. growth of 4.5% p.a. for the
period 1978-1985, was used to determine the optimum expansion
program from 1985 onwards, using a discount rate of 12%. The
least-cost solution again is the commissioning of Yacyreta in
1985. As previously, a sensitivity study was made by imposing
constraints on the L.P. model and it was shown that with this
market forecast the expansion program with Yacyreta entering in
1985 is more economical than excluding it or postponing it by one
year for all discount rates up to 13%; and
(vi)  finally the average yearly rate of growth of demand for the
period 1978-1985 that makes equivalent the entry of Yacyreta
in 1985 and 1986 for a 12% discount rate was found to be 8%
p.a., which is less than the historical growth rate of 8.4%
p.a. (1962-1974).
Verification Models
7.10      The hydrology verification model, using 72 years of monthly data for
the 8 major river basins of Argentina, was used to analyze the four expansion
program alternatives mentioned in para. 7.05, with respect to the ability to
meet electricity demand under critical 1/ hydrologic conditions. The analysis,
using linear regression analysis to determine the interrelationships between
the river basins, consisted of a process of simulation and iteration with the
objective to maximize the monthly energy generated by each hydropower plant,
thus arriving at the yearly hydroelectric output for each alternative expan-
sion program for the period 1985-1994. This in turns permitted the determin-
ation of the additional necessary energy from thermal origin to meet demand.
It was found that with Yacyreta entering in 1985 the energy requirements under
critical hydrological conditions could be met with existing gas turbines
working under acceptable conditions (2,000 hours per year). However, with
Yacyreta entering in 1986 or a fortiori if Yacyreta is excluded altogether
the gas turbine generation becomes excessive and/or infeasible throughout the
whole period of analysis these indicating the security added to the system by
the incorporation of Yacyreta in 1985. This also shows that alternatives 2
and 3 should be loaded with the capital costs of additional gas turbines which
would make them even less competitive.
1/   Once every 33 years.



- 45 -
7.11      The reserve verification model permitted the analysis of the reserve
required to achieve a specified quality of service. Given plant characteristics
and system configurations the analysis evaluates the probability of system
failure resulting from an insufficient margin between effective installed
available capacity and peak load demand. The method employed is the loss of
load probability method which establishes a relationship between margins of
reserve and quality of service measured in terms of average number of years
during which demand cannot be fully met. The results of the study indicate
that for the alternatives I and 4 including Yacyreta in 1985, the quality of
service of one failure in five years (considered reasonable) can be obtained
with a margin of reserve of 19X. (The L.P. model used a predefined margin of
reserve of 20%). Without Yacyreta more reserve is required to achieve a
comparable quality of service.
Least-cost Solution - Summary and Conclusions
7.12      The analysis carried out shows that Yacyreta entering in 1985 forms
part of the least cost solution for meeting Argentina's electric power needs
from 1985 onwards. This is true for different average demand growth rates
varying from 8% to 9.9% p.a. Yacyreta, in addition, increases the security
of supply under critical hydrological conditions and adequate service is
reliably assured with a reasonable margin in reserve (given the high degree
of regulation of the Parana river).
7.13      This economic justification for the start-up of Yacyreta in 1985
hinges on the interconnection of all the nine regions (see para 3.02) into
one integrated national grid and therefore during negotiations Argentina
gave assurances that these interconnections would be completed when needed.
7.14      In addition, Yacyreta will contribute substantially to the increase
of the use of renewable sources of energy and will help reduce the country's
dependence on hydrocarbon fuels - some of which is imported (see para. 1.07).
7.15 -   In addition to the generation of electric power, Yacyreta will:
(i) improve navigation on the Parana river;
(ii) promote agricultural development in Southern Paraguay and
Northeastern Argentina, resulting from new irrigation
possibilities; and
(iii)  develop fishing.
Navigation
7.16      At present the stretch of the Parana river between Ituzaingo and
Posadas is critical for navigation because narrow passes and curves limit the
size of river craft and prolong travel time. The main bottleneck is at the
Apipe rapids where the force of the current is too strong for most vessels
resulting in time-consuming maneuvers and higher transportation costs. With
the construction of Yacyreta, the Upper Parana will no longer be restricted to



- 46 -
small craft with limited freight-carrying capacity, and will become an effi-
cient means of communication. The size of the lock to be built in the dam
will allow the passage of 6 barges weighing 1,500 tons each 1/ without having
to break down the load thus resulting in substantially reduced cost and travel
time.
7.17      To quantify the economic benefits of improved navigation facilities
a selection was made of the products representing the most important volumes of
freight to and from the zones of influence and estimates were made of the freight
potentials of these products between 1985 and 2034 with the most probable points
of origin and destination. Wood and soybeans account for most of the goods
going down stream with petroleum products predominant in that shipped upstream.
On the basis of this traffic forecast, the benefits were determined by calcul-
ating the total savings in costs of transport when comparing the situation of
building the dam with and without the lock. These benefits amount to US$16
million in 1985, increasing to US$59 million by 2005 and remaining at that
value thereafter (December 1977 price levels).
Irrigation
7.18      The main dam for the Yacyreta hydroelectric project calls for the
construction of two irrigation intakes (the cost of which is marginal), one on
the Argentine side and the other on the Paraguayan side (See para. 4.05). The
consultants identified 140,000 hectares in Paraguay and 6,650 in Argentina as
priority development areas because of soil quality and carried out the corre-
sponding prefeasibility studies for irrigation and drainage works for those
areas. The execution of these works is of vital importance to the development
of that region of Paraguay because it would open a vast new area to intensive
agricultural production (altogether about 60,000 hectares of which 50,000
hectares could be used for rice production). The Ministry of Agriculture of
Paraguay and authorities of the Province of Corrientes in Argentina have
indicated their intention to commence with the corresponding feasibility
studies and the final engineering design to develop the area mentioned above.
Fishing
7.19      YACYRETA intends to implement measures (see para. 4.23) to protect
the enormous fishery resources of the Parana river, as part of its plan to
minimize the environmental impacts of Yacyreta. If these measures are
adopted and properly managed, the reservoir could produce 8,250 tons of
fish annually which is double of today's production for the whole river.
Return on Investment
7.20      The return on investment was estimated as the discount rate which
equates the present worth of the power benefits and total economic costs of
the Yacyreta hydroelectric project including the cost of the navigation lock
but excluding the cost of the improvements considered in the relocation/
resettlement program (para 5.06). Costs include the total economic direct
cost of the Yacyreta hydroelectric project (including physical contingencies,
1/   At present the Apipe rapids limits the weight of each barge, which has
to pass singly, to 300 tons.



- 47 -
see para 5.01), plus investment for the associated transmissions, subtrans-
mission and distribution facilities necessary to bring the energy to the final
consumer. The investment in transmission was estimated at US$512 million
(December 1977 price levels - see para 4.10). The incremental investment in
subtransmission and distribution was estimated on the basis of the cost of
SEGBA's current expansion program, partially financed by Bank loan 1330-AR,
and which amounts to US$500 per kw of installed generation capacity. Benefits
were measured by the forecast revenues from the sale of electricity at the
retail levels using as the tariffs the average sales price of US mills 54 per
kwh (December 1977 price levels) that would be in effect in 1985, the year of
start-up of Yacyreta, in agreement with sector financial projections, plus the
average tax paid by the consumer. As the benefits were measured by the
consumers' total financial charges rather than full economic benefits (para
7.22) the return on investment really determines the adequacy of consumer
charges rather than the economic soundness of the project. The rate of return
is 14% on this basis. If one adds the benefits derived from the navigation
lock the return would increase by 0.9% or 0.7% depending on whether these
benefits are estimated as derived in para 7.17 or as revenues to be derived
from the toll that would be charged (assumed to be US$7.5 ton). Sensitivity
analysis shows that an increase of 10% in project cost or a decrease of 10% in
the value of benefits would decrease the rate of return by 1%.
7.21      The use of efficiency prices for labor would increase the return.
An increase in the rate of exchange by 20% would decrease the return by
only about 1%.
7.22      The rate of return obtained understates the real economic rate of
return on the project as the revenues from the sale of electricity do not
measure the overall benefits to society from the project such as benefits from
agriculture and fishing, replacement of fossil fuel by a renewable energy
source and the indirect benefits to industry and commerce whose production and
employment depend on reliable energy sources. In any case the rates of return
obtained compare favorably with the opportunity cost of capital in Argentina
which is estimated at 11%.
Rate of Return of Navigation Lock
7.23      The rate of return was calculated for the navigation lock considered
as a separate component based on the traffic forecast and benefits as described
in para. 7.17. The cost of the lock used was that estimated by the consultants
and revised by A.A. Mathews's Inc. Operation and maintenance were estimated
at US$400,000 p.a. The resulting rate of return was found to be 14.4%. Using
as an alternative measure of the benefits the revenues obtained from the esti-
mated toll that would be charged (US$7.5/ton) the rate of return that results is
13.4%. These results show that the lock is justified by itself when comparing
these rates of return with the opportunity cost of capital of 11%.



-48 -
CHAPTER VIII
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreements have been reached with the Argentine
and Paraguayan Governments and YACYRETA as corresponding on the following:
(a) The Government of Argentina will exchange views with the
Bank on the evolution of the organization of the Argentine
power sector (para. 1.19);
(b) YACYRETA will provide the Bank, within 12 months of loan signature,
with evidence that it has implemented an acceptable accounting
system for the project execution phase and, if the Bank deems
necessary, will hire consultants to assist in improving it
(para. 2.06);
(c) YACYRETA will have its accounts externally audited, starting in
1979, by an independent CPA firm acceptable to the Bank; their
first report will include an evaluation of YACYRETA's accounting
procedures and their recommendations for changes, if necessary;
YACYRETA will discuss these recommendations with the Bank
(para. 2.08);
(d) YACYRETA will hire an international expert by September 30, 1979
to advise it on insurance policy and discuss with the Bank the
expert's recommendations (para. 2.09);
(e) Argentina and Paraguay will take all necessary measures with
respect to Article VI of the Yacyreta Treaty to ensure the
demarcation of their common boundary in the project area six
months before taking any project related action which would
- affect the natural course of the Parana river (para. 4.04).
(f) the Argentine Government will, within 12 months of loan signature,
formally present an overall financing plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, for the construction of the Yacyreta transmission system and
provide adequate funds for this purpose consistent with such plan
(para. 4.12);
(g) the Governments of Argentina and Paraguay and YACYRETA agreed to
carry out an environmental program acceptable to the Bank to
minimize the environmental impact of the project (para. 4.22);
(h) the Governments of Argentina and Paraguay and YACYRETA will carry
out the resettlement component according to programs and timetables
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.35);
(i) the Argentine Government will authorize YACYRETA to borrow from
abroad any additional funds necessary to carry out the project
and to use the funds so obtained to finance foreign and local
expenditures (para. 5.15);



- 49 -
(j) the Argentine Government will provide YACYRETA with at least
US$2.7 billion equivalent (current US dollars) from the Electrical
Funds, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.17);
(k) the Argentine Government will authorize YACYRETA to borrow locally
at least US$300 million equivalent (para. 5.18);
(1) the Government of Argentina agreed that, starting in 1980,
any contribution to the Treasury or taxes to be paid by the
sector entities would be recuperated by tariffs or compensated
by the Government (para. 6.04);
(m)  the assets of the five major entities of the Argentinian power
sector will be subject to a 2-step corrective revaluation in
1981 and 1982, and subsequently yearly revalued from 1983
onwards, in accordance with sound economic and financial
principles, taking into account both local and international
inflation (paras. 1.22 and 6.05);
(n) the Argentine Government will approve tariff increases sufficient
to allow for an 8% rate of return on revalued rate bases for
HIDRONOR, CNEA and CTMSG from 1979 onwards, and rates of return
of 4% in 1979, 6% in 1980, and 8% in 1981 and thereafter for
AyEE (para. 6.05);
(o) the Argentine Government agreed to: (i) increase SEGBA's tariffs
on January 1, 1980 to a level which would reflect the maintenance
of SEGBA's tariffs (at January 1, 1979 levels) in real terms related
to a composite index of SEGBA's total costs; (ii) make its best
efforts to recuperate any revenue shortfall for the year 1979
during 1980 and 1981; (iii) during 1980 and 1981 adjust SEGBA's
tariffs whenever these fall 3% below the level they would have
achieved if they had been adjusted monthly to reflect changes in
SEGBA's composite cost index; and (iv) starting in 1982 approve
tariffs to allow for annual rates of return of 8% on revalued
assets (para. 6.05);
(p) the Argentine Government has agreed to institute by December 31,
1979 a system of "billing" charges to compensate AyEE (mainly)
for its investment in the future national transmission system
(para. 6.05); and;
(q) the Argentine Government will allow local and/or foreign borrowings
on reasonable terms by AyEE and SEGBA as needed by their investment
programs, or make available to them equivalent funds or parts thereof
(para. 6.07);
(r) Argentina and Paraguay have agreed to provide the Bank with a program
for putting into effect the rate system specified in the Treaty for
YACYRETA, including a method of valuation of YACYRETA's capital, at
least six months before starting plant operation (paras. 6.12 and
6.14);
(s) present financial provisions of the Yacyreta Treaty will be applied
during the life of the loan unless the Bank otherwise agrees
(para. 6.16);



- 50 -
(t) YACYRETA , starting in 1980, will provide the Bank, two months before
the end of each year, with detailed annual reports on (i) its actual
borrowings during the past year; and (ii) proposed borrowing operations
for the next year, YACYRETA will exchange views with the Bank on the
content of these reports (para. 6.19);
(u) YACYRETA will not accumulate at any point in time, without the
Bank's consent, short-term debt (less than 1 year) in excess
of (i) 10% of total debt or (ii) 100% of contracted but un-
disbursed loans from private banks (excluding export credits),
whichever amount is greater (para. 6.19);
(v) the Governments of Argentina and Paraguay agreed that, whenever
the two Governments would cause YACYRETA to undertake new projects
or expansions or modifications of the project described in this
report, they would take measures satisfactory to the Bank to
ensure that such project, expansion or modification shall not
adversely affect the execution or operation of this project
(para. 6.20);
(w) YACYRETA and the Government of Argentina agreed to accept the
standard Bank reporting requirements (para. 6.21). In addition,
the Argentine Government has agreed to send to the Bank after
each year during the construction period statements including
the main performance indicators for each of the five major
sector entities (para. 6.21);
(x) Argentina gave assurances that the regional interconnections
foreseen in the national power expansion program for the period
1978-1985 would be completed when needed (para. 7.13);
8.02      As a condition of loan effectiveness:
(a) Argentina and Paraguay should have taken initial steps satisfactory
to the Bank to comply with Article VI (demarcation of boundaries)
of the Yacyreta Treaty (para. 4.04);
(b) All conditions prior to the first disbursement of the IDB loan
should have been met (para. 5.14).
(c) YACYRETA should have submitted to the Bank satisfactory evidence
that it will be able to obtain financing from foreign
commercial sources in 1980 and 1981 as estimated to be
required for those years in the financing plan (para. 5.15);
(d) Argentina and YACYRETA should have agreed on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank for the loan from the Electrical Funds
(para. 6.14).
8.03      With the assurances listed above, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$210 million equivalent. The loan would be paid
over a period of 15 years including 6 years of grace.
9/21/79



- 51 -
ANNEX A
RELOCATION ASPECTS
A. Background
1.01      Annex B to the Treaty of Yacyreta indicates the concern of the two
Governments for relocation of the population and installations displaced by
project execution. YACYRETA was assigned responsibility for conducting an
adequate program since this would be the immediate and direct result of the
construction of Yacyreta. The governing principle is construction and replace-
ment of installations affected and resettlement of groups displaced in equal
or upgraded conditions.
1.02      This responsibility implies that YACYRETA will not only expropriate
or purchase property as required for the works or pay indemnity for damages
suffered by third parties but also carry out activities designed to adapt the
population concerned to its new location, endeavoring insofar as possible to
avoid creating social distortions or breaking ties with work, welfare and
cultural centers. Thus the entity will execute housing complexes to meet the
needs of the group and provide suitable urban improvements, endeavoring to
relocate the industries affected in the same area, provide commercial
facilities and develop social programs to assist the population concerned.
1.03      Moreover the physical relocation should be functional, that is
the works and installations undertaken should be able to achieve minimum
levels of service in relocation areas. Likewise the indemnity alternative is
viewed as a formula constituting one of the actions legally available to
those affected.
1.04      Basic studies on the relocation program were begun in 1974 by
several consulting firms that conducted their work in both Argentina and
Paraguay. In 1975 the first planning memoranda were completed containing
general criteria for development of subsequent activities. Those memoranda
include an evaluation of the urban and -rural areas, a socioeconomic profile
of inhabitants, general proposal for relocation taking into consideration
technical, legal and economic aspects, and preliminary costs estimates.
Cartographic surveys of the area were also made and national and local autho-
rities contacted to bring them into the process of defining the relocation
program. These preliminary steps now need to be developed to create meaning-
ful roles for these authorities and to initiate, update and finalize the
physical and social resettlement programs.
1.05      In the following years the project consultant continued the studies,
defining relocation alternatives more exactly. For the urban sector a
structural approach to the cities concerned was adopted, taking into account
development possibilities and existing relationships and interdependencies.
The information provided includes detailed plans of population density,
possible relocation and expansion areas, housing and population distribution,
sanitary equipment, soil use, educational facilities and spheres of influence,
current status of building affected, road networks and connections, etc.



- 52 -
ANNEX A
1.06      The design for railroad, port, road, sanitary, electrical and
telephone installations and for the housing complex to be built at Encarnacion
have almost been completed. Lacking still is a minimal solution that will be
necessary for low-income squatter families. The project for the Posadas urban
and rural zones is to be initiated when a resettlement team is established.
1.07      In 1977 a complete survey of the population affected was conducted,
with results available in mid-1978 as a basis for the cadastral studies to
begin at the end of this year. Special social studies were also conducted
to ascertain the features of the population concerned.
B. Description of Flood Zone
1.08      The water from the Yacyreta reservoir with a normal elevation of 82 m
over sea level, will flood an approximate area of 1,663 km2, of which 852 km2
is located in Paraguay, 230 km2 in Argentina and 581 km2 is covered by the
river and its adjacent canals. Current land use in the dam zone shows that
18.8 km2 is used for farm crops and 248.4 km2 for natural pastures. The land
subject to periodic flooding is 209.8 km2, the swamps are 401.5 km2, the woods
and shrubs account for 196.4 km2 and the towns and cities cover 6.7 km2.
On the Argentina side the dam extends from Rincon de Santa Maria 15 km upriver
from the town of Ituzaingo to the point on the coast in Misiones Province
across from Corpus Island.
1.09      According to the population census conducted by the binational entity
in 1977, the group displaced would total 32,996 persons, of whom 18,440 are
located in Argentina and 14,556 in Paraguay. This represents 4,257 and 2,990
families, respectively. The cities of Posadas in Argentina and Encarnacion
and Carmen del Parana in Paraguay account for the heaviest concentrations.
1. Argentina
1.10      Of the total population affected in Argentina, 17,840 persons, that
is, 97% of the total, reside in the Province of Misiones and 600 in the Pro-
vince of Corrientes. The urban population, located exclusively in the city
of Posadas (Misiones Province) accounts for 69.4% of the population affected.
In addition, 3,321 individuals live in a semiurban habitat some distance
from the Posadas urban center. A total of 87.6% of the population concerned
is of Argentine nationality, with the rest predominantly Paraguayan.
1.11      The population census indicates that 12% of the group over six years
of age can neither read nor write and 61% did not finish primary school.
Sixty-five percent of the households have family income equal to or lower
than the minimum wage prevailing on the census data.
1.12      The housing affected by the dam numbers 4,562 units. 1/  Of that
total, 18% are substandard units built with discarded materials and 8% are
slabs with adobe walls, straw roofs and dirt floors. Of the housing 89% does
1/   Complete data are available on 4,100 houses only.



- 53 -
ANNEX A
not have running water, with 44% supplied by public fountains, 36% from wells
and the rest directly from the river. Only 39% has electricity and 62% has
outside privies without flushing capacity. Property tenure indicates that 30%
of the families are land and housing owners, 7% are land and housing tenants
and 63% are land occupants with no legal title.
1.13      From the socioeconomic standpoint the population in the zone to
be flooded in the city of Posadas can be characterized as belonging primarily
to the most depressed and marginal strata. Activities relating to the
provision of personal services for the Posadas urban center and temporary
jobs (changas) predominate. A large group operates on a subsistence level
dependent upon the river setting from which they derive water, firewood,
fish and income from contraband. However, despite its marginality, the
population affected plays a specific role within the overall urban context of
Posadas, which should be taken into account in the relocation plan.
1.14      The rural area flooded on the Argentine side amounts to 225 km2.
It is characterized chiefly by natural pasture and, to a lesser extent, by
rice fields, which are irrigated by water pumped from the Parana River and
adjacent streams. In addition wheat and soybeans with very low yields are
produced. The lack of suitable practices and technologies and poor irri-
gation and drainage conditions are factors limiting farm output. There are
some wooded areas, particularly pine forests. With regard to land tenure,
the predominant system is large landed estates, especially in the Province
of Corrientes, but there are 120 farms of less than 24 hectares operating on
a subsistence economy and employing only family labor.
1.15      The flooding will affect a large number of community services
and industrial and commercial establishments. These includes three primary
schools, two first aid clinics, police installations and the naval head-
quarters, nine lumber industries, one cold storage operation, one shipbuilding
outfit, and 122 olerias. The olerias deserve special mention since they
use the clay soil on the banks of the Parana River to make bricks and tites.
Their traditional sources of raw material will disappear entirely when the dam
is built. The port installations and railroad station at Posadas will be
under water, as will 22 km of main railroad tracks, 10 km of roads, the
Empresa Electrica de Misiones (EMSA) thermal power plant, and the electrical
telephone and water supply networks.
2. Paraguay
1.16      The urban population affected in Paraguay number 7,413 persons in
Encarnacion, about one third of the city, 1/ and 466 persons in Carmen del
Parana. The rural population total 6,677 persons, or 46% of the total. In-
come data classify 69% of the population affected at Encarnacion as belonging
to the middle and higher income strata. In contrast in the rural area 95% are
low income.
1/   The population of Encarnacion is estimated at 23,000 and that of
Carmen del Parana at 2,000.



- 54 -
ANNEX A
1.17      The number of housing units affected in the zone is 3,132, of
which 1,714 are located in urban areas (1,552 in Encarnaci2n) and 1,418 in
rural areas. 0& the urban housing 41% has more than 700 m in land and 85%
more than 360 m , indicating a pastoral setting that will change radically
with the construction of the new international bridge, the influx of workers
and proposed regional development plans for the area which would render these
lot sizes inappropriate.
1.18      The flooding will have major implications for the urban dynamics
of the city, since it will affect its central area and major commercial sector.
Moreover, those displaced belong to the economic strata with the greatest
economic, cultural and political weight. Seventy per cent of the houses are
occupied by their owners who also own the land, 90% have electric lights and
64% a septic tank waste disposal system.
1.19      As a result of the dam, the city of Carmen del Parana will be
converted into a peninsula, limiting its potential to expand in a single
direction. The affected population is mostly from the middle and low strata.
Unless special measures are adopted, the employment level in the city could be
substantially reduced because of inundation of major jobs sources and loss of
land suitable for rice growing.
1.20      In2the rural area of Paraguay the e are 12.5 km  of  ultivated land
and 119.6 km  of nltural pastures, 392.6 km  of swamps, 132 km  of woods and
brush and 192.6 km of land subject to flooding. The major crops are rice
and cotton. Stock raising is extensively practiced but productivity is low.
On Yacyreta, Talavera and other islands that would be under water, farming
is essentially at the subsistence level.
1.21      The total number of commercial establishments flooded will be 570,
of which 454 are located in Encarnacion. The number of industrial enter-
prises affected is 280. Most of them are involved in processing farm
commodities from the area (mills, tanners, sawmills, grain silos, oil factories,
etc.), with about 100 olerias which, as noted on the Argentine side, will lose
their traditional source of raw material.* Special programs have to be prepared
to address these situations.
1.22      The infrastructure works flooded include the major Paraguayan
public administration buildings in the Department of Itapua, three schools,
two churches, military installations, the launch dock and wharves in the
city of Encarnacion, 106 km of railroad lines, the Encarnacion electric
power plant and 70% of the electricity distribution network, 80% of the
telephone lines, the recently completed water supply facility and much
of the water supply distribution network.
C. Relocation Policy of Binational Entity
1.23      The basic standards for the policy on resettlement of the urban,
semi-urban and rural population affected by the dam were approved by the
Executive committee of YACYRETA on September 5, 1978. Generally speaking,



- 55 -
ANNEX A
the principle established is that all those inhabiting urban or semi-urban
housing, whether owners, tenants or occupants, are entitled to have another
housing unit built for them by YACYRETA. However, if the person displaced
should not wish to relocate, YACYRETA will pay proper indemnity.
1.24      The housing to be delivered to owners will be similar in quality
and size to that expropriated but should have the improvements necessary
to meet minimum health and habilitation standards. If the value of the
property affected is less than that to be delivered in exchange, YACYRETA
will absorb a reasonable difference in price; if more, YACYRETA will compen-
sate for the price difference or have access to housing programs to be run
by the National Housing Ministries or other institutions yet to be determined.
1.25      The tenants, comodatarios and occupants of housing and/or lands
belonging to others will be allocated minimum housing as their own property
to be paid for with financing and conditions suited to their payment
capacity. 1/ If their financial position permits, those beneficiaries could
choose better quality and/or larger housing.
1.26      The minimal housing program is aimed at relocation of very low
income family groups, generally with uncertain rights to the land they
occupy. 2/ Minimal housing is the initial stage of a house that can
progressively develop as the economic and labor resources of the families
increase. I) the urban sector of Paraguay minimum housing lots will not
exceed 360 m , 3/ will have running water and sewerage with a connection pipe
or septic tank and electricity installation with connection as the owner
wishes, together with public lighting and minimum finishing for adequate
hygienic and maintenance conditions.
1.27      The policy defined for the rural sector stipulates that owners
could be indemnified but that every farm producer directly working a rural
field affected by the dam will be entitled to have the entity award him
another plot constituting an "economical farming unit". The award would be
based on a sale at cost to be paid for by a long-term development credit.
"Economical farming unit" is construed to mean a plot which, when worked
rationally by a family, enables it to meet its needs and ensures favorable
development of the farming enterprise. Preferably the plots will be awarded
in farm settlements. In Paraguay, six options for rural families have been
1/   The characteristics and mechanisms of the financing have not yet been
defined but an effort has been made to design the minimum housing
standards so that monthly payments do not exceed 30% of minimum wages on
normal conditions of housing financed for low-income sectors.
2/   As indicated earlier, land occupants account for 63% of the population
displaced at Posadas and 30% at Encarnacion.
3/   300 m  in Argentina.



- 56 -
ANNEX A
identified but they need to be developed and presented to the affected families
for their response before these options are finalized.
1.28      As defined, the relocation policy for the urban, semi-urban and
rural population is adjusted to the socioeconomic position of those affected,
with a view to the least possible negative impact of the flooding. This
particularly facilitates the improvement of the conditions of life of very low
income groups with a reduced capacity for response to the impact of the dam and
provides them with a benefit in the form of possible access to housing with
minimum habilitation. Special attention should be given to the fact that the
relocation policy is adapted to the particular features of property structure
in the area and endeavors to retain the rural population on the farm. The
success of these aims will depend on the specific implementation plans to be
undertaken by YACYRETA.
1.29      Relocation of the urban population will be carried out in integrated
groups, and YACYRETA will undertake the construction necessary to urbanize the
area and to provide the requisite community services. For relocation of the
businesses involved, commercial areas will be established in those complexes
in which they will be given relocation preference.
D. Development and Implementation of Relocation Plan
1.30      In developing the relocation plan to be implemented by YACYRETA a
distinction should be made among: (a) infrastructure works; (b) urban housing;
(c) rural programs; and (d) social programs.
1.31      The designs for the infrastructure works were done by consultants
belonging to the Harza, Lahmeyer and Associates Consortium clnd are virtually
complete. These designs were coordinated with the competent public institutions
of Argentina and Paraguay. A general description of t'he works to be carried
out is as follows:
(a) Argentine side
(i)  Railroad:  construction of 31 km of main lines; passenger
terminals for trains and buses, with a covired surface,
including sheds, of approdimately 14,000 m ; freight
station, with an 11,500 m surface; 4 km of road embark-
ment protectors; and services infrastructure.
(ii)  Port works:  construction of freight and passenger docks
approximately 300 m in length; buildings for passengers
and customf administration, with a covered surface of
some 700 m ; and services infrastructure.
(iii) Road projects: construction of 9.5 km of highways and two
bridges with spans of approximately 200 m each.



- 57 -
ANNEX A
(iv)  Sanitation works:  cSnstruction of intakes with a pumping
capacity of 60,000 m /day, 2 km oi discharge pipes;
1.7 k9 of feeder pipes; two 750 m storage tanks and a
500 m regulator tank; 33 km of distribution networks; a
purification plant for liquid sewage; 35 km of sewer lines;
3 km of outfalls with a pumping station; 12 km of network
storm drains.
(v) Electric and telephone works: installation of a provisional
24 MW turbo-gas plant until the city of Posadas is fed power
from the Yacyreta plant; a 132/13.2 KV transformer substation;
9 km of medium-tension lines; 33 transformer stations and
10 km of distribution networks; and relocating 66 km of
medium-tension lines and 80 telephone lines.
(b) Paraguayan side
(i) Railroads: construction of 93.4 km of railr2ad lines; a
passenger and freight station, with 17,000 m  of covered
surface; and services infrastructure.
(ii)  Port facilities:  construction of 320 m of freight and passenger
docks; buildings2for passengers and customs administration, with
an area of 950 m ; services infrastructure.
(iii)  Roads:  construction of 8 km of highway sections; 230 m of
bridges and other road structures.
(iv)  Sanitition facilities:  construction of a pumping plant; a
500 m storage tank; 36 km of potable water networks; a
sewage purification plant; a 36 km network of sewers; a
pumping station with discharge piping; 14 km network of
storm drains and 1.5 km of open canals.
(v)  Eleztric and telephone:  construction of a 66/23 KV step-down
substation; 17 km of medium-tension lines; 35 km of low-tension
lines; 65 transformers stations; relocation of telephone
network.
1.32      The habilitation programs undertaken on the Paraguayan side by the
consultants have been generally accepted by YACYRETA and are consistent with
socioeconomic and cultural patterns of the population to be relocated.  An
attempt has been made to avoid social distortions or a break in ties to job
sites. The new area for resettlement in Encarnacion was chosen with a
structural approach to the city of the future, taking into account the
forthcoming construction of the Encarnacion-Posadas international bridge
and the necessary ties between the city and rapidly developing farm settle-
ments in the Department of Itapua. The consultants should adapt the project
only to the minimum housing program and the results of the final cadastral
studies of housing affected, which will begin at the close of 1978.



- 58 -
ANNEX A
1.33      In the case of Argentina, following the concerns brought up by
the mission sent by the Banks in April 1978, the housing solution originally
proposed for Posadas was not accepted since it called for building housing
groups that would substantially alter the housing patterns of the population
concerned. The entity is now studying a project of relocation in four
diversified areas flexible enough to accommodate the different socioeconomic
groups of the population involved. A new group of consultants has been
contracted to design single-family housing consistent with the housing and
cultural patterns of the population to be relocated.
1.34      The programs for the rural population in both countries are in
an initial phase of study. On the Paraguayan side it is believed that the
best alternative for most of the 1,230 houses affected would be to include
them in expanding existing national settlements. This needs to be discussed
with the affected families for indication to the contrary have been noticed by
regional government officials. This alternative would require formulation of
an integrated rural development project, including technical and credit
assistance, social services, road infrastructure, organization of producers
for marketing purposes and other activities. On the Argentine side about 500
dwellings will be affected, 331 in Misiones and 148 in Corrientes. An agree-
ment was recently entered into with the Province of Corrientes whereby the
latter would identify alternatives for relocation of its rural population, and
a similar agreement is expected to be signed with the Province of Misiones.
1.35      The social programs, which will support and expedite relocation
of the population involved, are also in a preliminary stage. Those programs
call for undertaking the following activities, among others:
(i) Report to the population on characteristics of the Yacyreta
project and relocation plans;
(ii) Identification and recording of needs and desires of the
population group involved and preparation of replies by the
entity to their concerns;
(iii) Individual and collective advisory services to the population
to be relocated on options offered by YACYRETA;
(iv) Implementation of labor training programs to enable the local
population to take advantage of job facilities created by the
project; and
(v) Implementation programs to familiarize the relocated population
with their new housing, job and human environment and to assist
them in solving problems created by adjustments during the
initial resettlement period.
1.36      The social programs would be carried out in three phases:  before,
during and after relocation. A start should be well in advance of negotiation
with the population affected. YACYRETA has decided on setting up a follow-up



- 59 -
ANNEX A
and control unit under the Coordination Directorate which would be responsible
for gauging the efficiency and effectiveness of social programs, controlling
adaptation and transformation of the groups involved and changes in quality
of life and proposing corrective action required by the relocation plan.
1.37      Implementation of the relocation plan will be the responsibility
of the Coordination Directorate of YACYRETA, which could contract independent
groups to execute the various programs. In order to adapt the Coordination
Directorate to the implementation needs of the relocation plan, the Executive
Committee, on September 5, 1978, approved a new organizational structure for
the office. That structure is described in the following paragraph.
1.38      The programming, implementation and evaluation of all programs
under the relocation plan will be the responsibility of the superintendent,
who will perform his functions in the work area on the right bank (Paraguay)
and a deputy superintendent who will operate in the left bank (Argentina).
Each of these superintendents will be responsible for four areas: (a) road,
port and railroad works and supplementary jobs; (b) housing, services and
community facilities; (c) planning and administration and relocation program;
and (d) studies and projects. Under the planning and administration of the
relocation program are the social and rural programs and all aspects of the
relocation plan not involving physical construction.
1.39      For the purpose of verifying how the population affected has
adapted to its new environment and living conditions, and ex-post evaluation
should be made two years after the project has been completed.
1.40      Pursuant to current plans for filling the reservoir during the
first half of 1985, physical transfer of the population should begin in
July 1981 for those located on land where infrastructure work is scheduled
(about 1,600 families). This means that agreements with the population
concerned should begin to be signed in mid-1980 and that housing construction
should begin at the end of 1979.



-60-                       ANNEX B
Special Funds for the Electricity Sector
1.        Argentina's electric power sector is financed from three principal
sources: (a) internal generation of funds, (b) resources generated by special
Funds, and (c) external and domestic loans. The special funds are composed of
(i) taxes on hydrocarbons, and (ii) taxes on electricity sales.
2.        Financing of the national currency component for the Yacyreta project
will come from the special Funds that are still available after existing commit-
ments have been met. For this reason, the Secretarla has decided to estimate
the amounts of the Funds for the period 1978-1985 and to determine the volume of
resources committed and those available for Yacyreta.
Fondo de Combustibles
3.        This Fund has two components:
(a) Tax on sales of petroleum derivatives (regular gasoline, premium
gasoline, kerosene, gas-oil, diesel-oil, and fuel-oil), and
(b) Tax on natural gas sales.
4.        The tax on sales of petroleum derivatives is calculated on the basis of
a reference price fixed by the Ministry of Economy (see Table 1). Under Resolution
1195/77 ME a price of US$109/m3 is set for .regular gasoline, and on this the prices
of the other petroleum derivatives are based (premium gasoline - 115%, kerosene and
gas-oil - 90%, diesel-oil - 75%, fuel-oil - 60%).
5.        The tax on sales of petroleum is calculated as a percentage over the
reference price indicated in para. 4 (regular and premium gasoline - 50%, kerosene,
diesel-oil and fuel-oil - 10%, and gas-oil - 30%).
6.        The revenues generated by the tax on sales of petroleum derivatives are
distributed as follows: 65% to the transportation sector and 35% to the energy
sector.
7.        The tax on natural gas sales is 10% of the natural gas average price.
The current average price is US$0.044/m3. The energy sector receives all the
natural gas tax revenues (see Table 1).
Fondo Nacional de la Energia (FNE)
8.        This Fund receives the portion of Fondo de Combustibles resources
allocated to the energy sector. Part of FNE's resources are specifically
assigned to other electricity funds.
9.        The 35% of the petroleum derivatives tax is distributed as follows:
(a) 21% stays in FNE, (b) 8.4% goes to Fondo Nacional de la Energla Electrica
(FNEE), and 5.6% goes to Fondo Especial para el Desarrollo Electrico del Interior
(FEDEI).



- 61 -                    ANNEX B
10.       ReverLues from the tax on natural gas sales, are distributed as follows:
(a) 60% to FNE; (b) 24% to FNEE and (c) 16% to FEDEI.
11.       FNE's own resources, composed of 21% of the tax on petroleum derivatives
sales and 60% of the tax on natural gas sales, are allocated annually to the dif-
ferent agencies and companies in the energy sector. Traditionally the electricity
subsector has received over 40% of FNE's resources, which have been earmarked for
Agua y Energla Electrica (AyEE).  The Secretarta's estimates are based on a future
40% allocation to the electricity subsector.
Fondo Nacional de la Energla Electrica (FNEE)
12.       The sources of this Fund are the revenues channeled through FNE (8.4%
of the tax on petroleum derivatives and 24% of the tax on natural gas) and a 5%
surcharge on electricity sales. Of this surtax, 80% stays in FNEE and the 20%
balance goes to FEDEI (see Table 2).
13.       FNEE resources have been predominantly earmarked for AyEE.  According
to the Secretaria's projections, all of FNEE's resources will in the future be
allocated to AyEE.
Fondo Chocon Cerros Colorados (CCC)
14.       This Fund was originally set up to finance execution of the Chocon hydro-
electric project, and was later expanded to finance future Hidronor's projects.
15.       FCCC obtains its resources from (see Table 2):
(a) a 5% electricity sales tax, and
(b)  a 5% tax on the value of the crude at refinery.  The value of crude at
refinery for 1978 was established on the basis of a weighted price that
assumed that 85% of crude is of national origin, priced at US$43/m3,
and that 15% is imported, priced at US$83/m3. For 1985, it was assumed
that 100% of the crude at refinery would be of national origin, priced
at US$55/m3.
16.       FCCC resources have exceeded Hidronor's requirements, and the surplus
for 1978 hias been allocated to AyEE and Yacyreta. The surplus for subsequent
years will. be assigned to Yacyreta.
Fondo Nacional de Grandes Obras Electricas (FNGOE)
17.       The sources of this Fund are the same as those of FCCC (5% of the value
of erude at refinery and 5% of electricity sales) (see Table 2).
18.       There are no specific allocations for FNGOE.  Its resources are earmarked
for execution of Salto Grande and the CNEA nuclear power plants. Starting 1979,
any surplus will be assigned to Yacyreta.



- 62 -                      Annex B
19.       FNGOE's contributions to Salto Grande are broken down into: (a) loans
to the Comision Tecnica Mixta de Salto Grande (Argentina-Uruguay) for the execu-
tion of works common to both countries, and (b) contributions for exclusively
Argentine works.
20.       Future payments made by Salto Grande in respect of principal and interest
on loans from FNGOE will be reallocated into the power sector. As terms and con-
ditions of these loans have not yet been defined, only net transfers between FNGOE
and Salto-Grande have been included in Table 3.
Fondo Especial para el Desarrollo Electrico del Interior (FEDEI)
21.       FEDEI's sources are (a) 5.6% of the tax on petroleum derivatives, (b) 16%
of the tax on natural gas sales, and (c) 20% of the electricity sales surtax allo-
cated to FNEE.
22.       The Fund's resources are earmarked for small hamlet and rural electrifi-
cation projects.
Other Funds
23.       There are also other smaller funds at the provincial level, which in
general cannot be accurately quantified.
24.       The Fondo de Desarrollo Elgctrico de la Provincia de Buenos Aires, and
the Fondo Especial Central La Brava are the most important. They finance works
in the Province of Buenos Aires, chiefly in the areas handled by the Direccion de
Energla Electrica de la Provincia de Buenos Aires (DEBA).
Projection of Funds
25.       Tables 1 and 2 show the projected resources to be generated by each of
the funds listed. Table 3 shows an estimation of how they will be used by the
different enterprises and projects in the electricity subsector. A flow chart
for the funds is also included.
26.       Table 4 shows resources for the period 1978-1985 by Fund and by source,
which are estimated at US$4,782 million of which 41% corresponds to the electricity
sales surcharges and 59% to the taxes on hydrocarbons. The financial analysis of
the sector does not include FEDEI resources and other funds, since the investment
programs of the power sector do not include the investments of the provincial
components and small hamlet or rural electrification.
Legislation
27.       The Secretarfa is studying the pertinent legislation and the structure
of the funds with a view to proposing amendments designed to: (a) consolidate funds
whose financing and operations are similar (FNEE and FNGOE); (b) facilitate the use
of surplus in specific funds (FCCC); and (c) create a mechanism to facilitate their
use in accordance with the subsector investment program.



- 63 -
AME B
ARGENTINA
ELECTRICAL FUNDS
FLOW CHART'
FONDO DE COMBUSTIBLES
Sales of Fuels
Petroleum Products
"Ad Valorem" TxasiJ    -Natudrl Go
FUELS FUND              IO%Tax
66%~ ~                 SD%        \
65%
8.4                     ~~~~~~~~Value of Processd Crude Oil
Transportaon                                                        L   5% Tax        5% Tax
60%     40X              NE)]
Other                                5,%                100%             100%
EnergyAE
n~8 9)FJ9
20%             1009;             1Q0%
5% SurchaWVe     5% Surcharge     5% Surcharge
Sale of Electricity
1/ From 10% to 50% according to type of fuel.
World Bank - 19852



-64 -
ANNEX B
Table 1
ARGENTINA
YACYRETA HYDROELETRIC.PROJECT
FUELS FUNDS
(million  pf 1977  US$)
1978     1979       1980      1981      1982    1983        1984      1985
A. Surcharge to Fuels sales
Regular gasoline (millions of m3)                       2.9       3.1        3.3       3.4       3.6      3.7        3.9       4.1
B-aic price (US$/m3)                                  109       109       109       109       109      109         109       109
Total basic cost                                    318       336       354       372       390      406        424       442
Surcharge 50%                                         159       168       177       186       195      203        212        221
Premium gasoline (millions of m3)                       2.9       3.1        3.3       3.4       3.6      3.7        3.9       4.1
Basic price (1.151 gasoline price)(US$/13)            125.4    125.4    125.4    125.4    125.4   125.4            125.4    125.4
Total basic cost                                    366       386       407       427       447      468        488        508
Surcharge 501                                         183       193       204       214       224      234        244        254
Kerosene (millions of i3)                                1.0      0.9       0.9       0.9        0.8      0.8        0.8       0.8
Basic price (90% gasoline price)(US$/m3)               98.1      98.1      98.1      98.1      98.1    98.1         98.1      98.1
Total basic cost                                     95        92        88        85        82       79          77        74
Surcharge  102                                          9         9         9         9         8        8           8         7
Gas-oil (millions of m3)                                6.3       6.7       7.0        7.3       7.6      8.0        8.3       8.6
Basic price (907 gasoline price)(US$/m3)               98.1      98.1      98.1      98.1      98.1    98.1         98.1      98.1
Total basic cost                                    621       654       687       718       749      781        812        844
Surcharge 30X                                         186       196       206       215       225      234        244        253
Diesel-oil (millions of m3)                              1.4       1.5       1.6       1.7       1.7      1.8        1.8       1.9
Basic price (75% gasoline price)(US$/=3)               81.8      81.8      81.8      81.8      81.8    81.8         81.8      81.8
Total basic cost                                    114       123       131       136       141      146         150       155
Surcharge 10%                                          11        12        13        14        14       15          15        16
Fuel-oil (millions of ,3)                               8.6       8.5       8.4        8.3       8.2     8.2         8.1       8.0
Basic price (601 gasoline price)(US$/,3)               65.4      65.4      65.4      65.4      65.4    65.4         65.4      65.4
TotAl basic cost                                    562       556       549       544       539      537        528        523
Surcharge 10%                                          56       56         55        54         54      54          53        52
Total surcharge to fuels sales                           6         64 t      66         692       720      748        ,,,6     ,223
Appropriated to-Energy Sector                            211       222        232       242       252      262        272       281
Distribution by funds: FNE (21%)                          127       133       139       145       151      157        163       169
FNEE (8.4%)                      51        53        56        58        60       63          65        67
FEDEI (5.6Z)                     33        36        37        39        41       42          44        45
i. Surcharge to Natural Gas
Natural gas sales (M m3)                             7244      7769      8387      9444    10262   11016         11^24    12658
Basic price UsS/m3)                                  0.044    0.n44    0.044    0.044   0.044   0.044           0.044    0.044
Total basic cost                                    319       342       369       416       452      485         520       557
Surcharge (101 to Energy Sector)                       32        34        37        42        45       49          52        56
Distributioa by funds: FNE (60%)                           19       21         22        25        27       29         31        34
PNEE (241)                        8         8         9        10        11       12          13        13
YEDEI (16%)                       5         5         6         7         7        8           8         9
Total Fuel Fund appropriated to Energy Sector
FNE                                                    146       154       161       170       178      186         194       203
FNEE                                                    59        61        65        68         71       75         78        80
FEDE1                                                   38        41        43        46        48       50          52        54
Total                                                243       256       269       284       297      311         324       337
May 1978



ARGENTINA
YACYRETA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
SURCHAlRGE TO ELECTRICAL SALES AMM CRUDE AT REFINERY
(million of 1977 US$)
1978     1979      1980      1981     1982      1983      1984    1985
A. Surcharge to Electrical Sales
Energy sales (GWh)                        25,914   29,629   32,491   35,287   39,142   42,185   45,480   49,275
Energy sales subject to surcharge (GWh) 22,467   25,688   28,170   30,594   33,936   36,574   39,431   42,721
Average energy sale.US/kWh                     5.0       5.0       5.0       5.4      5.7       5.6       5.5       5.5
Income subject to surcharge                1,123    1,284    1,409    1,640    1,947    2,053    2,173    2,360
Surcharges:  FNEE                             45        51       56        66        78        81       87        95
FCCC                            56        64        70        82       97       103       109       118
FNGOE                           56        64        70       82        97       103      109       118
FEDEI                           11        13        14    _ 16         20        21        91       23
Total Electrical Surcharges                  168       192       210      246       292       308       326      354
0n
B. Surcharge to Crude at Refinery
National production (M mi3)                   24.6      25.4      27.0     28.7      30.6      32.5      34.5      36.5
Imported       "     (M m )                    4.3       4.5       3.8      3.2       2.5       1.7       0.9       -
Total                                         28.9      29.9      30.8     31.9      33.1      34.2      35.4     36.5
Basic price for national
production (US$/m )                         43        43       45        47        49        51        53       55
Basic price for imported
(US$ /m3)                                   82       82        85       -88        91       94        97       100
Reference cost for national
production                               1,058    1,092    1,215    1,349    1,499    1,658    1,829    2,008
Reference cost for imported fuel             353       369       323      282       228       160        87      --
Total Reference Cost                       1,411    1,461    1,538    1,631    1,727    1,818    1,916    2,008
Surcharges:IUCC (5% of reference cost)            71       73        77        82       86        91        96       100
FNGOE (5% of reference cost)         71       73        77        82        86       91        96       100         z 
Total Surcharges to Crude at Refinery           142       146       154       164       172      182       192       200
September 197?



ARGEITINIA
YACYRETA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
ELECTRICAL FUNDS
SOURCES AND APPLICATIOS.S
(millions of 1977 IS$)
1978        1979        1980        1981        1982        1983        1984          1985              1978-1980        1978-1985
SOURCES
Fondo Nacional de Grandes Obras Eiectricaa (BNGOE)           127         137          147         io'.        183         194          zut          218                  411             1,375
Pondo Chocon Cerros Colorados (CCC)                          127          137         147         164         183         194          205          218                  411             1,375
Fondo Nacional de la Energia Electrica (FNEE)                103         113          121         134         149         156          165          175                  337             1:116
40% Fondo Nacional de la Energia (FNE)                        58         108 2         65          66          71           74          78           81                 231
Total                                               415         495         480          530         586         618         653          692                1,390              4,469
APPLICATIONS
Agua y Energia Electrica (AyEE)                              194         211         186          202         220         230         243           256                 591              1,742
Hidrolectrica Norpatagonica S.A. (HIDRONOR)                   43          32          81          115         137         153          99            95                 156                755
Salto Grande 1/                                               56          69          (8)         (11)         -           (5)        (11)          (16)                117                 74
Coraision Nacional de Energia Atomica (CNEA)                  71       _68            73           96          99          91          51            31                 212                580
Total                                                      364         380         332          402         456         469         382          366                1,076              3,151
Available for YACYRETA
-  FCCC                                                       51        115           66           49          46          41        106           123                  232                597
-  FNGOE                                                       -           -          82           79          84         108        165           203                   32               721
Total                                                 51         115         148          128          130         1749       271          326                  314              1,318
Escalation Factor                                              1.034       1.101       1.167        1.237        1.311       1.390      1.474        1.54'
Available for YACYRETA in current NUS$                        53         127         173          158         170          207        400          509                  357             1,801
1/  Net of repayments and interests.
2/ 70% in 1979.
May 1979
l~~~~~~~



ARGENTINA
YACYRETA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
SUaRARY OF ELECTRICAL FUNDS
(million of 1977 US$)
Total
1978      1979     1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1978-85
TOTAL BY FUNDS
40% of FNE appropriated to                           1/
power (AyEE)                         58       108 -      64        68        71        74        78        81         603
FNEE                                   104       112       121      134       149       156       165       175         1116
FNGOE                                  127       137       147      164       183       194       205       218         1375
FCCC                                   127       137      147       164       183       194       205       218         1375
Sub-total                           416      9794       479       530       586       618       653       692        4469
FEDEI                                   49        54        57        62        68        71        73        77         512
Total appropriated to power         465       548       536       592       654       689       726       769        4981
TOTAL BY SOURCES
Fuels fund (appropriated to
power)                              155       210       172       182       190       199       208       215        1531
Surcharge to crude at refinery        142       146        154       164      172        182      192       200         1352
Total from fuels                    297       356       326       346       362       381       400       415        2883
Surcharge to electricity sales         168       192      210        246       292       308       326       354        2098
Total appropriated to power         465      T5ZW       536       592       654       689        726      769        4981
Percentage by sources
Taxes on      fuels (%)              64        65        61        58        55        55        55         54          58
Surcharge to electricity
sales (%)                          36        35        39        42        45        45        45        46          42.
1/ 70% in 1979.                                                                                                                      m  x
May 1979



- 68 -
MgNEx C
0000000 OOOoOo.o  0OJ  0000 0 0
-   0 0  000000000    0000 0 0
00 C 0000000000 00000.0   0000 - 0
1-0   0    0  0   - 000000Oo00   0 -
01
:1                                            ii
:1
04
01  0   0      0    0  0
010  0   0000
0 0   000000000a,  000000  0000 0 0                 0   0      0 0 0' 0
0000   0000000 000  000000  0000 0 0                        0     0 0   0
00 0 o    0000000000000-00  0000 0 0                         0     0000
1-000   00  00000000000000                          000
0                 00                 0 0           010 0   0 0   0 0 0 0
0 0  II**HI   1111 0 0          0100
00           010 a,  a, 0   0 0 0 0
007>777                                         UK
0                                              00    00    0
000 -                   00              0  00  0000
0 0          010 0   00    0 000
11 40 0           000000                   0 0      00  0 0 0   0 0 0 0 0 0 0
000 000    11111   HIll 0 0      110  0 0 0   0 0 0 0 0 0 0
  0                                              0   H
0            0   000                 0 0       00  010 0   0 0 0 0 0 0 0
<40
O 0' 00                                                00
0   00                                                 00
00 010000 000000
000                 100 0010   IIHII   III   0         00.  01- 000000000
0*-   -                                 0   0     0     0   0  0   0  0   0  0
.  000                              110               000
0 0  0                                                 H0                  0 0   0
0    0   0                                              a
0  .4
01.
.40  0  0   0  0   0   0   0  0   0   0   0
11-' 0.0 0 0 0  0000000000  000000  0000 - 0       0  l oo    0000000
000000000000000000   000-00  0000 0 0               0                   0 0   0
0 0 00 0 000000000   0  000000  0000 0 0    - 110
10 001-0 0 0    0  -
-                                    00
£10. 0       0 00  0        0        0 0           01 0000000000
10   HI       II               01  V2£
0        0       0  0               0   0  0         0
000   0      0 0    00 0 0            01000.00  0 0 0   0
0  00  0000                     I£000H0
0    0  0   0 0 0 0            01 0 0 000000    0
II  I OHIO   00                  I
0   0         I   0   0   0   0
0  0   - 0 0 0                0000
0   0    0    0    0  0   0         0  0  0   0  0  0  -  0
0   IHOHOI,HHI0 HlIH                            0100000
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0        0  00000000        0        0 0               0 0 0 -           0
I .00.00,00               IHI               0100
0                   0 0
0                                                  -,  0
IHIHHIHIHHIIHIHIH    III 00                 II    -
0 0               0 0
01    0        00    0
000k      1 0      4
0                                0        0
0                          0          HO
0000     a   a    ..i    a                          S        .
0 0 004o000 11           0                          0          0
0000000000 0      0      -                        01
0P0000000.00 0    0 a   II   0                    a 0        0
000-000000        o 0   0                          il
0 000000o00 0 o     0 0   0                                   0
00000111100011 0    0 0   0 0 0                    0 0 0   0
0   4  0000000    0   0.  0  4   *0  0             0   a  .-   0  0   a   t
-    .                             14    .4  0  0.  10
0 -0000000000  0        0      0 0                 0      0 0 0 0
i joooo0H-H-o  10     .4     01                 01  OH  01  0.  4  0  .4  a,
000000000011H           0   H 0                    0 0   11
.1   0000000000 00000000000  0 0                   . III
04000000000 0        0 .1   0 0 4             0   0 0 0 0 0 - 0 0.        a
0000000000 0000000000000 10                     0   'lou   0 0 0   1-
0.1                                               -I      0      00
000000000   000000  000.0.  0 H-
0       0      0               o          0    0    0      a



ARGENTINA
ENTIDAD BINACIONAL YACYRETA
Forecast Isterest Charges 1978-1995
(in millions of current US$)
Total                                                                 Total                                                       Total
1978    1979    1980      1981    1982    1983    1984           1978-84       1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990            1978-90    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995             1978-95
i.B.R.D.                                     -        0.8      3.8      7.0      9.6    12.1    14.5           47.8         16.2    15.4    13.5    11.7         9.8      7.9        122.3       6.1      4.2      2.       0.5      -           135.4
I.D.B. 1/                                    -        1.7      4.8      7.6      9.8    12.0    14.0           49,9         15.8    14.9    13.8    12.7    11.5    10.4             126.9        9.3     8.2      7.0       5.9     4.8         162.1
E-oop-ao Baokitg                             0.3       1.4      1.4     1.4       1.4      1.4      1.1          8.4         0.9      0.6      0.3      0.1      -        -           10.3        -        -        -        -        -           10.3
Suppliera credits
CO--tin.cconqoip-et I                      -        -        4.9      9.9      9.9      9.6      8.7         43.0          7.7      6.7      8.7      4.7      3.7      2.7         74.2       1.7      8.7      -        -        -76.6
Gons  rootaonequipment 2                   -        -        -        3.9      7.9      7.9      7.7          27.4         6.9      6.1      5.3      4.8      3.7      2.9         56.8       2.2       1.4     0.6               -           61.0
Co .strocsonntquipment 3                   -        -        -        -        1.4      2.8      2.8           7.8         2.7      2.4      2.1      1.9      1.6      1.3         19.0       1.0      0.8      0.4      0.2      -            21.4
11 tctaontchattal oqoipenot                -        -        0.1      1.7      4.9      7.6    10.0          24.3         12.8    13.8    14.8    13.9    12.4    10.9             102.1       9.4       7.9     6.4      4.9      3.4         134.1
Ooneratioo eqoipmeet 1                     -        -        0.1      0.2      0.2      2.0      3.7           6.2         3.9      4.0      3.7      3.3      2.8      2.4         26.3       2.0       1.6     1.2      0.7      0.3          32.1
Ocoocanioc eqoipment 2                     -        -        0.1      0.3      0.3      I.5      4.6           6.8         6.4      6.6      6.9      6.4      5.6      4.9         43.6       4.2      3.5      2.7      2.0      1.3          57.3
Generationc eqoip-ent 3                    -        -        0        0.3      0.2      0.3      1.6           2.6         4.8      6.8      7.1      7.3      6.8      6.0         41.4       5.3       4.0     3.7      2.9       2.1         59.9
Gn Iaratlo  eqotp-eot 4                    -        -        0.1      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3           1.3         1.6      5.1      7.1      7.4      7.7      7.2         37.4       6.4      9.0       4.7     3.9       3.1         61.0
'eetoeqatpnn ..s 5                   -        -       0.0       0.1    70.1      8.1      0.1           0.5         0.1      1.5      3.0      3.0      3.1      3.2          14.4       3.0      2.8      2.2      1.9      1.6         25.7
Sub-total Sapplio                                          5.5    16.7    25.3    32.1    39.5            119.1         46.0    93.0    55.7    52.4    47.4    41.5             415.2      30.2    28.0    21.9    16.5    11.8            529.1
Foaego lou-,,- Go,.. Pooko)
1980                                       -        -        5.8    01.6    11.6    11.1    11.6             02.2         11.0      8.7      6.4      4.0      1.7      -           84.0       -        -        _        -        -
0980                                       -        -        -        6.9    03.9    13.9       1 .9             6        13.3    11.0       8.7      8.3      4.0      1.7         93.6       - 
0982                                       -        -        -        -       10.3    20.4    20.6                       I20.      19.8    16.3    12.9        9.5      6.0        136.6       2.6      -        -        -        -
5983                                       -        -        -        -        -        S1.6    31.1         46.'         31.a    31.1    29.8    24.6    19.5    14.3             197.1       9.1      3.9      -        -        -          z18.1
1984                                                                                    -        7.5          2.5         15.1    15.1    15.1    14.5    11.9          9.4         88.6       6.9      4.4      0.9      -        a17.9
Sob-total Foreign loans                  -                 5.8    18.5    35.8    61.7    84.7            206.5         91.1    85.7    76.3    12.?    46.6    31.4             599.9      18.6      8.3      1.9      -                   6238.7
Local ou-ts (Banks)
1981                                       -        -        -        4.8      9.5      9.5      8.9         32.7          6.5      4.2      1.8      -        -        -           45.2       -        -        -        -        -           45.2
1982                                       -        -        -        -        4.8      9.5      9.5         23.8          8.9      6.5      4.2      1.8      -        -           45.2       -        -        -        -        -            45.2
193.                                     -        -        -        -        -        48       95           14.38        9.       8965              4.2      1.8      -45.2                                                                   4         5.2
Sob-tota1 Local Ioans                    -        -        -        4.8    14.3    23.8    27.9            70.8         24.9    19.6    12.5        6.0      1.8                 135.6       -        -        -                            135.6
Elnotnical Fond,
Total I.te.nst                             1.2    11.9    30.2    52.3    76.8   106.8   153.0              432.2        221.0   296.7   365.9   427.1   483;8   536.9           2,764.T    580.5   616.0   647.5   668.3   681.7            5,957.1
Lnss: Deferr-d Intn-rst                     1.2    11.9    30.2    52.3    76.8   106.8   153.0              432.2       221.0   296.7   365.9   427.1   420.0   366.4           2,529.3     314.9   281.2   184.7   12.8    88.2           3,512.2
Not interest paid                        -        -        -        -        -        -        -             -           -        -        -        -       63.8   170.0         233.8    265.4   334.8   462.8   546.5   601.5            2,444.9
Loan lot egonso of cap. coocrlb.
(all deforred)                               -        -        -        -        -        -        -             -           3.6      4.0      4.5      4.9      5.5      6.1          28.6       6.8      7.6      8.5      9.4    50.5          71.4
TOTAL INTEFEST                             1.5    15.8    51.5   108.3   173.0   249.9   334.7              934.7        419.6   489.9   542.5   577.2   606.4   633.7           4,204 0    65684   672.8   689.1   700.6   708.8            7,631.8
LEl: TOTAL DEFEIRAD INTEREST               1.2    11.9    30.7    52.3    76.8   106.8   153.0              432.2        224.6   300.7   370.4   431.9   425.5   372.5           2,557.8    321.7   288.8   193.2   131.2    90.7            3,583.5
TOTAL INTEREST PAID                      0.3      3.9    21.3    56.0    96.2   143.1   181.7             502.5        195.0   189.2   172.1   145.3   180.9   261.2           1,646.2    334.7   384.0   495.9   569.4   618.1            4,048.3
1/  Inclodes IDB1   inspe-tian fcc (10. of lot anoant). 
Novomb-r 1978



ARGENTINA
ENTIDAD BINACIONAL YACYRETA
Forecast Loan Amortizations 1978-1995
(in millions of currmnt US$)
1Total                                                                  Total                                                       Total
1978      1979    1980      1981     1982     1983    1984          1978-84      1985     1986    1987    1988        1989     1990        1978-90   1991       1992    1993      1994     1995        1978-95
I.B.R.D.                                                                                   -        -             -           11.6    23.1    23.1    23.1    23.1    93.1             127.1       23.1    23.1    23.1    11.6         -           208.2
I.D.B.                                       -         -        -        -        -        -         -            -            7.5    15.0    15.0       15.0    13.0      15.0          82.5      15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0             157.5
E-ropoan Banking                             -         -        -         -        -        1.5      3.0          4.5          3.0      3.0      3.0      1.5      -        -            15.0       -        -        -        -         -           15.0
Slppliers credits
Constr-ction equipemet I                    -        -        _        -        -       12.4    12.4           24.8         12.4    12.4    12.4    12.4    12.4    12.4               99.2      12.4    12.4       -        -        -           124.0
Construction eqoipment 2                    -        -        -        -        -        -        9.9           9.9          9.9      9.9      9.9      9.9      9.9      9.9          69.3       9.9      9.9      9.9      -        -            99.0
Construction equipment 3                    -        -        -        -        -        -         -            -            3.5      3.5      3.5      3.5      3.5      3.4          20.9       3.4      3.4      3.4      3.4      -            34.5
Electrnmechanical equipoont                 -        -        -                          --                                           -        9.3    18.8    18.8    18.8             65.7      18.8    18.8    18.8    18.8    18.8             159.7
Generation equip-ent I                      _        -        -        _         -       -         -            -            -        5.1      5.3      5.3      5.3      5.3          36.3       5.3      5.3      5.3      5.3      5.3          52.8
G-neratioe eqaipment 2                      -        -        -        -        -        -         -            -            -        -        8.7      9.1      9.1      9.1          26.0       9.1      9.1      9.1      9.1      9.1          81.5
Ge-eration equipment 3                      -        -        -        -        -        -        -             -            -        -        -        9.2      9.7      9.7          28.6       9.7      9.7      9.7      9.7      9.7          77.1
Generation equipment 4                      -        -        -        -        -         -        -            -            -        -        -        -        9.7    10.2           19.9      10.2    10.2    10.2    10.2    10.2              70.9
Generation equipment 5                      _        -        -        -        -        -         -            -            -        -        -        -        -        4.0           4.0       4.2      4.2      4.2      4,2       4.2         25.0
lob-total lappliers' Credits              -        -        -        -        -       12.4    22.3           34.7        25.8    30.9    49.1        68.2     78.4    82.8         369.9       83.0    83.0    78.6    60.7        57.3         724.5
F-orign Loans (Coe. Banks)
1980                                        _        -        -        -        -        -        _             -          24.3    24.4    24.4    24.4    24.4           -          121.5        -        -        -        -        -           121.9
1981                                        -        -        -        -        _        -        -             -           23.2    23.2    23.2    23.2    23.2                     138.6        -        -        -        -        -           139.2
1982                                        _        -        -        -        -        -        -                          -       34.4    34.4    34.4    34.4    34.4            172.0       34.4      -        -        -        -           206.4
1983                                        .        -        -        -        _        -        -             -            _        -       51.9     51.9    51.9    51.9          207.6       51.9    51.9       -        -        -           311.4
1984                                        .        -        -        -        -        -        ---                                 -        -       25.1    25.1    21.2            75.3      25.2    25.2    25.2        -        -150.9
Sob-total Foonigo Loses                   .        -        -        -5 -              -5 -                                                                            25 47.5242.0 133.9 159.0 159.04134.7  716.1    111.5    77.1    25.2     930.2
Local  Loans (Banks)
1981       (                                _                          _ -               -       25.0          25.0         25.0    25.0    25.0        -        -        -           100.0       -        -        -        _         -          100.0
1982                                        -        -        _        -        _-                              -           25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0         -        -           100.0       -        _        _        _         _          100.0
1983                                                 --                                                         -            -       25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0         -           100.0       _        -        _        _         _          100.0
lob-total Local Loans                     -        -        -        -        -        -       25.0          25.0         50.0    75.0    75.0    50.0    25.0          -          300.0        -        -        _        _         _          300.0
Electrical Fonds
Loanfor secens of cap. contribktion
TOTAL AMORTIZATIONS                       .        -        _        _        -       13.9    50.3           64.2        145.4   229.0   299.1   316.8   300.5   255.6           1,610.6    232.7   198.3   134.0    87.5    72.3             2,335.4
Navesber 1978



ARGENTINA
ENTIDAD BINACIONAL YACYRETA
Tranaforn to Plant                                                                                        ANli  C
(in millions of consent US$)                                                                                    Table 5
1977      1978       1979      1980       1981       1982      1983       1984      1985       1986       1987      1988       1989       1990          TOTAL
Investmentst
enoration equipmn.t                                 -         -          -         14.6       -          -        79.8       84.8      93.1      102.6       12.4      13.2        9.5        2.7          412.7
Capitalixed isterest on geonrat-on eqoipoe-tl/   -            -          -         0.5        1.2        1.2       4.2       10.3      16.8       24.0       27.8       -          -          -             86.0
Slb-total                                         -         -                   15.1        1.2        1.2      84.3       95.1     109.9      126.6       40.2      13.2        9.5        2.7          498.7
All other norks and eqoipoent                       -        54.5      118.2      511.3     567.0      542.8     555.4      353.1      195.9     134.9       91.8      68.0       52.4       48.3        3,293.6
Capitalized iorerest on other nork  & equip../                1.5       15.8       51.0     107.1      171.8     245.7      324.4     399.0      461.6      510.1        -         -          -          2,288.0
Slb-total                                         -        56.0      134.0     562.3      674.1      714.6     801.1      677.5     594.9      596.5      601.9      68.0       52.4      48.3         5,581.6
Total Iovoatmsta (incl. cap. inter-et)              -        56.0      134.0     577.4      675.3      715.8     885.1      772.6     704.8      723.1      642.1      81.2       61.9       51.0        6,080.3
Transfers to Plant
Assets .e.teing  9n 17/31/77                        -         -          -          -         -          -         -          -        49.2        -          -         -          -          -             49.2
All other workh  and equipment 2/                   -         -          -          -         -          -         -          -     4,210.2      598.9      604.5      67.5       52.2       48.3         5,581.6
Generatian eqaip-est ./                             -         -          -          -         -          -         -          -         74.8     124.7      124.7      124.7      47.1        2.7           498.7
Total trannfer-  to plant                         -         -          -         -          -          -         -          -     4,334.2      723.6      729.2     192.2       99.3       51.0        6,129.5
Gross fined asseta ia peratian                    -         -          -         -          -          -         -          -     4,334.2   5,057.8   5,787.0   5,979.2   6,078.5   6,129.5
Work in Progress
Increass (dec.) in wcrk-in-progess                  -        56.0      134.0     577.4      675.3      715.8     885.1      772.6  (3,629.4)      (0.5)    (87.1)   (111.0)    (37.4)         -               -
Work-is-progress balance                           49.2     105.2      239.2      816.6   1,491.9   2,207.7   3,092.8   3,865.4        236.0     235.5      148.4       37.4
i/  InterLt- asa assumod to bh  capitalized antil 1987 (Chen half tho generating  nits are is operation), and charged to operations ftom 1988 on.
2/  All expenditrres incurred antil 1985 are tranaferrod to plant in 1985, and yearly thereafter as they are in--reed.
3/  Transferred to plant as anits enter into operation.
Depre-iation Charges
(in milli-ns of currest US$)
1985      1986       1987       1988      1989       1990      1991       1992       1993      1994       1995                                                            Abl  6
Ceneration equipoment 4 oisting on 12/31/77
(soerage  yearly halanne)                           62.0     186.4      311.1      435.8     521.7      546.6      547.9     547.9      547.9      547.9     547.9
Anneal depreciation (at 2.24/.)                     1.3        4.2       7.0        9.8      11.7       12.3       12.3      12.3       12.3       12.3      12.3
All ath-e corks & equipmnt
(average yearly baiance)                         3,920.1   4,518.7   5,121.4   5,458.1   5,518.3   5,568.7   5,581.6   5,581.6   5,581.6   5,581.6   5,581.6
Depr-ciation cooficinit (.) 1/                      0.32      0.90       1.46       2.02       2.24      2.24       2.24      2.24       2.24       2.24      2.24
A-auel dopr-ciation                                12.0      40.7       74.8      110..     123.6      124.7      125.3     125.3      125.3      125.3     125.3
Total ancual depreciation                        13.3      44.9       81.8      120.1     135.3      136.9      137.6     137.6      137.6      i37.6     137.6
AccumIlated dep-eciation                         13.3      58.2      140.0      260.1     395.4      532.3      b69.9     807.5      945.1   1,082.7   1,220.3
I/ Depreciation assumnd pro-rara tempore as units cone into cperarion betoeen 1985 and 1990.
November 1978



AM=B C
- 72-                        Table 7
ARGENTINA
ENTIDAD BINACIONAL YACYRETA
Assumed Terms applicable to Long-Term Debt
Interest           Grace            Repayment
Rate(%)         Period (yrs)        Period (yrs)
IBRD                                                  8                 6                   9
IDB                                                    7.5              6                  14
Export Credits
- Heavy construct. equipment a/                     8                 3                  10
- Electromechanical equipment                       8                 b/                 10
- Generation equipment                              8                 c/                 10
Foreign Loans (Banks) a/
- In 1979 and 1980                                  9.5               5                   5
- From 1981 until 1984                             10                 4                   6
Local boans (Banks)                                    9.5              3                   4
Loans from Electr. Funds                               6 d/             e/                  f/
a/ Separate loans were assumed for each year (3).
b/ Until mid-1987. One single loan was considered, with disbursements over several
years.
c/ Until commissioning date for each group of generating units, for which
separate loans (5) were considered.
d/ On indexed capital.
e/ At least until all other loans are repaid.
f/ Flexible.
November 1978



AITNEX C
Table 8
ARGENTINA
ENTIDAD BINACIONAL YACYRETA
Terms offered in "Letters of Intent" for Export Credits  2/
Amount         Grace Period         Repayment Peri(
(106)             (yrs)                 (yrs)
West Germany                     DM (US$500 equiv.)       8                  10
Austria                          AS ( US$200equiv.)        8                 10 to 15
Canada                               US$775               8                  15
United States                         US$775              8                  10
France                               FF 2/                8                  10
Great Britain                       US$220                8                  10
Italy                               US$350                8                 10
Japan                              Y(US$775 equiv.)       8                  10
Portugal                             2/                   8                  10
Sweden                               US$200               8                 10
Switzerland                          FS500                8                 10
USSR                                 2/                   N.A.              N.A.
1/ Interest rate as per OECD norms (presently 7.75%).
2/ No limit specified.
May 25, 1979



ARGENTINA
YACYRETA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Power Sector
Calculation of Billing Charge
1979      1980       1981       1982      1983       1984       1985
Annual investment in national
Transmission grid (US$106)             82        266        123       260         -          65        315
Annual depreciation (3.3%)                3        12         16         24         24        26         37
Remunerable rate base I/                41        216        406        586       697        705        870
Associated cost:
Return on rate base (8%)                  3        17         32         47         56        56         70
Depreciation                              3        12         16         24         24        26         37
Operating costs (1.5%)                    1         5          7         11         11        12         17
Total associated cost                   7        34         55         82        91         94        124
Transported energy 2/ (GWh)          8,180    10,171    12,663    15,307    15,506    17,149    18,616
Billing Charge (US mills/kWh)             0.9       3.3        4.3        5.4        5.9       5.5        6.6
1-3
1/  Including 5% for working capital.                                                                                   's 0
2/  Excluding sales to Comahue.
November 1978



GAY OT HDOELCTIC 121    II
StronryFinncil lot197t8196-5
Inlet (1009--- cnn 5701cc                                                                                          2/   Projected tariffs 5.eistalsed  enceesee (on teal terms) at their flay 2978 Sinnetd set97  I"   h   19t61;981
Iner86  1,9,135    8,8i    9,321  ,877    18,65    11.322 12,912    13077    13.89    11,879       5,862                              inreased  clnreefterIn ordee  s oliso  so at 0%  ate of rasrehenft-alsed-dectsE.anematst16)
A--rng   Inrff  (.)illn/kW9) 2/             24.7      44.2     5.         67       5.          67        5.3       5.          82        5.         7?1   Fs-n..asts based on the fn11eing peojletnissoen. s, f Mplay.ss m_d see_s  eat pee_ pl e
22ant ~~R--            _                                56.7     56.7       76.7      56.7       58.7       58.7258.2            98.8                                                                                                                                                             .2,
Solon lonnoat  cc,,  yltte         298      56        -         -         -          -          -         -          -         -          -                                                                       27                                               f ~       18           96         18
Solsi Operstiog lecoonen  208  398  529    567        685       648       ~~~~     ~~713  76    89          6      5,528                                       5   fspaen                   268       2.8         20,330      19.950      19,700      19.10       19.700     19,700
21f~~ ~~  87   126   115  III      109        108        109       III        223        115       892                         4            Urd~~~~~~~~lete-y nest (008   6,000      6.120       6,242       6,367       6,495       6,9204      6,757       6.892
oe-rgy Onr-hsed  5/                       36        76       92        49        65         80        66         87       107        145        691
Pilling   bsago-   6/1                    -         -        -          2        11         i8        17         25        29         35        137                        A1  Esoladee P-rh.s.. fesm  esbetstises.  Panre-sc  b.wd as a DUC tenft af Us sills 20/kwh, soestset
Oporntin and Mfsioteeo-     79             7        11       45        45        45         45        45         45         45        45        360                              'e  the period.
T-          Se/                           11       22        32        34        76         39        43         47        49         52        324
Dnp-eo6tion   9/                          54       72        53 LO!  56          60         83      118         115       1.19       133       71                          6/  T-rMemsini  sh-rg  sesesy . nacer notsmd tmsmratlod  eaolae    106 AyT's. Isvmmssts
Totni Op-ctisi Ealonse                  21        7         3        2          4         96        537        57        69         66       17i  the OstiaalTssmws                                              System; the tal1sriag ol-Ses  (US  tile./k1h) nets smspstmu
NetOpratngInnsr                            (567       21       94       147       156        152        176       294        286       206      1,311                                                                      0978       1979        3980        19031       1982        1983        1984       1985
Plnn: Deyrcitnino                           54        7        53        56        60         83       110        119        119       103        719                                                                        -         0.9          3,3        4.3         1.4         5,9         5.j         5.s
COtho  SNn-Operntiog                                                                                                                                                  Z    .-              0        ..       b     t       .f, "
Inoc-    (let)                      (3)      13      (3)4              ,   -         -          -          -         -       ......AL                                 /    sae    t4%ofttllhnnst   nfntee
Iros nnmnl.Cn Oortin                      5      10)       113      153        216       235        286        319       32         329    1,976                          8/62 an  omits
Lees: An..rti-ttinn                          19       36        38       54         67        62         67        51         51         47       437                             C .tdt31alag -tb.d.                                rihtin -h,
Int-sest                             41       76;       71       14         40         37        31         26        22         18       2899/iesdat31an8.nshsdastrgt-isited
Total Debt per-n                         60      112       109       98        107         99        98j        77         73j        65       7T26                       O      -n.1198id                       tth    td.gy ...f pJct,,t                              nttD- 97US.b,
Net intera Cash Onrtn:                      (25)      (s)        4       59        109       136        188       242        252        264    1,250                              atntal dmpre.tstoe   is compstsd am messEs sprmaed in U0$  -aie8. the sed-fE-ywe" exhsm4s .t.).
Oorong: fisting                      319      95        48       50         32         24        -          -          -         -         154                      11      - ssldes a 22 eillie  n-athibtiem  to  the Traa..r.  an d 22 mtilline ef iede..tmstt            -e ac-de   nsms-o 1
Ffntn    Suppliers           -         -        14                                 -      -         -                               16                             d0ht s 18 178, end 10 nitlia- semnthiton   ta the Teemoen    Is 1979.
otl8rOting                         99t-      55      19         50        32.4.-. t 265                                                                                                     ca"pitalis  -it.int..d 5t 52 af  catg. int  firm,8assts starts8ingI   19801.
Co,teibsati_n:El-nts.  Fandn                                                                                                             4                 -9
Cnnnoneestantrib.  1  3       1         1        ~~~2        2          3         3          3         4          9                                msinig  b,eea-iegs   ith9  ye.ats utoetty  (mel. 3 yesEs of  gSt-) sad  9%   sternotnes
sa tt.0 -0(1  (5  1-                                 64      86        14         26        11i45                259        26      119   Taki-9   lts   --ten b.hrrealgs .e....s..ry  tc finance defiit.
Iset     --c Cnrtion                 14         8       42       49         27         20         7          3          2         2        15216                             Al..dnt.SG'Cu.Di -                         -         n ti       ..t -- st " f35In98
Transmission                           37       52        70        86         69         53        27         31         45       444                            ansd  352G 4.1982.
ltribtn                       1        9        2         9         46        49         51         56        62         68        397
866cri  ti30                           39       26        39       1          10        1           6         1         12         114_
5  30  A  i4   18         15        116        12   ---- I  .......~ Ili7L/  Op-taisges.penn.-(co. a deptnolstiss sad   a.isstese)JOycstato00 tRsa.                                     e
Tnta1 lnosoent                           50        8        30      176         7          9         2          1        108        127     11
inor-no(don.) inW-rkin                                                  IIIt'2 ) 39 3   11311  3  5       9          9         3          2       173
864or Anoliontinna           -        -        -~~~~~~~~~16  -28                        -          -         -                 
TOTAL  APPLICATIONS                      7      128       16         SI       36          5        11         12           7       19        .8
Otps(loCicit)                       .         -                15)        (33)         3         57       124        144       139        25
-neobcrcno±ngs           .-       -         -      ~~~~         ~~~      ~~~~189  52  29      -      -               -         261
-nedebt oeoc-                                   -         -         8          19       23         24         55        60         39       24
loSccFlnn-                                      -                                                  33         69        86         80        264
itherfi-anolo  tdi-tno-:
Total set  finsd  .e..snain neoc.1,122    1,204    1,220    1,262             1,326      1,389     2.396      2,449      2.454     2.456
Tntallo1   toi  dolt 15/                 319       313      430       nil       840        622        553       422        380       283
Ocho/ossets resin  (2) 13/  28      26       ~~~~36    45         nO         33        23         88         19        12
rot- t1te Beer 16/                     1,20    1,54       1,3      1,703      1,308     1,633      2,197      2,344     2,379      2,370
atof cetennerenb-e(%)16/    -1.3                 1.6       7.6    81.         11.         9.3       0.         6.0       8.0        8.
lejf-f_nanolg ratio   (2)  15/         -5-0        -4         2        56         81        71        822       115        193       159
tclbt--er -ie --gnsg(tisns.)  15/          0.6       0.9      1.0       1.4        1.9       1.9        2.3        2.4       2.4        2.7
Opeotlag  casio  (0)  -17/                 26       70       66        58         S    58   7          54        33         26         56
MeV 1979



_0R100 110
LAMMtl   1Y0000L1fOF0C POJECt
_001       __03 __
Ttota                       4i lace.d Oe the ,     2oagpoetoto  No. of solye   a
19 71      1977,      1978      19)9       1980~   191998                      N       194        195        108                            sca   -ent per  -mpIoyee
IEo9y  -alca  (G1W)-oUC                  2,396    2,504       3,212     4,208      4,163      4,N92      4,844      4,788      6,620      7,027      39,757                                           ig18  Da1   190 181  0982  12883  128   7298
__o,eat     40        5832    _00           84          87       _731      _786         842        900       963       61
Toto.  na-ot                           2,880    3,086      3,812      1,850      4,810      1,630      5,630      5,630      3,520      7,988      61,912                           ReaInlYe-        820   835    845   850    865   830   990 1,830
hoitacc Coca
Aneoenon0f (~inla/tWh)-C .o. oI          2.1       3.4        4.1       4.3        4.1        4.1        4.4        4.6        3.9        4.5         4.4                         (us8)         4,301 64,426 6,555 6.686 6,819 6,956 7,895 7,237
-lilt 1/      1.4      22.7       211       18.8       19,0       18.0       21.5       21.7       19.1       26.8        20.00-Y 5%ft                                         t.1   ti   hg             t p,t_.Th
Oeooatlco Renesees                                                                                                                                 roo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  2  t  -a  -pitali -a.
_ae VrnnoaCoho                     1        2           3                    3                     3         0 4         4                     27                         dAaoad   tasbhot 200% af total  lbha   -ot isnseat
-lOt              ~~~      ~~20  17    68         19         79         88        104        14         129        13          836  O   als
Ceher cPee_ttgroeoa                      -         -          ----2/ Pr-Jeoted depree,tion  -en   -alrojt.d cod tg  t  the
05551 spr-titageeeo.ea                    21        99         11         82         82         91       107        108        133        187         861                            d0 itg                        "Itmehd(h ce   o tarif  etingPapode
~ is hi-torios iao    tsta-et,ea
LoOse 2'   Cacao                                                                                                                         6/ leelod~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ s2 ntrib,,ti-e   fro    Ohs  lCaoy
roe)~~~~~~~~~~~~ 42 5                                                      5                     5          6                                                           F--t55    -eok,i,g .apital 555   sietai-ed at 4%   Og .cea   fi-d
Operatio      ead mae  ssa3                          4          8          8          8         10         10        10          10         12          26                         ia 1982.                                 "         f12i   91n              5
lalsa  laces   H                ~    ~ ~       ~    ~~1  2  4   1          5          5          0          6          8         ll          50                     V   oeratlsge-pe5n..  (sodl. dpejts    n   ae   ae
teprsolattoe ~~~~~~               9       17          2                     33                    4          4                                                           o 3  perating reve--s
T-tL 5p5r-t08esvoa                        16        27         10         21         21         23         21         26         29         36         199                    18/  -tns irbhtion  tn thr Treaary  Is 8979.
let Oeeoatiae 001850              ~ ~~~~5 32          53         61         61         68         82         82        204        191         662
Ploa: depreeoae,lae               ~ ~~                ~~9 17 2    3          3          3          4          4          5          7          31
ath-e sa5p     -.r(nee)              J_   -              75        101/-                 -          -          -          -          -(0
Grass. Iste-"I Cash has                   16        19         s0        54,         64         71         86         86        109       128          678
Le..a: A-ertesisei                           10        26         17        16         15         15         17         20         21         35         156
lacerece               12    25          ~~~        ~~~        ~~~        ~            ~~12  13  14  11 1  20  23      26         141
Ttota    deht ae"Ielo                     23        83         30         29         29         30         34        813         44         61         297
Net Ta-te 1a Cash Icsals                     (73        4        20          25        35         41         52         46         65         97         381
HGitstlg                                  32        38          7        -          -          --                              .            
Paa s- Sppilet-                                            2       18          15         19         22        61         86          48        _232
-  e'4    In. Cega.        -                                            5         20         35       -          -          -             78
Tanai BoenOWlit8                          32        38          9         18         30         39         57         61i        40         49         309
c.t,,trbotieae75
Pasda                                     22        47         43         32         81        113        137        153         99         95         71
tasaea n                                                      -          --                                -        -           -            
Other  (ltdl. ,qoty) 61                    38       10        -          -       -            -          -          -                             
TeasE Cneia0oa4                                     87         83                    NI 8      115        137        153         99         99         7155
T0TAL 10OURCE0S8                                    95        7           75       146        1T91       246        268        310         4         ,4
Osserottat                    ~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~215 1   4           0        10         12          6          0          3         198       1,014
trassalaston                 32        7~ ~ ~~~           ~      ~~~2 11  -  2    61          72        90          11         38         348
Other                                    -                                 1          5          5          1          1          5          8          40
Octal 1-toestast                          37        71         64         71        846        191        239        280        199        241       1,402
Isons... as Weeki,g Capitol I/               28       28           8          4       -            4           7       -           20        -            43
T0TAL APPLICAT8ONI                         1       9          7           5        P          191        244        268-    210          7411       ,
orploc  (detioit)                         -         -          ..         -        ..          -          -          -          -          -           -
Other Piasoi.i Iadioator-
Total act fied assets ho
Total   -gs-ter-   deht                   187.      119        2141       77.3       258        202        312        363        308        402         -
Deht/soaets  r_t I8                                                                                                                           
Rete lbc   81                              -        417.       462        758        7159       0s      1,850      1,020      1,197      1,683          -
Rtot  of r-to    on, rat
hs (8)  /                            -          7.1        80.        8.o       8,o         6.7        0.0        8.7        1.1        8.2 
Oof.fisig ratio   0                   0         7         20         47.        24         21         11         le         31         10o
rbt serice  cvrge  (ti-s)                    7.7       1.1       1.7        1.9        2.2        1.4        7.5        5.         2.1        1.(4
Oorotiog  ratio   8)2                      25        a.         r4 7i                            10         11.         5         hI         1          -
x:0. 3578



ARGENTINA
YIACYRETA HIYDROELECTIC 71R711I
_Mas,_y F-cocla  Itlane17                                                                                               / SaltO  Grmsde'. tariff, like YACYRETA'm, isbased ondebt serice
requiremets and is therfor   vey muh dependen-  onthe term
and coedition. applied to horoi-          sfrm-reei-'  Electrical
Funs   t the tie o f appr-isal, hea, -er  thes e had cot yet
heen defi-ed.  It as  aseumd ie the for-ests tbat they
---- A.t-l --  ---------------------------- ---- F--t -------------u-d--he-e-t--ome- to1correspond to..a.p-                                         % rate o%-t rotorst on
(nlia  fa UsS)                                  (ailli-a  of uaautoat 1977 US$7                     Tat.1                        f/ 05d as  theflojgpoetee   fN.c   mlye.a
1976     1977       1978      1979       1980      1981       1982      1981       198d       1985      18-85                        21nnual. coat per em           p-ptloyoeN.ef   ple.  
Energy salco (001)-rg-aY                  -        -          -          -       1,190     1.060      1,028        987       987        987      6.191                                            1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984.  1985
-Arg-etinnlDUC                                   1    ,530  3.560     5,320      5,630     1.913    5,913        5,913     31,779                                              
T.t.1 S.1..             1,530    4,750       6,380     6,650    6,860    6,900    6,900           39,970  ~ ~ ~ ~                    Eplyeyse -              300   800   900 1,080 1,000 1,000 1.090
Total hales  -  -  -    1,530     8,788      6.380     6,650      6,860      6.900     8,980      39,970                           ~~unitary Cost
dA--ge tariff (per kWh)1/                 -         -         -           17.6      17.1       16.9       17.1      17.1       17.0      17.0        17.0                         (us$)             -   6,170 6,24.2 6.367 6,1.95 6,625 6,757 6,897
Ope-ti.. Re-.e.                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~100% of the tntsl  -nt is ehsrged te eprati-ms
Soles .e.e.oe-Urgooy                -         -         -          -          20         18         17        16         17        17         185
-ArgentIna  -      -          -          ~~~      ~~27  601   90         97       101        180        100        576                        3/ As-sd at 30% of lb-her eats.
VI Depreiatim  -n  calculated aecarding to the  micking fund
T.t.1 Op-ti~~~~~~~g R- -    27         81       108        114       117                                                              0.~~~~~~~~~~~2   .sy  ~ and Argem.t1mi..-kn  (89% af total eat) har
Tetal Operatleg heemesas  -  -  -        77        81        188       116        117       ~~~117     117         681                           bea.  -asiderd; therefore amly 89% af the teta1  -.h
Op-rtlan  Orses                                                                                                                                                                   ga.er-ti.s uf the e-psmy should he nasigned to the..
Loha-  21-                                                               2         5          6          7         7          7          7         41                           B-Oro5Oing. sad deht ss-ee  eselode I.-a  spaifianlly
Fuel                                    -                                        -         -          -          -         -                                                     otr-cted he finsaee purely Urugamya   -eks.
Energy p-bch..ed                        -                                                                                                                                     /This line rePreents the met t-afeas seded f-a  the
Othe, Oper.  nd ..i.t ...                                                                                                           E~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~le_tejee   Panda (lana dinburoesats lean debtsrve)
Ote  Opc   n    ameoc    /              -        -          -            1         2          2          2         2          2         2          13                        8/ PreJeated ceaking anpita1  -s  maintained at 2  -nths at
.S -le ease                                                                                                                                                                     billin    - - -    61 g es-pt in 1979 sad 1982 08cm  -es  S-T berremugs
Otph-     le      /-                                                     1         3          0-                                                                                        .2 cesaeend.
Other  -  -      -         -          -         -          -         -          -          -           -                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2/ Doe to the apeeifiesofa Salta Gr-de's fi-sai.1srngmas
Tota1 Op-rting  Gnpenaeu                                                 4        10         12        16         14         18        18          82                           a nft-a  af co=annly uned indienhtr  (U.e. , debt sad self-
fhianadg ration) or  irrelevat and  -o  th-rfare
Net Oper..tieg IncounCall Seato 0G-               --                    23         71        96        180       183        103        183        599                            nesitted.
1/Operatiog expenses. (-Ie. depreeiatias and sales tsxes/
Pl-s  depr-citiaa-                                                         1          3         8                     5         5                    28                            operatingrenu.
ath- ata-ape,. inc.(net)           -        -                     -         -          -         -          -          -         -           -
Gross eah gas. Cell S.G.)                 -        -          -           28        78        108       185        100        188       108         627                                                                                                                                           -
Gros   as  ge.g08V                            -                     21        66         89        93         96         96        96         557
Lens  A-tri-atee (see. Funds)                3        1          1         2       -           30         58         56        56         56        257
lateret (_ed. PSad.)                18        21        13         82        45         88         81        3~5        2~9        26        273
T Ia deht-aerl-6                       17       22         14        44         45         74        97         91         95        88         508
rP.-crn]cs  naroln                      (17)      (22)      (14)       (23)       21         03         (8)        5         11        16          27
Bertealman: hans~~~..z           25       45       128         09         33       -                               -          -           286
Fulure coppllo                       -       ,-            ---                                          
Other fOctae hb-o.-         -                   179        -         -          -          -         -          -         -           179
Tonal borr-i.ge                          25 7      45       303         89        33        -                                                     4.- -    25
C-etribolien.! Ponds (net) 7/              59,      109        56         69         (0)      (11)       -           (5)      (11)       (16)         74
Other  (.quity)           17       26         lo1       11         15                                                               40  - -8
TOTAI. SOURCES                           80      11 on                 150        61          4         (8)      -          -         -           566
Iaertme,to, Ceene  aerk                    70       137       288        103         22       -                                                       73
A,hgerko                                 IS18    10)7        09         50        .     -- 30__185
Total Invetments  1/                      1      151        355        111          2 Q                                                           550
1oc-nOe (dec.) in  -kr-9n c-pitoLo. -               -      ,-             (           9         4         8                      
Sorplun  (deficit)-                             -          -         -          -         -          -
Rute bane                                                            287-30     850o    1,196      1,216     1,793      1,293      1.293         -
Rate of rotor  on rate
hoe (78.--                                                            0.        8.0       8.0        0.0       0.0        80.        0.0 
Dperntiegraio%C0/                      -        -          -           11         9          0         8          8          8         0 
C,toher 1970



ARGENTINA
YACYPET'A HrDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Comoision Noeonal Ae Energia Atiedoi  (CEA)
Nuennaso' Finonvial Statements 1978-88                                                                      1! Based no increases  (in ra  te_n) moffiei_t to all
for a rate of return of 8% on revlud a-meto Came
-----Actual---as-e-----                                                                                                                     8)-----tart----ag---An--1_For-ect--------------------------------------  _ot  8)  tartiag in 1978.
(Million of US$)                              (Million of C_ontant 1977 us$)                                 Total                   2/ BPaed on the following proiJeti-ns of No. of employ,e
1976       1977       1978      1979       1990                  1982       1983       1984        1985    197 5and  aual ct per eaployem:
Energy Solmo  (EWh)           2,409      1,537      2,448    2,448       2,448      2,418      6,621      6,621      6,621       6,621        _1978  197_  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985
Average Tariff (oilln/kWh)R   /   6.6       14.3       17.57    17.57       17.57      18.38       18.43      18.43      18.43      18.43    -                         No. of
eEployemo      430   430   430   430   750   750  750   750
np-rati.g ReecUnaitary Enat
Sales R-evene-                 16         22         413       .3         43         45        120        122         122        122       662                       (us$)        5,400 5,508 5,618 5,731 5,845 5,962 6,081 6,203
otlEn  Open-ting 3even-es       4         12          -   _           -      __-                -            -          -          - 
Total Operating Novenoea   20 A          34t        43        43         43         45        122        122        122         122       662                      OnlY 85% of the total eds.t is ehargedta  peratmna
T.t.1 Op-eti.g R~~~~~~~~~~~~-.-  34  3  43           122 ~~~~~~~~~~the rest is eaPitalized.
er-ting Epenaeo                                                                                                                                                     / Baaed oa a priem  for  1n_lear fuel of US milln
L,ib-r  S                       1          2          2         2          ?          2           4          4          4          4        24                      7.T/kWh far the Atucha plant and US mills
Fuel 3/                         6         11         19        19         19         19          33         33         33         33       208                      3.7/kWh for the Rin Tercero plnt.
Energy rr-h-ased                -          -          -         -i-t~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 4/ Aasuand in foreeanto at abut 200% of labor
p/4ta until 1981 and 150% in 1982 and thereafter.
Dperati    nd    e              2                     7    4               4           1                     6          6          6        Ic 3/ Computed a .r 6dig to the  inking fud method
Not QOeratiag Income:             9         16         16        16          16         18         71         71         71         71       350                   8/  'sna fed -aseta  (as per rate Eate ealeolation)
Plu:  Dep-eeiati.n               2          2           2         2          2          2          8          8          8           8       4°                      1981 and 15% in 1982.
Other N-n-Operating                                                                                                                                        2/ Operating espessen  (xcl. depreecation and -alem
Inc--  (Pet)                        -           -         -          -          -          -          -          -          -        -                       taneaC/persting reveauea
Goman Internal Cash
oeneration:                     11         18         18        18          18         20         79         79         79         79       390
Loon:  Asorti-ation              14         16         18        11           9          8         24         24         24         24       142
Interest                 10         10           8         7          7          6         29         30         31         32       150
Total Debt Service            24         26         26        18         16         14          53         54         55         56       292
Net Internal Cash
Ceneration:                    (13)        (8)         (8)       -           2          6         26         25         24         23        98  -
Borrovings: ECisting             38         52         54         88         40         30          -          -          -           -      212
Future Suppliera   -            -          -         -                                18         30         32         26       110                                                                                                           a
OtherNFtur           -          -          -         -          -          -           -          -          -          -        -I
Total Brrersing F r52                               54        88        4I           34         18         30         32         26       322
Contributions: Elect,.
FPnda (Net)    9          17          71       68          73         96         99         91         51          31      580
Contrib.        -                      -         -          -          -          -          -           -          -        -
Other (inc.
Equity) 6/      30                   -                     -                     -          -           -          -        -
TOTAL  SOURCES               64    -1i   2        117       156        115        126         143        16         107         89    1,o0o
APPLICATIONS
Investmonts: Oeneration          62        nLo        117        156        115        136        119        146        108          80      976
Tranmision          -
Dietributi.a.-                            -         -         -                                                             
Total lavatrieati  ~ 9-      1:18       117       156        115        136        119         116        107         89       976
Increa-e (dec.)in W-rking
CaNita7/                         2          2           -         -          _          -         24          -          -           -        24
TOTAL APPLICATIONS            64      .  2, 117             1.56        115        116        143        146      _18            88    1.000
Surplou  (Deficit)                        -                                  
Other Financial Indicators:
Tetal Net Fixed A-aets
in Operation
Total Long-term Debt
Debt/Assets RatiA  (,)
Pete Ba-e  8/                                        199      199         199        229        883        883        883         883
Rate of Retan as Rate
BPae (/)                                  -          8.o       8.8         8.o        8.0        8.o        8.0        8.o        8.0
Self-financing Ratio (%)   -20            -7         _7          -          2          4         18         17         22          29
Debt Seevice Coverage
(times)                        0.5        0.7        0.7       1.0        1.1        1.4         1.5        1.5        1.4        1.4
Operating Ratio (9) 9/
October 1978



ARGENTINA
YACTRETAFFYDROMIECTSIC PROJECT
Ag-c,a  Enegia Electic  (A yEE)
(Millio   of 01$)                                (silli- of CE.nstat 1977 91$)                                          To-I
1976       1977        19~78       19~79       1980         1981        1982         1983         1984       1985    -1978-85
Enegy Sales (GWih) -w   yste                           8,164      9,064       9,317       10,977      12,922       14,172       16,126      17,442       18,862      20,611       -                                                                                     A:c1[7rC
-F,otaleafo jl                      -           -      1.070       2,432        2,432        2.432       2.432        2.432        2,432      2,432        -                                                                                     oe1'
Total  oEroy Soles                               8,164       9. 064    10,382       13,239       11,354      16,604       18,558       19,874      31,294      03,043        -
1/Rlsto al1,inioe  pleat.
Averge Tariff (.ill.(6kWh) ow   ysnen 2'                   20.0       36.0        45.8        49.1         49.1         54.1        99.3         99.0         54.1       99.7    -lRieoni-,r,... (in reo  ter) noffia-et to allow for
-Fsstsleff  I/             -           -         14.2         14.5         14.5         14.5        14.5         14.9         14.5       14.5    --rtes of rotis   .. revlo-d onse ts  (-n  Rots 17) of 2%
I. 1978, 4% is 1979, 6% in 1900, soi  08  in 1081 soi  ther-
Onertlsa Ress...s                                                                                                                                                                                               sftoe
Sales heveoes - own  Yatsa                       164         928        427          538          634         76 7         892          994       1,020       1,148      6,429                      -/e  Note 6/ of Table 18.
- Putal-fu                                        -          16           35          35           35          35           33           35         35         261                     4/Baad on the folloing projection   of No. of eplopr-  end
Tota  Sales Renen.es                                16         38          443         973          669          803         927        1,029       1,055       1,183      6,681                          .s-Ia -ot Per ssployn:
Other Op-rtilg R.,t....1                                             2          -            -           -           -            -            -           -           -        -
Billing Ch-rge  3/                                       -          -           -            7          30           49          83           92           99        103         439                                           1976   1979   1960   1901   3982   1983   128~4   1985
* Total Op-erting Reveue                              165         90         449          580          699         898        1,010       1,121        1,190       R,286      7,140 
Op .. ti!6  Ep.....                                                                                                                                         F-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lploy-n  23.140 23,140 22,840 22,470 22,255 22.303 21,898 21,532
L.b-                                      5~~       ~~~ ~~~~~8 94  124       126         127          128          129         132          132         133      1,031                         Unitar  Cost
Fosh 2'           6'                                    40          82        134          146          171         178           96          106         ill         139      1,081                          (U0$)           6,709  6,426  6,555  6,606  6.819  6,956  7,095  7,237
Esegy Parhase.d - DhE                                    4          14         26           63           78          95          180          199         193         2239     1.084
- IIESRRIIOE           -          -          5     ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~~          ~      ~     ~      ~    ~      ~    ~ 3  3  3  3  4  4  4  -               only 85% uf the total cot is oharged to opertion; the ret Is
Billing Charg)7-                                                                -            3           13          21           46          96           52          14        245                          -spitalised.
Operai-s  and Maintennc   2/2                                        8         43           44          44           45           49           46          46          47        360                      5/ Porosts b-ad .s Prio-  US$55/tns for fuel oil, US006lllI,6at-r
T- saO'                                                  -           -         24           34          40           48           96          60           63          71        398                --       sd US$30/too  for o-a.
D.ap-eclatio  9/                                        31          47         54           75          83          119          159          167         181         197      1,031                      F/ ornets b-sd u- tariffs of US sills 20/kWhI for p-rh-sr  fron
Cethr                                                    20         33           -           -           -            -           -            -           -_-_-                                             the RUC.  See Tsbln 11  for porh-"e  fros. 8ID080N00  )Coe...sh(.
Teta1 Operting Espe-.e.                             155        280         408         494          559          633         714          7 72         782        868      0,230                      7/ A-asd at 35% of total labor o-te Is fomn-ste.
9/ 6% on iile-
flat Op-tiths  1--an                                       10         90          35          86          140         210          296          349         768         418      1,910                       /Coapoted at 3.1% a-ergs rtr band on streight-lis- retbod.
El8 ailOiss es be rsdnd fees DUA is 1978 sed 89 edllss seetn~ibstieg
Floe    Depes-latlas                                       31         47           4             10/       83          113         159          167         181         190      1,031                         ta the Tre-e-s-ey is 1879.
Other Moo-operting Into.e (Me)N-                                          8   0      8)                                -  -                                                (813                   II/ Beereedegs, Is 1976 sad 1877, sere est signs AyEE's debt aaaeiestiee
CesIster-l Coeb lee-rtio-                              41         97          97           72         223          333         455          516          949        610       2,860                         figaree ar  sat avadlahls
12/ Ree--t weetkig eapite1 waeasti                  t 5% aE averge set fReed
tees.;  Ae.otleti nis                                      ..0 II       II       62           82           79           71         112          124         116         116         762                         -sta  (as Per eats bas.      alaano)
Inet en-                                                       -        179           so          53           96           52          43           33          32        499                    03/ Mlisly  -esslidaties  of S-T debts.
Ttel Debt Servlo                                   -           -        237          137          132         127          164          167         149         148      1,261                    1/Eat   ses.sei   ayea
Net IsenlCeal Generatioo:                                 41          97       (140)         (652          91         206          291         349          400         467      115/ Asde9sitg e-tig  with     sr   eart    he.3yee   fgae
L6 /Tebiag late assent brreowisgase..esea.y to fissane defioit.
Besrawing-   laietli&                                     7 5/    121 sit    122              35           18          10           -            -           -           -         185                    17/ Eanladieg Pstelefi; plastl gee-e   -erstlyCe assets re etui...
PFnor  Sooplier                              -          -          71          84           69           58          47           02         112         143        696                         of 332 is 0981 sad 35% is 1982.
Other PFtur                                  -          -        2008                                           -    -           -                                  208                    18/ Op.eati.g  apee..es  (swal. deprecistias sad saes.I..           /pests
Totsl B-erwlgs                                       75        121        401          119           87           68          47           72          112        143      1,049                          eses
Cestrtbotiose:  Elect-:F.Poda                             38          52        194          211          186         202          220         530          243         256      1,742
Other (Intl. Eqoftl,                   128         96          13            -          - -          -            -                        -          -           13
TotA!U.NOIIigNI                                     282        366        48           75           364         476          56            91          755        866      4,403
sneest: Geestit-nna.                                         00         279          284         734          210          108          196         190        252       1,610
Trasseftelon              n.a.        n.a.        99          124          187         200          172          193         300         333      1,60
Ditlbte,                                  ..          ..         54          104           96          99          106          106          111         1          9
Othnr                                      (          16          76          07           70          70           70           71          77          708.      097
Tetal Inn_nteenn                                   268         798         502         397          983         979          496          526         638         680      4.605
insuc--     n. i   otig.Ep1tal  122'                     (26)      (4317)       (36)         394    ~     21           19           34          26           13          32        503
Osbet_tnelicanhons  'C                     ~~~        ~~~          ~     ~     ~      ~~40  45  2  -  -  -           -            -           -           -            2
mnYA. :Yn.LICAnoso                                2082 .       366         48          991          600~         998         930          95            3           12     9,110
So-pl-:  (deficit)                                    -          -           -        (7262)       (2447       1122)          20           9',        104         154       (7071                                                                                                               e
fOai.:- ij,pjOfhclt:    c
N- MnRrolo                                                                             760          327          229          94          136         208         191,     1,971
-N..wDobtoes-ic                                                                         34           03          107         122          255          382        331      1,264
Total  ent Fiond A-ats in Opcc.                          -1.7      7:)       1,15        :56          1,56/       1,393        3,724          073       -.173      5.2:, 
T.tal I.L-g-te-  Debt L§,/                               337       282          6522      8,419       1,154        1,980       2,009        1,906        2,008     2012
RnOhte-tn  Retin !%) 1 6/                                 30,       36           59          90          94           77           54          52           40        40          -
Rate Osse jjl                       -         -           376     ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~1.366  1,011  2,339  7.316  i,97h  4,236    4a8l)
R.te of rotoco on Rate Bse '%)  7                          0.3        29          27            0         6s           20           l             .            .         . 
OeTf-fhn--ing N.ici  2%) 16/                               -         -          -30         -10            I          17           3,26         117.        29        38          -
D.eit-sri-c  Coverge  ctio-)616                           o                       0.4         0.4          1.0         1.4          iE          13           1.2       1.         -
Oeitig Rfish  (%) Ig/                                  73        7i           7.         66           62           55           3            .8          47        47
fla 1979



-80-                            ANNTi C
'able A-1
YacyretS Treaty
Escalation Formula
F.A.     . + (0.50 v    + 0.25 V  Exp. UN + 0.25 V  Ex   IFS)
DEG          p                  p 
In Which:
F.A.   Adjust,ment factor to implement the adjustment referre'dto in
tV.4, Annex "C".
VDG-Percentage change in the value of the Special Dflr-W-XFC  rht
with respect to its parity to the U.S. dollar, which at the
present date is set at-i UJS$ -.828948 S.D.R.
V   Exp. UN   Percentage change in the Export Prices Index, stated
in US. dollars and computed by the Uniited Nations pursuant to
'the Paasche method and published in "International Financial
Statistics"
VF  Exp. IFS - Percentage change in the Index of Export. Prices of
Developed Areas, stated in US. dollars,, computed pursuant to
the Laspeyres method and publishe-d in "International Financial
Statistics"' of the International MoniftarY-FTnd.
The following countries are considered as Developed Areas
as used in the Index of Export Pricespublished in "International
Financial Statistics" of the International Monetary Fund: United
States of America, Great Britain, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France,
Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Holland,, Norway, Sweden, Switzer-
land, Canada and Japan.    -            .



AGENTINA
ORGANIZATION OF THE POWER SECTOR
PRESIDENT
PARAGAY                URUGUAYOF
ARGENTINA
|   MINISTER    |                        N ~~~~~~~~~INSTER                                  MINISTER
OF FOREIGN                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~OF                                OFrTHF
AFFAIRS                               ~~~~~~~~~~~ECONOMY                               INTERIOR
SECRETARIAT OF7                     _
COORDINATION   ._    SECRETARIAT                             I                  OTHER                  PROVINCIAL
AND                   OP ENERGY                                      SECRETARIATS                GOVERNORS
PROGRAMMI NO ,
CLONCAP                 ~~~SUBSECRETARY            SUBSECRETARY                                                   PROVINCIAL               PRIVATE2]
OF FUELS        OP ELECTRICAL                                                   MINISTRIES                SECTOR
Oh  UELS            IENERGY
S  1  9 0 E N E R ~~~~~~SG  Y  |SE CTRP
-     --     --     --r                            4--     --   
I           S--EP-
Yacyreta  CTM__ _DE  iCE   YPF   ~  SEGEA~       HILDRO-~        AyEE         EPECIL ELECARCN
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~I I  
__________                                                                             I                                         I
I                                                     OTHER MINOR 
CONCAP           Coriiyisidn (icorNal de , Cuenca del Piata               |                                                      AUTPV ORITIES
SGEP             Se,dicat.ra General de Eepresas Pobh-cas                 I 
(National Agency for the Coor,dnat,on of                 L  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
Pubic Co-Polatlonsl
Yacyrela         Enstcad  r,nacronal Yacyretn                      AyEE             Agua y Errergia El6ctrica                       'The use of the energy generated by these .ntrties
is coordinated by the Unified Distributi-ri Systeer--
CTMSG            Comision Tecyica M,ata cse Salto Grande          EPEC              Empresa Prevencial de Energia de Cordoba        Despacho Unificado de Carga (DUC) As intercon
necrion increases in the future, other entities will
GDE              Gas del Estado (National Gas Corporatin,,         DEBA          -  Direccion de Energia Eldctrica de la Pro        be ,ncorporated intm o  such as EPEC, CTMSG
umncl do Bgeann  Aires                          eeci Yacyreta
YCF              Yac ..i...  to, Caroon,ferut F scales (Natio-
rut Gnu Coayorptron,                             CIAE              Com-paia Italo Argentina de Electricicad       I Subirsits to tire Minster of Econ-ty the
tariffs proposed by the Syctetariat of                                   t_f
SF5BA            5cr-, c,ot E eyricos del Gray Baenos Aires        CNEA             Coitisi do Nac,o-Il rte hriergn Atd-ic5           Eneygy after en ewing them
DHOI.R        staroy nct cc Foiputaqonica So                                                                                     2  NeyqtuaTrons by the G-oornm,rnt
0o acysiire th,is ol-ipa,iv ae complete-                              I
Iod Bar,k  19851



ANNEX D
- 82 -                    Attachment 1-2
ARGENTINA
Electricity Consumption. Below, historical public service consumption per
category is shown:
Residential         Commercial      Industrial        Others      Total
Year          GWH                GWH              GWH            GWH         GWH
1962        2,735                 936           2,352           1,203       7,226
1963        2,969               1,006           2,338           1,224       7,537
1964        3,148               1,096           2,779           1,307       8,330
1965        3,390               1,212           3,146           1,371       9,119
1966        3,600               1,266           3,349           1,427       9,642
1967        3,864               1,372           3,458           1,524      10,218
1968        4,159               1,496           3,831           1,737      11,223
1969        4,571               1,685           4,523           1,862      12,641
1970        4,987               1,853           5,241           2,013      14,094
1971        5,240               1,937           6,164           2,192      15,533
1972        5,603               2,057           7,048           2,290      16,998
1973        5,842               2,123           7,652           2,447      18,063
1974        6,104               2,136           8,373           2,508      19,121
1975        6,599               2,217           9,073           2,644      20,533
1976        6,957               2,229           8,993           2,830      21,009
December, 1978



ARGENTINA - PARAGUAY
ENTIDAD BINACIONAL YACYRETA
ORGANIZATION CHART
PR-JECTS I-r
=H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
.. . . . . . . . .                                                                           . .c.nt,o.  |
Survsln  llctr   lrctr        lrctf                  lrctr                   bdtO hSfrv



- 84 -                     ANNEX D
Attachment 3-1
ARGENTINA
Installed         Commissioning
Capacity              Date
1.    Hydroelectric
Planicie Banderita                            450               1978
Cabra Corral                                  112               1978
Futalef'u                                     448               1978
Salto Grande                               1,620                1979
Piedras Moras                                   6               1981
Agua del Toro                                 130               1981
Arroyito                                      120               1981
Los Reyunos                                   224               1982
Puente Allum                                   30               1982
Las Maderas                                    30               1982
Potrero del Clavillo                          760               1985
Rio Grande                                    125               1984
Alicura                                       750               1984
Sub-total                 5,005
2.    Steam
Pilar                                         150               1978
Barranqueras                                   15               1978
Independencia                                  50               1978
Sorrento B                                    160               1980
San Nicolas                                   350               1982
Costanera 7                                   310               1982
Bahla Blanca I                                310               1982
Bahla Blanca II                               310               1983
Lujan de Cuyo                                 125               1982
Guemes                                        120               1982
Sub-Total                 1,900
3.    Nuclear
Rio III                                       644               1982
4.    Gas Turbines
Cuyo                                          112               1978
N.O.A.                                        104               1978
N.E.A.                                         80               1978
Patagonica                                     32               1978
Sub-Total                   328
TOTAL:                    7,877



85 -
ANNEX D
Attachment 3 -2
ARGENTINA: PUBLIC SERVICE CONSUMPTION.
GENERATION AND MAXIMUM DEMAND
Consumption 1/            Generation 2/       Maximum Demand  3/
Year               GWh                       GWh              (Coinajident) MW
1978               25 914                   30 043                  5 9A0
1979               29 750                   34 269                  6 475
1980               32 491                   37 417                  T Oir4,
1981               35 287                   4o 662                  T 734
1982               39 142                   45 059                  8 510
1983               42 185                   46 668                  9 20Q
1984               45 480                   52 48o                  9 794
1985               49 275                   56 855                 10 606
1986               53 364                   61 907                 11 533
1987               57 795                   67 700                 12 644
1988               62 589                    T3 602                13 714
1989               67 783                    80 027                14 984
1990               73 409                    87 152                16 302
1991               79 500                    94 806                17 725
1992               86 100                  102 890                 19 177
1993               93 248                  111 138                 20 794
1994              100 985
1/  Total Public Service Consumption including special industries.
2/ Losses for each region calculated as a percentage were assumed to be those
that occured in 1975, which is considered a normal year.
3/  The regional load factors of 1975 were used to determine regional maximum
demands. To calculate the aggregate national maximum demand a diversity
factor of 0.975 was used in the initial years and 0.959 from 1984 onwards
when the national electric system is entirely interconnected.
December, 1978



- 86 -                          AEX  D
At tacUm-elft 1-3
ARGENTINA: FORECAST OF TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION
(GWh)
Year                Captive           Public Service                  Total
1978                4 622                   25 914                   30 536
1979                4 746                   29 750                   34 496
1980                4 878                   32 491                   37 369
1981                5 006                   35 287                   40 293
1982                5 141                   39 142                   44 283
1983                5 280                   42 185                   47 465
1984                5 422                   45 480                   50 902
1985                5 569                   49 275                   54 844
1986                5 719                   53 364                   59 083
1987                5 874                   57 795                   63 669
1988                6 032                   62 589                   68 621
1989                6 195                   67 783                   73 978
1990                6 363                   73 409                   79 772
1991                6 534                   79 500                   86 034
1992                6 711                   86 100                   92 811
1993                6 892                   93 248                  100 140
1994                7 078                  100 985                  108 063
December, 1978



ARGENTINA: REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLIC SECTOR ELECTRIC CONSUMPTION (GWh)
Year      GBA             Litoral           Comahue        BAS        Centro   Cuyo         NEA        NOA    Patag6nica    Total
A(1)         B(2)
A.- HISTORICAL DATA
1965    5 158        1 015        209         151         482        722         634        160        270          318       9 119
1966    5 389        1 080        231         159         527        757         713        176        286          324       9 642
1967    5 736        1 140        245         170         599         787        713        195        305          328      10 218
1968    6 292        1 250        280         179         673        860         781        213        344          351      11 223
1969    7 017        1 450        320         199         732         937        952        249        407          378      12 641
1970    7 694        1 607        364         272         848      1 021       1 142        275        478          393      14 094
1971    8 293        1 770        417         333       1 002      1 161       1 304        302         531         420      15 533
1972    8 914        1 977        494         395       1 088      1 223       1 531        347        605          434      16 998
1973    9 296        2 163         555        411       1 144      1 305       1 643        393         713         441      18 063
1974    9 446        2 403        564         489       1 230      1 389       1 824        456         818         471      19 090 (3)
1975    9 868        2 487         579        522       1 269      1 447       1 988        520         925         510      20 115 (3)
1976    9 917        2 631        578         568       1 320      1 474       2 068        531         993         510      20 590 (3)
1977   10 483        2 802         641        672       1 503      1 598       2 148        601      1 064          542      22 054 (3)
B.-  BASE FORECAST
1978   11 217        3 079         716        761       1 668      1 718       2 324        671      1 167          565      23 886
1979   12 002        3 384         800        862       1 851      1 847       2 615        750       1 309         589      26 009
1980   12 842        3 719         894        977       2 055      1 986       2 941        838       1 469         614      28 335
1981   13 741        4 087         999      1 107       2 281      2 135       3 247        936       1 648         640      30 821
1982   14 703        4 492      1116        1 254       2 532      2 295       3 585      1 046       1 849         667      33 539
1983   1J 732        4 937      1247        1 421       2 811      2 467       3 957      1 168      2 075          695      36 510
1984   16 833        5 426      1393        1 610       3 120      2 652       4 369      1 305      2 328          724      39 760
K,85   18 011        5 963      1556        1 824       3 463      2 851       4 823      1 458      2 612          754      43 315
(1)    Provinces of Santa Fe and Entre Rlos.                                                                                           03
(2)    Northeast of Buenos Aires Provinces.                                                                                            i
(3)    Excludes ALUAR and other big consumers who consumed 31 GWh, 418 GWh, 751 GWh and 1017 GWh in 1974, 1975, 1976    (D
and 1977, respectively.                                                                                                         ¢
November, 1978



I



ANNEX D
Attac!iment 4-1
TRANSMISSION SYSTEM RELATED TO YACYRETA
ONE-LINE DIAGRAM: 500 KV C.A.
YACYRETA
N  |                               ~~~~~~*    I
| *--+---.~~~~~t ... GARABI
E      j
_RESISTENCIA .... *... 
N. 
0:
: *  j
..+.....-  PASO DE LOS LIBRES
i    I
E* 
I
C.     I
....  ' JSALTO GRANDE
-  -   ---------.    C   O  LONIA ELIA
.~~~~ I  
I ~~:
wE             E,2
I  ~      ~~~  I
CD .
ATUCHA             _    _    l _.... RODRIGUEZ (G.B.A.)
1985
............. 1986
_______  1987
_ _      - _ _ 1988
World Bank-19850






AttZ    nt 4-2
- 89 -
ARGENTINA
YACYRETA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
ENTIDAD BINACIONAL YACYRETA
FORECAST SCHEDULE OF LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
(in thousands of US$
Assumptions
Loan signing:         August, 1979
Effective date:       November, 1979
Closing date:         June, 1986
IBRD Fiscal Year                     Disbursements        Cumulative Disbursements
and Semester                      During Semester         at end of Semester
1979/1980
December 31, 1979                        3.3                        3.3
June 30, 1980                           21.5                       24.8
1980/1981
December 31, 1980                       32.4                       57.2
June 30, 1981                           18.6                       75.8
1981/1982
December 31, 1981                       17.5                       93.3
June 30, 1982                           17.5                      110.8
1982/1983
December 31, 1982                       17.6                      128.4
June 30, 1983                           17.2                      145.6
1983/1984
December 31, 1983                       17.4                      163.0
June 30, 1984                           16.4                      179.4
1984/1985
December 31, 1984                       14.0                      193.4
June 30, 1985                            9.6                      203.0
1985/1986
December 31, 1985                        7.0                      210.0
May 1979.



RELOCATION COST
(Million of US$ dollars)
A R G E N T I N A                     P A R A G U A Y                            T O T A L
Category                 Economic  Improvements  Financial  Economic  Improvements  Financial  Economic  Improvements  Financial
Railways                    31.2         13.3         44.5         7.3         22.1         29.4        38.5         35.4         73.9
Ports                        3.2          7.6         10.8          .9          5.9          6.8         4.1         13.5         17.6
Roads                       10.0           -          10.0        10.6           -          10.6        20.6           -          20.6
Sanitation Works             4.4         13.3         17.7         2.0         11.5         13.5         6.4        24.8         31.2
Electric and telephone
Installation               1.3          3.9          5.2         2.1         8.5          10.6        3.4         12.4         15.8
%.0
Dwellings and community                                                                                                                °
facilities               36.1         49.9          86.0       32.0         48.2         80.2        68.1         98.1        166.2
Indemnization (indus-
trial and rural)           5.0           -           5.0       26.6          5.1         31.7        31.6          5.1         36.7
91.2         88.0        179.2        81.5        101.3        182.8       172.7       189.3        362.0
Physical contingency        18.2         17.6         35.8        16.3         20.3         36.6        34.5         37.9         72.4
Price contingency           39.3         37.9         77.2        35.1         43.6         78.7        74.4         81.5        155.9
TOTAL:                     148.7        143.5        292.2       132.9        165.2        298.1       281.6        308.7        590.3
November, 1978
lI



- 91 -
" 4EX D
Attachment 6-1
ARGENTINA
YACYRETA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Power Sector (excl.YACYRETA 1/
Consolidated Sources and Applications of Funds 1976 - 198'
------Actual-----   ---------------------------------Forecast-------------------------------------
(millions of 13S$)                                 (millions of constant 1977 US$)                       Total
1976      1977      1978      1979      1980       1981      1982      1983      1984       1985      1978-85
SOURCES
Gross internal cash2/
generation                     103        271       278       318       587       748        999     1,096    1,158    1,277          6,461
Less: Amortization                47        73       136       165       170        186       276       275        268       278       1,754
Interest                   71       132       280       161       159        158       170       154        138       132         ~ 1352
Total debt service 3/    124          205       416        326       329       344       446        429       406       410       3,106
Net internal cash
generation                     (21)        66      (138)      (8)       258       404        553       667       752       867        3,355
Electrical Funds (net)          125        222       364       380       332       402        456       469       382        366       3-1
Net sectoral funds              104        288       226       372       590        806    1,009      1,136    1,134    1,233          6,506
_orrowings:-existing            199        311       355       262       123         64        -         -         -          -          804
-future suppliers  -           -          89       102        84        81         87       163       190       218        1,014
-other               -         -        482         -         15        20         35        -         -         -           552
Total Borrowings 3/         199       311       926        364       222       165       122        163       190       218       2,370
Other (incl. equity)            259        261        24        16        17          2         3         3          3         4          72
TOTAL SOURCES               562       860    1,176         752       829       973    1,134    1,302    1,327    1,455            8,948
APPLICATIONS
Investment expenditures
(excl. IDC)
- Generation                     -          -        835       706       548       481        436       470        389       435       4,310
- Transmission 4/                -          -        162       194       294        330       297       320       387       416        2,400
- Distribution                   -          -         80       143       142        148       157       162       173        182       1,187
- Other                          -          -         91       108        89        93         90        92        94         95         752
Total Invest. exp.          548    1,185    1,168    1,151    1,073    1,062             980    1,044    1,043    1,128           8,649
Increase(dec.) in
workin_ capital                 (26)     (370)        6       508         33        30        69        35         36        34         751
Other application                 40        45         2        -         -          -         -         -         -          -            2_
TOTAL APPLICATIONS          562       860    1,176    1,659        1,106    1,092    1,049    1,079         1,079     1,162       9,402
Surplus (deficit)            -         -         -       (907)      (277)     (119)       85        223       248       293        (454)
Financing of deficit:
New borrowings 5/                -          -         -        949       379        249         94       156       208       197      2,23?
New debt service                 -          -         -        (42)     (102)      (130)     (146)      (310)     (372)     (410)    (1,51
New surplus (deficit)        -         -         -          -         -         -          33        69         84        80        26t
1/  AyEE, SEGBA, hidronor, CNEA and Salto Grande.
2/  Based on tariff increases (in real terms) which would allow for rates of return of about:
AyEE: 2% in 1978, 4%-1979, 6%-1980 and 8% in 1981 and thereafter; Ilidronor and CNEA 8% starting
in 1978; SEGBA: 8% in 1978, 11% in 1979-80 and 9% in 1981 (so as to maintain SEGBA's tariffs at
their 1978 level in real terms), 8% in 1982 and thereafter. Also, consider assets revaluations in
1981 and 1982, which will require additional tariff increases in those years to achieve proposed rates
of return. Salto-Grande's tariffs are based on the Salto-Grande Treaty which provides for financial
tariffs.
3/  Existing and easily obtainable (i.e. suppliers') loans.
4/  Includes transmission system related with YACYRETA project.
5/  Sum of borrowings necessary to cover AyEE's and SEGBA's deficits taken individually.  Assumed conditions
are 9% interest rate and 9 years (incl. 3 years of grace).
MEy 1979



-J 92 -
ANNEX D
flttFlh.ent 6-2
ENTIDAD BINACIONAL YACYRETA
Forecast Income Statements 1985 - 1995
(in millions of current US$)
1985       1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991          1992        1993      1994      1995
Sales  (GWR)         1                               41,227      6,372   11,667   16,125   17)392   17,501   17,501             17,501      17,501   17,501   17,501
Tariffs (aili/IkWh)b                                     24.1       25.8      27.4      29.3      30.6      33.2      35.1           37.2       39.5      41.8      44.4
Operating revenues                                       29.5      163.7    319.8    472.8    533.0    580.5    614.4              651.8       690.9    731.9    776.6
Operating expenses:
P.0 ...nnl2/                                            1.2        5.1       7.9       9.4      11.5      18.0      19.6          21.4        23.3      25.4      27.7
Insur nce-                 4/                           0.2        0.5       0.9       1.4       2.0       2.2       2.3            2.4        2.5       2.7       2.9
Opeoractien ad M           4i/t  -                      0.6        2.6       4.0       4.7       5.7       9.0       9.8           10.7       11.6      12.7      13.8
Other operating c-t:9-                                  1.0        1.1       1.6       2.1       2.6       3.0       3.2            3.4        3.6       3.8       4.0
Total Opocoting C,                                    3.0        9.3      14.4      17.6      21.8      32.2      34.9          37.9       41.0      44.6      48.4
Depreciation-- adju.stmct f- oreoa. of capitol    2.1              2.3       2.5       2.6       2.9       3.1       3.3           3.5         3.8       4.0       4.3
- planI-i-no-roice                      13.3        44.9     81.8    120.1    135.3    136.9    137.6              137.6      137.6    137.6    137.6
Total Operating to;  {se                              18.4       56.5      98.7    140.3    160.0    172.2    175.8             179.0      182.4    186.2    190.3
Net Operatieg Incone                                      11.1     107.2    221.;    332.5    373.0    408.3    438.6              472.8       508.5    545.7    586.3
Other Expenses
R &... r  t7/                                 0.4        2.1       4.0       5.8       6.5       6.9       7.2            7.6        8.0       8.4       8.8
Dividends-                                              1.4        7.3      14.3      20.6      23.3      24.7      25.9          27.2        28.6      30.0      31.5
Net income before interests                               9_3       97_8    202_8    306.1    343.2    376.7    405.5              438.o       471.9    507.3    546.0
Interocts:-
Total icteresta                                      419.6       489.9    542.5    577.2    606.4    633.7    656.5              672.8      889.1    700.6    708.8
Len: interest charged to co-r-t   tioini/           (416.0)   (485.9)  (538.0)        -         -         -         -             -          -         -          -
Net Inter-sti  chargcd to operocior                     3.6        4.0       4.5    577.2    606.4    633.7    656.5             672.8       689.1    700.6    708.8
Net Income                                                5.7       93.8    198.3   (211.1)  (263.2)  (257.0)  (251.0)             (234.8)   (217.2)  (193.3)  (162.8)
- corresponds to a m-i r   of  t3 7lis 15.8/kWh. (Dec. 1977 prices) maintained constant in real terms ; this figure was calculated  Oh the basis of the proJect o economic cost
of iS S2,430 millia'  Deo  197' prices(, assuming a life of 50 years, a cost of capital of 11%, and annual operating costs estimated at 0.% of total investment.
- based on an overage cost of ! $9,307/employee (Dec. 1977 prices), increasing at 9% p.a., and a comber of employees estimated at 700; between 1985 and 1990, personnel
cos-s are progressvel.y charged  o operations, on generating  -nits successively coe into stream.
bo ned or an estimated soot f IS S385 per 17W i-intalled (Dec. 1977 prices).
-/esnimrted at sof of persoonel costs
5/discrete increases of bS SQ.C ,illion per year between 1986 and 1990 and iS $0.2 million per year from 1991 onwards
6/se  details in Anneo 2, Tahlr 1-.
7 provided by the Ya, irean Treaty (see para. 6.13) at the rate of US $166 per GWh produced (in 1973 prices, to be indexed under the Treaty formula; an indexation of 5% p.a.
was ssno-ed).
8/
- 12% per year on paid-cf papital 'one para 6.13).
9/
ore details in Anneo   , zl, T-'    .
-  ass-med to he COY       'oa' in-err-   eclud. on loan for excess of capital contrib.) until 1987 (mid-point of construction period).



ENTIDAD b8NACIONAL YACYRETA
Forecast Funds Statements 1978-1995
(in olilloog of current US3)
Total                                                               Total                                                    Tgt&l
1978     1979     1980     1981     1982     1983    1984     1978-1984     1985     1986     1987     1988     1989     1990     1978-1990     1991      1992     1993     1994   1995    1978-1995
(Eot.)
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Gross internal cash generation                      -        -        -        -        -        -        -            -        24.9    145.3   287.2   428.8   481.4   516.7          1,884.3    546.4   579.1   613.3   64.9   687.9          4,939-9
Eqoity contrikotio. 1/                             10.0      -       20.0      -       10.0      -       10.0         50.0       -        -        -        -        -        -           50.0       -        -        -        -       -          50.0
Borrowing
IBRD                                              -        3.3     52.9    35.3    35.1    34.6    30.4            191.6    16.6                                                      208.2        -        -        -        -       -
lDB                                               -        3.3    53.4      35.6     35.4    34.9    304           193.2     M6.8       -       _                                     210.0        -        -        _        _       -         246.0
Suppliers 2/                                      -        -      140.4   139.6      73.7   101.7   110.7          566.1    101.9    118.3    89.1       12.5      8.9      2.7        829.5       -        -        -        .       -         6295
Foreign banks 2/                                  -        -      122.1    138.8   206.6   311.6   151.1           930.2      -         -        -        -        -        -          998.7       -        -            -            -          e
Lotal banka 2/                                    -        -        -      100.0   100.0   100.0        -          300.0       a        -        -        -        -        -          300.0       -        -        -        -       -         300.0
Electrical fanda 3/                              41.4   126.1    172.7   158.3   170.4   207.0   399.2           1,275.1    496.9   401.1   231.4   118.8    43.6    44.4            2.61054       -        - _      _                -       2,&.A
Gther(Oorope.n b4nki.g)                          15.0      -        -        -        -        -        -           15.0      --                                   -        -           15.0      -         _        -        _       -          15.0
Tota1 borrosioga                               56.4   132.7   541.5    607.6    621.2   789.8   722i3          3,471.2    636.2    519.4   246.5   130.5    52.5    47.1          5,103.4        -        -        -        -       -       5,103.4
TOTAL 1OURCE1                                  66.4   132.7    561.5   607.6   631.2   789.8   732.0           3,521.2    161.1    664.7   533.7    559.3   533.9   563.8          7.0Q.7      546.4   579.1   613. 3   661.9   638.9   10.113.3
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Ine.-tsent ependitoren (excI. IDC)4/               54.5   118.2    525.9   567.0   542.8   635.2   437.9           2,881.5    289.0   237.5   104.2    81.2    61.9    51.0            3,706.3       -        -        -        -       -       3,706.3
IGcrease (den.) Ia working capital                 11.6    10.6      14.3   (15.4)    (7.8)    (2.4)   62.2           73.1      31.7      9.0   (41.7)    16.0    (9.4)    (4.0)          74.7    (21.0)    (3.2)   (16.6)    (8.0)   (2.5)   8  23.4
Debt service:
Aeoetileation  5/                                 -        -        -        -        -       13,9   s50.9          64.2    ;]95.4    229.0   299.1   316.8    300.5   255.6         1,610.6     232.7   198.3   134.0    87.5   72.3    2,335.4
Iterests paid: 6/
Total isteresne                                 1.5    15.8      51.5    188.3   173.0   249.9                                       8.9   542.5    57.2   606.4    633.7          4,204.0    656.4   672.8   689.1   700.6  708.8    ,631.6
Legs: deferred interests                        1.2    11.9    30.2    52.3    76.8   1064    i53.w              432.2    224.6    300.7   370.4   431.9    425.5    372.5         2.557.8    321.7   288.9   193.2    131.2   90.7    3.563.5
Net interests paid                              0.3      3.9     21.3    56.0    96.2   1434.    181.7           502.5    195.0    189.2   172.1   145.3   180.9   261.2           1,646.2    334.7   384.0   495.9   569.4   6184          4,048.3
Total debt anruice                              0.3      3.9     21.3    56.0    96.2   157.0   232.0            566.7    340.4    418.2   471.2   462.1   481.4    516.8          3,256.8     567.4   582.3   629.9   656.9   690.4    6,363.7
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                             66-4    132.7    561.5   607.6   631.2   789.8   732.0          3,521.2     661.1   664.7    533.7   559.3   533.9   563.8          7.037.7    546.4   579.1    613.3   648.9   687.9   90,113.3
1/  Foraguayac co-tribotion only (Arg-ntina'a  h-are sue pudd op befoce 1978).
2/ See breakdown ig Asses
3/ Between 1978-1985, determined by uuailability of Electricol Foods (-ee Anne-      7  bitwnen 1986-1990, determined by fioanc.al reqolrenento wlthin the ma.moi   linit of the 1985 receipts.
4/ EIcludes YACYDETA tra.nsiseicn system (Locloded in AyE27s in-mgt-egtO).
5/ See Agnes C. Table 4.
6/ lee Aknee C, Teble 3.



ARGENTINA
ENTIDAD BINAGIONAL YACYBETA
Actual and Fotnuant Balance Sheets 1977-1995
(So nlllio-s of cot t US$)
1977      1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       1986       1997      1988       1989       1990       1991       1992       1993       1994       1995
(Act.)   (Est.)
ASSETS
Stuss fixed assets in uc1e-atiot                     -          -                   _                                                   4,334.2   5,057.8   5,787.0   5,979.7   6,078.5   6,129.5   6,129.5   6,129.5   6,129.5   6,129.5   6,129.5
Loss,: Septe1ti-to                                              -          -          -          -                                         13.3       58.2      140.0      260.1      395.4      532.3      669.9      807.5      945.    1,8.        .2.  _
Set fined  b otu ilooper.ation                     -          -          -          -          -          -          -         -      4,370.9   4,999.6   5,642.0   5,719.1   5,683.1   5,597.2   5,459.6   5,322.0   5,                5,08       4,909.
WBok it progresa                                    49.2      105.2      239.2      816.6   1,491.9   2,207.7   3,092.8   3,865.4         236.0      235.5      148.4       37.4           -       -          -          -          -          -          -
Total sot fiod asseta 1/                         49.2      105.2      239.2     816.6   1,491.9   2,207.7   3,092.8   3,865.4   4,556.9   5,235.1   5,795.4   5,756.5   5,683.1   5,597.2   5,459.6   5,322.0   5,18,.4                           4,909.2
Adjostment foe  eva luation of capital 2/            -         12.2       19.9       30.1       41.9       55.8       71.4       89.5       97.2      105.3      113.8     122.7      132.1      141.9      152.2      163.0      174.4      186.3      198.8
Leoan   epeeciatio_                                             -          -          -          -          -          -          -          2.1        4.4        6.9       9.5        12.4      15.5       18.8       22.3       26.1       30.1       34.4
Sot adj-stnent                                     -         12.2       19.9       30.1       41.9       55.8       71.4      89.5        95.1     100.9      106.9      113.2      119.7      126.4      133.4      140.7      148.3      156.2      164.4
Careent Annets
Cash 3/                                              0.5        4.4        9.1       31.3       34.7       38.2       43.6       26.3       14.9       11.2       18.4       6.9        5.9        4.7        2.9        3.2        3.4        3.7        4.0
Ac-n-ts rotei-ablo 41                                -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          6.1       33.3       65.3      95.7      509.6      116.7      123.7      131.2      139.1      147.3      156.3
Materials and Supplies 5/                            -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -                              12.0        12.7       13.5      14.3       15.2       16.1
Electlcal Funds 6/                                  -         13.9       41.8       57.0       52.2       56.2       68.3      131.8      168.0      132.0      54.1       31.6
Total corrent anoets                               0.5       18.3       50.9       88.3       86.9       94.4      111.9      158.1      189.0      176.9     127.8      134.2      115.5      133.4      139.3      147.9      156.8      166.2      176.4
TOTAL ASSETS                                      49.7      535.7      310.0      935.0   1,620.7   2,357.9   3,276.1   4,113.0   4,841.0   5,512.9   6,030.1   6,003.9   5,918.3   5,857.0   5,732.3   5,610.6   5,489.5   5,369.2   5,250.0
LiABILITIES
Capital                                             45.9_1    55.9        55.9       75.9       75.9       85.9       85.9      153.48/  161.1        169.2      177.7      186.6     196.0      205.8      216.1       226.9     238.3      250.2      262.7
Interests  and loden. on capital 9/                  -         12.2       19.9       30.1       41.9       55.8       71.4
Feittined eangs                                                       -               -          -                     - -                   5.7       99.5      297.8       26.7    (236.5)   (493.5)   (744 5)   (979 3) (. 196.55 (I.38q.8) (1.55Z.6)
Total eqoity                                      45.9       68.1       75.8      106.0      117.8      141.7      157.3      153.4      166.8      268.7     475.5      213.3      (40.5)   4282.7)   (528:42   (752:42   1958.22  (1,139.62  (1,289.92
Long-tern Debt
Loan foe encens of capital contrlbatlon lo/          -          -          -          -          -          -          -         32 0       35.6       39.6       44.1       49.0       54.5       60.6       67.4       75.0       83.5       92.9     103.4
Electeloal PFnds                                     -         42.6      182.6      383.5      594.1      841.3   1,155.1   1,707.4    1425.2   3,123.0   3,720.3   4,265.2   4,728.8   5,139.7   1,454.6   5,735.8   5,920.5   6,042 4   6,122.6
Other loano  11/                                     -         15.0       21.6      390.4      839.7   1,290.5   1,859.4   2 131.9   2,125.9   2,015.2   1,731.2   1,426.9   1,135.3             882.4      649.7      451.4      317.4      229.8      157.5
Total Iong-teen debt                               -         57.6      202.2      773.9   1,433.8   2,131.8   3,014.5   3,871.3   4,586.7   5,177.8   5,495.6   5,741.1   5,916.6   6,082.7   6,171.7   6,262.2   6,321.4   6,365.1   6,383.5
Less: Cuerenr nat-rities of L-T Debt                 -          -          -          -          -        (13.9)    (50.3)   (145.4)   (229.0)   (299.1)   (316.8)   (300.5)   (255.6)   (232.7)   (198.3)   (134.0)    (87.5)    (72.3)    (67.2)
Net Long-Teen DBbs                                 -        125.7      202.2      773.9   1,433.8   2,117.9   2,964.2   3,725.9   4,357.7   4,878.7   5,178.8   5,440.6   5,663.0   5,850.0   5,973.4   6,128.2   6,233.9   6,292.8   6,316.3
Current Llabllities
Currentoa.uaritien  of L-T Debt                      -          -          -          -          -         13.9       50.3      145.4      229.0      299.1      316.8      300.5      255.6      232.7      198.3      134.0       87.5       72.3       67.2
Shotr-tecm debt                                      0.9        3.3       17.5-L      -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Inter-sta payable  13/                               -          -          0.8        5.1       13.9       24.1       36.0       40.7       56.8       46.6       43.5       36.5       29.2       51.0       85.7       97.3      122.4      139.5      151.8
Accounts payable (Costractoon') 14/                  2.9         6.7       13.7      50.0       55.2       60.3       68.3       47.6       30.3       18.6       13.7       10.9        8.3        8.0        -          -          -          -          -
Other sccoontn payable 15/                           -          -          -          -          -          -          -          _          0.4      - 1.2        1.8        2.1        2.7        3.0        3.3        3.5        3.9        4.2        4.6
Total current liabilities                          3.8       10.0       32.0       55.1       49.1       98.3      154.6      233.7      316.5      365.5      375.8      350.0      2958       294.7      287.3      234.8      213.8      216.0      223.6
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                 49.7      135.7      312.0      935.0   1,620.7   2,357.9   3,276.1   4,113.0   4,841.0   5,512.9   6,030.1   6,003.9   5,918.3   5,857.0   5,732.3   5,610.6   5,489.5   5,369.2   5,250.0
Sodicatocoi:
0.1        1.8        0.6        1.6       1.3         1.0       0.7        0.7        0.          .5        0.3               .4             0.5        0.5        0.6        0.7        0.8        0.8
i~aeni-nb7e (days)                          -          -          -                     --         -                     -         7056       705        75         705        75         75         75         75         75         75         75
1  lee Asses C, Table 5.                                                            A, 
2/  Partial reealoatioo of assets to copensoate for the revnluatiot of YACYRETA   eapit.l reqnired under the Ta.yrets Treaty.                                                                                                                                       51
3/  Estinated an 1 month of investmentnexpenditures (enl. forelgn const. equiponst); fro  1985, includes also I onth of ca.h opetatiog erpeess.                                                                                                                    e
4/   stl,,,atsd at abouL 75 days of billings.
5/  Eetimated, in 1990, at ahont 20% of the cost of 2 geeenrtiog -nits  (1990 prices), oh-en e-calted at 6-. p.a.
I/  A doley of about 4  ..ntbs one estinated In the receipts of funds froo  the Electeical F1 nds (on the basis of past yese' e-pelience).
7/ Argentlnianc_ntrlbutin_ (Icl.  interest sod indexatlon).
8/  Equnls two tines the Iowest - Pa-agoayn - cntteitoon (in-l. ilterest and Indexation op to Decembee 31, 1984).
9/  Cooputed at   rste of 11.31. p.a. (in-l. interest  r 671. p.a. and Inde-atlon assumed at 57. p.s.).
10/ E.cesn of Argentlion c-ntrlbution o-er 50% of capital integ-ated on Dece-bee 31, 1984 Ii considered an a loan fron Argentina to EBY (bearing intorest and index. and r-payable fr.o  2009).
1/ See breakdown In Annex
12/ 8ridging areangemest seeded by delay is moo pO of Elc-ti-cal FPnds.
13/ Esitiated at about 3 months of int-rests to be paid doting the y-ar.
14/ Estimsted at abhut 45 days of investnent epe-ditotes in 1978 and 1979, and 60 days fron 1980 on
I1/ Estinated at about I tooth of operating expenses.
Nocenbe- 1978



MAXIMUM DEMAND BALANCE
(MW)
1978     1979     1980     1981      1982     1983     1984      1985     1986     1987      1988     1989
1.  Demand  /                        5,910    6,475    7,014    7,734    8,510    9,200    9,794   10,606   11,533   12,644   13,714   14,984
2. Supply 7/
a,  Hydroelectric plant           2,670    2,885    3,327    3,873    4,082    4,312    4,910J"  5,853    5,749    5,749    5,749    5,646
b.  Nuclear plants                  352      352      352       352      952-     952      952       952      952       952      952      952
c.  Thermal plants
- Steam, goDd efficiency     1,131    1,131    1,283    1,283    2,317    2,608    2,608    2,608    2,608    2,608    2,608    2,608
- Steam, average efficiency  1,486    1,486    1,486    1,486    1,599    1,599    1,599    1,599    1,599    1,599    1,318    1,318
- Steam, poor efficiency       735       735      735      735       704      386      339       325      325      250       250      227
- Diesel                       770       770      770      770       727      663      600       329      301      301       301      215
- Gas Turbines               1,505    1,569    1,569    1,569    1,549    1,518    1,518    1,383    1,383    1,383    1,383    1,383
3. Maximum Demand Balance 2/
a.  Hydroelectric and Nuclear
plants plus steam plants
with good or average
efficiency                    -271      -621     -566     -740       440      271      275       406     -625   -1,736   -3,087   -4,460
b. All plants                     2,739    2,453    2,5o8    2,334    3,420    2,838    2,732    2,443    1,384         198  -1,153   -2,635
4.  Reserves 7/
a.  Hydroelectric and nuclear
plants and steam plants
with good or average
efficiency 6/                 -4.6    -9.6       -8.1     -9.6       5.2      2.9      2.8       3.8     -5.4    -13.7    -22.5    -29.8
b.  All plants 7                   46.3     37.9     35.8      30.2     40.2     30.8      27.9     23.0     12.0       1.6     -8.4   -17.6
5. Additional Capacity from
YACYRETA                            -                  -             -             -        -       405    1,o80    1,755    2,430    2,700
6. A-ailable Capacity with
YACYRETA
a.  -"ydroelectric and nuclear
plants and steam plants
with good or average
efficiency                     -271     -621     -566      -740      440      271      275       811      4556/      196/  -657   -1,760
b.  All plants                    2,739    2,453    2,508    2,334    3,420    2,838    2,732    2,848    2,464-'  1,953-   1,277           65
7.  Reserves with YACYRETA
a.  Hydroelectric and nuclear
plants and steam plants
with good or average
eff'iciency 7/                 -.       -9.6    -8.1       -9.6     -5.2      2.9       2.8      7.6      3-261    0.26/   -4.861   1176/   .
b.  All plants 7/                  46.'    37.9      35.8      30.2    40.2       30.8     27.9     26.8      21.      15.4'    9.3-       0.4-
%/ Excluding reserves.
7   Includes plants existing as of December 1977 plus the projects included in the 1977-85 National Electric Power Supply Plan, except for the
YACYRETA hydroelectric plant.
3/  Includes Rio III nuclear plant with an installed capacity of 644 MW and net capacity of 600 MW.
i/ Includes Alicura hydroelectric plant with a guaranteed capacity of 485 MW in 1984 and 728 MW in subsequent years.
/ Excluding YACYRE.TA and other projects after 1985.
6/ Preliminary supply plans call for the incorporation of other plants in addition to those included here.
v  Percentage of projected demand.



ENERGY BALANCE
(GWH)
1978     1979     1980      1981     1982     1983      1984     1985      1986     1987     1988      1989
1.  Demand                           30,043   34,269   37,417   40,662   45,059   48,668   52,480   56,855   61,907   67,700   73,602   80,027
2.  Electric Power Generated i/
a.  Hydroelectric plants  8/      8,695   ll,4922/ 13,503   15,606   16 432   17,421   18,697J 20,139   19,647   19,647   19,647   19,155
b.  Nuclear plants                2,281    2,281    2,281    2,281    6,169J'  6,169    6,169    6,169    6,169    6,169    6,169    6,169
c.  Thermal Plants:
- Steam, good efficiency      7,137    7,137    8,o96    8,o96   14,549   16,435   16,457   16,457   16,457   16,410   16,185   16,419
- Steam, average efficiency  7,781    9,277    8,867    9,283    4,416    6,925   10,090   10,090   10,090    7,005    6,222    6,648
- Steam, poor efficiency      1,235    1,107      989    1,279       888       152      701    1,688    1,688        -         -        -
- Diesel                      1,719    1,382    1,484    1,458    1,182        275      115    1,064    1,121        -         -        -
- Gas Turbines                1,195    1,593    2,197    2,659    1,423    1,291        251       -         -        -         -        -
3. Energy Balance 5/
a.  Hydroelectric and nuclear
plants plus steam plants
with good or average
efficiency                   -4,149   -4,o82   -4,670   -5,396   -3,493   -1,718   -1,067   -4,ooo   -9,544  -18,469  -25,379  -31,636
b.  All plants                      0        0         0        0         0        0        0      -1,230   -6,735  -18,469  -25,379  -31,636
4.  Additional Energy from YGC-YRETA    -         -        -        -         -        -         -      1,230    6,390   11,700   16,170   17,440
5. Balance of Energy with YACYRETA    0           0        0        0         0        0         0         -      -345I -6,769t/ -9,209 /-14,l96 '
6. Percentage of Hydro Genenation    28.9        33.#5'   36.1     38.4      36.5     35.8      35.6     37.6     42.12)   46.3Y    48.7Z/   4577-7
1/  Includes plants existing as of December 1977, plus the projects included in the 1977-85 National Electric Supply Plan, except for Y&CYRETA.
T Includes Salto Grande and Futaleufu hydroelectric plant operating at full capacity.
3   Includes Rio III nuclear plant.
Includes Alicura hydroelectric plant vith an output of 1,055 GWh in 1984 and 2,360 GWh in subsequent years.
5/  Excluding YACYRETA and other projects subsequent to 1985.                                                                                                 t 
Preliminary plans call for incorporation of other plants in addition to those included here.
/ Without considering other hydroelectric projects that will come on stream during these years.                                                             <
8/  Average hydrological year.
December, 1978



- 97 -
ANNEX E
Page 1 of 2
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.   Estudio de Factibilidad-Tecnico-Economico-Financiero del Apro"echamiento
del Rio Parana a la altura de las Islas de Yacyreta y Apipe. De-e:mber
1973). Prepared by Consorcio Harza y Asociados.
2.   Sintesis Actualizado del Proyecto Yacyreta.  (October 1976).  Prepared by
Consorcio Harza-Lahmeyer y Asociados.
3.   Informe Complementario a los Bancos.  (July 1977).  Prepared b:., Consorcio
Harza-Lahmeyer y Asociados.
4.   Construction Cost Estimates for the Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project.  (March
1978). Prepared by A. A. Mathews, Inc.
5.   Expansion del Sistema Nacional de Transmision (Argentina).  (1978).
Prepared by the Secretaria de Energia with the help of consrltants.
6.   Summary the Economic Justification Study of Yacyreta.  (April 1978).
Prepared by the Secretaria de Energia (Argentina).
7.   Plan Nacional de Equipamiento para los Sistemas de Generacion y Transmision
de Energla Electrica for the period 1977-1985.  (April 1977).  Prepared by
the Secretaria de Energia (Argentina).
8.   Informe Tecnico-Econo'mico de Instalaciones para Peces.  (July 1978).
Prepared by Harza-Lahmeyer y Asociados.
9.   Costo del Proyecto Yacyreta.  (August 1978).  Prepared by Consorcio
Harza-Lahmeyer y Asociados.
10.   Actualizacion de la Evaluacion Economica de la Exclusa.  (June 1978).
Prepared by Consorcio Harza-Lahmeyer y Asociados.
11.   Sensitivity Studies for the Economic Justification of Yacyreta.  (August
1978).  Prepared by the Secretaria de Energia (Argentina).
12.   Tasa Interna de Retorno.  (August 1978).  Prepared by the Secretaria de
Energia (Argentina).
13.   Environmental Studies.  Prepared by YACYRETA.
14.   Studies on Resettlement.  Prepared by YACYRETA.
15.   General Technical Working Papers.
16.  YACYRETA's Financial Statements 1975-1976-1977-1978.
17.   YACYRETA's Manual of Accounts.
18.   YACYRETA.  1979 Budget.



- 98 -
ANNEX E
Page 2 of 2
19.   YACYRETA.  Computer outputs (YACYRETA's Financial Forecasts 1978-1995).
20.   YACYRETA.  Copies of letters of intent from Export Credit Agencies.
21.   YACYRETA.  Analysis of various financing alternative strategies.
22.   YACYRETA.  Descriptive memorandum for a Floating Rate Syndicated Bank Loan.
23.   YACYRETA.  Curriculum vitaes of independent auditors (1978 Accounts).
24.   YACYRETA.  Terms of reference for external auditors (1979 Accounts).
25.   YACYRETA's Organization Manual.
26.   Yacyreta Treaty.
27.   Sector Financial Projections 1978-1985 (Secretarla de Energia).
28.   Relevant decrees on sector tariffs.
29.   Various financial and general documents of sector entities.
30.   General Financial Working Papers.



IBRD 14128
_55        so           Ls                                                                                                                               ITLevgvL ;              IAG S0  LA,L(gG                                                                                                  APRIL 1979
BOLIVI.                                                                                                                                                                                      B    dIII  I  1
ILA                                                              G                                                                                                                                                                                                             B -
_ AvRl .1/ _1 dips- .,
/B                            C,\ \, '72i._' Rlter \ i                                                                                                      /ltOe Y INCN 1l., ~ ,/ ozpj_,ARGNTIA IR
s- Co                                             'Crmeer de \ \rB
',ARA      XA                               IoATno   ,- \ \>                                           dt                     AAEA,/./(k/PoetoL 
V,        I<                              /9                                                                                                                                                                                    p        N  .      ,d
*~~~~ LIV                                                                                                                                                 /        +          ,-+-+Psbelgmnorir
I                                                                      I
A B PE   GRAZILE WSLArA8
OB~~~,dso                                                                                                                           111000-0 TAAVE AL                                                         EnId d SBBina                        YCBetBme'ec
OPOPOlOOS  ALAGIAB~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                          POOSD
KILOMETE2S                   ImlxngErS s;SSF axM1@ m pllmo rLo'ry ^r             VOLLCIBET         ISA
(  ,oii,  V.                             'BLtLgpe-rkBOAB'\
4.-.--'                                                                                                                          ARG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXITINAG: ARGA
Area  B e fT Bd-
lo  I5  2o                                                                                                                                                  Int.-t-.1 b.und.,y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A resrod
IL0-.---s--s  Pos1be KIgBeOsBETaERBa






-   B 9  L Vlg         'I aRLL\                                    5               \     !                                                                55               /     :.
> tw  X                    .         ~~B    O    L   I  V    I  A        i                                           
AOJAY (I'1b.e,.,,4$C  j         i                                                      <            A   R   A    G        A    Y
ARGE T          I N                                                                                             A   R
<K     ris ~O  FArme            (                                                                                                                     |
Wo,ld e/u   f   L,h /NT/1* fOr  .3   J   EL [RACHO
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y
denorlmPply~~~~~~~~~~~~ Glceah                                     N        T I             N           /r           
E.rlddw/ndiDd!E.lla'V   IRACFS                 FE.
</  2                                 q4~~~~~         ~            ~          ~~~~RIC RE A  RIO El
i/, ecu \o,o/ 6556/S              /llnu
\MENDOZ   | NAEL^ 
Lh , N/So o/, 06                                                                              ROSAR i,  N      H            U    R    U    G    U    A    Y
) 2 ! tS~~~~~AN RAFAEL EEZ>rs-     vr 
Sm,/Oj | '/O 0,O6                                                                                                                                      CEA  v
Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H
kJ j . OL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AVARRIA 
< - t.                                                                                                                                                                           / /  0  1,00  20B 0  20,0 30
\    t                                ~~~~~~~                  ~          ~       ~        ~~          ~~PUELCHES  7                  WR J   ILES
IC) F      LANICIE                                  BAHIA B
<R  GOANDERIO A l
r  \        i            CHOCONK                       SCHOEL~CHOHOEONr                                            A R GE N4 T I N A
\+ ' ~~MICHIHUAO                                                                   .EXISTING  AND  FUTURE HIGH  VOLTAGE TRANSMISSION  SYSTEM
\         d                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECr P.EZfAT6
-o-   g    i E  ~~~~,J PEDRA DEw-y\POrrN, eWAMCEO                                                                                           .....m -s0 lines:
A                                                                                                                                       AUILAT/
(   :    p   ^   SAN ANTONIO OESTE                                                      1o" 00kV .                 0
5                                                                                                                              A            100          200           300ALICURA  400kV d.
iS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 k    5DV a.c.
BANOERITA|            PUERTO M
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~   EXSTN    AN    FUUR   HIG    VOTG   TRNMISO    SYSTEMcer  de ontuc
3    PII RICO. FUTALEUFU
K         '. Pt?f- -ltmtoa   owedrie                                                                                                                                        r-nt
- -mt-fi-I b .. Neor- ud  COflS'ruCtiOO



