Document of                FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2625-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR THE
YACYRETA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
September 25, 1979
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
December 1977*          August 31, 1979
Currency Unit          Argentine Peso ($a)    Argentine Peso ($a)
US$1                   $a599                   $al,401
$al Million            US$1,669.45             US$713.78
*Used in the Appraisal Report
Weights and Measures
kW     =   Kilowatt
MW     =   Megawatt (1,000 kW)
GW         Gigawatt (1,000 MW)
kWh    =   Kilowatt hour
GWh    =   Gigawatt hour (106 kWh)
m3         Cubic meter (35.3 cubic feet)
hm3        Hecto cubic meter (106 m3)
Glossary of Abbreviations
AyEE      =   Agua y Energia Electrica
ANDE      =   Administracion Nacional de Energia Electrica (Paraguay)
CIDY      =   Consultores Internacionales de Yacyreta
CNEA      =   Comision Nacional de Energia Atomica
CTMSG     =   Comision Tecnica Mixta de Salto Grande
DEBA      =   Direccion de Energia Electrica de la Provincia de
Buenos Aires
EPEC      =   Empresa Provincial de Energia de Cordoba
FNGOE     =   Fondo Nacional de Grandes Obras Electricas
HIDRONOR  =   Hidroelectrica Norpatagonica, Sociedad Anonima
SEGBA     =   Servicios Electricos del Gran Buenos Aires
YACYRETA  =   Entidad Binacional Yacyreta
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL, USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
YACYRETA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              The Argentine Republic.
Beneficiary:           Entidad Binacional Yacyreta (YACYRETA).
Amount:                US$210.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                 15 years, including 6 years of grace; interest
at 7.9% per annum.
Relending Terms:       Same as above.
Project
Description:           The primary objective is to provide least-cost base-
load electric energy. Other objectives are to improve
navigation on the Parana River, to facilitate future
irrigation projects in both Argentine and Paraguayan
territories, and to develop fishery. The continued
Bank involvement in the Argentine energy sector
through the project will help improve sector organi-
zation, management, tariff policies, and investment
planning for generation and transmission facilities.
The project consists of (a) 70 km of earth dam; (b) a
power house with 20 units each of 135 MW capacity to
be installed between 1986-90 and intake structures for
10 additional units; (c) a navigation lock; (d) fish
passage facilities; (e) irrigation intakes and Aguapey,
Tacuary, Caragueta and San Martin dikes to prevent
flooding; (f) ancillary works including housing for
personnel during and after construction; (g) relocation
of infrastructure and resettlement of a total of about
33,000 people on both banks of the river; and (h)
Argentine power sector studies on transmission system
and small hydroelectric plants. The project would
benefit the Argentine population at large by supplying
electricity for the continued economic development of
the country and provide substantial earnings for
Paraguay through royalty payments and payments made on
its share of electricity sold to Argentina. The project
faces no special engineering and technical rLsks although
(a) the complex nature of the resettlement program
requires careful supervision; (b) the binational nature
of the organization may strain decision-making capacity
on such matters as procurement and resettlement; and
(c) the large financing requirement of the project makes
it vulnerable to changes in overall economic policy of
the Argentine Government and international financial
market conditions.
This document has  re stricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Batk authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign      Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Yacyreta
Preliminary works and land                     169.7           -       169.7
Main civil works                               595.6       609.5    1,204.7
Major equipment                                 78.8       322.7       401.5
Relocation/Resettlement: (a) replacement    172.7              -       172.7
(b) improvement    189.3            -       189.3
Engineering and Administration                 169.5        53.0       222.5
Total Base Cost                              1,375.6       984.8    2,360.4
Physical contingency                           168.4       128.5       296.9
Price contingency                              643.1       405.9    1,049.0
Working capital                                 74.7           -        74.7
Total Project Cost                           2,261.8    1,519.2    3,781.0
Sector Studies                                     2.6         1.2         3.8
TOTAL -- Yacyreta and Studies                2,264.4    1,520.4    3,784.8
Financing Plan to 1990:
Local    Foreign       Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Investment, Working Capital and Studies
IBRD                                             0.7       209.3       210.0
IDB                                                -       210.0       210.0 1/
Export Credits                                     -       829.5       829.5
Foreign Commercial Banks                       430.0       111.8       541.8
Local Banks                                    300.0           -       300.0
Electrical Funds - Loans                     1,474.9       162.7    1,636.8
Capital                                         50.0           -        50.0
Government (for Studies)                         2.0           -         2.0
Internal Cash Generation                         6.8           -         6.8
Total                                        2,264.4    1,522.5    3,786.9
Debt Service - Interest and Amortization
Foreign Commercial Banks                         -       403.5       403.5
Electrical Funds                             669.4       304.2       973.6
Internal Cash Generation                         -    1,877.6    1,877.6
Total Debt Service                           669.4    2,585.3    3,254.7
TOTAL FINANCING                              2,933.8    4,107.8    7,041.6
1/   Includes US$2.1 million IDB inspection fee.



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:           Bank FY           Annual            Cumulative
…(------ (US$ Million Equivalent) ---------
80             24.8                 24.8
81              51.0                75.8
82             35.0                110.8
83             34.8                145.6
84             33.8                179.4
85             23.6                203.0
86               7.0               210.0
Rate of Return:          Using revenues as a proxy for benefits and the costs of
the project and related investments in transmission,
subtransmission and distribution, the internal rate of
return would be 14.0%. This is considered an under-
statement of the economic rate of return of the project
since it does not reflect the full willingness-to-pay
of electricity consumers.
Appraisal Report:        Report No. 2342-AR dated September 21, 1979.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
____  _FOR THE YACYRETA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to The Argentine Republic for the equivalent of US$210.0 million to help
finance the Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project. The loan would have a t:erm of
15 years, including six years of grace, in view of the 10-year const:ruction
period of the project, with interest at 7.9% per annum. All the proceeds of
the loan, except US$1.75 million equivalent, would be relent at the same term
and interest to Entidad Binacional Yacyreta (YACYRETA), a binational entity
established by the Governmentsof Argentina and Paraguay to execute t:he project.
The Inter-Amer.can Development Bank (IDB) approved in December 1978 a joint
loan of US$210 million to YACYRETA for twenty years including six years of
grace with interest at 7.5% per annum. Export credit agencies of ma'jor equip-
ment manufacturing countries are expected to provide buyers' credits totalling
US$830 million at terms averaging 18 to 20 years including eight to ten years
of grace and interest at 7.75% per annum. Additional loans totalling US$945
million equivalept are expected from foreign commercial sources.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Argentina (No. 2208-AR)
dated November 26, 1978 was distributed to the Executive Directors. Country
data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        Argentina is best characterized as a semi-industrialized country with
a per capita income of US$1,910 (1978). It has a strong middle class and a
fairly even distribution of income. Since 1950, real gross domestic product
has grown at an average annual rate of close to 4% which, combined with a low
rate of population growth, meant an annual GDP per capita growth of 2.4%.
Because of disincentives in the form of price controls and export taxes,
Argentina's agricultural sector has grown at an annual rate of only 1.5%,
while the industrial sector expanded by over 5.5%. But industry's growth
depended heavily on a strategy of import substitution that has led 1o an
overly diversified and relatively inefficient industrial structure, which is
constraining future growth of the Argentine economy.
4.        Argentina's economy has been subject to strong cyclical f:Luctuations.
Sharp swings from expansionary fiscal, monetary, and wage policies to restric-
tive stabilization programs occurred five times since 1950. During the early
1970s when Argentina's external situation was favorable, the Goverwnent was
able to pursue an ambitious public investment program. Following strong
increases in public expenditures, nominal wages and credit, domestic output
boomed. Maintenance of fixed exchange rates led to rapidly increasing imports.
In mid-1974, poor weather, falling world grain prices, and an EEC ban on beef
imports halted export growth. Deterioration of the foreign sector coincided



- 2 -
with an intensification of domestic social and political strains following the
death of President Peron. Various stabilization efforts to stop the evolving
wage-price spiral in mid- and late 1975 failed because they attempted to
combine incompatible goals. With the lifting of price controls and rapid
devaluations, inflation rose to over 300% in 1975 and accelerated to an annual
rate of almost 1,000% in early 1976.
Stabilization Program
5.        In March 1976 a new Government took office.  Faced with hyperinfla-
tion, near depletion of foreign exchange reserves and serious distortions in
the country's economic structure, the new Government adopted far-reaching
changes in external and internal stabilization policies. Foreign trade and
capital restrictions were removed, export incentives for primary products were
re-established and the exchange rates were unified. As a consequence, exports
rose rapidly, and foreign exchange reserves were rebuilt. On the domestic
front, tight budgetary and wage controls were imposed. Despite the freeing
of product markets from price controls, the rate of inflation was cut in half
within six months, while keeping unemployment at a low level.
6.        Fiscal policy was the cornerstone of the stabilization program in
1976/77. Weak public finances, which had been a source of inflation since
the early 1970s, were significantly strengthened. The Treasury deficit was
reduced from 13% of GDP in 1975 to 3% in 1977 by raising the real level of
public revenues and by curtailing public expenditures. Central Bank financing
of the deficit, which had contributed significantly to monetary expansion
before 1977, was reduced sharply. The public sector's overall deficit fell
from over 16% of GDP in 1975 to 5% in 1977, and its savings on current account
recovered from -7% in 1975 to +7% of GDP in 1977. Further progress has become
more difficult to achieve, because tax revenues were negatively affected by the
lapsing of emergency taxes and the sharp recession in 1978, which lowered
government revenues at the same time that expenditures were raised for both
public consumption and investment purposes.
7.        In 1976, restrictive wage policies were adopted to lower aggregate
demand and still maintain high employment. Even if this meant a decline
in real wages per worker, hardships generally associated with stabilization
programs were mitigated. Unemployment declined from 5.1% to 4.3% despite
economic recession during 1976. With output recovering strongly in 1977,
the unemployment rate fell further to 2.5% and remained below 3% during
most of the recession of 1978. In order to let supply and demand in the
labor market increasingly determine wages, the Government modified its
tight wage policy in 1977, permitting firms in the private sector to
increase wages up to a fixed margin above the official basic wage rate for
unskilled non-agricultural labor. This margin was increased periodically
until private sector wages were freed in August of 1979. After a sharp
reduction in the first semester of 1976, wages increased slightly more than
prices in 1977 and kept up with inflation in 1978/79. Over the medium-term
it is expected that increasing labor productivity will permit increases in
real wages. The Government wants to achieve that objective through moderniza-
tion of the country's capital stock in infrastructure and industry and through
expansion of exports of goods that use relatively advanced technological
inputs.



-3-
8.        External sector policies, implemented in 1976, continued to produce
favorable balance-of-payments results in 1977 and 1978. External debt was
restructured through increased long-term financing, which substituted for
previously accumulated short-term debt. Exports exceeded imports by over
US$1.5 billion in 1977, and US$2.5 billion in 1978. The large surpluses
in trade and the current accounts were accompanied by substantial long-term
external borrowing of the private and public sectors and as a consequence,
the level of gross reserves rose from almost zero in March 1976 to over
US$3 billion by December 1977, and to US$5 billion by the end of December
1978. In view of continued strong export expansion, the Government attempted
to stimulate imports by slowing down the rate of devaluation of the peso
and discourage short-term private capital inflows. During the course of
1978 this latter objective was achieved by prohibiting foreign borrowing
of less than two years of maturity and requiring that the equivalent of
20% of medium- and long-term borrowings be deposited in the Central Bank.
In addition, a substantial portion of public debt, contracted for balance-
of-payments support during the 1976 crisis was prepaid.
9.        While decelerating from its rapid increases in 1975/76, monetary
expansion proceeded at a faster rate than inflation up to mid-1977. The
major causes of the unforeseen expansion were the large balance-of-payments
surpluses and the strong private sector demand for credit, which had been
stimulated by inventory build-up and by the need to finance the increased
cost of credit. After the implementation of the financial sector reform
in mid-1977, the authorities attempted to restrict money supply. As a
consequence, interest rates rose to high levels in the second semester of
1977, reaching positive real rates of over 3% per month. This monetary
tightening had an immediate impact on economic activity, with industrial
output falling from an annual rate of 7% in the second semester of 1977 to
a decrease of 10% in the first six months of 1978. In response to the high
credit costs in domestic markets, larger firms increased their borrowing
abroad. The increased inflow of external capital which followed contributed
to accelerated growth of the monetary base in early 1978 and brought interest
rates down to levels averaging less than 1% per month in real terms. Rather
than have money supply expand through foreign capital inflows, the authorities
decided in May 1978 to lower reserve requirements and open up domestic credit.
10.       After bringing down the rate of inflation from nearly 1,000% to
less than 150% within one year, no further progress in reducing inflation
was made during 1977 and 1978. Strong fluctuations of monthly rates have
complicated economic management and financial planning. The continued
strong inflationary pressure was caused by a combination of factors.
For 1976/77, the government linked its stabilizaticn program with policies
to reduce distortions in relative prices which resulted in additiona:L
corrective price increases. Together with the financial reform the attempt
of controlling money supply led to high interest rates and cutbacks in
production rather than prices. It was because of that combination oi- high
inflation and stagnation that the authorities decided to have domestic
credit expand again at a more liberal rate and focus on a new approach
to hold back price increases and reverse inflationary expectations.



-4 -
11.       After thirty months of global stabilization measures, which had
mainly consisted of varying degrees of fiscal, monetary and wage constraint,
the government shifted its strategy for reducing inflation in December 1978.
By preannouncing ever smaller adjustments in the exchange rate, public
sector tariffs, wages, and credit from domestic sources, it was planned
to (i) reverse inflationary expectations, and (ii) lower costs of major
domestic and imported inputs. A reduction of external tariffs was introduced
to provide additional support by simultaneously increasing competition and
improving resource allocation. In addition to achieving greater stability
it was hoped that recovery from the 1978 recession would occur. To achieve
growth the authorities maintained rapid expansion of money supply and credit
in real terms. Since the exchange rate was predetermined, monetary policy
was to play a passive role, adjusting smoothly to the demand for money. The
exchange rate policy became the crucial variable in the inflationary fight in
1979, but whereas the authorities had expected a gradual converging of the
rate of inflation and the rate of devaluation, the gap remained substantial,
leading to continued revaluation in real terms of the Argentine peso. The
reaction to this development is only slowly emerging. Imports have increased
but are still hardly above their 1974/75 level in real terms, export growth
has slowed down but the first semester of 1979 saw exports reach US$3.8 bil-
lion, a value equal to the 1974/76 average for a whole year.
Current Situation of the Economy
12.       Economic activity recovered during the last quarter of 1978 and
expanded more rapidly during the first semester of 1979. Stimulted by public
sector outlays, which spilled over into both consumption and investment, GDP
grew by an annual rate of 5% at the end of 1978 and by 11% during the first
semester of 1979. As,a consequence of the rather widespread resumption of
activities, the high GDP of the mid-1970s was surpassed for the first time
since 1976. The leading sectors in the current recovery are: basic industries
(paper, chemicals and steel) and mining activities. In addition, a strong
increase in the production of machinery and equipment has begun to take place
despite the gradual lowering of external tariffs on capital goods. Although
at a somewhat slower pace than in the 1976/78 period, agriculture continued
its expansion stimulated by high international prices and continued strong
international demand for Argentina's major export products. As a consequence,
the current account balance for the first semester of 1979 shows again a
sizeable surplus of over US$800 million. Together with a large capital inflow
of US$1.6 billion, which was induced by the interest rate differential in
Argentina and international credit markets, net foreign reserves reached
US$7.5 billion in June 1979.
13.       While the recovery seems strong and sustainable, little progress
has been made on the goal of price stabilization. Inflation continues to
remain high at an annual rate of over 150%, averaging 8.8% per month between
January and July 1979. International inflation, which was especially important
for beef, Argentina's major item in the cost-of-living index, played an
important role in the recent acceleration of inflation. In addition,
strong domestic demand and a high degree of liquidity in financial markets



-5 -
kept inflation at a high level.  It will take time and continuous action
to reduce trade barriers to have competition felt in Argentina's markets.
Although the strong current balance-of-payments and international reserve
position will make it possible for the authorities to pursue the current
stabilization strategy for some time it will be important to manage the
external account in such a way that the transition from a large surplus
in the current account to a deficit is matched by an inflow of long-term
capital on appropriate terms, once international reserves are drawn down
to a lower level.
The Strategy for Reconstruction and Growth
14.       While the Government's stabilization program has encountered un-
expected obstacles in reducing the rate of inflation, it has been accompanied
by a broad range of measures aimed at restructuring the economy. These
measures, which should lay the foundation for renewed and solid future growth,
seek to: (a) increase investment, output, and efficiency in the directly
productive sectors, and (b) improve public sector efficiency and modernize
the country's infrastructure, especially in the strategically important energy
sector. Agricultural policy has improved that sector's position in inter-
national markets by reducing or eliminating internal distortions in factor
and product markets and by allowing international prices and internal compe-
tition to stimulate production and investment.  In order to raise industrial
efficiency, the Government has started to increase gradually the industrial
sector's exposure to international competition. The first step consisted
of eliminating most of the import prohibitions and correcting and unifying
exchange rates. As a second step, a new industrial promotion law was
introduced, rationalizing and increasing the effectiveness of the incentives
for decentralization of industrial activity. Third, a tariff reform was
initiated in 1976: import duties were cut from an average of 90% to 50% for
nominal and 130% to 60% for effective rates of protection. A narrowing of
the wide dispersion of effective protection is one of the major features of
a recently published five-year program which will lower further the average
nominal external tariff to 25% by 1983.
15.       The authorities have been particularly active in reshapinig the
structure of energy supply in Argentina. In the petroleum industry, national
companies, both private and public, are concentrating their efforts on areas
near existing fields or on new areas with good prospects, leaving the more
difficult and costly offshore exploration to foreign companies. Increased
substitution of natural gas for oil is under way so as to utilize more fully
the large gas reserves in the south of the country. The Government's medium-
to long-term energy policy aims at meeting domestic requirements to the extent
possible through local sources. To that end, several new hydroelectric
projects are either under construction or planned; the most important of which
is the proposed Yacyreta project. In addition, crude oil output during
1978-85 is to be increased by nearly 5% per annum, and similar increases are
envisaged for natural gas, coal and nuclear power. These targets laave been
incorporated into a National Energy Plan for the period 1977-85. The power
investment program through 1985 is currently being extended to the year 2000
in order to define the least cost solutions for long term investments.



-6 -
16.       In order to strengthen domestic resource mobilization and to
rationalize public sector finances, a reform of the financial and fiscal
systems has been undertaken. Special emphasis has been placed on restoring
the financial viability of provincial governments and state enterprises which
accounted for much of the public deficit in recent years. Twenty-six private
enterprises acquiired by previous administrations are being returned to private
ownership or are being liquidated. Stringent cost cutting measures have
reduced significantly the large deficit of the Argentine Railways. Additional
taxes were introduced at the national level and important improvements in tax
administration were carried out. A new program was created in the Ministry
of Economy to rationalize public sector investment planning and to develop a
medium-term public investment program. Taken in their entirety, the measures
adopted by the new Government represent a major shift in the Argentine develop-
ment strategy which, when fully implemented, should lay the foundation for a
smaller but more effective public sector in Argentina.
Growth and Balance-of-Payments Projections
17.       Prospects for growth of the Argentine economy are favorable in 1980
and thereafter. Price and trade policies aimed at opening up the economy are
expected to bring about a reorganization of the productive sector in order
to increase economic efficiency and stimulate growth. The participation of
international trade in GDP, which grew significantly in the last three years,
is expected to expand further. It will, however, take a number of years to
achieve these objectives, partly because of their inherent complexity and
partly because public support can be sustained only if social costs of the
adjustment process are held within tolerable limits.
18.       Exports have grown over the past three years at an average rate of
25% per year, a rate which is unlikely to be sustainable. Although expansion
in the immediate future is expected to be more gradual, export prospects
appear to be excellent over the longer term. Total export earnings are
projected to increase by an average of 5-6% annually in real terms through
1985. About 80% of that increase would be generated by agriculture and
agro-industry and about 20% by the manufacturing sector. The outlook for
world prices of Argentina's export products is favorable and their current
value should grow at 7% annually between 1979 and 1985. Modernization
of infrastructure and industry, and with it growth of GDP through the early
eighties, will require the volume of imports to increase rapidly, estimated
at 13% annually. The current dollar value of imports is projected to increase
by close to 20% per annum through 1985, if import prices are to rise with
world inflation. The current account balance is projected to turn negative
between 1981 and 1985. Given Argentina's heavy debt service payments, and the
need to continue to improve the structure of its external debt, considerable
gross inflows of medium- and long-term capital will be required, increasing
from US$2.0 billion in 1978 to US$4.4 billion in 1985. The bulk of these
capital requirements are expected to be available from bilateral arrangements,
export credits, world capital markets, and direct private investments.
Official multilateral sources, however, should play an important role by
providing capital combined with technical assistance and by stimulating
capital flows from other sources.



-7-
Debt Service and Creditworthiness
19.       Argentina's external public or publicly guaranteed debt at the end
of 1978 was estimated to be US$5.4 billion (disbursed only), an increase of
about Ub$480 million froL.  977.  ThaL Uabt has been substantially restructured
during the three years of the current Government. Short-term debt including
"swaps" has been replaced by longer term obligations. During 1978 Argentina
terminated its standby agreement with the IMF, and the Central Bank repaid' its
total external debt, which it had contracted in 1976 for balance-of-payments
support.
20.       In mid-1978, Argentina's total outstanding debt was estimated to be
US$7.8 billion; the US$600 million increase over the 1977 level was due to
an equal expansion of public and private sector credit. External public and
total debt service ratios, which had been 27% and 37%, respectively, in 1975
have declined to an average of 17% and 27%, respectively, in 1977 anad 1978.
Despite large borrowings envisaged over the next several years, these ratios
are projected to stay relatively constant until 1984 and then decline to
about 13% and 26%, respectively, in the mid-80s, because of export increases
and continuing improvement of the term structure of the country's external
debt. Under these circumstances and given the maintenance of sound policies,
Argentina should have no difficulty in servicing the substantial external
borrowing required during the reconstruction period and beyond.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
Bank Operations
21.       Past Bank lending to Argentina has been sporadic because of periodic
macroeconomic difficulties and unsatisfactory sector policies, along with
delays and problems in complying with specific project conditions. After a
hiatus of five years, lending was resumed in September 1976. Since that date,
the Bank has made loans for six projects amounting to US$581.0 million.
Projects financed by the Bank before 1971 are practically completed. During
the past two years, Bank assistance directed to major infrastructure projects
and to the provision of credit for productive sectors has helped Argentina
through the initial stabilization effort. The agricultural credit project
provides credit and technical assistance for on-farm investments, weed control
and land clearing to bring about an increase in agricultural output. The
grain storage project will enable Argentina to obtain better prices for
agricultural products and to export them in a more orderly manner throughout
the year. The industrial credit project supports the modernization and
expansion of efficient industry in general and export oriented industry in
particular. The electric transmission and distribution project, the fourth
highway project and the second railways project provide part of the infrastruc-
ture necessary to facilitate agricultural and industrial expansion. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of July 31, 1979, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.



-8
22.       The Bank's approach to assist Argentina in the recent years was
to participate in a limited number of relatively large loans. Now that
the Government has broadened its policies beyond stabilization to address
structural and institutional constraints in the productive and social sectors,
its task has become more complex. Somewhat more diversified Bank lending
will be required to respond to the Government's request for assistance in
areas critical for Argentina's future economic and social development.
23.       Such a program would follow a three-pronged strategy of assistance.
The Bank would finance projects to help, first, reform Argentina's economic
structure and make it more competitive; second, strengthen key public institu-
tions and support rational sector policies; and, third, address some social
problems. Projects in industry would aim predominantly at restructuring
the sector by concentrating the development of industrial capacity in areas
where Argentina has a comparative advantage or the ability to compete at world
market prices. Bank involvement in the agricultural sector would aim at helping
consolidate recent policies and supporting the Government's infrastructure
investment program in areas where Argentina possesses a clear comparative
advantage which has not yet been fully utilized. There is still considerable
scope for changes in production technology and for extending the agricultural
frontier outside of the Pampas.
24.       With the decline in effective protection, input costs have become
critical factors in determining the competitiveness of Argentina's productive
sector in international markets. Energy and transport are particularly
important cost components. Further projects are expected in the energy sector
to help develop the potential of the water resources shared by Argentina and
its neighbors and the domestic water resources commensurate with the needs
of an expanding economy, as well as in the railways and the ports sectors to
improve the handling capacity and efficiency of the respective modes, thus
mitigating the adverse effect of Argentina's geographical location on interna-
tional trade.
25.       Virtually all projects under consideration would have important
institution building objectives. Because of managerial weaknesses and political
constraints, most of Argentina's key public enterprises and agencies have been
unable to implement sound investment and operating policies. Projects in
support of Government efforts to redress this situation would be mainly in
the transport, energy and social sectors. In close consultation with the
Bank, the Government has initiated a comprehensive program of redimensioning
the railway system that has already resulted in impressive improvements. The
port authorities also suffer from institutional and organizational weaknesses
which need to be redressed to handle efficiently the expected rapid growth of
Argentina's foreign trade. In the electric energy sector, the Government has
prepared, in close cooperation with the Bank, a least cost investment program,
made several important tariff decisions, and initiated a process to streamline
the organization of the sector. Continued Bank association with the sector
would aim at consolidating these measures and carrying them further.
26.       Bank involvement in water supply and sewerage, regional development
and technical education, would help formulate sector policies and strengthen
institutions which are not fully equipped to handle efficiently new or larger



-9 -
tasks which the Government intends to entrust to them. Bank support: in the
water supply and sewerage sector would include measures to upgrade t:he planning
and implementing capacity of pertinent Government and provincial agencies.
The Bank would also assist in the decentralization policy of the Government
through participation in the regional development sector. Bank support would
relate to formulation of investment plans, preparation of budgets, proposals
on revenue sharing and upgrading of local managerial and organizational capacity.
The Bank is planning to assist in redefining the role and policies of the
National Council for Technical Education and Vocational Training in response
to the needs resulting from the reorientation of industry.
IFC Operations
27.       As of July 31, 1979, IFC had made 14 loans to borrowers in Argentina
totalling US$99.2 million and one equity investment of US$2.5 million, of which
US$44.6 million have been repaid, cancelled or sold. A summary of IFC's invest-
ments up to July 31, 1979, is shown in Annex II.
PART III - THE ELECTRIC POWER SECTOR
Use and Development of Energy Resources
28.       The energy generated by the proposed project would be owr,ed jointly
by Paraguay and Argentina. Paraguay's public electric power systenm serves
about 35% of the 2.7 million inhabitants; average annual per capita consumption
is only 110 kWh. Total installed public service capacity in 1977 wEas 268 MW,
of which 190 MW corresponded to Acaray Hydroelectric plant on the Acaray
River, and 78 MW to thermal plants; captive plant capacity amounted to 14.4
MW. Total public service consumption in 1977 was 365 GWh, 76% of which was
consumed in Asuncion, the capital. Existing installations will be able to
meet the needs of Paraguay until 1985/86; and beyond that, the power needs
of Paraguay are expected to be supplied by the Itaipu Hydroelectric project
(Brazil-Paraguay, also on the Parana River), since the Itaipu Treaty specifies
lower energy cost for Paraguay than does the Yacyreta Treaty. In any case,
Paraguay's power needs as currently foreseen are minimal compared to the total
estimated output of these plants. In the foreseeable future, all the output
of the Yacyreta project is expected to be consumed by Argentina -- i.e.
Paraguay is expected to sell its share of the output to Argentina - and
consequently, only Argentina's power sector has been analyzed in detail for
the preparation of this project.
29.       Argentina is highly electrified compared to other Latin American
countries. About 80% of the 26 million inhabitants have access to electric
energy with a per capita consumption of 1050 kWh in 1977. Total public
service consumption increased at an annual rate of 8.4% from 1962 to 1975.
Growth rate slowed down to 5% for 1976, reflecting the difficult economic
situation faced by the country. During this period, industrial consumption
increased annually at about 11%, residential and commercial at about 7.0%
and others at 6.2%. In 1975, industry accounted for 44.2%, residential
32.1%, commercial 10.8% and others 12.9% of total consumption. The planned
installation of a number of electricity-intensive industries is expected to
increase the proportion of electricity consumed by industry in the future.



- 10 -
30.       Petroleum accounted for about 64% of total primary consumption
of energy in Argentina, natural gas 23%, hydroelectric energy 4.6%, nuclear
power 1%, coal 2.5% and wood products and sugar cane bagasse 5%. This pattern
is in marked contrast to the mix of Argentina's energy resources 1/ where the
hydroelectric potential corresponds to about 67% of the total, with 10% and
7%, respectively, to known reserves of oil and natural gas. Argentina's
hydroelectric resources are estimated to reach at least 45,000 MW capacity,
but most of these are relatively high-cost and far from the load centers.
Only about 4% or 1,800 MW has been developed so far while another 8% of the
hydroelectric potential is being tapped through projects under construction.
In 1976 and 1977, Argentina spent about US$500 million yearly on imports of
oil and gas. To increase domestic production of oil and gas, the Argentine
Government is attempting to improve productivity of the existing wells and to
increase exploration. Argentina's proven coal reserves, which are minor and
located far from consumption areas, are not expected to be an important factor
in the country's energy policy.
31.       Argentina was the first Latin American country to develop a nuclear
energy program (based on natural uranium fuel), and commissioned its first unit
of 340 MW in 1974. A second unit of 644 MW is being installed and is expected
to be commissioned by 1982/83. Installation of additional units is planned
at a rate of about one every five years. Argentina has a sizeable potential
for non-conventional energy such as tidal, geothermal, solar and wind energy,
with perhaps a major potential for developing tidal energy. However, much more
research is needed before these non-conventional resources can be exploited
commercially and none is likely to contribute significantly to Argentina's
energy production in the foreseeable future.
Power Sector Organization
32.       In 1977, total installed capacity in Argentina was about 9,300 MW
of which 7,324 MW corresponded to public service generation. The latter
consisted of steam turbines 51%, gas turbines 18%, nuclear generation 5% and
hydroelectric plants 26%. To avoid dependence on imported oil, the Argentine
Government has decided to increase the proportion of hydroelectric and nuclear
capacity in the short- and medium-term and to focus on nuclear power once the
accessible hydro sites have been exhausted. Investments corresponding to the
major power sector entities, AyEE, SEGBA, HIDRONOR, CNEA and CTMSG and the
national transmission system for the period 1978-1985 amount to US$8,650
million in December 1977 prices. Realizing this high level of investment would
depend on the availability of local financing and the compliance with the
basic assumptions underlying the financing plan for the sector (paragraph 60).
33.       The Argentine Government, through its various subdivisions, owns
virtually all major generation and transmission facilities. The Secretariat
of Energy controls SEGBA, HIDRONOR and AyEE; the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
controls the Argentine representation in the two binational entities, YACYRETA
and Comision Tecnica Mixta de Salto Grande (CTMSG); the Presidency controls
the Nuclear Energy Commission (CNEA). The provincial governments control the
two main provincial electric utilities in the provinces of Cordoba and Buenos
1/   Measured over a 50-year period.



Aires. To ensure the most economical use of facilities to meet day-t:o-day
load conditions, energy produced by these utilities is subject to a central
dispatching system, Despacho Unificado de Carga (DUC), coordinated by AyEE.
34.       The fragmented organization has resulted in a number of uncoordinated
and suboptimum investment decisions. To improve future decision-mak:ing, the
Government is preparing a sector organization study and a study of the national
power expansion program through the year 2000. These studies, financed by.
Loan 1330-AR to SEGBA, are expected to be completed by end-1979. As a first
step to rational sector organization, the Secretariat of Energy has submitted,
for approval by pertinent Argentine Government authorities, a plan whereby it
will be empowered to centralize planning, sector finances and the setting of
tariffs. In the long-term, the sector would be reorganized so that bulk genera-
tion and transmission would be the responsibility of one or more national
institutions such as HIDRONOR and a modified AyEE, and subtransmission,
distribution and sales to ultimate consumers, of provincial distribution
entities. The Argentine Government would exchange views with the Bank from
time to time on the evolution of its power sector organization (Section 5.09
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Power Sector Finances
35.       The financial situation of the power sector deteriorated sharply
between 1970 and 1976, because of inadequate adjustments in electricity rates
and a significant drop in productivity. During this period, the annual rates
of return on net fixed assets in operation of the two largest entities, SEGBA
and AyEE were far below the 8% stipulated in their respective concessions.
In 1976, the internal cash generation and the proceeds of the Electrical Funds
accounted for only 19% of total investments for the five major sector entities,
which resulted in a sharp increase in their short-term borrowings. These
problems were addressed during the preparation of the ongoing loan to SEGBA,
but because of continued inflation, SEGBA was unable to earn the covenanted
8% rate of return as stipulated in its concession in 1977. With tariff
increases of about 50% in December 1977 and monthly increases of about 6% in
1978, operating incomes of the five major entities improved significantly.
In particular, SEGBA increased its operating income from US$24 in 1977 to
US$105 million in 1978 and its rate of return reached 8% on a monthLy basis.
However, because of the high inflation rate, on an annual basis using year-end
values for its rate base as required by its concession, SEGBA's rate of return
was only about 5%.  The Bank has not insisted on an 8% return based on a
literal application of SEGBA's concession in view of the satisfactory financial
prospects of SEGBA and the sector as a whole. For 1979, the Argentine Govern-
ment has authorized fixed monthly rate increases which would be in line with
cost increases provided the Government's goals regarding inflation are met
(paragraph 60).
Power Tariff Regulation
36.       The tariffs charged by the major utilities SEGBA, HIDRONOR and AyEE
are approved by the Secretariat of Energy and those of the provincial enter-
prises by the respective provincial governments. CNEA's tariffs are set



- 12 -
so as to make them compatible with those charged by HIDRONOR. Currently, the
levels and structure of tariffs of the different utilities are not uniform
because of historical and regional distortions. Tariff levels frequently were
kept low because of political considerations so that in the last two decades,
internal cash generation contributed only marginally to sector expansion.
Because of inadequate tariffs, SEGBA and AyEE have had to rely heavily on
foreign and local borrowings to expand their distribution systems. To finance
investments by the major sector entities, in particular for the construction
of the Chocon and Salto Grande hydroelectric plants by HIDRONOR and CTMSG,
respectively, the Argentine Government instituted surcharges on hydrocarbons
and electricity sales and established various Electrical Funds. The Government
has decided to maintain the Electrical Funds after existing commitments with
the major entities have been met, e.g., the completion of the Chocon and Salto
Grande plants, and make these resources available for the financing of the
Yacyreta project (paragraph 59). Besides the surcharges, a variety of municipal
and other taxes are charged which tend to distort the levels of tariffs in
different regions of the country; based on the results of the sector organi-
zation study (paragraph 35), the Government intends to decrease these distor-
tions.
37.       In general, the current pattern of price levels within the different
consumer categories is reasonable; large residential consumers subsidize the
low prices paid by the small residential consumers. However, the relative
levels of industrial tariffs appear to be high when compared with those of
other Latin American countries and the Argentine Government has received
numerous complaints from the industrialists. To maintain tariff levels in
real terms, the Government has granted the major utilities monthly increases
averaging about 6% since the beginning of 1978. By varying these monthly
increases among different categories, e.g., increasing residential tariffs
more than industrial tariffs, the Government is correcting imbalances between
the prices paid by various categories of consumers.
38.       At present, there is no consistent approach to the revaluation
of power sector assets which is an important factor in determining tariff
levels. As part of the sector organization study, the Argentine Government
is formulating a method for the revaluation of assets in accordance with sound
economic and financial principles and taking into account both local and
international inflation. The Government would exchange views with the Bank
on the new method and apply it to SEGBA, AyEE, and HIDRONOR for corrective
revaluation of assets in 1981 and 1982 so as to achieve in 1982 realistic
current values of their respective fixed assets. The Government would cause
the entities to revalue their fixed assets annually thereafter (Sections 5.04
and 5.05(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Past Bank Activities in the Power Sector
39.       The Bank has made 5 loans to Argentina's power sector, 4 of which
were to SEGBA to help finance a thermal generation plant, and transmission,
sub-transmission and distribution equipment and one to HIDRONOR for the
construction of the Chocon Hydroelectric project. The four loans to SEGBA,
in addition to helping build up its physical facilities, assisted in improving
its efficiency and financial position, albeit less than had been targeted.



- 13 -
Also, through the last of these loans, the Bank helped Argentina to improve
sector organization and planning, an effort which would be continued through
this project. Project performance audit reports have been distributed to the
Executive Director on the first four loans. 1/ These reports conclude that
while the physical objectives of the projects were largely met, the financial
objectives were not. Hence, the Bank held intensive discussions on this problem
with the Argentine Government during 1976 and 1977. Since the beginning of
1978, the Government has implemented a more realistic pricing policy for all
energy products including electric energy.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The project was appraised by a joint Bank/IDB mission which visited
Argentina in July/August 1978. A report, entitled "Staff Appraisal Report
Argentina-Paraguay Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project," No. 2342-AR dated
September 21, 1979 is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
A loan and project summary is presented in Annex III. Negotiations were held
in Washington from March 26 to April 6, 1979, and in Buenos Aires from April
25-30, 1979. The Argentine Government delegation was headed by Mr. Bernardo
Bronstein, Undersecretary of Hydroelectric and Thermal Energy, Ministry of
Economy, and YACYRETA was represented by Mr. Hugo Lamonica, Financial Director
and Mr. Magno Fereira Falcon, Adjunct Financial Director. The Paraguayan
Government delegation was headed by Mr. Cesar Romeo Acosta, President, Central
Bank.
41.       The consideration of the proposed loan by the Executive Directors,
originally planned for'June 1979, was delayed to allow for the resolution of
complex issues on dam alignment and financial compensation between the Govern-
ments ofArgentina and Paraguay. These issues were eventually resolved and the
two Governments signed side letters to the Yacyreta Treaty on August 30, 1979,
in which the final agreements were incorporated. The dam alignment remains
virtually unchanged from the one appraised.
Project Description and Objectives
42.       The main objective of the project is to provide additional least-
cost base-load hydroelectric energy of up to 17,500 GWh annually when completed
in 1990. The project would also improve navigation on the Parana River by
eliminating the rapids of Apipe, facilitate future irrigation projects for
Argentina in the provinces of Misiones and Corrientes and for Paraguay in the
Department of Itapua, and augment the fishery industry of the region. Further-
more, the Bank's continued involvement in the sector through the project would
assist Argentina in promoting important sector-wide policy measures including
sector organization, long range planning for generation and transmission
facilities, rationalization of tariff levels and structures and institutional
improvements.
1/   Loans 308-AR and 525-AR, see IBRD Report No. Z-17/1
Loan 577-AR, see Sec M 76-772
Loan 644-AR, see Sec M 76-121



- 14 -
43.       The Yacyreta project is located on the Parana River, about 80 km
downstream from the towns of Posadas (Argentina) and Encarnacion (Paraguay)
(Map No. IBRD 14128) and comprises:
(a)  approximately 7n km of earth dam with uniform elevation above
sea-level of 86 m, and a maximum height of 33 m, and Aguapey,
Tacuary, Caragueta and San Martin dikes, creating a reservoir
with total storage capacity of about 21,000 Hm3;
(b) two spillways with a total discharge capacity of 95,000 m3/sec;
(c) a conventional covered power house with 20 Kaplan turbines of
135 MW each and 20 generators of 150 MWA each, transformers,
associated equipment and intake structures for 10 additional
units;
(d) fish passage facilities;
(e) a navigation lock for ships with a maximum of 12 ft draft;
(f) irrigation intakes, one in each country (for irrigation
infrastructure to be designed and built by the corresponding
national authorities);
(g) ancillary works including housing for personnel during and after
construction, about 90 km of access roads, and relocated infra-
structure, a bridge about 1,500 m long over the Ana Cua branch
of the river; and
(h) resettlement of about 33,000 persons on both riverbanks as
the result of the creation of the main reservoir.
In addition, the proposed Bank loan would finance two studies to be carried
out by the Argentine Secretariat of Energy for the design of the future
national transmission system and the use of small-hydroelectric power plants
in isolated regions.
Transmission System
44.       The construction of the Argentine high-voltage transmission system,
related to the Yacyreta project, is the responsibility of the Argentine
Government through AyEE. Although the system does not form a part of the
binational project and would not be financed by the proposed Bank loan, it
has been analyzed and its costs have been estimated to be about US$512 million
for the purpose of the project's economic analysis (paragraph 81). The
Argentine Government would prepare a financial plan for its construction
within 12 months after the signing of the Loan Agreement and construct the
system when and as needed for the transmission of the power generated by the
project (Section 5.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
The Beneficiary
45.       The Yacyreta Treaty between Argentina and Paraguay was signed on
December 3, 1973 and YACYRETA was formally established on September 6, 1974 for
the execution, maintenance and operation of the project. YACYRETA is responsible
for making all financing arrangements and for the resettlement of the people
affected by the creation of the reservoir. As a binational entity, it has
headquarters in Buenos Aires and Asuncion. Its statutes, contained in the
Yacyreta Treaty, are satisfactory. YACYRETA is capitalized at US$100 million
to be equally shared between AyEE of Argentina and ANDE of Paraguay. Argentina
and Paraguay would agree on the method of valuation of the paid-in capital at
least six months before the plant starts operation (Section 6 of the draft
Owners Agreement).
46.       YACYRETA is administered by a Board of Directors (Consejo de Admi-
nistracion) and an Executive Committee. The Board of Directors, which consists
of 12 members (6 for each country) appointed by the two Governments for a
4-year period, establishes the general policies of the Entity and approves
important proposals made by the Executive Committee such as loan contracts and
the annual budget. Decisions are taken with a majority of votes and in case
of a tie, are submitted for consideration by the two Governments.
47.       The 12-member Executive Committee is in charge of the day-to-day
management of YACYRETA. It is appointed by the two Governments for 5-year
periods and consists of the Executive Director and the Directors for the
legal, technical, administrative, financial and coordination directorates and
their respective alternates. The two Governments agreed that the Executive,
Technical and Financial Directors would be Argentine and the Legal, Adminis-
trative and Coordination Directors be Paraguayan and vice-versa for their
respective alternates until 1983 when the positions would be reversed. The
Executive Committee meets at least twice a month and decisions are taken with
a majority of votes. YACYRETA's organizational structure and definition of
responsibilities have been reviewed by the Bank and, taking into account the
constraints imposed with regards to staffing and decision-making procedures by
its binational character, were found acceptable.
48.       YACYRETA's staff as of December 31, 1978 numbered 375 persons,
approximately equally distributed between the Buenos Aires and Asuncion
offices. YACYRETA has been able to attract qualified and experienced staff
based on competitive salaries and benefit levels.
Project Execution
49.       The preparation of the designs and bidding documents for the main
civil works and the electromechanical equipment has been completed.  The
engineering and design of transport infrastructure to be relocated are well
advanced. Preparation for the relocation and resettlement of people affected
by the creation of the main reservoir is well advanced (paragraph 77).
Article VI of the Yacyreta Treaty requires that prior to the beginning of any
construction, the common boundary of the two countries be demarcated. It is a
condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan that Argentina and Paraguay would



- 16 -
have taken initial measures satisfactory to the Bank with respect to Article
VI for the purposes of the project (Section 7.01 (d)) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Argentina and Paraguay would take all necessary measures to
ensure the demarcation of their common boundary in the project area six months
before taking any project related action which would alter the natural course
of the Parana River (Section 5 of the draft Owners Agreement).
50.        YACYRETA has decided to continue using the services of Harza
Engineering Co. (USA), Lahmeyer International (Germany) and their Argentine
and Paraguayan associates through a new consortium, Consultores Internacionales
de Yacyreta (CIDY), for the technical supervision of the execution of the
project. YACYRETA intends to oversee CIDY with a small group of qualified
professionals who would be stationed at the project site. YACYRETA would
also hire a group of well-known international experts, satisfactory to the
Bank, in different disciplines such as geology and hydraulics during the
execution of the project. The specialists will review the concept and the
adequacy of the design of the dam and related structures and conduct periodic
reviews during construction (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
Also, one year before the completion of the construction, YACYRETA will propose
for Bank review appropriate procedures for periodic inspection and maintenance
of the dam and related structures (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Project Agree-
ment). The execution of the main civil works contract will commence with the
mobilization of the contractor in November 1980 and will be completed in June
1990 when the last of the 20 generating units will have been installed.
Cost Estimates
51.        The total cost of the project, net of the Argentine sector studies
(US$3.75 million) and financial charges, is estimated at US$3,781.0 million
equivalent in current dollars 1/, including a foreign cost component of
US$1,519.2 million. The original cost estimate by Harza, Lahmeyer and
Associates was verified by A.A. Mathews, Inc., a US consulting firm at the
end of 1977. The cost estimates for the main civil works contract were based
on an analysis of unit prices of labor, equipment and materials and on quanti-
ties derived from the engineering analysis. Reasonable values of general
expenses and mark-up by the contractor were then added.
52.        The cost of the electromechanical equipment was estimated on the
basis of recent bids and information from well known international manufac-
turers. The cost of the preliminary works was estimated on the basis of
recently awarded local bids. The cost estimates for the relocation of infra-
structure and the resettlement of about 33,000 persons, given the early status
of the design of the different components, included a higher than usual physical
contingency of 20%. Estimates were made for (a) the cost of replacement, used
in the economic analyses, and (b) the additional costs of improvements in the
infrastructure works and in the living standard of the people affected by the
project as agreed between the Governments of Argentina and Paraguay. The
latter cost would be financed by loans from the Electrical Funds.
1/   A delay of six months in the prequalification process of the main
civil works contractor and the further delays referred to in paragraph
41 have added about US$150 million (6%) to the construction cost of
the project because of price escalation.



- 17 -
53.       The costs of engineering and supervision are based on the contract,
satisfactory to the Bank and to IDB, with CIDY. Average man-month costs have
been estimated at US$6,000 for foreign consultants and US$4,000 for local
consultants. The administration costs during the construction period were
estimated based on YACYRETA's 1978 budget.
54.       Physical contingencies were 15% for civil works, 8% for eLectro-
mechanical equipment, 20% for relocation and resettlement, and 12% lEor
engineering and supervision.  Price contingencies adopted for the foreign cost
component were for equipment, 7.0% for 1978, 6.5% for 1979 and 6.0% annually
thereafter, and for civil works, 8.0% in 1978, 7.5% for 1979 and 7.0% annually
thereafter.  These figures give a total foreign cost price escalation of
36% over the construction period. Price contingencies for the local cost
component were based on a detailed analysis of fifteen different elements that
enter in the local cost structure for the project. Until 1990, annual price
contingencies used are 9.4% for labor, 6.0% for steel and 3.2% for cement.
Total local cost price escalation over the construction period on equivalent
dollar basis has been estimated to be 43%.
Financing Plan
55.       Total financial requirements for the Yacyreta project over the
1978-1991 period are estimated at US$7,038 million consisting of the estimated
cost of the project of US$3,783 million and debt service of US$3,255 million
of which US$1,611 million would be for amortization and US$1,644 million would
be for interest payments. Total foreign exchange requirements are estimated
at US$4,107 million, or 58% of the total. Foreign sources of finarLcing,
including the Bank, IDB, export credits and foreign commercial banks are
expected to cover 31% Qf total financial requirements during the period.
Local sources of financing, including capital contributions, Electrical Funds,
local banks, and revenues from power sales after 1986, are expected to provide
the remainder.
56.       The proposed Bank loan of US$210 million would have a maturity of
15 years, including 6 years of grace or twice the normal grace per:Lod for
Argentina in view of the 10-year construction period of the proposed project
and the need to minimize refinancing before the project starts to generate
revenues.  The loan would be made to The Argentine Republic which has under-
taken to provide all the financing and loan guarantees required to execute the
project. US$1.75 million of the loan would finance 50% of the cost of studies
to be undertaken by the Argentine Government; US$208.25 million would be relent,
on the same terms as the Bank loan, to YACYRETA, which will assume the exchange
risk. These relending terms will be specified in a subsidiary loan agreement
to be entered into by Argentina and YACYRETA on the same day as the Bank loan.
The proceeds of the Bank loan and the joint IDB loan would each finance 50% of
the foreign exchange cost of engineering and supervision between 1980 and 1986
and about 38% of the foreign exchange cost of the main civil works contract
net of the cost of heavy construction equipment.



- 18 -
57.       The IDB loan of US$210 million to YACYRETA, approved by its Board
in December 1978, would have a maturity of 20 years including 6 years of
grace. As in past joint loans, a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Bank loan would be that YACYRETA has met all conditions prior to the initial
disbursement of the IDB loan (Section 7.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Aside from special conditions similar to those of the Bank, IDB's requirements
are those standard for its loans. The foreign exchange cost of the heavy
construction, generation and electro-mechanical equipment estimated to be
about US$830 million would be financed by export credits with average terms of
about 18 years including 8 to 10 years of grace at 7.75% interest per annum.
In October 1978, YACYRETA received preliminary letters of intent from the
major supplier countries. Master credit agreements, finalizing the terms and
conditions of the export credits, are expected to be signed with each country
concerned during 1980.
58.       Loans from foreign commercial banks, totalling about US$945 million
between 1980-1984, would be used to finance about US$541 million of direct
project expenditures including US$430 million of local costs and to meet
foreign debt service requirements of about US$404 million. Part of these
borrowings are expected to be associated with the Bank's loan through co-
financing arrangements (paragraph 61). The Argentine Government has authorized
YACYRETA to borrow from abroad to finance local expenditures. As a condition
of loan effectiveness, YACYRETA would submit to the Bank satisfactory evidence
that financing from foreign commercial sources for 1980 and 1981, as required
in the financing plan, would be available (Section 7.01(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
59.       Local financial resources consist mostly of loans from the Electrical
Funds of about US$2,610 million equivalent and electricity sales starting in
1986 of about US$1,880 million equivalent, which together contribute about
64% of the total financial requirement up to 1991. About US$2,180 million
equivalent will be used between 1985 and 1991 to service foreign currency
debt; this would be compatible with Argentina's expected balance-of-payments
position. The Argentine Government would ensure that YACYRETA will be provided
during the period 1979-1991 promptly as needed and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank: (a) at least US$2.7 billion equivalent (current
dollars) from the Electrical Funds; and (b) such additional funds as would be
necessary (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). The terms of the
loans from the Electrical Funds as used in the financial projections provide
for the deferment of most of the debt service up to 1990 (paragraph 66). In
addition, YACYRETA has been authorized by the Argentine Government to obtain
at least US$300 million equivalent from local banks for local expenditures
(Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). 1/
60.       The availability of resources from the Electrical Fuads for the
proposed project would depend on the financial performance of the five major
sector entities, AyEE, SEGBA, HIDRONOR, CNEA and CTMSG, in particular, their
1/   The cost increase referred to above (see page 16, footnote 1) would
be covered by additional borrowings from the export credit agencies
(US$50 million) and from the Electrical Funds (US$100 million).



- 19 -
ability to finance their respective investment programs through adequate
internal cash generation. As part of the power expansion program study
financed under the Bank's loan to SEGBA (Loan 1330-AR), the Argentine Govern-
ment prepared investment plans and financial projections for these entities
based on the following assumptions:
(a) tariff increases sufficient to allow for a return of not less than
8% on revalued fixed assets (paragraph 38) for HIDRONOR, CNEA and
CTMSG from 1979 onwards and rates of return of not less than 4% in
1979 and 6% in 1980 and 8% thereafter on revalued fixed assets for
AyEE (Section 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement);
(b) maintenance of SEGBA's tariffs at or close to their January 1979
levels in "real terms," i.e., adjustment of tariffs to keep them
within a maximum of 3% of changes in SEGBA's composite cost index,
through 1981 and increases sufficient to allow for annual returns of
8% on revalued fixed assets thereafter (Section 5.06 and Schedule 3
of the draft Loan Agreement); and
(c) institution of a transmission charge by December 1, 1979 to
compensate (mainly AyEE) for investments in and operation of
the national transmission system during the period 1979-1986
(Section 5.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The two largest entities, SEGBA and AyEE, would be permitted to obtain funds
on reasonable terms and conditions from foreign and local sources cls necessary
for their investment program (Section 5.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Private Co-Financing
61.       With the assistance of its financial advisers, First Boston Corpora-
tion, YACYRETA has prepared a strategy for obtaining the loans frolm commercial
sources (paragraph 58). YACYRETA has recently entered the Eurodollar (US$200
million 1/) and Japanese yen (US$25 million equivalent 2/) market for loans
totalling US$225 million equivalent to take advantage of the excepitionally
favorable terms and Argentina's credit rating which exist today. 'rhese loans,
expected to be finalized by November 1979 would not be associated with the
Bank's loan as a co-financing operation. Depending on market conditions, two
borrowings in early 1980 and 1982 are scheduled to be co-financing operations.
Because the international financial community has shown keen interest to
participate in the financing of this project, especially in association with
the proposed Bank loan, the Bank indicated its willingness to co-finance up
to US$500 million equivalent in up to three tranches. If and when such
co-financing operations materialize, the Executive Directors shall be provided
with full details and appropriate recommendations for amendments to the Bank
Loan Agreement. Also, YACYRETA is planning to obtain commercial bank loans of
about US$210 million equivalent in two tranches in early 1980 and 1982 through
the IDB's complementary financing scheme.
1/   Syndicated loan, 12 years including 6-1/2 years of grace, interest at
5/8% above LIBOR during the first 3 years and 3/4% thereafter, drawdown
by December 1981 with commitment fee of 3/8% on undisbursed portion.
2/   15 years including 12 years of grace, 8.2% per annum fixed raLte, immediate
drawdown.



- 20 --
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
62.       YACYRETA's present acc^-nting system would have to be strengthened
when major construction starts. Within one year of loan signature, YACYRETA
would report to the Bank on its accounting system, and, if considered necessary
by the Bank, hire consultants to make improvements (Section 4.03(b) of the
draft Project Agreement).
63.       YACYRETA's internal auditing section is satisfactory and its staff
will be increased along with the increase in the volume of transactions.
Starting in 1Q79, YACYRETA would have its accounts and financial statements
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The auditors'
report for 1980 will review the adequacy of the present accounting procedure
and propose changes if necessary; YACYRETA would discuss these recommenda-
tions with the Bank. YACYRETA would provide the Bank with its audited
statements not later than 4 months after the end of each fiscal year, and
such other reports as the Bank may reasonably request, including a project
completion report. The Argentine Government would prepare reports regarding
the studies undertaken by its Secretariat of Energy. In view of the importance
of the financial and general operational performance of the power sector in
general, and of AyEE, SEGBA, and HIDRONOR, in particular, on the overall
financing of the project (paragraph 60), during the construction period, the
Argentine Government would send the Bank, not later than 4 months after the
end of each year, a statement on these matters as requested by the Bank
(Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
64.       At the suggestion of the Bank and IDB, YACYRETA would hire by
November 30, 1979, an expert (or experts) to advise it on procuring the most
suitable type(s) of insurance and would discuss the expert's recommendations
with the Bank (Section 3.05(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
YACYRETA's Tariff and Sales
65.       The Yacyreta Treaty provides for a financial tariff, which would
cover YACYRETA's annual cash obligations. The main components are: (a) debt
service; (b) cash operating costs; (c) dividends to ANDE and AyEE of 12% per
annum on paid-in capital; (d) mandatory payments to ANDE and AyEE at the rate
of US$166 per GWh (in December 1973 prices to be indexed under the Treaty
formula); (e) adjustment for the balance in the prior year's cash flow.
66.       Given YACYRETA's projected heavy debt-service requirements averaging
US$450 million per year, this formula, if applied during the interim operational
period 1986-1990, would lead to wide fluctuations in YACYRETA's tariffs and
make a rational overall tariff policy for Argentina impossible. Hence, YACYRETA
would refinance part of its debt service during the interim period with loans
from the Electrical Funds. It is a condition of loan effectiveness that the
Argentine Government and YACYRETA would have reached agreement on the terms
and conditions, satisfactory to the Bank, of the loans from the Electrical
Funds (Section 7.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). Argentina and Paraguay
would send the Bank, six months before the plant enters into operation, a
program setting forth YACYRETA's rates for the interim operational period



- 21 -
(Section 6 of the draft Owners Agreement). In accordance with the Treaty, all
the power generated by the Yacyreta project would be purchased by AND]E and/or
AyEE or their local designatories under successive 8-year contracts. Since
Paraguay will be able to purchase energy at a lower cost from ItaiDu, AyEE of
Argentina is expected to be the sole buyer of YACYRETA's power in the foresee-
able future. By reselling its share of the power to Argentina, Paraguay would
receive "compensation payments" of US$2,998 per GWh (in 1973 dollars to be
indexed according to the Treaty formula) which would amount annually to about
US$30.2 million at full generation from 1990 onwards.
67.       Under the agreement reached on August 30, 1979, YACYRETA would pay
compensation for the flooding of Paraguayan and Argentine territories, once
the power plant was in full operation. From 1990 onwards, Paraguay would
receive some US$21 million per annum and Argentina some US$6 million per annum
(both in 1979 prices - adjusted annually to maintain its value in real terms).
This compensation will be paid by Argentina's power consumers in the form of
a special tariff surcharge representing only 0.5% of the tariff in 1990.
It is not expected to affect the demand growth, and will decrease thereafter
as power consumption grows. YACYRETA will only act, in substance, as an
agent for the transfer of these funds and therefore its financial viability,
which is protected by the terms of the Yacyreta Treaty, will not be affected.
YACYRETA's Financial Outlook
68.       Because of the Treaty's special financial provisions, YACYRETA's
finances cannot be assessed only on the basis of traditional financial criteria.
In spite of its reliance on borrowings, YACYRETA is free of major financial
risks due to the provisions of the Treaty which guarantee a market for the
electric power it generates, at prices sufficient to cover all of its cash
requirements.
69.       Terms and conditions assumed for YACYRETA's borrowings in t:he
financial plan are conservative estimates of what it should be able t:o obtain
over the next ten years. Each year, starting from 1980, YACYRETA would
provide the Bank, not later than October 31, a report on the medium and long
term debts contracted during the previous twelve months and the proposed
borrowings for the following twelve months (Section 4.05(a) of the draft
Project Agreement). YACYRETA would not accumulate, without the Bank"'s consent,
short-term debt (less than 1 year term), in excess of 10% of total debt during
the construction period or 100% of the total long-term debt contracted (exclud-
ing export credits) and undisbursed, whichever is greater (Section 4.05(b) of
the draft Project Agreement). Argentina and Paraguay would take measures
satisfactory to the Bank that any new project or expansion or modification of
the proposed project to be undertaken by YACYRETA will not adversely affect
the execution of the project or the operation of the project facilities
(Section 4 of the Owners Agreement).
Procurement
70.       YACYRETA has completed prequalification for the bidding of the main
civil works and equipment components. Bidding for the major project components
is scheduled as follows:



- 22 -
Issuing of            Reception
Item                   bidding documents           of bids             Bid award
Turbines and
generators             November 1979             May 1980           October 1980
Gates                    November 1979             March 1980         June 1980
Main civil works
contract               November 1979             May 1980           October 1980
Practically all the orders for the remaining project components would be placed
during 1981 and 1982. Contracts for the construction of infrastructure and
dwellings related to relocation and resettlement will be placed in accordance
with the requirements of the relocation/resettlement program.
71.       The civil works contract to be financed by the proposed Bank loan
will be procured through ICB according to the Bank's guidelines (Schedule 2 of
the draft Project Agreement). To take advantage of the attractive financing
terms of the export credits, YACYRETA would require bidders to finance all
major construction equipment with a unit price above US$100,000 for the civil
works contract with export credits. Hence, bidders would be required to quote
separately the costs of the construction equipment to be financed by export
credits and the civil works cost based on unit prices net of these equipment
costs. Bids will be evaluated by adding the two items without regard to
financing charges. All other contracts for goods and services with a value
above US$500,000 will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding;
contracts for relocation and resettlement works will be restricted to Argentine
and Paraguayan contractors.
Disbursements
72.       The proposed loan would be fully disbursed by mid-1986, when the
major part of the civil works contract will have been completed and the first
generating units will have been commissioned. Disbursements would be made
against normal documents duly certified by YACYRETA for (a) 50% of the foreign
expenditures for engineering services (1979-1986); (b) 38% of the foreign
expenditures for the main civil works contract (excluding major construction
equipment); and (c) 50% of the total cost of consulting services for studies
to be carried out by the Argentine Secretariat of Energy.
Environmental Aspects
73.       The construction of the dam will change the flow of the Parana
River at Yacyreta from steadily moving water to a semi-lake situation and
would flood extensive areas in Argentina and Paraguay. Operation of the
Yacyreta plant will result in minor fluctuations in river level downstream
of the dam but no significant erosion nor harmful effect on navigation is
expected. The minimum water discharge will be kept close to the minimum
average river flow and the difference in water level between dry and rainy



- 23 -
seasons will also closely follow normal river behavior. Research on t:he
ecological aspects of the project began in 1972, and in September 1978,
YACYRETA approved a long-range program on the environment that includes
studies on water quality, fishery resources, riverbank forestry species,
development of na-ural reserves, animal rescue, reservoir cleaning and public
health. YACYRETA would execute and operate the proposed project with due
regard to ecological and environmental factors, and would carry out the
above-mentioned environmental program which is satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement).
74.       An important ecological feature of the project is the fish passage
facilities using modern technology for up-stream migration. Construction of
the dam without these facilities would close off 650 km of the river with
possible adverse effects to migrating fish and fishing industry all along the
river. Conversion of the river into a reservoir will produce changes in
water quality which, however, will not have damaging effects since the power
plant will be operated as a "run-of-the-river" plant to permit a steady flow
of water. This operating characteristic also prevents the reduction of
oxygen levels and the transformation of organic material into gases; nonethe-
less, YACYRETA is planning to monitor water quality carefully. The areas
to be flooded, mainly on the Island of Yacyreta, are natural habitats for
certain species of animals in danger of extinction including swamp deer,
maned wolf, and two species of otter. YACYRETA has decided to create a
natural reserve park in Paraguayan territory for transfer of the wild animals
in the area. Land selection is underway so that the animal transfer could
be carried out when construction begins on Yacyreta Island.
Relocation and Resettlement
75.       While most of the land area to be flooded by the reservoir is
sparsely populated, the inundation of parts of the cities of Posadas (Argentina)
and Encarnacion (Paraguay), necessitate the resettlement of a total of about
33,000 people. The resettlement needs in the two countries are as follows:
PARAGUAY                            ARGENTINA
TOTAL   Urban   Rural   Total       Urban  Semi-Urban  Rural   Total
Dwellings    7,232    1,714  1,418    3,132        2,827       771       502   4,100
Families     7,247    1,760  1,230    2,990        2,S68       810       479   4,257
Population  32,996    7,879  6,667   14,556    12,796    3,321         2,323  18,440
76.       Since most of the urban population live in the low lying areas of
two relatively well developed cities, alternative locations in different
parts of the same cities have been identified. Surveys by YACYRETA indicated
that most of the urban population would relocate in these new areas, and
would maintain their present employment. The program for the rural population
will be more diverse since a large percentage of them, mainly in Paraguay,



- 24 -
are farmers whose land would be inundated. Although, some of them are expected
to leave the area or work in the construction of the project, the Government
of Paraguay, in particular, is interested in assisting them to resettle in
alternative agricultural developments.
77.       YACYRETA, through its Directorate of Coordination, is responsible
for the resettlement and/or compensation of the affected people. In view
of the complexity and importance of the problem, the Bank has been actively
involved in all aspects of resettlement and relocation since the first project
preparation mission. A Resettlement Coordination Unit has been established
and staffed with competent professionals. The unit has prepared an outline
program describing the major steps to be taken, which was reviewed by the Bank
and found to be satisfactory. Further refinement of the program has been under-
taken and this more detailed version will be reviewed by the Bank in October
1979. Adequate legal measures to protect the land designated for resettlement
have been taken, while measures to acquire these sites have been initiated.
YACYRETA is about to complete its "Operacion Canje", initiated in April 1979
to disseminate information to the affected people in both Paraguay and Argentina
as well as to register them for appropriate compensation and resettlement.
Important aspects of urban relocation, such as survey of the socioeconomic
characteristics of the people, delineation of areas for relocation and urban
designs including designs for housing and community facilities, have been
virtually completed. Preparation of a rural resettlement program for Paraguay
is well advanced, and YACYRETA has also started to develop, with the coopera-
tion of the provincial agencies, rural resettlement programs for Argentina
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. YACYRETA would carry out
the resettlement/relocation component according to programs and timetables
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
Risks and Benefits
78.       Given the advanced stage of topographical and geological studies
and of the engineering design and the competence of the consultant consortium
in charge of the supervision of project execution, no unusual risks other
than those normally associated with large scale civil works construction are
expected. No difficulties are expected in securing local funds and in the
continued capability of Argentina to obtain the necessary loans from the
international banking community. The authorities would increase electricity
tariffs as needed. There may be a possibility that given the binational nature
of YACYRETA (paragraph 46), its management effectiveness may be strained when
taking important decisions on such matters as procurement and resettlement.
The Bank would pay particular attention to these matters and the progress of
the resettlement program would be monitored closely.
79.       The Argentine Government prepared an energy and maximum demand
balance for the period 1978-1989 based on the demand projections and on the
existing generation facilities and those under construction for the period
1978-1985. It showed that a base load facility would be needed from 1985
onwards. The method used to determine the least cost expansion program
for the Argentine power sector was based on (a) a steady state, continuous
variable, linear programming model, (b) a load dispatching model, (c) a
hydrology verification model, and (d) a reserve verification model.



- 25 -
80.       The above analysis, revised to take into account the cost increases
in real terms of fuel and nuclear power plants and the new compensati.on
arrangement (paragra-~h 67), sho-g7d that the Yacyreta Hydroelectric project
would form part of tbe leart copt solution (for discount rates of up to 20%)
for meeting Argentina's electric power needs from 1986 onwards fu  different
average annual demand growth rates varying from 8% to 9.9%, which corresponds
to an overall annual growth of the economy of about 3.8% to 5.5%. Variations
within this range would not affect the present schedule for construction.
The Yacyreta project, in addition, would increase the security of supply
under critical hydrological conditions, given the high degree of regulation
of the Paran. River, and adequate service is reliably assured with a reason-
able margin in reserve. The economic justification for the start-up of this
project in 1986 hinges on the interconnection of the nine distinct regions
into one integrated national grid and therefore the Argentine Goveranent would
build the inter-regional high voltage national transmission system when and as
needed to satisfy the requirements of its national power expansion program for
the 1979-1986 period (Section 5.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
81.       The return on investment was estimated at the discount rate which
equates the present worth of the power benefits and total economic costs of
the Yacyreta hydroelectric project. Benefits were measured by the forecast
revenues from the sale of electricity at the retail levels using as the
tariffs the average sales price per kWh of US54 mills (December 1977 price
levels) that would be in effect in 1986, year of start-up Yacyreta, in agree-
ment with the sector financial projections, plus the average tax paid by the
consumer. Costs include total direct cost of the Yacyreta hydroelectric
project, plus investment for the associated transmission, subtransmission and
distribution system necessary to bring the energy to the final consumer. The
investment in the high-voltage transmission related to Yacyreta was estimated
at US$512 million (December 1977 price levels) The incremental investment in
subtransmission and distribution was estimated at US$1,350 million on the
basis of the cost of SEGBA's current expansion program, partially financed by
the Bank (Loan 1330-AR). The equalizing discount rate on this basis is 14%.
This is considered an understatement of the economic rate of return of the
project since it does not reflect the full willingness-to-pay of electricity
consumers. Sensitivity analysis shows that an increase of 10% in the project
cost or a decrease of 10% in the value of benefits would decrease the rate of
return by 1%. The rate of return compares favorably with the opportunity cost
of capital in Argentina which is estimated at 11%.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
82.       The draft Loan Agreement between The Argentine Republic and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Entidad Binacional
Yacyreta and the draft Owners Agreement among The Argentine Republic, the
Republic of Paraguay and the Bank and the report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 26 -
83.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness would be that (a) Argentina and
Paraguay have taken initial steps satisfactory to the Bank to comply with
Article VI (demarcation of boundaries) of the Yacyreta Treaty (paragraph
49), (b) YACYRETA has met all conditions prior to the first disbursement of
the IDB loan (paragraph 57), (c) YACYRETA has submitted evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that it will be able to obtain financing from foreign commercial
sources in 1980 and 1981 as required in the financing plan (paragraph 58),
and (d) the terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Bank, of the loans from
the Electrical Funds have been agreed between the Argentine Government
and YACYRETA (paragraph 66).
84.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
85.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
September 25, 1979



ANNEX I
-27 -                            Page 1 of5
TABLU 3A
AgGVI?wi-sictL INOICaTS DATA SITS
atzv12                    lUnlt=  OUaIS (ADSTED AlpS
L`ND ARIA (       76USAND 80.                                            nim)
GlILTUMAL    17J6.0                                  mIT UwR         4OmCRAUIIC     tlCOs      INC
1960  lb   1970 lb ESTIMAT  lb      ECION /I   CROUP ad    0DU  Is
NP ?l1 CAPSTA (Us;)                 600.0       1050.0   1910.0          1124.4    1942.6       3075.3
rECT CDWSUMP?TOI  !. CAPITA
(K1LOGRMIS OF 1OL EOUIYVIAL)    1129.0       1703.0   1804.0            943.1     1646.7      2518.6
OPUlAITON AD VISAL 5TASSCS
POPUATION. fID-USTA (8TIILNS)      20.6        23.7      26.0
UlIl FO?MLATION (PIIZNT Of TTAL) 73.6          78.4      80.5            59.3       51.2        72.1
SOFAIOI PWRCTIO0S
POPSATION EN YSA 2000 (MS LLIONS)                      33.0
STATIONAIY POP? SION (MILLIONS)                        *1.0
MM STATIONAIY POPUATIONI IS IIh0                     2065
POPUTATION IEODESIT
?ER 5Q. 128.                      7.4         9.0       9.4            23.5       25.2        3:k.S
P!1 SQ. 10. A4CULTUrLAL LAND     12.0        13.0      15.0            80.5      100.3        91).3
POPULATION ACZ STUiUCUIZ (PUCZS3)
0-14 YTS.                        30.7        29.3      29.0            40.9       35.4        3:1.3
15-04 YU.                         63.7        63.7      63.0            54.4       56.3        57.5
65 YR.S. AID ABOVIt                5.6         7.0       8.0             3.9        5.1         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RAn (P10C1ST)
TOTAL                             1.8         1.4       1.3             2.4        1.7         2.1
5u13                              2.6         2.0       1.9             3.7        3.0
CraDE 3IRT  RATE (P?R TOUSAND)    24.0         22.5      21.0            32.8       27.5        31.4
CRrUDE DCAT  RATE (PR THOUSAND)     9.0         8.6       8.0             8.5        9.1         6.2
GROSS REPRtODUCTION RATE            1.5         1.5       1.4             2.4        1.8         1.9
FASILY PLANNING
ACCEPTOIS, .e4NUAL (THOUSANDS)     ..          ..        ..
USERS (PECENT Of MASRDI 1;D<N)    ..           ..        ..            17.7
FOOD AND NWt!ITION
DxE or FoDo PRODcTrioN
PEP CAPITA (1969-71-100)         86.2        101.0    109.7            99.4      102.0       598.7
nU CAPITA SUPPLE or
CALORIES (PERCENT of
?1QOIRLNeTSt)                 115.0       129.0    129.0            107.0      120.S       11i.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAT)         98.0        99.0    107.1             60.4       80.9        7o.
or WRMCH ANIMAL AND PULSE      54.0        64.0      68.5            28.3       31.3
CHILo (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY KATE     6.0         4.0       3.0             6.7        5.1         2.5
qEAL'H
U.E ElPtC-ANCY AT SSRM  (THAILs)   65.0        67.4      71.0            63.6       65.6        68.7
INPANT 1O0RTALITT RATE (P11
THOUSAND)                            ..        59.0        ..            76.1       45.5        20.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT Of
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        56.0      66.0            63.4       69.4        73.9
URBAN                               ..       69.0      76.0            79.5       S5.1        94.6
RURAL                              ..        12.0      26.0            38.6       43.0        64.6
ACCESS TO 3XCPETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *        85.0      97.0            5a.a       70.1
2RSAM                               ..       87.0     100.0            77.8       88.3
AURAL                              .-        79.0      83.0            24.5       33.2
POPULATION PE? PHYSICON           660.0       500.0    530.0           1841.4    1343.2        981.8
?OPULASION PER AUSEINC PERSON         .       980.0        ..           933.7      765.0       l97.d
POPULATION PSR HOSPITAL 3S0
TOTAL                           160.0       170.0        ..           563.4      L97.6       260.6
12R1N                              *-       140.0        ..           279.4      260.2
L                                  ..          ..        ..          1140.9    1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..         ..        ..            25.7       17.3        19.2
HOUSINGC
AVERAGE SIZE OF COUSUOLO
TOTAL                             3.7         3.8        ..             5.0        4.7
URBAN                             3.           4. 8. 4.8                           4.4
3.ALL                             4.3          ..        ..             5.3        5.1
AVERcAE NUMBER OF p?RSONS PER ROOM
.OTAL                             1.4         1.4        ..             1.3        1.1
URSAN                             1.3         1.4        ..             1.3        1.2
RURAL                             1.7          ..          .            1.j        1.2
ACCESS -0 EL_CTRIC'SY (PERCES?
OF 31WELELi.NC S)
COTA,L                           69.0         6.0      ,9.0/!54.3                 i6.-
'J?8A08                         43.7           ..         .-.                     35.1          ..
9129.60.                         19.2                 ,       ,        14.2



-28 -                                         ANNE I
Page 2 of 5
-ASLL 3A
ARtCENINA - SOCIAL -IDtCATORS OATA SHEET
A11IRtTNTA                 SUTE11E0 COOUPS (AOJUSTED  ACUGES
- tOST UC!24T  MST1'A?!)
$Mt         iE          tS C1
.5T IICEN       GOGIAfIC       INCOME       4COE
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTINAT  /b      REZtON /c   CIoUP /d    CROUP /I
EMUCATtON
AJusTr  END LL1O  RATiOS
P?IUY:       TOTAL                 96.0       106.0      108.0           107.3       O10.7       107.6
MALt                 98.0        105.0     108.0            109.1      110.0
PDIa                 99.0        107.0     108.0            101.4       92.8
S CONhMY:  lVtAL                   32.0        37.0       56.0            40.5        51.2        39.7
NAIL                 31.0         35.0      52.0             40.4       56..
IDIZ                 5233.0       40.0      60.0             39.0       43.7
VOCATINAL E1L0. (Z 0  SECODARY)  50.0           59.0       63.0             18.5       18.3
FPOtL-rXACIIK RATIO
PRIMARY                            22.0        19.0       18.0            37.1        Z7.1
SEC0U0AA                            7.0         7.0       S.0             17.9        Z5.3
ANLT LITERACY RATE (PERCEN)          91.0        93.0       93.0            77.4        86.1 
CONSUMPTION
?ASSENCE  CAB  FM IKOUSAND
POP!LATTCN                         24.0        61.0       81.0            29.1        53.4        68.1
RADtO UCRIVtS PM THOUSAD
POPULATION                        176.0       370.0      838.0           172.1       225.9       210.3
SV RECEIVERS P?Q THOUeS
POPULATION                         21.0       144.0      180.0            67.9       102.6       117.7
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY COERAL
MrERESr) CIRCMATON PQ
THUSAND POPUJLAIION                 155.0       179.0      147.0            76.1        78.5
C5NM  ANUWAL ATTENDAMCE PU CAPITA  7.0            2.0        3.2             '.2         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABIR FORCt  (THOSAZDS)      S134.0      9216.0   10020.0
FeNAu   (PERCET )                  21.4        24.7       25.6            21.5        24.5        27.2
AOICULTUR  (PL1RCINr)              20.0        15.0       14.0            30.2        28.9        23.8
NDmSTy (PERCENT)                   35.9        32.1       29.0            23.8        30.6
PARTICIPATION LATE ( PECNTr)
TOTAL                                39.5        38.8       38.6            30.9        33.8        40.1
hALE                                 61.0        58.1       57.3            47.3        51.3        55.7
FEtALE                               17.2         19.3      19.8            13.3        L6.3        24. 7
ECONiOIIC DEPDENCY RATIO                0.9         0.9        1.0              1.5        1.3          1.0
INCOMtE OISTRI3IUION
PRCENT Of PlIVA-TE Dco0e
RECEIVED ST
EICl!lST 5 PERCEN  0? orOUSENOLDS   27.5          ..        ..            U.7
RICHEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSE.ILDS  50.9         50.3         ..            58.7        57.6
LDWUIT 20 PERCENT OF IOUSEEOWS    6.9           4.4         ..             2.9         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT Of SOUSWWLDS   16.6          14.1         ..             9.9        11.0
POVERTY TACGET GROUPS
E£IeATED ABSOLUTE POVUTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..           265.6
RUVAL                                ..          ..         ..           185.1
ESTI^ATED RELATIVZ PpVRTT INCOtI
LtEVL (t755 PE CAPlTA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     653.0           396.3       550.0
RURAL                                ..          ..      577.0           308.1       403.4
ESTI3ATED 7OFLTAON b50W ABSOLUt
POVERTY INCOE LEVI!L (PERCENTr)
URBA                                 ..           ..        ..            35.2
RLqtAL                               ..           ..        ..             6.6
..Sc availabla
ISc applicable.
VOTS
/a    The  adjusred group avera;l.s for each itdicacor are popularion-eighced jeoaecrTc seems, excluding the extrome
waluss of che Indicacor and the mosc pooulated councry In each group. :overaje of countris among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is oat uniform.
ib    Unless ochervise meted. data for 1960 refer to any year becween 1959 and 1961; for  970  between 1969
and 1971; and !or Host Recanc Estserae, bectwn 1974 and 1977.
/c    .ac-n A.erica 4 Caribbean;  /d  Dpper liddl  Income (51136-2500 per capica. 1976);  /e Righ Incone
(over ;2500 per capita, 1976); If pereenc of yopulation.
nost Aeceoc. ZIcimce of GCN per capita is for 1978.
Augusc. 1979



-29 -                                                   AKNNEXI
PDVIfTI    C? OffCIAL INDIlfATORf                                         Page   :3  0 f5
A en  ltbsgh thedaa  are. dras  from soirce  gaenerlly judgsd the met mltlortntbvs mAn  reliable, It ehoul.d 4ms he mated that thap  W ant he btterma-
neaIy eoe,rehle bdecause of th. lest of steadmrdised defitaitona  sad cooe.pte see  by differet cosc,tries in collecting the data. The  tat see, snowhetsi,e,
useful to describe orders of magnitude, indicate tress., and cksrmntct-ae ertae mjor difference  het,reen countries.
The94,psl4tpupourg4 for each indicator are Ppoplati.on-ighted geometric see.,  -ccluing the codts veluw  of the Indicator end the mast popsslated
oounrytWec1jA6i,7    i to leck of data, group averg.sa of all indicators for Capital Surplus Oil lopertes and of indicators of Acc..s to ester mad forsta
Disposal, Sousing, Incom  Distribution and Povery foe other coutry groups are popslatbn-eihtsd geemtric mea  elthnet seclbe  of the  aItram  values and
the mast populated country.  Since th   oneg   fcutries             a te idIctors depnd. an ailehiliby  f  at  mUe4ijmt aler.omatiom mat be eneetled
in relating average  of one Ieicato  to moher   Thee. avereae  reas          st] u iNij    agpyositicna o    ite vlesria the tAlUs$ of one
inSD ARM  (thcue.nd sq.km.(                                                              Acos.  ot.r..ioom.(ereto   opito)- total, irbn. m ed oa
t.1ra  -Total suface area toeprietog land area sod inlendentsre.                        Nster of pepe(oa    ra,an   ua)sevdb   urol adsosla
Agiutra   e ot racent .etiate of agricultural area used tqorarily               percentagen of their raepective populations. locreta dispo-l may include
or permaently for crops, psturse, maket and kitchen gardens or to                     the coflectico sad disposal, eith or obthout treatment, of homan slreeto
lie felue.                                                                             and   t-ctrby eate-home  ystee or the Oct of pit privies and e,allar
loetalltione.
uXP P11R CAPITA}594  - GNP per capita retiftem  at current market prices,.)              Pronlt.o~py.uiw- Popolatioc divided by nuber of practIicig pbysictane
hiclie'h6et          eeesi -mthod as World leek Atlas (1976-78 base;                   qultn7to.idflal school an univerity level.
1960, i970, and 1978 data.                                                             Popltrico  pea.r.n ero   - Popolatice divided by oumier of practicing sale
OM   COSUPTI          P CR APItA - An-ua  ocoeuaptico of ocaerio.L enrayadfml   raut   uss  practical  woe,ad aloi.tat;  ure,
o    andiga  e, poro rm, nturalgas  nd bdrc-,nuclar ad gro           P    ainprdsiAl Bed -total, turban. ad rural   PoXLoatin ( tota, urban,
thermal eleotriolty) in kilogram   of cal etuivalet por onpita; 190                     anPua    iie   yte rrsotv   ohro                         bopti  od vIlbei
19703, and 19t76 data,                                                                   public and private general and epeobliced hostpital and eshabilitatibn cecter.
Hompitals er establi.b-nts permnanetly staffed by at least one physician.
PCPUllkTION Alit VITAL STATISTICO                                                          Establishmeets providing principally custodial car  se ar  o   included. Rural
Ttotl Poopition, Mid-Year Cilliiocc)   Ae of JuIY 1; 1960, 1970, and                     hospitals, h-nvr  mld   elhedmdcl  etr   c   eannl   tfo
1977 data.                                                                            by a Physician (btby a medical assietmot, ocure, sidife, etc.) hbiob offer
Uebac Pooslation (percent of total) -Rbtio of urban to total population;                 in-patioct aCcosadatioc and Pro-ids a limited rmcge of medical facilitie.S
different definitione of urban areas may affect comparbility of data                Adainsions per_ Poenital Bed - Total nuber of admissions to or disoberges from
aang coutries.; iphi , 1970, and 1975 data.                                            hoipites   Tdivdd by the outer of bed.,.
~Poml.ti.. fr.j.pctIons
P.rultim i WW-M - Curret population p-ojections are based cc                HOUSING
1975 thtilpph 1  I..io  by age and se. and their  -atality and fertility          Aceeg lIice of   ueol (peoa pr                 hlod) -tota   urban  andrua-
rates. Plrojection parsmterl for tortality ratee co ieof three                      A hounebold  oeite ofa  rop of indiidns  k  siere 1itT                i).r7sd
levelsassuming life e.cyrtancy at birth icorening vith c..ntryn.                    their main mels.  A boarder or lodger ma or asp not bc iooiuod i0 tie
Per caita incm  level  and female life eopecttcc  sitbilining at                     houehold for statistical porposes.
77.5 penes   The pareMeters for fertility rate also have three levels             Averae otrof erso.e.per rom-ttl                -ra.ad rural - Aoerage ou-ico
%assuing decline in fertility according to lnom  leve  and past                     ofproopr omi l urban, and rura  occuPied cono-ti ..al doelinga,
feely plsannig p-rfra-e  tEach coutry le then aseigned  oc of these                 reapeotloely.  ileellinge soclude ono-povsnet otruoture  and un-ipied part..
oba  cuinatio- of mortality nod fertility trends for proleotico                 Access to Electricity (percent if deeflingn)- total urban, nod rura  -  Coo-
purposes.                                                      orn~~~~~~~~~~1-ional deellings ntb electricity in lIving quere a,, percentage of'
Statc           atepp5ip - n  astioaypulinthr  in no gr-th                            total, urban, and ruradl wlipgn reepectively.
sinc  ib    ethrat  in  qua  to the death rate, and aL. the age
structure conies contant. This is achieved only after fertility rates           EDUCATION
decline to the replacement level of unit net reprouction rats,  hno              'XHkii-td Eburo -t Rniboobo
tach generation oftmMen replaces itself ecacly.  The stationery pops-                Primry nbol - total. eGeadftl      rose total, na.e nod fenele ecrol1-
lation ao  en  rtated cc the basie of the projected characterIstics                   meto   llae-tth   rmrylvla  percentages of  -ep-oti- prlncry
of the poplatioc  in the yea  2000, ned the rate of decline of fertility               scolaepopulations; nralyincludes children egd 6-11 pruro but
rate to repiaceert l-eve.                                                       ,       djueted for different lengths of prinary siuation; focoouotrirnoitl
Yeeeeatr    ar oc e iobe reached - The year hee  statione.ry population                 .snirr-ldcdiotion   -1ro,leot esy accod 100 perteciovce soa  popjll
obehas.been reached.                                                                  are bri1- or obo-r the official school age.
Population Penaty                                                                       Oronor echs  - total m ale and female   Computrd nonuo;oooury
Pero oc h.   Mid-yea  populatic por square kibloter (Iohoae)o                             dotorquirent  oet four years of  p~prooed prinary inoot-ctiu-;
total  re                                                                              proolden proerad   coetion..l, or teacher tratinig iorol    for PuPils
kOn . h. gorouIturnl land - Conputed no abor for agricultural lord                  ucually of 12 to 17 y-are of age;crepoeo  court0  ar  gi--11y
o'LR.                                                                                   v-olded.
Polulatiot d.. St-ut-r  (perceot) - Childr.. (0-li yean,-         rig-Ig                 doo-tooi..... orloseot lorocent of  --oodary) - Voontto.t. i,j -ti-t-ocs -1elde
l ,year), "od retird (it year  aco ovr) nopretae   rsit-yea                          ricol  lodootria1, or other pr-gr-n  -hchio  opcetni  idcip-odoitlyora
PoPulation; 1960, 1970, and 1977 dtto                                                    dretno   f --ood-ry teiuin
Pocultion dc-vh Oatr (--oeti - total - Aonua  -rcoh ratoc of totni mid-                  P.Upo-teacher ratio - prisary. nod seco ndary - Total ctld-oto scrolld ii
yer  opltio.. for 1950-il, 1960-70, and 1970-77.                                    polasoy nod  -eocdory Iooclo diotded by ounhor  of t-toher - 1.0ts  -00c-
Pouaion iroth oatr4sDerceoti  - urban - Annua g         rothoio  of urine               poodig level.
.poplations for 1950 6, 1960-70, nod 1970-75.                                         Adult literary rate (pecent) - It.trate adulto inbir00 road , no tuo) no
Crude MIrth Rnte (per thousand) - Aoual live bloth. Per thouend of old-                    ap-rrcop o.f otal. adult population sped 15 yfeoro            0r
yea  ppuatin;190,1970, nod 1977daa
Crude Death Pat  (pe  thousad) -  ncual doaho per thoocnd of eiu-y-a                 CimS1wlJo'PO
Ppoplation; 1950, q1970, an-d 1977 data.                                             Pnee Cars (per tioucod Populatioc   - Pno.. erecprror  o-pis  cuotrr
irons ReP-duotion Pate-Average nmber of daupite-anma   111 hoar                          seting lea  than eight peceoc,; endue, ambulance, hts...se. andniitry
in hoc   -' -eproductice period if  l  eph ioe  pr.eset age-                          vehicles.
speci fic fert ility rates;.usualy fic-Y-ea   oraeneding ic 1960,                   Rndlo 1rcveo(er thounned corultlon) - A11 typro of rc                sfor radio
i970, nod 1975.                                                                       hrondoants to  eealpbicprthousand of population; eco ludee ciloe.s.o
FanloPing-  Aoetors. dsal (hosads  - lnual number of                                     rec-eivr  in countries and in yearn  hbe. regittraticn  of Imob  nets can in
accetor  of birth-control devices  underausp cof national  fmelly                   effect; dote for Ioccent year  osy not be comparable dc,.- sot countries
pbornicg progra.                                                                      obolished licensing.
Femily Planing - dsere (percent o,f e,roid0               P-erctage of coursd          TV Ce-elve. (pe thnn cpolatioc) - TV reocovec..  for 1icodon-t to ge-es1
soe   f child-beairin  ge(5i yers    ode cicth-ccntroi deoloe                       ubi  pro.  tosnppuet I.c; roldes ulio...ed TVesevr  in c-outriec
no all caroied no-e  in eaeage group.                                                  and In year  chen  egiotrati-c of TV ort Os on  In effect.
PeocaerCirultIn'Per thouanL      ljsition( - Sbh-  thic toe-go  lcur-otion
FOOD ANDO 15UTR0TICNpit.(IIof.of                                                              'daP  i`y cenrl 2ictee  nuper , deficed nooprriidicnl publicatIon,
loenofPod roucio pr npt (96-7-ld)-  dc  o  prZapt                               oe-ted prianily no recording general cr0.-  It In c-Lcaloed to hr "daily'
annua  prouctic ofall foo  coedis        Prc .toneolden  nee"nd                  if it openr-  t0 e-et fou  tines  nore.
feed and in on onleodar year banie.  COenditiesocoer prisary goods                  CInema Acca . tt.d.     ope Capta ceo dear - buncod on tho o-nher oflkichen
(e.g. sugaro-  inatead of sager) ohiob arc edible and contoicou.tciotn                sold durin  obey Yea, -inodingl idnbo... no drie- Ic  lco--  nod nobtir
(e.g  cofeeend ea  re  cclded). Aggregate production of ..ch county            units
in hnedon  atloniaveageproducer price ceights.
Pmo "Poitc suoiY of coicri-o IcRon-t of reoucreaote) - Co-pund fro.               IABOP FORCE
rocray  eqial    o   e  foo   upinaalbe  ocutypropt t                             Cot~l a r -Foro   thousods) - EoonoioaIlY actio- persons, including ored
per dsp.  Ao-inlbl  supplie  csris :dosliclr pr ducin, impocta lens                  focsnd unmloe   ho oludbng hoo-eoe,  tnudects, etc. Pefio~toloo
eprts,,and change  in stock.  Pet oupplics roclude enitea  feed, seeds,             in caribon   -tucien no  001 .. o eparabie.
uatitie  used in food Pro-enio, and Ioec ...~   i distribution. Peqoice-                          ;nspoc)-Pemale lebor force an porcocge of ton1 labor foror.
nonto core deti-ted hy  AOi ha..ed 00 p1bynioiogionordn  for oorsal               9g~ptueyret( - Labor forc  in faming, forenory, hucting nod
ototy no  beoth co...idoring    cr.cr t.aieperiuro, body orightn,                fibii-o7  e"igE          ftoataorfre
ago neld 1crcdiotro-itions of poplotioc, nod a1lociop 10 peroc-t for               nuiy(ecn)-labor force onmnn,ootuno,nrf                              -uopnd
osopte an    P hoshold  'le .                                                        vrOrot,ner nod got eo perotnag  of otal labor fore.
Pr aiaoply of P-oic  lorg    per dey) -  rts   otoo   1pr                   Priiaicit  pret    oa,sl,adCni-n~iiaino
onPito cct suPPlY of foodperdy. Meo supply oftf food is Oriced a                      oilyottaecnoe   sttl,a ,ndfml  ooZoc   opr
aoR. Pquirreecac for cii1 countrieet.,,toobe1-d by iSDA procide for a             ctpoo       -ca,cle nod f-ele populotion of nil agoc ...npctively;
ninion alcoore ofii pnes  f too     peroer dey sod 20 pg-n  of              170, 1970, nod 1975 dota.  Th  eoare IbIs1 parti-iptiii  rates refle
anima eno pulse proteio, of obloh 10 gr-c  hlcld be animal protnin.                 tpo-onotruoturo of thc popolatioc, and loop time tre-i .Afostiantro
a                         ~~~~~~These standardo ar  lone  thor thooc of 75 g00  of otetl protri  and            tro Coon ooti.ion  sou -cA
25 gros  of animalpotein o  no otroago for tie cccld, prcposcd by Phi             fonnoPeodoy  ai    R-nso of pou1atioc under 15 od iS and 0000 to
i- the Third Wold rood  uocry.                                                      Cvlb r-CMre       g     Proupf 15-64 yearn.
Per onPit plote- suppy Coon  -,-I nod polso  - Protro  -opply of food
derived free ocmload pulo-  it guo pr day.                                      INCOME DI0hIHUTION
Chl.d (ae I-i) Mcrtolity Onto(per tioucand) - AcouI deetbo per tho-ind                 Perenag cf Private Ioos (ui  ab  and1-h 1 hind) - Re-eived by rtohrst
in agn  ru   -4yn    to chIldren in thin age cromp; for most dcv..l-                 5pon,richest 20 Percent, pors  2   ecnt, and io.....t 40 percent
oping co.coriec into devi-d from lfe tables,                                           of households.
lIfe booontnoy at birc  (ean    -Avrage comber of years of lIIfe                       Estimated Abtolote Poverty inoon  level (00$ oer capita)   -bu-o acd corl 
remaningat brth;1950  197, ad 1977. data.                                      Aholute Povrt  ica  level Is that inomde level brlvs  hich a aicimal
ofnMotlty Rntc (Per tho nd    A-.Anua deaths ofiyeoudor ...                      otitioil  adequate diet plun ec-tebbl ion-food  cqui-eernta is not
yefar of  gopeR thousandlhoc bidrth.                                                    afrdb
Acess to Saex Wa~terpercen of Populatio   - oa,ubn ndrrlitimated Orlole oeryItieee  (00u ercps                                                  a  - urban and rurl1
Iciehe  of. people (totlubn,     adruatbtiraoal  ecrs toCral relato epovety icoo    1-1e be oethiod of acreage pro capi'ta
safe nater supply (includes tr-ted surfer rester, cc untreted but                      personal itooe of the country. Uoban l-e  in derio-i frrc the ralIro-l
ucectmelonted neter au-i an that froa protected horhoiso, opriogo,                     olth sdjoctcet f or higher coot of Itin   ic. urba  aras
and sanitary malls)  apercentages of their respective populations. o                 Intimated Popu ~latio   BeIoo Absoue  PcryIcm  ee
ma  rba  ara apubicfcntin cv ntandpost located anot mare thanrrl-Preto                                    Jeltten (uban nod rural) oho ar;eboulute p0cc
200 enterstfrom    h-u-. sy he considered as being cithic reasonable
access  f that house.  On rural arena reasonable accs   -cId imply
tint the hous-ife or members of the household do not boor to spend aEcc-Ic and icial Data Diclinio
discpoportiootn poet of the dsy in fetching th. eedonly's cater onede                                                  toeic..    Atalysis ned Projeotion. Department
Auguet 1979



-30 -
ANNEKX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
Actual                         Proiected
1970-         1978-
1970       1977       1978e      1979       1982       1985          1978           1985          1970       1977       1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Millions of US$ at 1967-69 prices and exchange rates                 Annual growth rates              As percent of CDY
Gross domestic product              22,608    27,567    26,600    28,131    32,210    38,153                2.1           5.3            100.3      101.6      100.6
Gains from terms of trade (+)          -72       -424       -530       -539       -497       -226            -                            -          -1.6       -0.6
Gross domestic income               22,536    27,143    26,070    27,592    31,713    37,927                1.8           5,5            100.0      100.0      100.0
Import (incl. NFS)                   1,861      1,815      1,679      2,250      2,950      3,862         -1.3           12.6              8.3        6.7       10.2
Exports   " (import capacit)        -1,979    -2.613    -2.958    -2,760        -3,221    -4,107           5.2            4.8             -8.8       -9.6      -10.8
Resm.rce gap                          -118       -718    -1,279        -510       -271       -245           -              -               0.5       -2.6       -0.6
Consumption expenditures            17,644    20,528    19,900    20,346    23,043    27,641               1.5            4.8             78.3       75.6       72.9
Investment  " (incl. stocks)         4,774      5,897      4,891      6,737      8,399    10,041           0.3           10.8            71.2        21.7       26.5
Domestic savings                     4,892      6,615      6,170      7,247      8,669    10,288           2.9            7.6            21.7       24.4        27.1
National savings                     4,649      6,420      5,920      6,981      8,233      9,758          3.1            7.4             20.6       23.7       25.7
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                        Annual data at current prices
i simports
Imports
Capital goods                        365      1,060     1,020       1,800      3,123      5,292           --             --              22         26         38
Intermediate goods                 1,168      2,263     2,100      2,783       4,314      7,032           --             --              69         55         50
Fuels and related materials           79        597       580         766        840        975           --             --               5         15          7
Consumption goods                     82        180       250         185        433        748           --                                         4          5
Total merch. imports (cif)         1,694     4,100      3           5,534      8,710    14,047                                          100       lon         In
Exports                                                                                                                                 As Percent of total exports
Primary products                   1,484     4,599      4,760       5,466      7,821    11,807            --            --               84         82         80
Manufactured goods                   289      1,011     1,590       1,136      1,443      29141 --                                                  18         20
Total merch. exports (fob)         1,773     5,610      6,350       6,602      9,264    14,721            --             --             100        100        TOO
Merchandise trade indices
Export price index                   107        217        217        235        289        388
Import price index                   110        252        262        281        334        409
Terms of trade index                  96         86         83         84         86         95
Export volume index                  113        179        179        185        209        244
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR
Millions of US$ at 1967-G9 prices and exchange rates                                                   As percent of CDY
Agriculture                        2,414      2,923      2,800      2,980      3,434      4,050         1.9            5.4             10.7       10.8       10.7
Industry and mining               8,419    10,456        9,900    10,610    12,165    14,352            2.0           5.4              37.4       38.5       37.8
Services                           9,075    11.048      10,800    11.211    122.93    15.237            2.2           5.0              40.3       40.7       40.2
Total                            19,908    24,427    23,500    24,801    28,392    33,639               2.1           T3Y              88.4       90.0        8
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                               As percent of GDP
(Central Government-provinces)            Annual Data in Billiors of Current Pesos                                                       1970       1977       1978
Current receipts                      20      4,414    11,528                                                                          21.2       21.0       25.4
Current expenditures                  16      3.192      8,029                                                                         16.5       15.2       18.1
Budgetary savings                      4      1,222      3,319                                            --                            4.7        5.8        7.3
Other Dublic sector transfers         -1       -420        443                                                                         -1.3       -2.0       -1.0
Total Public Sector Investment         7      2,760      6,149                                                                          8.0       13.2        13.6
SELECTED INDiICATORS                                 1965-   1971-    1979-
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)               1977    1979       1985
Average ICOR                                           5.9    21.5       4.8
Import elasticity                                     0.7      8.5       1.7
Marginal domestic savings rate                          .2      .2        .3
Marginal national savings rate                          .3       .9       .3
LABOR FORCE AND                                   Total remunerated labor force                            Value added per worker (1970 prices & exc. rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                  In Millions                  % of Total        Annual growth rate    In U.S.dollars         Percent of average
1970         1973           1970          1973                           1970       1973      1970            1973      1970-73
Agriculture                      1,181        1,264             18           17          2.3              4,854      4,636    85.9             78.9         -4.5
Industry                        2,488         2,666            37            36          2.3              6,392      7,162   113.2           121.9          12.0
Services                         3082         3434             45            47          3.7              5.702      5.830   100.9             99.2          2.2
Total average                    6,751        7,364           100           100          2.9              5,649      5,876   100.0            100.0          4.0
9/11/79



- 31 -
AML  I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL ABSISTANCE AND DEBT
(Amounts in millions of US dollar. at current prices)
A17 19-5          __9___                   Projected
1974  1975     ~~~~~~~~~           ~     ~~~     ~    ~ ~~1976  1977  1976  1980 lS
SDIARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (ifel. NFS)                             4,762      3,704      4,730       6,585         7,617             8,786      17,143
Ioports (infl. NFS)                             4,214      4,518      3,597      4,775          4,844             7,715      16,666
Resource balance                                   548       -814     1,133       1,810         2,773             1,071         477
Net footer service Income                         -421      -475        -502       -524          -685              -790      -1,651
Net interest paymeents                         -393       -460       -477        -393          -462              -562      -1,121
Direct investment income                         -35        -16        -27       -131          -223              -225        -400
Other footer service income                        7          1          2          0             0                -3        -130
Current transfers (et)                               -          5         18         31            10                 5         -30
Balance us current account                         127    -1.284         649     1.317          2 098               286      -1,204
Private direct investment                           10        -           -         -              50                80         220
Public M&LT lanse
mdisbursement                                    782        437      1,924     1,161          1,250             1,623       3,163
Net disbursements                               -548       -520V      -396      -696            -765           -1 383      -2.048
23V        -83      1,_328     4-545                          _t           -1,114
Other M&LT oense
Dfsbursement                                     261        581        581       822            840               950       1,400
-Aerletdis.enm                                   324       -510W      -476        540          -60-850                     -1.475
Slet disbursements                               -63        71        T&04       282            200               100       -75
Short-term  capital end
transactions,  ..i
Change in net reserves                            -237        226    -1,155       -145           -952                --          __
(- - increase)
Change in gross reserves                           -51      1,107         35    .2,214         -3,245-                            -
(- = increase)                                45        855    -1,161    -1,799           -1,881               706         -55
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official grants & grant-like
Public M&LT loans
IBRD                                                                   115        205           235
Other  .ultilateral                                1        1 77       175        148           200
.overoments                                     519          42        159        117            40
Suppliers                                        535        307        206        357            210
Financial institution.                          488         126        992        650            5t0D
Bonds                                            290        200        200         93            170
Public leans, n...
Total public M&LT leoan                       1,833         852     1,847      1,570          1,355
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                                 Actual                      Est.
Public debt outstanding              1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1-71
& disbursed                       2,796   3,056   2,896   4,255   4,888   5,373
Interest en public debt             199      234      251      256      308       354
Repayments on public debt           468      548      526      586      695    1,038
Actual debt outstandiec en Dec. 31. 1977            Total public debt service            667      782      771      852   1,003    1,392
EXTERNAL DEBT (disbursed only)               Disbursed only                     Percent           Other debt service                  458      415      895      568      630       788
lTotal debt service               1,105   1,197   1,366   1,420   1,634    2,180
tOBRD                                             342                            7.0
Other multilateral                                375                            7.7         BURDEN ON EXPORT EARNINGS (Y.)
Governments                                       657                           13.4
Suppliers                                       1,048                           21.4           Public debt service                 17.8    16.4    20.8    18.0    15.2         18.8
Financial institutions                          1,752                           35.8
Bonds                                              702                          14.4            Total debt service                 29.5    25.1    36.9    30.0    24.8         29.4
Public debts. n,e.i.                                12                           0.3           TDS + dir. inv. income              31.6    25.9    37.3    30.6    26.8         31.5
Total public M&LT debt                                                         1100.
AVERAGE TERMS OF PUBLIC DEBT
Int. as % DO&D                      7.1      7.6      8.7      6.0      6.3      7,7
Amort. as Y. DO&D                  16.8    18.0    17.9    14.0    14.2         22.7
DBRD debt out. & disbursed          302      340      341      342      342      353
IBRD as Y. of pub. debt DO&D       10.8    11.1    11.8        8.0     7.0       6.6
IBRD debt serv. as I of             3.9      3.8      4.8      4.8     4.4       3.2
pub. debt serv.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of July 31, 1979)
Amount less         Undis-
Loan No.   Year         Borrower           Purpose          Cancellations       bursed
(US$ million)
Fully disbursed loans                                          409.8
505       1968         Argentina          Livestock            15.3              1.3
733       1971         Ferrocarriles      Railways            56.5               0.8
Argentinos S.A.
1330       1977         SEGBA, S.A.        Power               115.0             91.0
1384       1977         Argentina          Highways            105.0            104.3
1463       1978         Banco Nacional    Industrial
de Desarrollo       Credit           100.0             93.1
1521       1978         Argentina          Grain Storage       105.0            104.6
1564       1978         Argentina          Agricultural
Credit            60.0             60.0
1677       1979 1/      Ferrocarriles
Argentinos S.A.                       96.0             96.0
Total                                             1062.6            551.1
Of which has been repaid                           145.5
917.1
Amount sold                       13.4
Of which has been repaid           7.0               6.4
Total now held by Bank                             910.7
Total undisbursed                                                   455.1
1/   Not yet signed.



- 33 -
Annex II
Pagh'2 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
(As of July 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                                          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor               Type of Business      Loans      Equity   Total
(US$ million)
1960           Acindar Industria          Steel Products        3.7         -       3.7
Argentina de Aceros, S.A.
1960           Papelera Rio Parana, S.A. Pulp and Paper         3.0         -       3.0
1961           Fabrica Argentina de       Automotive             1.5        -       1.5
Engranajes, S.A.I.C.       Transmission
1962           PASA, Petroquimica         Petrochemicals        3.0         -       3.0
Argentina, S.A.I.C.
1965/1972      Celulosa Argentina, S.A.  Pulp and Paper        12.5         -      12.5
1969/1975      Dalmine Siderca, S.A.      Steel Products       17.0         -      17.0
1969           Editorial Codex, S.A.      Printing and          5.0        2.0      7.0
Publishing
1971/1973      Calera Avellaneda, S.A.   Cement                 5.5         -       5.5
1977           Alpargatas S.A.I.C.        Textiles & Fibers    7.0          -       7.0
1977           Soyex S.A.                 Soybean Processing   9.0          -       9.0
Plant
1978           Massuh, S.A.               Pulp and paper        8.0         -       8.0
1978           Juan Minetti, S.A.         Cement and
Construction
materials             9.0        -        9.0
1978           Ipako-Industrias           Chemicals and
Petroquimicas              Petrochemicals
Argentinas S.A.                                 10.0        -       10.0
1979           Alpesca S.A.                                     5.0        0.5      5.5
Total Gross Commitments                         99.2       2.5    101.7
Less Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                            42.9       2.0      44.6
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC               51.3       0.5      57.1
Total Undisbursed                               29.0       0.5      24.7



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
(As of July 31,. 1979)
Loan 505-AR - Balcarce Livestock Project, US$15.3 million loan of July 31.
1967; Effective Date: August 31, 1967; Closing Date: July 31. 1980.
Lending to ranchers progressed very slowly from loan effectiveness
until 1970, then accelerated as cattle prices increased and technical services
improved. From 1970 to 1973, project performance was satisfactory and a sub-
stantial amount of the loan was disbursed. Rowever, the closing of the
European Economic Community (EEC) to Argentine beef imports in 1974 limited
external demand for beef and slowed down ranchers' demand for investment
credits. Current prospects for beef cattle development in Argentina are
improving significantly since producers' prices are increasing in real terms
under new Government pricing policies and since beef exports are expanding
rapidly due in part to the reopening of the EEC market. At present, about 96%
of the Bank loan is committed and 90% disbursed.
Loan 733-AR - Railway Project, US$84.0 million loan of April 28, 1971;
Effective Date: July 30, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Due to the socio-economic situation of the country, it became clear
in 1973-1974 that the original Project could not be implemented. On July 2,
1974, US$27.5 million was cancelled. The remaining US$56.5 million was to
finance procurement committed by the original Closing Date, April 30, 1974.
After having come to a standstill in 1975, procurement has regained momentum.
The last of 59 contracts for Bank-financed goods was finally signed in May
1976. About $0.8 million are still undisbursed.
Loan 1330-AR - Electric Transmission and Distribution Program, US$115.0
million loan of November 1, 1976; Effective Date: January 10, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31. 1981.
SEGBA's rate of return improved as a result of a 50% tariff increase
in December 1977.  Mainly because of budgetary constraints on the funding of
local cost requirements durinig 1978, the overall executiDn of the project has
been delayed by about 12 months. This delay, however, does not significantly
affect the economic viability of the project. Project is proceeding according
to a revised schedule prepared in March 1979.
Loan 1384-AR - Fourth Highway Project; US$105.0 million loan of May 16. 1977;
Effective Date: December 13. 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The civil works component was delayed because of the Government's
efforts to reduce public expenditures. Calls for civil works tenders is under
way and the first contracts have been awarded. Other project components are
being implemented satisfactorily.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1463-AR - Industrial Credit Project; US$100.0 million loan of September 23,
1977; effective Date: November 28, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The credit component of the project is proceeding somewhat behind
schedule because of a lag in overall industrial investment. Commitments
increased recently and so far US$23.7 million have been committed. BANADE'.s
financial condition remains sound and management has begun taking important
steps for further strengthening of its organization and procedures.
Loan 1521-AR - Grain Storage Project; US$105.0 million loan of June 29, 1978,
Effective Date: November 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
General consultants (Cuyum-Ingeneco) for project execution were
contracted in October 1978. The preliminary designs for the project silos
have been evaluated by the Project Unit with the assistance of the general
consultants. Selection of consultants for detailed designs and invitation
for prequalification of contractors for the project works is underway..
Delays in these administrative steps and changes in key project personnel
have slowed project implementation by about one year.
Loan 1564-AR - Agricultural Credit Project: US$60.0 million loan of June 29,
1978; Effective Date: February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is proceeding slower than scheduled. Owing to
uncertainty about inflation and future agricultural prices, farmers are
currently reluctant to embark on modernization programs of their farms.



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
YACYRETA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by countries to prepare the project: 4 years
(b) Agency which prepared project: Yacyreta/Harza Lahmeyer and
Associates (consultants)
(c) First presentation to Bank: August 1977
(d) First mission to review project: November 1977
(e) Departure of appraisal mission: July 24, 1978
(f) Completion of negotiations: May 4, 1979
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: February 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Missions at two to three months interval to ensure that a
satisfactory resettlement program will be implemented.
Section III: Special Conditions
The following assurances have been obtained:
(a)  The Argentine Government would ensure that fixed assets of SEGBA,
AyEE, and HIDRONOR will be revalued in 1981 and 1982 to achieve in
1982 realistic current values and will be revalued annually there-
after in accordance with sound economic and financial principles
and taking into account both local and international inflation
(paragraph 38).
(b) The Argentine Government would prepare a financial plan for the
construction of the high voltage transmission system related to
the Yacyreta project within 12 months of Loan Signing and construct
the system when and as needed for the transmission of the power
generated by the project (paragraph 44).
(c) The Argentine Government would ensure that YACYRETA will be
provided, during the period 1979-1991 promptly as needed and on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, with (a) at least
US$2.7 billion equivalent from the Electrical Funds and (b) such
additional funds as would be necessary (paragraph 59).



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) The Argentine Government would approve tariff increases sufficient
to allow for a return of not less than 8% on revalued fixed. assets
for HIDRONOR, CNEA and CTMSG from 1979 onwards and rates of return
of not less than 4% in 1979 and 6% in 1980 and 8% thereaftetr on
revalued fixed assets for AyEE (paragraph 60(a)).
(e) The Argentina Government would ensure that SEGBA's tariffs will
be maintained at or close to their January 1979 levels in "real
terms" through (adjustments to keep tariffs within 3% maximum of
changes in SEGBA's composite cost index) through 1981 and increases
sufficient to allow for annual returns of 8% on revalued fiLxed
assets thereafter (paragraph 60(b)).
(f) YACYRETA would not accumulate, without the Bank's consent,
short-term debt (less than 1 year term), in excess of 10% of
total debt during the construction period or 100% of the total
long-term debt contracted (excluding export credits) and undis-
bursed, whichever is greater (paragraph 69).
(g)  YACYRETA would execute and operate the project with due regard
to ecological and environmental factors, and would carry out an
envirormental program satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 73)
and the resettlement/relocation component according to programs
and timetables satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 77).
Additional conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a) Argentina and Paraguay have taken initial steps satisfactory
to the Bank to comply with Article VI (demarcation of
boundaries) of the Yacyreta Treaty (paragraph 49).
(b) YACYRETA has met all conditions prior to the first disbursement
of the IDB loan (paragraph 57).
(c) YACYRETA has submitted evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
it will be able to obtain financing from foreign commerciaLl
sources in 1980 and 1981 as required in the financing plan
(paragraph 58).
(d) The terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Bank, of the loans
from the Electrical Funds have been agreed between the Argentine
Government and YACYRETA (paragraph 66).






________________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD   14128~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ B   D 14 2
l  os      gOe     N        ~~~~59s                                                                                                                                           IrsA'.5s,0vos' .,,\0er/Ae;zo                                                                                                                              APR1L ;79
I  ,   \TsG'.ser./Ads~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AP Is
BOLIVIA               I                                                                                                                                                         I /                                 Coronel Boqodp
<5.  >A nOA{e Z   o I                                                                          RLA                                        G       ,              U  x                  A     ,        X            \  s                               X r                   R             )  
.   '    -                                                                                                                                               I                                                    (- S--l  E-_       A                       )                                sS  
PARAGUAY
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                                                                                                                                              Came  09  P_r   _                        --  '    -+-+ PorIssil lgoeeo a
A   5- E- N                  I,'
OSGENS |                                    Nr
5,5  IIC- I                                                  °o 4,05  A
KIL^roEribur                                                   olUasrb1Sszs0h>ua1e  FUrur=>JJ  eeffl
s75ss,stds,.r  7nr@>& Ih9 0{1 rs ¢1~ /e ~! rT
SAIlS? 5..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.j, .k
- 550555~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,  oE l.~
(                         -        c'.'.  MCMV I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   --Ac-rod
..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    _
2                                                                                                                      .5.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P-l   1in                            to    ,r.
Cr01 uribura  Cod ~~~~~~S,*5  tic ~~~'                                            (I  ~~-.55'.'.OS". 7-~~~~~>'..-'.                                                                                                                                                '~~~ /05.p-5'r,
~~~ ~~~~~~~5-'.'.  Sorn Antonio                                                                                          /                                                                        ARG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENITINAG: ARGA
I     10            is.                                              o 2re,0t    be fo de ry
KILOMETERS~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aoesod



