F1o F
LOAN NUMBER 1761 AR
Amending Agreement
to Loan and Project
Agreements
(Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project)
between
THE iRGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ENTIDAD BINACIONAL YACYRETA
Dated                     /        , 1986


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1761 AR
AMENDING AGEEMENT
TO LOAN AND PROJECT AGREEMENTS
AGREEMENT, dated                , 1986, between the Argentine
Republic (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank) and ENTIDAD BINACIONAL YACYRETA (hereinafter called
Yacyreta).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement dated November 6, 1979,
between the Bank and the Borrower, as amended, (hereinafter
called the Loan Agreement), the Bank has made a loan (hereinafter
called the Loan) to the Borrower, in an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to two hundred ten million United States
dollars ($210,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Loan Agreement, for the purposes of assisting in the
financing of the project described in Section 4.01 to the Loan
Agreement and Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement of even date
between the Bank and Yacyreta (hereinafter called the Project
Agreement);
(B) the Borrower and Yacyreta have requested the Bank to
agree to certain amendments to the Loan and Project Agreements
to reflect the current financial situation of the Borrower's
Electric Power Sector as well as the Borrower's undertaking to
improve such financial situation and, in that sense, the Borrower
has represented to the Bank that it shall carry out a medium term
program aimed at restoring the Electric Power Sector's finances
through a balanced financing plan including increases in rates,
improvement of efficiency and reduction of losses and equity
contributions to the utilities in the Sector;
NOW THEREFORE, based, inter alia, on the foregoing, the
parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
A.   Definitions:
WHEREVER used in this Agreement, unless the context other-
wise requires, the several terms defined in the Preamble to this
Agreement aftd in the Loan and Project Agreements have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
B.   Amendments to the Loan Agreement:
1.   Section 1.02 is amended by adding the following new para-
graphs (k), (1), (m), (n), (o), (p), (q), (r) and (s).
(k)  "DEBA" means Direccion de Ene      Electrica de la
Provincia de Buenos Aires;
(1)  "EPEC" means Empresa Provincial de Energ(a de
Cordoba;
(m)  "EMSE" means Energfa Mendoza Sociedad del Estado;
(n) "DPESF" means Direccion Provincial de la Enera_ a
de Santa Fe;
(o) "ELECTRICAL FUNDS" means the proceeds of the
surcharge on energy rates and prices which are chanelled
to the Borrower's Fondo Chocdn-Cerros Colorados (FCCC),
Fondo Nacional de Grandes Obras Elictricas (FNGOE), Fondo
Nacional de la Energia El6ctrica (FNEE), and Fondo Especia'.
para el Desarrollo Elictrico del Interior (FEDEI) estab-
lished under Law No. 17,574, dated December 21, 1967,
and Law No. 19,287, dated October 5, 1971, and by Law
No. 15,336, dated September 15, 1960, and Law No. 22,938,
dated October 6, 1983, respectively, as amended to the
date of this Agreement;
(p)  "National  Utilities"   means  SEGBA,   A  y   EE,
HIDRONOR, YACYRETA, CNEA and CTMSG referred to collectively,
and "National Utility" means any one of them;
(q)  "SE" means the Borrower's Secretarfa de Estado de
Energfa;
(r) "Provincial Utilities" means DEBA, EPEC, EMSE and
DPESF referred to collectively, and "Provincial Utility"
means anyone of them; and
s)  "short-term debt" means any overdraft or debt
incurred by a National Utility or a Provincial Utility and
maturing by its terms one year or less than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred, and "long-term
debt" means any debt incurred by a National Utility or a
Provincial Utility maturing by its terms more than one year


﻿-3-
after the date on which it was originally incurred; debt
shall be deemed to be incurred: (1) under a loan agreement,
on the date it is drawn down but only to the extent that it
is outstanding, and (2) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date such agreement is entered into.
2.   Section 3.01 (c) (i) of the Loan Agreement is amended to
read as follows:
(i)  "at   least  two  billion   seven  hundred  sixty-
five million dollars during the period 1986 - 1994
($2,765,000,000) equivalent out of the proceeds of the
Electrical Funds for purposes of assisting Yacyreta in
carrying out Parts A, B, and C of the Project, such amounts
being, at June 1985 prices, equivalent to two billion one
hundred forty-two million dollars ($2,142,000,000); and".
3.   Section 3.01 (c) of the Loan Agreement is amended by delet-
ing the definition of "Electrical Funds" therein.
4.   Section 4.05 is amended by:
(i) designating its current wording as paragraph (a);
and
(ii) adding the following new paragraphs:
"(b) not later than July 15 each year, the
Borrower shall, through SE, furnish to the Bank
consolidated economic and financial projections
for the National Utilities, of such scope and
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Such  projections   to  be  based  on  investment,
financing and tariff plans approved by the
Borrower's Ministerio de Economfa;
(c) based on the projections referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall,
not later than October 15, 1986 and August 15 of
each year thereafter, prepare, and exchange views
with the Bank on, a set of financial targets for
each of the National Utilities for the following
year; and
(d) not later than June 15 and December 15 of
each year, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
a summary financial and economic report, of such
scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably


﻿-4-
request, covering the following matters for each
of the National Utilities, during the preceding 12
month period ending on March 31 and September 30,
respectively: (i) status of account receivables
segregated to show debt of private and public
consumers; (ii) status of compliance with the
maintenance of tariff levels (according to the
composite index defined in Section 5.06 of this
Agreement), with the rate of return and revalua-
tion of assets obligations set forth or referred
to in this Loan Agreement, including, if needed, a
detailed explanation of the causes of any failure
to comply with such obligations and the type and
timing of the remedial action to be taken by the
Borrower and each of the Utilities to achieve full
compliance with such obligations; and (iii) status
of collection of the proceeds of the Electrical
Funds;"
5.   The following new Section 4.06 is added to the Loan Agree-
ment:
"Section 4.06. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
October 31, 1986, prepare and furnish to the Bank an action
program, satisfactory to the Bank, aimed at: (i) reducing
the National Utilities' energy losses to adequate levels and
improving   collection  of   their   receivables,  and   (ii)
improving collection of the Electric Funds surcharges.
(b) Carry out, and cause such Utilities to carry out,
such action programs in a manner and according to a time-
table satisfactory to the Bank."
6.   The following new Section 4.07 is added to the Loan Agree-
ment:
"Section 4.07. (a) Not later than March 31, 1987 the
Borrower shall, through SE, assisted by consultants satis-
factory to the Bank, carry out a study on the long run
marginal cost of electric services in Argentina, such study
to be carried out under a methodology and assumptions satis-
factory to the Bank; (b) promptly upon its completion, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the results of such study
for comments; and (c) taking into account the Bank's com-
ments thereon, the Borrower shall include the results of
such study in the financial information and projections to
be furnished to the Bank in 1988 pursuant to the provisions


﻿-5-
of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of Section 4.05 of this Loan
Agreement."
7.   The following new Section 4.08 is added to the Loan Agree-
ment:
"Section 4.08. Not later than October 31, 1986, the
Borrower shall, through SE, appoint, and provide with
appropriate office facilities and support, a full time
professional to be responsible for:
(i) coordination and follow up on the preparation of
consolidated financial projections and financial
progress reports of the National Utilities;
(ii) preparation of individual and consolidated summary
periodic reports to SE (with specific recommenda-
tions to address identified problems) of the
financial progress reports received from the
individual National Utilities;
(iii) the    timely  delivery  of   covenanted   financial
reports to the Bank;
(iv) preparing summary monitoring reports with comments
and recommendations in the areas of adequacy of
tariffs and sector operational and financial
performance; and
(v) gathering data and preparing reports on the opera-
tional and financial performance of the Provincial
Utilities, of such scope and detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, such reports to be
included in the reports referred to in Section
4.05 (d) of this Agreement."
8.   The following new Section 4.09 is added to the Loan Agree-
ment:
"Section 4.09. The Borrower shall, through SE: (a) Not
later than March 31, 1987, assisted by consultants satisfac-
tory to the Bank, carry out, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, a diagnostic study of the organi-
zation and operational efficiency of the Electric Power
Sector and the National Utilities; and (b) promptly after
its completion furnish to the Bank a copy of such study for
comment."


﻿- 6 -
9.   Section 5.04 of the Loan Agreement is deleted and substitu-
ted by the following:
"Section 5.04. The Borrower shall take all administra-
tive and other action required on its part to cause and
enable the National Utilities: (a) to revalue their fixed
assets in service at the end of each year in accordance
with sound economic   and financial principles, taking into
account both local and international inflation; and (b) to
carry out the first such revaluation, after exchanging views
with the Bank, not later than June 30, 1987."
10. Section 5.05 of the Loan Agreement is deleted and substitu-
ted by the following:
"Section 5.05. The Borrower shall take all admini-
strative and other action required on its part to enable
HIDRONOR, SEGBA, A y EE, and CNEA to take from time to time
all such measures (including adjustments in the structure
or levels of their electricity rates) as shall be required
to provide, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a)   in the case of HIDRONOR, revenues to produce an
annual rate of return on its fixed assets, revalued pursuant
to Section 5.04 of this Agreement, of not less than 3% in
fiscal year 1986, 4% in fiscal year 1987, 4% in fiscal year
1988, 5% in fiscal year 1989, 6% in fiscal year 1990, 7% in
fiscal year 1991 and 8% in fiscal year 1992 and thereafter,
such rates of return to be calculated for 1986 in accor-
dance with the provisions of the Contrato Concesion, dated
November 28, 1968, between the Borrower and HIDRONOR and
for 1987 and thereafter in accordance with the methodology
described in Section 5.05 (d) of this Agreement;
(b) in the case of SEGBA, A y EE, and CNEA, revenues
to produce at least the fillowing annual rate of return on
the fixed assets of each of them: (i) A y EE: 1% in fiscal
year 1991, 2% in fiscal year 1992, 3% in fiscal year 1993,
and 4% in fiscal year 1994 and thereafter; (ii) CNEA 3% in
fiscal year 1986 and 8% in fiscal year 1987 and thereafter;
and (iii) SEGBA 0.5% in fiscal year 1986, 2.5% in fiscal
1987, 3.5% in fiscal year 1988, 5% in fiscal year 1989, 6%
in fiscal year 1990, 7% in fiscal year 1991 and 8% in fiscal
year 1992 and thereafter;


﻿- 7 -
(c) A y EE, for each fiscal year from 1986 to 1990,
sufficient funds to cover its operating expenses (as such
term is defined below), provided, however, that such term
shall, for purposes of this paragraph, include only 30% of
the applicable depreciation in 1987, 50% in 1988, 75% in
1989 and 100% in 1990; and
(d) for purposes of paragraph (b) of this Section: (i)
the annual rate of return shall be calculated in respect of
each fiscal year by relating net operating income for that
year to the average of the net value of fixed assets in
operation at the beginning and end of that year increased by
5% (representing an allowance for working capital); (ii) the
term "net operating income" means all operating income less
all operating expenses; (iii) the term "operating income"
means total revenues from all sources related to operations;
(iv) the term "operating expenses" includes: direct costs of
operation, administration, overhead and adequate maintenance
expenses; straight-line depreciation based on the useful
life of assets; taxes (if applicable to expenses); but does
not include interest and other charges on debt; provided,
however, that taxes not applicable to expenses will be
compensated financially by the Borrower so as not to affect
adversely the financing of the investment program of the
respective utilities or of the sector as a whole; and (v)
the term "net value of fixed assets in operation" means the
gross value of fixed assets in operation less the accumula-
ted depreciation, all as revalued in accordance with Section
5.04 of this Agreement."
11. Section 5.06 of the Loan Agreement is deleted and substitu-
ted by the following:
"Section 5.06. The Borrower represents that it is the
Borrower's policy that the level of the electricity rates
reflect the average long-term marginal cost of supplying
electricity services and to that effect undertakes to take,
inter alia, all administrative and other action required
on its part: (a) to enable SEGBA, A y EE and HIDRONOR to
increase their electricity rates in real terms: (i) no later
than April 1, 1.987, by at least the following percentages
when compared with the rates in effect on January 1, 1986,
SEGBA 12%, A y EE 30%, and HIDRONOR 15%; (ii) to reflect
any changes in the composite cost index between June 1,
1985 and January 1, 1986; and (iii) to reflect any further


﻿- 8 -
changes in the respective composite cost index of each such
National Utility; (b) to cover, as a minimum, CTMSG's opera-
tional expenses (as such term is defined in Section 5.05 (d)
(iv) of this Agreement) and pay all its debt on a timely
basis; and
(c) for purposes of this Section:
(i)  "composite cost index" means SEGBA's or
HIDRONOR's or A y EE's composite cost
index resulting from:
(A) the following components adjusted monthly:
(1) authorized salaries;
(2) the unit price of fuel and power purchased by
each of them;
(3) the selling rate of dollars in terms of the
currency of the Borrower;
(4) "fndice de precios al por mayor (no-agro-
pecuario nacional)" of the Borrower; and
(5) construction cost index of the Borrower; and
(B) giving such components the weights of 22%, 32%,
26%, 12% and 8% repectively, or such other weights
as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree.
(ii)   "increase in real terms" means adjust-
ments to the electricity rates over
and above any adjustment required to
cover any increases in the respective
Utility's composite cost index;
(iii)  the electricity rates increases referred
to in paragraph (a) (i) of this Section
will consist of 4 approximately equal
increases  effective   not   later  than
June 1 and October 1, 1986 and January 1
and April 1, 1987, respectively, and


﻿- 9 -
(iv) the   increases   referred  to  in   para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section shall
consist   of  two   approximately  equal
increases   effective  not   later   than
March 30 and June 30, 1987, 'respec-
tively."
12. Section 5.07 of the Loan Agreement is amended to read as
follows:
"Section 5.07. The Borrower shall, by May 31, 1987,
take all administrative and other action required on its
part to enable SEGBA, HIDRONOR and A y EE to charge con-
sumers as a surcharge on the monthly electricity bill, such
amounts as shall be equivalent to those previously collected
by SEGBA, HIDRONOR and A y EE on account of provincial
taxes".
13. Section 5.08 of the Loan Agreement is deleted and substitu-
ted by the following:
"Section 5.08. The Borrower shall take all administra-
tive and other action required on its part: (a) to enatl-e
SEGBA, A y EE, HIDRONOR, CNEA, and CTMSG to convert their
short-term debt into long-term debt so that the aggregate
amount of their short-term debt does not exceed, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, 20% of the aggregate amount of
their debt by December 31, 1986; and (b) to cause SEGBA,
A y EE, HIDRONOR, CNEA and CTMSG to prepare and furnish to
the Bank not later than October 31, 1986, individual reports
and action plans, approved by the Borrower's Ministerio de
Economia, to achieve the short-term debt limit provided in
paragraph (a) of this Section,    Such reports to be of such
scope and detail as the Bank shall resonably request and to
include, inter alia, a list of each active loan with details
of their terms (lender amount, domestic loans, Paris Club,
commercial banks, and other lenders), and debt service pro-
jection of each loan until 1995 divided in interest and
other charges and principal payments."
14. Section 5.09 of the Loan Agreement is amended by:
"(i) redesignating    its   current  wording   as   para-
graph (a); and


﻿- 10 -
(ii)  adding the following new paragraphs (b) and (c):
"(b) as part of the foregoing, and consider-
ing that the policy objectives of the Borrower
are to attain a balanced economic and financial
operation of the National Utilities, the Borrower
undertakes to include in its budget for each
fiscal year, contributions to SEGBA and A y EE
sufficient to attain such objectives, in amounts
consistent with the outcome of the financial
review referred to in Section 4.05 of this
Agreement.
(c) the Borrower undertakes to allocate
funds from the Electrical Funds to finance any
current or capital expenditures of CNEA, only
after all current and capital expenditures of all
other National Utilities have been fully covered."
15. Section 5.10 of the Loan Agreement is amended by:
(i) redesignating   its current wording as paragraph
(a); and
(ii) adding the following new paragraph (b):
"(b) Not later than October 31, 1986, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a report, of
such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the legal and procedural details of
the transfer of A y EE's assets to the Provinces,
particularly those relating to personnel trans-
fers, valuation of transferred assets, reassign-
ment of liabilities linked both to the assets and
to  transferred workers' social     and  retirement
benefits, and to the legal status of the newly
created Provincial entities pertaining to regula-
tion and control of their operations."
16. Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement is amended by adding the
following new paragraph (h):
"(h) by October 31 of any year, the Borrower shall
have failed: (i) to exchange views as provided in Sec-
tion 4.05 (c) of this Agreement; or (ii) agree on the


﻿- 11 -
financial targets for each of the National Utilities for the
following calendar year.
17. Section 6.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement is amended by
substituting the words "in paragraphs (a), (d), (f) or (g)" by
"in paragraphs (a), (d), (f), (g) or (h)".
18.  Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is amended to read as set
forth in the Annex to this Agreement.
C.   Amendments to the Project Agreement
1.   Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement is amended by adding
the following new paragraph (d):
"(d) not later than October 31 each year, furnish to
the Bank evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that it has
employed the auditors referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section."
2.   Section 4.03 (b) of the Project Agreement is amended by
substituting the sentence "not later than one year after the date
of this Agreement" by "not later than December 31, 1986."
3.   Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement is amended by adding
the following new paragraphs (c) and (d):
"(c) not later than October 31, 1986, YACYRETA shall
present to the Bank, a report, of such scope and detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on its short-term debt
situation including, inter alia: (i) a list of each active
loan with details of their terms (lender amount, currency,
date of agreement, purpose, interest, commissions and out-
standing balance as of December 31, 1985) grouped under
domestic loans, Paris Club, foreign commercial banks, and
other lenders; and (ii) debt service projection of each loan
until 1995 divided in interest and other charges and princi-
pal payments; and
(d) not later than June 1 each year, Yacyreta shall
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request on its debt situation as a
consequence of the Borrower's external debt renegotiations."


﻿- 12 -
D.   Effectiveness of this Agreement
1.   This Agreement shall not become effective until the Bank
shall have been furnished legal opinions, satisfactory to the
Bank, on behalf of the Borrower and Yacyreta, of counsel accept-
able to the Bank, showing that the foregoing amendments to the
Loan and Project Agreements have been duly authorized by the
Borrower and Yacyreta and that such amendments are legally bind-
ing upon the Borrower and Yacyreta in accordance with their
terms.
2.   This Agreement and the amendments contained herein shall
come into force and effect on the date        upon which the Bank
dispatches notices to the Borrower and Yacyreta of its acceptance
of the legal opinions referred to in paragraph I above.
3.   If this Agreement shall not have come into force and effect
by December 1, 1986, this Agreement and all obligations of the
parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Bank establishes a
later date for purposes of this paragraph.      If this Agreement
shall terminate under the provisions of this paragraph, the Loan
Agreement and the Project Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect, as if this Agreement had not been executed.


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Amending
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By/s4A
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
ENTIDAD BINACIONAL YACYRETA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 14 -
ANNE
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
DATE PAYMENT DUE                        REPAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL
(expressed in dollars)*
On June 1, 1986                                11,665,000
On December 1, 1986                               100,000
On June 1, 1987                                   100,000
On December 1, 1987                               100,000
On June 1, 1988                                 4,735,000
On December 1, 1988                             5,700,000
On June 1, 1989                                 6,800,000
On December 1, 1989                             8,500,000
On June 1, 1990                                 9,600,000
On December 1, 1990                            10,700,000
and
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning June 1, 1991
through   December 1, 1994                  19,000,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Sec-
tion 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


