Report No. PID9329
Project Name                     Ukraine-TB & AIDS Control Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Targeted Health
Project ID                       UKPE69857
Borrower(s)                      UKRAINE
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF HEALTH
7 Hrushevsky str., Kyiv, Ukraine
Tel: 38 044 253 6165
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                June 20, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         January 8, 2001
Projected Board Date             May 15, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The alarming rates of increase in the incidence of tuberculosis (TB) and
HIV infection over the last few years is prompting the Government of
Ukraine to take urgent action to control both these epidemics. As in many
of the newly independent states, tuberculosis has increased dramatically
in Ukraine following independence from the former Soviet Union. By 1998,
the number of cases had reached 27,763, with a case rate of 55.2, an
increase of almost 73t since 1990.   About 309 of all TB patients in
Ukraine are in prison and SIZOs. The problems of over-crowding,
malnutrition, late diagnosis and lack of drugs in prisons aggravate the
situation. About 14,000 of the 200,000 prisoners in Ukraine have active
TB (prevalence of 7,000 per 100,000). Forty percent of deaths in
prisoners are due to TB. Drug-resistant TB, which is significantly more
difficult and costly to treat, is also increasing rapidly. Preliminary
review of available data indicate that half of all patients have
resistance to at least one drug, while resistance to isoniazid and
rifampicin (referred to as multi-drug resistant TB, or MDR-TB) is present
in 10-15w of new cases.   A combination of factors have contributed to the
worsening epidemic. Treatment services were not sustainable during the
period of economic decline. Access to care was reduced and treatment
default rates increased with the decentralization of services to oblast
and rayon dispensaries. And, an early merging of the TB and the HIV
epidemics was witnessed.   In 1997, about 30t of adults diagnosed with AIDS
and 50t of adults dying from AIDS had tuberculosis.    The increase in
multi-drug resistant TB resulted from inadequate treatment and drug supply
shortages. Until the mid-1990s, central and eastern European countries,
including Ukraine, escaped the worst ravages of HIV. The total number of
infections in Ukraine was reported to be 398 cases for the whole period
1987-1994. The situation changed dramatically thereafter. Since early
1995, HIV started to spread rapidly, especially among injecting drug users
(IDU). By the end of 1995, a total of 1,500 diagnosed infections were
reported. Just two years later, by end-1997, roughly 110 thousand adults
were estimated to be infected with HIV. Current estimates of the number
of HIV-infected citizens in Ukraine now range between 200-240 thousand



persons. Although these estimates should be considered indicative, it is
clear that Ukraine ranks in the first place in adult HIV/AIDS rates among
the transition countries of Europe and Central Asia. In addition, there
is evidence that Ukraine may be the first country within the region to be
facing the spread of HIV into the general population, and there are "
pre-conditions" present that suggest that an exceptionally rapid spread of
HIV is possible.
2. Objectives
There will be two phases to the program, to be implemented over a total
period of seven years. This project will cover the first phase of the
program and will be implemented over four years. The program development
objectives are to: (i) reduce the prevalence of TB and the incidence of
HIV infection; (ii) establish a more cost-effective delivery system to
Control TB built around the DOTS method, appropriately adopted to
Ukrainian circumstances, and (iii) rapidly expand programs to prevent the
transmission of HIV infection among high-risk and vulnerable populations
and to provide care for people living with HIV/AIDS (PLHAs). For this
first project, the objectives for the TB Component are to: (i) reduce the
prevalence of TB in a limited number of regions, and (ii) establish the
policy and legislative framework for implementation of DOTS nationwide and
establish DOTS in a limited number of regions. The project objectives for
the HIV/AIDS Component are to:(i) reduce HIV/AIDS-related high-risk
behavior among high-risk and vulnerable populations, (ii) Initiate
HIV/AIDS-related advocacy programs, targeted prevention programs among
high-risk groups, and care programs for PLHAs on a limited scale, and
(iii) establish a mechanism to involve NGOs actively in targeted
preventive programs.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Financial support and demonstration effect. The proposed loan would
finance the costs of transition to the new DOTS method for TB control. If
the project succeeds, it should demonstrate to local health authorities in
each region the comparative cost-effectiveness of the DOTS approach and
persuade them to restructure the excessively expensive hospital-based
infrastructure that is draining local TB budgets. Without Bank support
for the costs of transition and demonstration, local Governments are
unlikely to take the step of "dismantling" the existing system in the
absence of a functioning, more cost-effective alternative. The Bank's
financial support would allow time for the necessary restructuring to take
place while at the same time keeping the epidemic under control and hence
reversing the trend towards continued increases in prevalence and
corresponding expansion of funding requirements, particularly with respect
to the control of MDR TB. For HIV/AIDS, timely financial support from the
Bank will make it possible for Government to rapidly expand its prevention
activities, increasing the chances of containing the spread of the
disease. Bank funding would facilitate Government sponsorship of
relatively new, and politically controversial, methods of reaching
high-risk groups that would otherwise not be tested and implemented on a
large scale. Establishment of the HIV/AIDS Fund would provide a mechanism
by which public funds can be transferred to NGOs. Successful operation of
the HIV/AIDS Fund (including transparent mechanisms for allocation of
funds) could provide justification to allow continued channeling of public
funds to NGOs even after the project has ended.Donor coordination. The
presence of the Bank has provided a vehicle for closer coordination among
-2 -



numerous donors already active or wanting to be active in TB and/or
HIV/AIDS control, and facilitated donors' working relations with the MOH.
To date, project preparation has benefited from financial and/or technical
resources from WHO, UNAIDS, OSI, USAID/CDC. The Bank loan will make
possible large-scale expansion of activities started by WHO in TB Control
and UNAIDS in HIV/AIDS control, as well as by numerous other donors that
have supported NGOs or local health authorities in HIV/AIDS outreach and
care activities.Cross-country experience. The Bank brings experience in
assisting Governments in preparing and implementing national programs that
aim at containing similar epidemics in other parts of the world, notably
in India, China and Vietnam for TB, and in Brazil, China, India and
Thailand for HIV/AIDS. It is also providing a channel for transferring
experience in preparing the Russia TB/AIDS project to Ukraine. The
similarity between the old Russian and Ukrainian TB systems make this
transfer of experience especially fruitful.
4. Description
TB ComponentThe TB Component of the proposed project would help the MOH
introduce the DOTS method of TB control throughout the country. It would
consist of activities at the national level to establish the policy and
institutional framework covering the five components of DOTS -- Political
Commitment, Diagnosis, Treatment, Logistics and Monitoring - and
corresponding regional level activities to implement these five components
at the oblast and rayon levels. Surveillance and Research activities
would also be carried out at the national and regional levels. Each
region in the country would receive assistance from the project for one
half year of preparation plus three years of implementation of DOTS with
regional participation in the project phased over a seven year period.
Project interventions will be provided for both civilian and prison
populations through the health care systems of the MOH and the State
Department of Prisons.
The project would build on the results of an initial pilot project in four
sites (Kiev City, Chernigev, Donietsk and Donietsk prison services) as
proposed in the Joint WHO/CDC/MOH Review of TB in Ukraine. These DOTS
pilot demonstration sites would be established to determine the technical
and operational policies best suited for use in Ukraine. They would
assist program officials in identifying possible obstacles, provide the
opportunity to develop solutions to these barriers, and greatly facilitate
DOTS expansion once World Bank funds become available. It is expected that
this pilot phase would be funded by other donor agencies (USAID and EU).
B. HIV/AIDS Component
The HIV/AIDS Component of the proposed project would consist of the
sub-components and activities listed below.
Sub-component 1. Effective Measures to Prevent Transmission of HIV
General Public. A national HIV/AIDS mass media, public relations and
advocacy campaign would be carried out to promote behaviors that prevent
the transmission of HIV among the general public and to encourage the
social integration of people living with HIV/AIDS (PLHA). A national
HIV/AIDS telephone hotline would be established.
Targeted Interventions. Prevention strategies that target high-risk
-3 -



groups -- including intravenous drug users (IDUs), at-risk youth,
commercial sex workers (CSWs), men who have sex with men (MSM) and prison
populations -- would be intensified principally by strengthening the role
of non-governmental organizations (NGOs/community organizations) that are
active in outreach and prevention interventions among these groups.
Activities to improve the level of blood safety and to provide for the
prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV are also planned under
the project.
Sub-component 2. Improving the Quality and Scope of Care
Improving the Standards of Care. The project would support training and
education activities for healthcare professionals working with PLHA to
improve access to care for these individuals and establish a balanced care
program. Although loan funds would not be used for anti-retroviral
treatment because of its prohibitive cost (except for prevention of
mother-to-child transmission, discussed above), other types of care and
support from both medical and non-medical sources that could prolong life
and increase the quality of life for PLHA would be included in the
project.
Promoting self-help and expanding the continuum of care. The project
would enhance training and education activities for PLHA self-help groups,
parents and friends providing home-based care, NGOs for shelters and
orphanages and community home care teams to provide psychological and
other forms of assistance to PLHA.
Sub-component 3. Program Co-ordination, Research and Evaluation
Improving Co-ordination. The project would support the Department of
Socially Dangerous Diseases in the MOH which would act as executive arm of
the National Co-ordinating Council on AIDS. An NGO umbrella that would
help implement project activities aimed at high-risk groups (see above)
would be established. This organization - to be known as CHART (Community
HIV/AIDS Resources and Training) - would serve as the liaison between the
MOH/Government and NGOs through which funding and technical assistance
for NGOs would be channeled. An HIV/AIDS Fund would be established to
channel loan and Government resources to NGOs implementing activities
under subcomponents 1 and 2 above. The NGO umbrella would manage this
fund. It would be responsible for monitoring and evaluating NGOs'
performance and would be accountable to the MOH/Government for management
of any loan funds channeled to NGOs.
Evaluation. A series of evaluations of the usefulness and
cost-effectiveness of ongoing pilot programs would propose recommendations
on how best to replicate the more successful ones on a national scale.
Research. Some research activities to enhance the quality of HIV/AIDS
operations are being considered for inclusion under the project.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               TBD
IBRD                     TBD
IDA
-4-



Total Project Cost       TBD
6. Implementation
The key Government institutions that would be involved in implementation
of project activities are the Department of Socially Dangerous Diseases
(DSDD) in the MOH, the National Institute of Pulmonology & Phthisiology
(NIPP), the TB Institute of the State Department of Prisons,
regional-level TB authorities, the National Coordinating Council for
AIDS. Significant support for institution-building will be included in
the project to enable these institutions to implement national program and
project activities effectively. An NGO umbrella organization will be
organized to serve as liaison between Government and NGOs participating in
HIV/AIDS component activities. This organization will manage the HIV/AIDS
Fund and provide services to NGOs.Project ManagementThis would be the
first lending operation in the health sector in Ukraine. A Project
Management Unit (PMU) will be established in the MOH. The tasks, staff
composition, reporting lines, resource requirements, legal status of the
PMU will be defined during the coming preparation mission.
7. Sustainability
For the TB component, the critical issues will be financial sustainability
of drug and other supplies, the pace at which an effective DOTS network
can be established and the pace at which local resources for TB can be
shifted away from the hospital infrastructure to the outpatient DOTS
network. Activities during the last six months (phase-out period) of the
three-year project implementation period in each region will focus on
requirements for ensuring both financial as well as institutional
sustainability. For the HIV/AIDS component, financial sustainability will
be difficult to ensure because of the expected increase in prevalence
rates during the project period. It is hoped that successful
implementation of the HIV/AIDS Fund will convince Government to use its
own resources (as well as donor contributions) to continue operations of
the Fund beyond the project period. Investments in institution-building
for both TB and HIV/AIDS components should lead to institutional
sustainability of project interventions.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
This would be the first Bank-financed health project in Ukraine and the
second free-standing project in the Region aimed at controlling TB and
HIV/AIDS. A similar TB/AIDS Control project is currently under
preparation in Russia. The DOTS-based TB control strategy recommended by
WHO and to be adapted under the project is based on lessons learned from
evaluations of TB projects throughout the world. Experience with management
of TB where multiple-drug-resistance (MDR) is prevalent has been limited.
Early DOTS pilots in Russia that did not include special regimens for MDR
TB patients resulted in unacceptably low cure rates (65-75w in civilian
populations; 46-83w in prisons), due to both drug resistance and failure
to ensure observation of treatment and effective case holding. Diagnostic
and treatment regimens to be adopted in Ukraine take account of specific
needs to control MDR TB.The experience of the past decade demonstrates
that HIV prevention works. Communities from around the world have managed
to slow the spread of the virus with sound prevention policies and
strategies. The design of the project is consistent with the general
lessons learned from global experience and reflects these lessons with
respect to the emphasis on prevention, the focus on high-risk groups,
- 5 -



linking with STD and TB programs, and working through NGOs.Experience with
preparation of the Russia TB/AIDS project has underscored the necessity of
giving attention to the following issues early during preparation: (i)
allowing time for consensus to build around key policy features of the
project; (ii) engaging local experts in the development of specifics of
diagnosis and treatment regimens as a tool to build understanding and
acceptance of the DOTS method;; (iii) explaining to the client the Bank's
procurement guidelines regarding competition and GMP certification
required for drug suppliers, and helping local drug manufacturers get
assistance in reaching GMP certification before project effectiveness;
(iv) working with other donors who can bring financial and technical
resources as well as operational experience to the national programs.
These lessons have all been applied during preparation.An earlier failed
attempt to prepare a health project in Ukraine has taught two important
lessons. First, it is critical that Government counterparts be fully
involved during the process of preparation in order to create ownership
for the project. The second lesson relates to the importance of engaging
representatives of the Parliament (Rada) early in the process of
preparation, to avoid rejection of the project at the last stage of
approval.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Teresa Ho
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 458 5242
Fax: 202 522 7108
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 14, 2000.
- 6 -



