Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25062 UA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$60 MILLION
TO
UKRAINE
FOR A
TUBERCULOSIS AND HIV/AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
NOVEMBER 22, 2002
Human Development Sector Unit
Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 21, 2002)
Currency Unit = Hrivnya
1 hrivnya = US$0.188
US$1 = 5.31 hrivnya
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS          Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ARV           Anti-retroviral drugs
CDC           Centers for Disease Control
CSW           Commercial sex worker
DFID          Department for International Development
DOTS          Directly observed treatment, short course
FMR           Financial Management Report
FMS           Financial Management Specialist
FSU           Former Soviet Union
GMP           Good Manufacturing Practice
GOU           Government of Ukraine
HIV           Human immunodeficiency virus
IDU           Injecting drug user
IEC           Information, education, and communications
ILO           Intemational Labor Organization
IPP           National Institute of Phthisiology and Pulmonology
MDR           Multiple drug resistant (in TB)
MOE           Ministry of Economy
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOH           Ministry of Health
MOJ           Ministry of Justice
MSM           Men who have sex with men
NGO           Non-governmental organization
OSI           Open Society Institute
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PLHA          People Living with HIV/AIDS
PPU           Project Preparation Unit
SDP             State Department of Prisons
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
STD/STI       Sexually transmitted disease/ Sexually transmitted infection
WHO           World Health Organization
(See also Annex 11 - Technical Terms)
Vice President:  Johannes Linn
Country Director:  Luca Barbone
Sector Director:  Annette Dixon
Sector Manager:   Armin Fidler
Task Team Leader:   Jean Jacques De St. Antoine



UKRAINE
TUBERCULOSIS AND HIV/AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    10
3. Benefits and target population                                                   11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                   11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 17
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      17
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         19
2. Financial                                                                        19
3. Technical                                                                        19
4. Institutional                                                                    19
5. Environmentai                                                                    21
6. Social                                                                           21
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               23
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   23
2. Critical risks                                                                   23



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    24
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           25
2. Other                                                                             26
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         27
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        27
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         26
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        35
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          37
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   50
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      51
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    72
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  73
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 74
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           76
Annex 11: Technical Terms: Tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS                                    11
Annex 12: The implementation of outreach services for HIV/AIDS                          82
Annex 13: HIV/AIDS in Europe and Central Asia Region                                    84
Annex 14: Implementation strategy for TB control                                        87



UKRAINE
Tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS Control Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova Country Unit
Date: November 21, 2002                          Team Leader: Jean J. De St Antoine
Sector Manager: Armin Fidler                     Sector(s): Health (96%), Other social services (4%)
Country Director: Luca Barbone                   Theme(s): Fighting communicable diseases (P), Gender
Project ID: P069857                              (S), Child health (S)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SEL)
E
[XI Loan    I] Credit    [ Grant      [ Guarantee      [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): 60.0
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: 1 Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Vanable-Spread Loan (VSL)
F_nN1'aan(..Sog
BORROWER                                                     17.00           0.00         17.00
IBRD                                                          0.00          60.00         60.00
Total:                                                       17.00          60.00         77.00
Borrower: UKRAINE
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF HEALTH, SDP (UNDER THE CABINET OF MINISTERS)
Address: 7 Grushevskogo str., Kyiv 21, Ukraine
Contact Person: Vladimir Nakonechnyy
Tel: 38 044 253 6165          Fax:            Email:
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
Annual     4.00       6.50     15.50      16.00      18.00
Cumulative     4.00     10.50      26.00     42.00      60.00
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 03/15/2003  Expected closing date: 06/30/2007
O   PAD F-W R* ktd 2=



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of this project is reduced tuberculosis (TB) and HIV/AIDS morbidity and mortality through
an effective National Strategy for TB Control Adapted to the World Standard, and an HIV/AIDS Program largely
focused on prevention of transmission of the disease among high-risk groups.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The main indicators would be as follows:
Tuberculosis:
(i) increase proportion of smear-positive TB cases among newly-recorded to at least 50 percent;
(ii) increase cure rate to at least 85 percent, excluding multidrug-resistant TB (MDR TB) cases (for civilian
population); and
(iii) decrease fatality rate by 15 percent.
HIV/AIDS:
(i) reduce HIV/AIDS-related high-risk behavior among vulnerable populations.
(ii) strengthen AIDS Centers at the regional level so that they improve their coverage of preventive
programs (in association with NGOs when necessary) and provide a broader range of medical
services, including the treatment of opportunistic infections, and social support; and
(iii) implement a pilot program for the treatment of retroviral infection for adults and children.
Based on other countries' experience, the two epidemics may require 10 years or more to reach a point
where both incidence and prevalence of the two diseases would have started to decrease. The project, to be
implemented over a 4-year period, would: (i) provide the government with the means to stabilize the two epidemics;
and (ii) strengthen Ukraine's capacity to control TB and HIV/AIDS. To that effect the project would help implement
cost-effective prevention, diagnosis, and epidemic control strategies, and build institutional capacity to that effect by
training health personnel and undertaking a systematic program of monitoring and supervision. The project's size and
implementation period provide the government with the adequate means to start controlling the two epidemics. It
would most likely need to be followed by a second operation that would consolidate the results of the first one.
Detailed outcome, output, and input indicators are presented in annex 1.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 20723-UA Date of latest CAS discussion: August 16, 2000
The joint IBRD-IFC Country Assistance Strategy for Ukraine for FY2001-2003 aims to assist the
government and civil society in the implementation of a broad-based poverty reduction strategy and in attaining
job-creating, sustainable growth. To do so, the strategy directly addresses the institution-building challenges faced by
Ukraine both from the demand side (civil society) and supply (the government). The strategy seeks to move Ukraine
closer to European Union standards, fostering environmentally sustainable development. As regards the provision of
basic social services, Bank assistance will focus on addressing critical emergencies and strengthening community
involvement in the provision of improved basic social services to the most vulnerable groups. The proposed project
will benefit the general population through the control of two highly infectious diseases. Its main outcomes will most
directly be observed in the most vulnerable population groups as marginalized groups will be specifically targeted
for project activities due to the nature of the epidemics. The TB patients who serve as the "epidemiological pump"
for the infection are often poor and sometimes imprisoned. The HIV epidemic is still highly concentrated amongst
those who engage in high-risk behaviors, including injecting drug use and, to a lesser extent, commercial sex work.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Tuberculosis. Ukraine has had a long history of effectively controlling tuberculosis and other infectious
- 2 -



diseases. The specialized physicians and other medical workers are well-trained, and the system of tuberculosis
control has a long and proud history. The system, however, has proven financially difficult to maintain in periods of
economic uncertainty. Throughout the country, both in the Ministry of Health (MOH) and in prisons, TB facilities
need to be modernized, especially laboratory services, so that TB cases can be detected faster and more effectively.
Outpatient services also need to be improved so that treatment regimens can be better monitored and complied with.
A detailed analysis of TB sector issues is presented in section B. 3.. The objective of the tuberculosis component of
the project is to help Ukraine control an expanding epidemic or TB. The project would help modernize the
diagnostic and treatment capabilities of the current health service delivery system and make it more cost-effective.
To that effect, Ukraine has adopted a new TB control strategy called "the National TB Strategy Adapted to the
World Standard". This strategy includes the main elements of DOTS [directly observed treatment, short course,
promoted by the World Health Organization (WHO)] as follows: (i) training and education of specialists; (ii)
introduction of smear mnicroscopy as an important diagnosis tool; (iii) introduction of standardized treatment regimen
(except for drug-resistant cases) and direct observation of TB drugs intake; (iv) implementation of a standardized TB
register and monitoring system; and (v) the implementation of a public awareness campaign.
Epidemiological Situation of Tuberculosis. As an outcome of its comprehensive and effective
tuberculosis (TB) control system, in 1990, Ukraine reported its lowest number of TB cases in the modern era, 16,465
for a case rate of 32.0 per 100,000 population. As in many of the newly independent states, tuberculosis has
increased dramatically in Ukraine following independence from the former Soviet Union. By 1999, the number of
cases had reached 32,691, with a case rate of 65.0, a doubling of, the rate compared to 1990. Case rates in the
administrative regions ranged from 35.9 in Kiev to 72.9 in the Zaporozhye region. About 30 percent of all TB
patients in Ukraine are in prison and pre-detention centers (SIZOs). The problems of over-crowding, malnutrition,
late diagnosis and lack of drugs are particularly well-known in prisons and aggravate the TB situation. About 14,000
of the 200,000 prisoners in Ukraine have active TB (prevalence of an astronomical 7,000 per 100,000). Forty
percent of deaths in prisoners are due to TB.
Drug-resistant TB, which is significantly more difficult and costly to treat, is also increasing rapidly.
Preliminary results indicate that half of all patients have resistance to at least one drug, while resistance to isoniazid
and rifampicin (referred to as multi-drug resistant TB, or MDR-TB, see annex I1, technical terms) is present in
10-15 percent of new cases.
Number of Tuberculosis Cases and
Case Notification Rates
(per 100,000 population)
Ukraine, 1990-1999
1990               16,465                 32.0
1991               16,713                 32.0
1992               18,140                 35.0
1993               19,964                 38.2
_______ 1994                 20,622                 39.7
1995               21,459                 41.6
1996               26,834                 45.8
1997               27,204                 49.1
1998               27,763                 55.2
1999               32,691                 65.0
Source: MOH, Government of Ukraine, WHO, USAID/CDC, 6-15 December, 1999: Joint Review of Tuberculosis in
Ukraine.
-3 -



Overall, 75-80 percent of cases occur in the 20 to 59 age groups. The ratio of reported cases of TB in men
to women is 7 to 1. The disease had risen 141 percent in urban populations between 1990 and 1998, while the
increase in rural populations was 67.2 percent. Cases of TB in Ukraine tend to be diagnosed at a much later, more
advanced stage of the disease than in other areas of the world.
A combination of factors have contributed to the worsening epidemic. Treatment services were not
sustainable during the period of economic decline. Access to care was reduced and treatment default rates increased
with the decentralization of services to region and rayon dispensaries. And, an early merging of the TB and the HIV
epidemics was witnessed. In 1997, about 30 percent of adults diagnosed with AIDS and 50 percent of adults dying
from AIDS had tuberculosis. The increase in multi-drug resistant TB resulted from inadequate treatment and drug
supply shortages.
HIV/AIDS. The objective of the HIV/AIDS component is to address the spread of the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the virus that causes AIDS. HIV is spread through unprotected sexual intercourse
with an infected partner, sharing of unsterilized drug injecting equipment, by blood transfusion, and by transmission
from an infected mother to her child. AIDS is a fatal disease for which there is neither a cure nor a preventive
vaccine. Globally, it is estimated that 35.4 million persons are infected with HIV. AIDS is ranked as the largest
infectious cause-of-death in the world, and the fourth leading cause overall.
With an adult prevalence rate believed to be around one percent, Ukraine still has the opportunity to prevent
a widespread epidemic. Hence, the primary objective of the project is in the area of prevention of the further spread
of the virus. The project design reflects that this can be best accomplished by concentrated activities which are
directed toward those who are most likely to spread the virus. The project also considers that Ukraine will
increasingly need to address the needs of persons already living with HIV/AIDS (PLHA). Activities are included in
the areas of treatment, care and support for PLHA, and for the institutional strengthening of the anti-AIDS centers,
although the financing in these areas is secondary to that of prevention.
Epidemiological Situation of HIV/AIDS. Number of HIV Infections. Until the mid-1990s, central and
eastem European countries, including Ukraine, escaped the worst ravages of HIV. On the basis of data obtained from
mass screening of large segments of the population (including high-risk groups), the total number of infections in
Ukraine was reported to be 398 cases for the whole period 1987-1994. The situation changed dramatically
thereafter. Since early 1995, HIV started to spread rapidly, especially among injecting drug users (IDU). By the end
of 1995, a total of 1,500 diagnosed infections were reported. Just two years later, roughly 110,000 adults were
estimated to be infected with HIV. Official govermment statistics show that, as of January 2002, 44,559 persons
were HIV positive. Current estimates by UNAIDS that take into account estimates of under reporting show that
about 240,000 are HIV positive. These estimates should be considered indicative and treated with caution, as a
number of factors prevent the definitive estimation of these indicators. The first is the change in surveillance
methods. Until 1991, HIV/AIDS surveillance was organized primarily through mandatory screening in subgroups of
the population, together with contact tracing. Testing policies changed in 1991 with the introduction of anonymous
voluntary testing. Testing remained compulsory for prostitutes, IDUs, sexually-transmitted diseases (STD) patients,
blood donors, and "other population based on epidemiological considerations". The second factor is the
under-reporting of the number of HIV cases officially registered. For instance, 30,388 HIV-infected persons have
been officially registered in Ukraine by Jan. 1, 2000 while MOH estimates, based on survey and serosurveillance
data, suggest 240,000 persons are infected.
Within the Europe and Central Asia region, up to 1999 Ukraine was the worst affected country, both in
terms of the actual number of persons infected with HIV and the adult prevalence rate of HIV. As seen in the
following chart, of the estimated 420,000 persons who are infected with HIV in the region, 240,000 are in Ukraine.
(Source: UNAIDS, end-1999 estimates; Poland data are adults only). A detailed analysis of HIV/AIDS in the
Europe and Central Asia Region is presented in annex 13.
- 4 -



Russian
..-. .                    Federation
(130,000)
Belarus
Ukraine                            (14,000)  poland
(240,000)                                   (13,000)
*_ Rorrania
(7,000)
\< ~~~~~~All Other 70)
ECA (23,000)
Adult Prevalence Rates. The rates of HIV prevalence in the entire region, all less than one percent at
end-1999, are low by international standards. Nonetheless, epidemiological data are particularly worrisome in the
region because of the high rate of annual increase. Within the ECA region, Ukraine has the highest rate of adult
infection rates, as detailed below.
Adult (15-49 years) HIV/AIDS Rates id Europe and Central Asia (1999)
Global Average                  1.07
ECA Region Average                0.21
I                     Ukraine                      0.96
2                     Belarus                      0.28
3                Republic of Moldova               0.20
4                 Russian Federation               0.18
5                      Latvia                      0.11
6                      Poland                      0.07
Geographic and Age Dispersion. In the early years of epidemic, the majority of HIV cases were found in
the regions of Odessa and Nykolayev, but cases have now been reported from all 27 regions of the country.
Risky Behaviors. Both case reporting and prevalence data suggest that the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Ukraine
is being fueled by high-risk behaviors, particularly injecting drug use. Since drug injecting is illegal, it is difficult to
estimate the size of the drug injecting population, let alone the extent to which it is linked with non-injectors through
sexual networks. This lack of data makes it difficult to accurately determine how quickly the virus could spread
further. However, as detailed below, there is both evidence that Ukraine may be the first country within the region to
be facing the spread of HIV into the general population, and there are pre-conditions present that suggest that an
exceptionally rapid spread of HIV is possible.
It is well known that sharing of drug injecting equipment without sterilization between uses is an
extraordinarily efficient way of spreading HIV and has led to the spread of HIV through drug-injecting populations
with unparalleled speed in other regions. The risk of infection to those who share injection equipment is extremely
high - higher and more immediate than for any other group engaging in high-risk behavior. Rates of HIV prevalence
in studies of the drug users have shown prevalence rates as high as 70 percent in Ukraine, amongst the highest in the
region. Official governnent data for 1997 showed that about 83 percent of new cases of HIV had used injecting
drugs. By 1998 and 1999, however, these proportions had decreased to 77 percent and 65 percent respectively,
providing a possible indication of a transition of the HIV epidemic from one that was concentrated amongst those
who used drugs to the more general population. The increase in women's share among the overall number of
recorded HIV+ cases, from 27 percent in 1997 to 37 percent in 2000, shows the increased role played by the sexual
channel in HIV transrnission, and the growth in the number of HIV+ children is an evidence of HIV transmission
from drug users to other population groups. Also, increasingly, HIV cases are being reported in blood donors, STD
patients, and prisoners.
-5 -



Russian
-Federation
(130,000)
Belarus
Ukralne . ~~~~~~(14,000)
Ukraine                                     Poland
(240,000)                                   (13,000)
RfRorania
All Other        (7,000)
ECA (23,000)
Adult Prevalence Rates. The rates of HIV prevalence in the entire region, all less than one percent at
end-1999, are low by international standards. Nonetheless, epidemiological data are particularly worrisome in the
region because of the high rate of annual increase. Within the ECA region, Ukraine has the highest rate of adult
infection rates, as detailed below:
Adult (15-49 years) HIV/AlDS Rates In Europe and Central Asia (1999)
Global Average                  1.07
ECA Region Average                0.21
I                     Ukraine                      0.96
2                     Belarus                      0.28
3                Republic of Moldova               0.20
4                 Russian Federation               0.18
5                      Latvia                      0.11
6                      Poland                      0.07
Geographic and Age Dispersion. In the early years of epidemic, the majority of HIV cases were found in
the regions of Odessa and Nykolayev, but cases have now been reported from all 27 regions of the country.
Risky Behaviors. Both case reporting and prevalence data suggest that the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Ukraine
is being fueled by high-risk behaviors, particularly injecting drug use. Since drug injecting is illegal, it is difficult to
estimate the size of the drug injecting population, let alone the extent to which it is linked with non-injectors through
sexual networks. This lack of data makes it difficult to accurately determine how quickly the virus could spread
further. However, as detailed below, there is both evidence that Ukraine may be the first country within the region to
be facing the spread of HIV into the general population, and there are pre-conditions present that suggest that an
exceptionally rapid spread of HIV is possible.
It is well known that sharing of drug injecting equipment without stenlization between uses is an
extraordinarily efficient way of spreading HIV and has led to the spread of HIV through drug-injecting populations
with unparalleled speed in other regions. The risk of infection to those who share injection equipment is extremely
high - higher and more immediate than for any other group engaging in high-risk behavior. Rates of HIV prevalence
in studies of the drug users have shown prevalence rates as high as 70 percent in Ukraine, amongst the highest in the
region. Official government data for 1997 showed that about 83 percent of new cases of HIV had used injecting
drugs. By 1998 and 1999, however, these proportions had decreased to 77 percent and 65 percent respectively,
providing a possible indication of a transition of the HIV epidemic from one that was concentrated amongst those
who used drugs to the more general population. The increase in women's share among the overall number of
recorded HIV+ cases, from 27 percent in 1997 to 37 percent in 2000, shows the increased role played by the sexual
channel in HIV transmission, and the growth in the number of HIV+ children is an evidence of HIV transmission
from drug users to other population groups. Also, increasingly, HIV cases are being reported in blood donors, STD
patients, and prisoners.
-5 -



HIV/AIDS
---Srl     ssues- - s.                              _ G oernment Strategy..: = I  -!rojeSI atega    -
Vulnerable Groups. Poor and socially  One of the main objectives of the  Highest priority will be given to
stigmatized populations remain the engine  government's Fourth Program of  on-stigmatizing, preventive, and
that drives the epidemics. Measures such  HIV/AIDS Prevention is to reduce risky low-cost services that target the groups
as needle exchange and distribution of  behavior among young people.  most likely to transmit HIV.
condoms are necessary .
Engagement with NGOs. Poor and       The government acknowledges the  The project will help associate AIDS
socially stigmatized populations tend to be leading role of NGOs in the  Centers with NGOs and community
difficult to identify and usually have  implementation of harm reduction  organizations in service delivery.
limited access to health care services  programs. It has started to work with
NGOs that can reach high-risk groups
more easily
Public Information. Mass media       The MOH is prepared to undertake suc The project will finance mass
campaigns need to go beyond raising  activities.                       media campaigns to persuade
awareness of AIDS to persuading to adopt                               adoption of HIV/AIDS
HIV/ AIDS prevention activities (e.g.                                  prevention activities
consistent use of condoms). The
government needs to be prepared to defend
sensitive messages.
Collaboration. Program implementation  The government has created an  In addition to specific financing
requires effective coordination between th Intersectoral Committee to steer the  for activities of the Intersectoral
MOH, Ministry of Finance (MOF),     national program. The Committee has  Committee, the project will
Ministry of Justice (MOJ), Ministries of  been very active.            support general strengthening of
Interior, Education and others. Up to                                 the project management
recently, coordination was weak.                                       capabilities of the involved
Ministries
Treatment. Very high cost of antiretrovira The government has been treating  The Project will expand
treatment and need to ensure equal access infected individuals on a    treatment options as follows: (i)
to treatment under Ukrainian law. Few  highly-selective basis.        interventions to prevent
services offering other forms of care for  Selection criteria need to be established, transmission of HIV from
persons living with HIV/AIDS        The government has received approval infected mother to child; (ii)
for financing from the Global Fund and treatment of opportunistic
hopes to obtain access to antiretrovirals infections; (iii) development of
at reduced prices.                treatment protocols and training
for provision of anti-retroviral
drugs (ARVs); and (iv) a pilot
project for delivery of ARVs to
adults and children.
Information. Poor infornation base for  Recognition that wide-range of data  The project will finance sentinel
planning and monitoring interventions, and collected is not being used for  surveillance, a monitoring and
variable managerial skills.         decision-making. Support for       evaluation system, training, and
evidence-based management activities. research.
-7 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project includes three components: (i) control of tuberculosis (MOH); (ii) control of AIDS (MOH); and
(iii) control of tuberculosis and AIDS in prisons.
Component I - Control of Tuberculosis - MOH (US$ 28.7 million, 37.2 percent of project cost). This
component will help the MOH control the expanding epidemics of TB and MDR TB and upgrade the country's
capabilities in these areas. It will provide the MOH with the means to implement its National TB Strategy Adapted to
the World Standard and will strengthen the government's capacity both at the central level (MOH, Institute of
Phthisiology and Pulmonology, and National Reference Laboratory) and that of the country's 27 regions. This
component includes: (i) training and education; (ii) diagnosis; (iii) treatment; (iv) public awareness campaign; and
(v) monitoring and evaluation.
The financing of drugs will be made largely by the government (US$7.6 million) as part of its counterpart
financing. Additionally, an amount of US$ 2.6 million is included as part of the Bank financing in case of a larger
detection of cases and need for additional drugs for treatment.
Component 1 - AIDS Control - MOH (US$ 32.2 million, 41.8 percent of project cost). Ukraine's
Fourth Program of HIV/AIDS Prevention adopted on July 11, 2001 has the following objectives: (i) to stabilize the
epidemiological situation in the country; (ii) to reduce risky behavior among young people; and (iii) to reduce the
social tension in the society and negative consequences of the epidemic. The government has asked the Bank to
provide financial and technical support to meet the most urgent needs of its program. Given the relatively early stage
of the epidemic, highest priority and financing will be directed towards targeted interventions to prevent the further
transmission of the virus.
Ukraine is also facing the ever-increasing need to develop and expand programs for PLHAs. To that effect,
the project will finance a pilot project to help Ukraine develop capabilities to treat a limited number of adults and
children HIV-infected persons with anti-retroviral drugs (ARVs). ARVs are expensive drugs and the successful
implementation of this pilot would help Ukraine access additional funds from the Global Alliance.
Component m - Prisons Component (US$ 12.7 million, 16.5 percent of project cost). This component
includes the financing of TB and AIDS control activities in the prisons system. It was designed as a separate
component because of the institutional nature of the prison system, a self-contained and centrally managed system.
The prison tuberculosis subcomponent (US$ 9.2 million) includes the improvement of organization,
diagnosis, treatment, and monitoring. Training of physicians and other health workers would be undertaken in close
collaboration with the MOH. Regarding treatment, the government will finance US$ 2.6 million of drugs. In
addition, an amount of US$3.5 million is included under Bank financing and may be used for first or second-line
drugs, as required. The State Department of Prisons has adopted a cautious strategy regarding the possible use of
second-line drugs. It believes that it may not use these drugs until at least the third year of the project, given the time
required to establish a well-functioning TB program and build the capacity to test drug-resistant patients. Treatment
protocols to be used would adhere to WHO guidelines for DOTS Plus. DOTS Plus is a TB control strategy used
when there are significant levels of MDR TB. It incorporate the basic elements of the DOTS strategy which is
modified to incorporate the proper administration of second-line drugs.
The prison AIDS subcomponent (US$ 3.5 million) will help improve HIV prevention among prison
inmates by: (i) expanding current prevention programs throughout the system, including the financing of information,
education, and communication (IEC) materials, condom and bleach disinfectant; (ii) preventing mother-to-child
transmission; and (iii) carrying out the treatment of children under three years.
Institutional support. The project will finance project staff for the PIU in the areas of procurement,
disbursement, financial management as well as technical specialists. It will also finance monitoring and evaluation of
- 8 -



the implementation of each of the components, as well as audit services. These activities have been included as part
of each of the three components of the project so that they relate directly to the specific areas that are being
supported.
1. TB Component (MOH)                                     28.67       37.2      18.85       31.4
II. AIDS Component (MOH)                                  32.19       41.8      28.39       47.3
Im. Prisons Component                                     12.71       16.5       9.33       15.6
Contingencies                                              3.43        4.5       3.43        5.7
Total Project Costs  77.00      100.0      60.00       100.0
Total Financing Required     77.00       100.0      60.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
TB Component
Establishment of the policy and institutional framework required for implementation of the National TB Strategy,
including:
(i) technical and operational guidelines;
(ii) strengthening capacity of MOH, National Institute of Phthisiology and Pulmonology (including National TB
Training Center and National TB Reference Laboratory for training, quality assurance, monitoring and
surveillance), National TB Institute of State Department of Prisons;
(iii) quality assurance systems for culture and sensitivity, sputum smear microscopy, TB drugs:
(iv) central procurement and distribution system for TB drugs:
(v) national monitoring system for stock control; and
(vi) TB management information system compliant with intemationally agreed case definitions, enabling regular
cohort analysis of case finding and treatment outcome.
HIV/AIDS Component
Development of national plans for coordination of HIV/AIDS, STI and drug related services through integrated
training, regular meetings, discharge planning and establishment of referral services:
(i) at the national level:
(ii) at the regional level, for each region.
Establishment of the policy and institutional framework required for rapid expansion of programs to prevent the
transmission of HIV infection, including:
(i) quality control laboratory and monitoring system for condom testing:
(ii) guidelines on the rational use of blood;
(iii) establish mechanisms for coordination of AIDS Centers, NGOs and community organizations to implement
harm reduction programs through training, advocacy, resource center, providing international best practice on
harm reduction; manage harm reduction and pilot program funding program; and
(iv) policies on innovative drug treatment for IDUs.
-9-



Establishment of institutions for clinical and other dimensions of care for PLHAs:
(i) self-help NGOs of PLHAs and their families; and
(ii) community and home-based care, hospices, shelters, and orphanages for PLHAs
3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits of the TB component would be: lives saved, disease prevented, disability avoided or
diminished, reduced absenteeism from work, and health care costs saved. Adoption of treatment regimens that take
account of MDR strains of TB could reduce the spread of MDR TB and help preserve the range of available options
for treatment of TB worldwide. Among people at high risk of TB are those living in overcrowded, poor
environments, such as the prison or inner city populations.
The HIV/AIDS component would benefit people at risk of or vulnerable to HIV/AIDS (IDU, CSW, MSM,
children of pregnant women infected with HIV, youth, recipients of blood donations, sexual partners of PLHAs).
Early and effective prevention programs would lead to significant savings in the cost of treatment and care of
PLHAs. Reduced HIV infection would also reduce the spread of TB through immuno-compromised individuals.
Because TB and AIDS are diseases that largely affect the poor and marginalized sectors of society in
Ukraine, the project would contribute to reduced poverty and discrimination for these vulnerable populations. In
addition, the potential benefits for the general population should not be under-estimated.  Tuberculosis is an
infectious disease which can be easily contacted by being near a coughing patient on a bus, in a movie theatre, or at a
sporting event. And, while HIV/AIDS had until recently been largely confined to persons who use injecting drugs, a
cross-over into the general population is now being observed. In simplistic terns, some IDUs have non-injecting
sexual partners. Some IDUs sell sex in exchange for drugs. Some commercial sex workers use contaminated
needles for drug use. A non-injecting businessman might frequent a drug-using commercial sex worker.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The overall project management arrangements are as shown in the figure below. This structure has the
advantage of leaving the day-to-day management of the project to technical, financial and procurement specialists
while ensuring its integration into the government's regular health programs by the top management of the MOH and
the State Department of Prisons, and a broad strategic overview and coordination by the Supervisory Council.
Supervisory Council
P                            National AIDS  U
Center      _      Ministry of           State
_   Health      _    Departmnent  _   TB Institute of State
of Prisons  _      Department of
National Institute                                                Prisons
of Phthisiology_
and Pulmonolo      Proj ect IImplementation Unt 
The Supervisory Council would be the main oversight committee coordinating the activities of the
- 10-



ministries and departments involved in the project. It would be headed by the Vice Prime Minister and include
representatives of the MOH, State Department of Prisons, the Presidency, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of
Economy, the Parliament, NGOs and international organizations. The Supervisory Council would approve the
project strategy, develop and ensure compliance with the project financing schemes, ensure conformity of the project
activities with the government health sector policy, and monitor project implementation and schedule.
The MOH and the State Department of Prisons would each create a division comprising three or four
full-time staff for each division. Its main functions will be to: (i) provide overall methodological guidance and
coordination for the project components to be implemented by the MOH and State Department of Prisons
respectively; (ii) provide methodological support for project implementation; (iii) collaborate with the PIU,
coordinate the preparation and conducting of bidding, and provide timely clearance of project documents prepared
by the PIU; (iv) review reports and proposals prepared under the project; (v) review project plans and progress
reports; and (vii) prepare documentation and reports for decisions to be taken by the Supervisory Council. As
appropriate, the MOH and the State Department of Prisons would draw upon the staff of the National Institute of
Phthisiology and Pulmonology, the National AIDS Prevention Center, and the Department of Medical Provision and
Sanitary-Hygiene Control of the State Department of Prisons (SDP), and the TB Institute of the SDP. They will play
a major role with respect to protocols, training, monitoring and evaluation, and as reference laboratories.
The implementation strategy for TB control is described in Annex 14. The implementation of TB control
components would be undertaken by the MOH for the civilian sector and the State Department of Prisons for the
prison system. As the leading TB institute in the country, the National Institute of Phthisiology and Pulmonology
(IPP) and the Department of Medical provision and Sanitary-Hygiene Control of the SDP would take the lead in
organizing the training of TB specialists, laboratory technicians, GPs, epidemiologists, statisticians, and nurses. It
would train an initial group of about 10-12 trainers who would replicate the training in 12 regional training centers.
In total, about 1500 TB specialists, 1500 laboratory technicians, 1500 GPs, and 3000 nurses would be trained under
the project. As it is in charge of the central reference laboratory, the IPP would be responsible for overseeing the
strengthening of laboratory services in the country and for quality control. It would be responsible for the regular
monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the National TB Control Program. It will form its own
monitoring and evaluation team that will conduct regular monitoring visits to the regions, using a monitoring manual.
In turn, the regions would have their own monitoring and evaluation teams that would conduct regular visits to the
rayons.
The implementation strategy for the prison system would follow the one used in the civilian population,
with some modifications because of the specific characteristics of prisons. Implementation in the prison system
would start simultaneously, which would allow to improve the referral of patients from prisons to the MOH. Training
would start in the eastem part of the country where there are more prisons. The prison system would use the same
TB registers as the MOH, but it would establish its own monitoring and evaluation team.
Activities to control HIV infection and AIDS would be implemented by the MOH for the civil population
and SDP for the prison system. The implementation of outreach services for HIV/AIDS is described in Annex 12.
The main executor of this component would be the Ukraine AIDS Center working with the 28 Regional AIDS
Centers (RACs). They would contract agencies including NGOs, using competitive selection methods, to work with
high-risk groups and implement outreach programs. Goods (including condoms, syringes, and needles) would be
procured centrally and provided to NGOs. NGOs would submit proposals that would be evaluated according to
criteria included in the Operational Manual. Ukraine has sufficient NGOs in number, type, implementation and
technical capacity to carry out the outreach and other services contemplated by the project. There are currently 20
NGOs working directly on prevention of HIV/AIDS with high-risk groups and another 30 working in HIV/AIDS
have the capacity to work with these groups. As many of the Regional AIDS Centers have been created recently, they
will be strengthened by the project that will provide them with training, equipment, and prevention and information
materials. The National AIDS Center will undertake monitoring and evaluation using indicators, surveys, and
evaluation studies.
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be in charge of the day-to-day implementation of the project. It
will receive guidance from the two divisions to ensure that project activities are well integrated in the MOH and
prisons regular programs and activities. Its tasks would include: (i) the preparation of the project implementation
- 11 -



plan; (ii) preparation of bidding documents and follow up of bidding process; (iii) disbursements of funds; (iv)
financial management; (v) project monitoring; and (vi) reporting to the government and the Bank. It will be staffed
with procurement specialists, financial officers, and technical staff. It will conduct the selection of national and
international consultants as required during project implementation.
Financial Management (see Annex 6bfor Financial Management Assessment Report)
The project design assumes that Ministry of Health and State Department of Prisons will be responsible for the loan
administration. For the purposes of the financial management requirements and other implementation issues MOH
will create a department (PIU), which is to deal with project implementation that includes disbursement, financial
management arrangements, project monitoring, contract management, etc. PIU will be the central coordination unit
between MOH and State Department of Prisons. Financial management issues related to the WB requirements are to
be managed by the PIU in close cooperation with the local accounting staff. Taking in account a complex structure of
implementation agencies involved in the project, the PIU will have a key playing role in managing financial
management issues of MOH and State Department of Prisons.
Financial Reporting.
Financial reporting for the project includes two parts reporting. The first part of the reporting is to be prepared by the
local accounting staff for the local reporting requirements. These reporting requirements are regulated by the
National accounting standards. The PIU financial management staff will prepare reports in accordance with the WB
financial reporting requirements. These reports are to be submitted quarterly to the WB and supervised by the local
FMS. The Financial Management Reports will include the following forms: (a) Financial Reports; (b) Project
Progress Reports; and (c) Procurement Management Reports. These financial reports will be submitted to the Bank
within 45 days of the end of each quarter. The first quarterly FMRs will be submitted at the end of the first quarter in
which disbursements commence.
Audit Arranements. The audit will include a project audit. Audit of the MOH or State Department of Prisons is not
anticipated, as they are the Government agencies, which are the object of the Supreme Audit Institution control. The
project audit will include a separate opinion by the auditor on the operation of the Special Account, SOE and
financial statements. An independent auditor, acceptable to the World Bank, will carry out this audit and the audit
report will be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year. It is expected that the cost of audit will
be financed from the loan proceeds.
Disbursements. Disbursements from the IBRD Loan will be made based on traditional disbursement methods (i.e.,
from the Special Account with reimbursements made based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and full
documentation, and direct payments from the Loan Account). The proceeds of the World Bank loan will be allocated
in accordance with Table C (disbursement), Annex 6. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government
will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, one separate Special
Account denominated in US dollars. Currently no local banks in the country can be considered totally reliable and
financially sound. It is recommended that the Government select a commercial bank outside Ukraine to hold the
Special Account. The complex project implementation structure requires that two registration accounts should be
opened in State Treasury to serve for the disbursement needs of the MOH and the State Department of Prisons. Each
of the implementing units will be responsible for managing hryvna registration accounts in State Treasury. Taking in
account that implementing entities are State authorities so these agencies will be required to use a Treasury accounts
for local counterpart funds.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
TB - Undertaking a scaled-down civilian TB program until the results of the two pilots are known.
This alternative was considered at an earlier stage of project preparation when it seemed that there was less support
for DOTS. As the dialogue with the MOH evolved, the government's commitment to a sound TB control strategy
became significantly stronger and it was decided to support a much broader program. A review of the strategy
showed that what the MOH calls Ukraine's "National TB Strategy Adapted to the World Standard" does incorporate
the basic elements of a sound TB control strategy: (i) diagnosis through increased use of smear microscopy; (ii)
- 12 -



standardized treatment regimen (except for MDR TB); (iii) direct observation of TB drugs intake; and (iv)
standardized TB register and monitoring system. One of the reasons the name "DOTS" is not used is that it has come
to be perceived by many FSU countries, including Ukraine, as a TB strategy for very poor countries and not for
European countries, and using that name would have alienated some important stakeholders.
AIDS - A Project that addresses prevention only.  There are good justifications for considering this
option. In a relatively young HIV epidemic, there are significant potential humanitarian and cost benefits if a
government is able to prevent an epidemic from spreading into the general population by targeting inventions and
financial resources toward individuals who are at high risk of spreading the virus. However, even with the enhanced
prevention activities recommended under the project, it is predicted that a considerable wave of sick people will
overwhelm the health care system. Due to the very high cost of anti-retrovirl drugs, large scale treatment would be
prohibitively expensive. Nevertheless, there is a justified need to include some activities for treatment and care.
Ukraine needs to develop a strategy to address how it will handle the inevitable upsurge in the number of
HIV-infections and AIDS cases in the years to come. The government will need to develop treatment protocols and
train physicians in the provision of anti-retrovirals and case management. To make this possible, the project includes
a pilot project to treat a limited number of adults and children. If successful, this will increase Ukraine's chances of
obtaining access to cheaper drugs through the Global Fund or other sources. The project will also provide treatment
for many of the opportunistic infections that plague PLHA. The latter are more likely to be engaged with service
delivery providers, and hence more likely to practice safer behaviors, if they are offered some treatment
opportunities.
Choice of lending instrument. Given that the control of TB and AIDS was seen from the start as a
long-term venture of at least 10 years, an Adaptable Program Landing (APL) had been contemplated at the beginning
of project preparation. After analysis, both the government and the Bank concluded that there is still significant
uncertainty about the evolution of the epidemics to design a project to be financed through an APL. Particularly
difficult would be the setup of proper trigger indicators to justify a second operation. Thus it was considered
preferable to consider financing the project through a specific investment loan.
- 13-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
|. ~L.S~tor.Issue       ..         i          -i     22 *.      tlSupervision
ue----- -     Pe   ~   ~   ~   -      PSI ntnn
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ~ ~ ~   q( B~~ n.k~ fin~ i~ d  projects   d nly)F~
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
(This is the first Bank-funded health
project in Ukraine)
Community approach to services    Social Investment Fund Project  S             S
provision, NGOs and
community-based organizations
involvement into project
implementation
Other development agencies
Development of a National TB     MOH, WHO, USAID, CDC
Strategy                         Joint Review of TB in Ukraine
Piloting DOTS                    USAID; EU-TACIS pilot TB
projects in two pilot sites (Kiev
and Donetsk)
Procurement of pharmaceuticals: GMP EU-TACIS: TA support to
certification of local manufacturers,  local manufacturers to attain
establishment of the National    good manufacturing practice
Certificate Inspectorate         (GMP), and to establish the
national agency to provide
GMP certification
Development of a National HIV/AIDS MOH/Multi-agency/UNAIDS
Strategy                         Strategic Planning Project
(Situation Analysis completed;
Strategic Plan of a National
Response to AIDS epidemic
prepared)
HIV/AIDS prevention in target groups Joint EU and USAID project
of population at local levels,   on AIDS prevention in Ukraine
establishment of an information center
on HIV/AIDS prevention
Harm reduction programs targeted on  International Renaissance
high-risk groups                  Foundation
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 14 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Tuberculosis. Ukraine's National TB Strategy incorporates lessons learned from evaluations of TB
projects throughout the world. These lessons show that five key elements contribute to successful TB programs: (i)
Government commitment to an effective TB program; (ii) an increased focus on case detection through sputum
microscopy; (iii) administration of standardized treatment regimens under direct observation of drug intake; (iv) a
system of regular drug supply; and (v) an effective monitoring system for program management and evaluation.
Ukraine has the basic health infrastructure well-suited to mounting a successful TB control program and achieve a
high public health impact. However, the extent of success depends upon substantial additional resources and the
strengthening of implementation capacity at the central and regional levels.
Training of health workers has been a key element of positive outcomes. Successful projects have started by
training a small nucleus of committed individuals who themselves have convinced and transferred their knowledge to
fellow professionals. Regions more advanced in the program have assisted with training. This is precisely the
training strategy that has been adopted by the project.
Treatment of MDR TB has been effective in countries that have first been successful at treating normal TB
and achieved cure rates of at least 80 percent. In addition, laboratory services need to have the capacity to provide
drug susceptibility testing. There must be facilities to implement infection control, i.e. to isolate MDR patients from
other patients. For these reasons, Ukraine is contemplating the introduction of MDR TB treatment not before the
third year, which will allow it to have the proper infrastructure in place.
Strong HIV prevention measures need to be introduced because an increase in HIV would have an adverse
impact on TB control. This is an essential part of the design of the proposed project.
HIV/AIDS. The experience of the past decade demonstrates that a number of countries around the world
have managed to slow the spread of the virus with sound prevention policies and strategies. The design of the
project is consistent with the general lessons learned from global experience, and outlined in the Bank report
"Confronting AIDS", namely: (i) early, aggressive preventive intervention is the most effective strategy because of
the high but hidden speed of HIV transmission; (ii) targeted interventions to poor and marginalized groups at risk,
within a broader campaign, are the most effective way to reduce transmission because of multiplier effects of
prevention to the general population; and (iii) HIV has strong linkages with other diseases such as TB and STDs, and
preventing or treating these illnesses can markedly reduce the burden of HIVIAIDS. Experience in other countries
has also demonstrated the comparative effectiveness of NGOs in reaching marginalized high-risk groups. The design
of the project reflects these lessons with respect to the emphasis on prevention, the focus on high-risk groups, linking
with TB and STD programs, and working with NGOs.
Overall lessons. Experience with preparation of other TB/AIDS project has underscored the necessity of
giving attention to the following issues early during preparation: (i) allowing time for consensus to build around key
policy features of the project, especially the TB control strategy and the inclusion of harm reduction methods for
HIV prevention; (ii) engaging local experts in the development of specifics of diagnosis and treatment regimens as a
tool to build understanding and acceptance of the project design; (iii) explaining to the client the Bank's procurement
guidelines regarding competition and GMP certification required for drug suppliers allows to better design a
procurement strategy; (iv) working with other donors who can bring financial and technical resources as well as
operational experience to the national programs. These lessons have all been applied during the preparation of this
project.
The Ukrainian context. An earlier failed attempt to prepare a health project in Ukraine has taught two
important lessons. First, it is critical that Government counterparts be fully involved during the process of
preparation in order to create ownership for the project. The first attempt to prepare a health project had been done
mostly by the Bank team, with little input from the Government side, and this lack of ownership has been blamed for
the ultimate failure of the preparation process.  The second lesson relates to the importance of engaging
representatives of the Parliament (Rada) early in the process of preparation, to avoid rejection of the project at the
last stage of approval. Overall, the Bank has learned that the process of consensus-building is relatively difficult in
- 15 -



the Ukrainian context, and it is necessary to continuously assess the level of political support for a project and take
these circumstances into account. The Bank will need to continuously monitor changes in the policy environment and
be prepared to adjust its own position as local circumstances evolve.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The government's commitment to the project appears to be high. Meetings during appraisal with the Vice
Prime Minister, MOF, Ministry of Economy (MOE), MOH and State Department of Prisons showed a strong support
to the project by high government officials. Press reports on the project have been quite positive during the last year.
During the early part of project preparation, there were serious concerns within the MOH and the
tuberculosis community about the project. They considered that the introduction of a pure DOTS approach may be
detrimental to Ukraine, and had taken a cautious approach whereby DOTS would be tested in two pilot projects. One
of these pilots has recently started in the Donetsk region. As discussions evolved, it was agreed that the project
would support what came to be called by the government the "National TB Strategy Adapted to the World Standard"
that incorporates the basic elements of a sound TB program, and consensus appears to have been reached. In the
prison system, the TB control strategy was never an issue, and in fact the State Department of Prisons has recently
started to implement DOTS.
There were also concerns about the financing of TB drugs under the loan because local manufacturers, who
are regular suppliers of the MOH would no longer be assured of this market under Bank procurement guidelines
(competition and need of GMP certification). This was resolved by deciding to have most of the drugs for the project
financed by the government, but also including a smaller part under the Bank loan in case the program develops
faster than anticipated. The resolution of this problem is the result of trust built between the government and the
Bank team. When issues such as this have arisen, the government clearly expressed its concerns to the Bank, which
has allowed for solutions to be jointly explored.
For the HIV/AIDS component, Government commitment has been strong, as evidenced by the
establishment of the National Coordinating Council for AIDS in 2001, under the leadership of the Vice Prime
Minister and including representatives from all major governmental agencies, international organizations, and NGOs.
The Council has met on several occasions, and has taken its responsibilities seriously. Satisfactory progress with the
strategic planning process with support from UNAIDS is further evidence of commitment. This was demonstrated by
the completion of a Situation Analysis of very good quality, prepared with participation of a cross section of local
public service and academic institutions as well as NGOs. Finally, commitment to solving the HIV/AIDS problem is
evident in the willingness of the government to involve NGOs in project activities, and to try innovative approaches
such as harm reduction.
With the participation of key stakeholders, the government has developed and approved a National Program
of TB Epidemic Control and a Strategic Plan of National Response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The government has
estimated the financial needs of both programs. The proposed Bank loan would cover those parts of the programs
that are unlikely to be covered by the government budget or by other international donors.
Despite these favorable signs of commitment, the future of the TB and AIDS programs in general, and of
the project in particular, will depend on continuous efforts to raise awareness of senior officials and to maintain the
commitment at a high level.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Financial support. The proposed project would enable the government to start controlling both epidemics
by covering the populations and groups at risk throughout the country. The implementation of cost-effective
strategies will increase the chances of containing the spread of the diseases.
International experience. The Bank has a unique international experience in providing financing to
contain similar epidemics. At the same time, its experience of FSU countries has allowed it to adapt the experience
to the context of Eastern European countries and of Ukraine in particular.
- 16 -



Donor coordination. The presence of the Bank has provided a vehicle for closer coordination among
numerous donors already active or wanting to be active in TB or HIV/AIDS control, and facilitated donors' working
relations with the MOH. Project preparation has benefited from financial or technical resources from WHO,
UNAIDS, the Open Society Institute (OSI), USAID, CDC (US) and Department for International Development
(DFID) - UK. The Bank loan will make possible large-scale expansion of activities started by WHO in TB Control
and UNAIDS in HIV/AIDS control, as well as by numerous other donors that have supported NGOs or local health
authorities in HIV/AIDS outreach and care activities.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Arnex 4):
*  Cost benefit     NPV=US$241 million; ERR = for HIV/AIDS: 38% and TB: 170 %      (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
A cost-benefit analysis was carried out for the project. It identified and quantified two types of benefits - direct and
indirect - accruing from the project. Direct benefits are defined as the savings from treatment costs for TB and
HIV/AIDS. Indirect benefits are defined as the gains from reductions in disability and death and associated economic
productivity. Since TB and HIV/AIDS in Ukraine particularly strikes males in their most productive years (20-49),
the calculation of indirect benefits is important. The first step in calculating benefits was modeling the epidemics and
calculating the number of cases averted, and reduced fatality as a result of the interventions. This information was
then applied to assumptions regarding treatment costs and worker productivity to derive direct and indirect benefits.
These benefits are then compared with investment costs to obtain the net benefits and the internal rate of return
(IRR). A sensitivity analysis was carried out to account for two scenarios: (i) timely implementation but poor quality
of project, which is assumed to reduce net benefits by 20 percent and 40 percent, and (ii) a 2 and 3-year delay in
project implementation.
Assumptions. The following parameters are relevant in estimating the economic benefits of the project: the
length of the project horizon and the time to impact the health of the population, the size of the target population, the
existing patterns of morbidity and mortality, the number of years of productive life added as a result of the
percentage decrease in mortality, and the existing cost structure in the health sector. Given the medium-to-long-term
effect of the changes, the estimates presented in terms of reduced morbidity, which assume an horizon of only seven
years, are conservative. The analysis of the project uses the following assumptions to measure the direct and indirect
benefits:
(i)    TB civilian population targeted with basic package: 34,000
(ii)    Prison population targeted with basic package: 7,388
(iii)  Total IDU beneficiaries over 5 years: 200,000
(iv)   Prevalence among IDU: 30 percent
(v)    Cases with HIV among IDU: 20,000
(vi)   No. of needle exchanges per day: 1.2
(vii)   Total sex workers to benefit: 15,000
(viii)  Prevalence among sex workers: 2.0 percent
(ix)   No. of potential transmitters: 225
(x)    Cost of TB basic package: $300
- 17-



(xi)   Discount rate: 10 percent.
(xii)   Time horizon: 5 years and 7 years
HIV/AIDS Component: For the high-case scenario (higher HIV/AIDS incidence rates), the NPV of
benefits over four years is US$3.4 million and total project benefits for the seven year period is US$140 million. The
IRR for the high case scenario is 49 percent. For the low-case scenario, the NPV is US$795,000 for four years and a
total of US$90 million with an IRR of 38 percent. The sensitivity analysis for the HIV/AIDS component shows that
even in the context of low quality of project resulting in a 20 percent decline in project benefits (applied to the high
case), the NPV would be US$69.5 million and the IRR 26 percent. In the case of a 40 percent decline in project
benefits, the NPV would be US$ 31.8 million and the IRR 11 percent. The analysis shows that 2 and 3 years delays
in implementation would greatly reduce benefits, resulting in a negative NPV and IRR.
TB Component: The cost-benefit analysis of the TB component shows that in four years, the proposed
project would yield an NPV of US$40.9 million and in seven years a total NPV of US$152 million with an IRR of
170 percent. The sensitivity analysis for the TB component shows that even in the context of reduced benefits (20
percent and 40 percent) due to poor project quality and 2 and 3 year delays, the NPV and IRR for the TB component
would remain positive.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 241 million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
Fiscal Impact and Sustainability. The sustainability of the project's HIV/AIDS and TB components is
high. In the case of the AIDS component, the activities would focus mostly on preventive measures, yielding
minimal recurrent costs and significant returns. TB interventions are also sustainable given the high impact
demonstrated by the application of the basic and enhanced strategies for treatment of TB. The fiscal impact analysis
shows that the impact of project disbursements on the total health budget (public) is between 5-6 percent. Recurrent
costs were estimated for a low rate of 7 percent and a high rate of 20 percent. The results show that the impact on the
health budget is between 1.5-5 percent. There is strong economic justification for public funding for TB and
HIV/AIDS. Taking this into account and the results of the analysis, it is concluded that the fiscal impact of the
project on the government's health budget is small, and the conditions for sustainability are high.
3. Technical:
Tuberculosis. The project would support Ukraine's National TB Strategy. It would benefit from lessons
learned worldwide and in the region in tuberculosis control programs (Section D.3) that have been incorporated in
the project design. Technical training and support to the regions would be key to improve diagnosis and cure rates.
Close linkages would be established between the prison and civilian TB services and between these and the general
medical services for patient treatment and referral. The project design is flexible and would allow to adjust the
provision of drugs and other inputs in function of the actual evolution of the epidemic, as tracked by the TB register
and monitoring system. MDR TB would start to be addressed only as from the third year, after sufficient progress
has been made in strengthening the system for control of normal TB.
HIV/AIDS. The project supports the government's strategy of combining preventive actions targeted on
high-risk groups with broader actions of public education at the national level. The project gives a larger weight to
targeted interventions (75 percent of component cost). This is justified as people with the riskiest behavior are most
likely to contract and spread HIV and STIs. As a result, the indirect benefits are much larger when infections are
prevented in riskier groups rather than in low-risk populations. STI prevention and control constitutes an essential
element of the project design both to reduce the burden of STIs themselves and to reduce the risk of HIV infection
and transmission by those infected with STIs. The project design for this component is as flexible as the one for TB.
It would allow to reprogram the allocation of funds in function of the geographical evolution of the epidemic, as
- 18-



observed by the surveillance system.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The institutional arrangements have been described in section C.4. At the national level, the roles of the
MOH and State Department of Prisons would be to: (i) create public awareness of the national policy and strategy;
(ii) train the trainers who would undertake training at the regional level; (iii) manage national reference laboratories;
(iv) provide scientific guidance; and (v) monitor and supervise the overall program. Project activities would be
coordinated through the Supervisory Council. The national strategy would be implemented at the regional level
which would be in charge of: (i) prevention programs; (ii) training; (iii) diagnosis and treatment; and (v) monitoring
and supervision.
4.2 Project management:
The project will be implemented by the two agencies involved: Ministry of Health and State Department of
Prisons. These two agencies are independent and the day-to-day coordination will be undertaken by the PIU that will
provide support, monitoring and coordination of procurement, disbursement and financial management. The PIU has
a highly competent Director, well respected by higher government authorities. He has experience in Bank procedures
as he has already been PIU Director of another project financed by the Bank. He is supported by a team including
procurement specialists, financial management specialists, about four technical specialists for TB and AIDS, and one
communications specialist.
4.3 Procurement issues:
As mentioned earlier, procurement issues regarding first-line drugs were solved by: (i) having the largest
part of TB drugs financed by the government counterpart funds (US$10.2 million) and (ii) including a smaller
portion (US$6.1 million) under the Bank loan either for the procurement of additional first-line drugs if required or
second-line drugs for the prison system.
During project preparation, questions were also raised by the government about the procurement of
condoms and syringes. During appraisal, the govemment informed the Bank that: (i) only one company in Ukraine
produces condoms and it does not have a GMP certificate for condom production; and (ii) it has insufficient capacity
to produce the 44 million condoms required for project implementation over a four year period. As regards syringes,
there is no GMP requirement to participate in international competitive bidding, and thus Ukrainian producers are
eligible to participate. In view of the above, the government requested that condoms and syringes be financed by the
Bank, using competitive bidding procedures.
The PIU has developed significant experience with Bank procurement. It has started to develop experience
with the procurement of health sector goods, but still has limited experience with large consultancy contracts. A
number of actions will be taken to strengthen the procurement capacity of the PIU. First, procurement advisory
services would help the PIU undertake the tasks of logistical planning, updating of procurement plans, training plan,
and the preparation of operating procedures. Especially during the early part of the project, procurement of drugs,
laboratory equipment and supplies would receive assistance for technical specifications. Second, the PIU and the
MOH project management and procurement staff would be given the opportunity to attend intensive procurement
training courses, such as the course offered by the ILO in Turin. Third, the Project Launch Workshop would be
another important initiative to help build project implementation and procurement capacity. Finally, the project
would be subject to intense supervision by the Bank.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A final review was undertaken in November 2002 by the FMS Kazakov Vitaly to determine whether the
financial management arrangements within MoH and State Department of Prisons are acceptable to the Bank. A
financial management assessment report is included in Annex 6b. A summary of the conclusion is included below.
On the base of the assessment provided it has been concluded that the project financial management arrangements
-19-



satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
Financial flows. The draft accounting and financial flows for the Project are described in detail in Annex 6 (b). The
financial flows will comprise mainly of: (a) Direct payments from the loan account (b) SOE based payments (c) Co
financing payments, coming through the treasury account.
Financial Risks. From a financial management perspective, the Project is considered as high risk operation for the
following reasons i) the amount of loan facility is significant and complex structure of implementing agencies
involved; ii) low level of experience of PIU staff of complex WB projects implementation, iii) cofinancing
requirements; iv) weak public sector financial management capacity, assets safeguard and eligible use of goods
purchased under the project.
Mitigation of the specified risks actions:
-       strengthening of control over the use of goods and funds of the project from the PIU, internal audit
departments of implementing agencies by the periodic supervision of processes of assets safeguards in regions;
-       external audit control over the processes of assets safeguards;
-       training of the PIU and MOH and SDP relevant staff in financial management;
-       coordination seminar of MOH, State Treasury, MOF and State Department of Prisons as to the project
implementation;
-       timely budget preparation and assurance of the cofinancing inclusing in the State Budget.
Proiect Financing Plan.
Financing plan of the project was review and found reasonable.
5. Environmental:                     Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the sigrificant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
There are no civil works or physical rehabilitation financed under the loan. No medical waste is expected.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Sunmmarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Both TB and FHV/AIDS are considered to be "socially dangerous diseases" in Ukraine. In both cases, the
disease is concentrated among social groups that are at the margins of society, and in each case the disease threatens
to spread to the rest of the population.
TB Component
TB is a disease of poverty. Although no data are available on the rates of TB among different income
- 20 -



groups in Ukraine, TB is recognized worldwide as a disease of poverty. People at high risk of TB are those living in
overcrowded, poor environments, with a generally weak health and nutritional status. The fact that TB infection in
Ukraine is particularly high in the prison population is a reflection of its tendency to thrive in such conditions. Visits
from family members of prisoners often lead to the infection moving out of the prison and into the community. In
addition, because prisoners are themselves often in and out of jail, this cycle of infection between the prison
population and the community can continue, unless the patients are treated appropriately.
TB treatment has high socioeconomic costs to the patient. Once an individual is diagnosed with TB, the
socioeconomic impact is severe. Under the present system, most patients are hospitalized initially for 3 to 4 months,
and some for periods as long as one year or more. After discharge, the patient is required to come to a health facility
on an intermittent basis, typically three times a week, to continue treatment for 9 to 12 month and possibly longer
depending on the patient's progress. Following the completion of anti-TB treatment, patients also receive periodic
treatment for two months for approximately two years following discharge for the original diagnosis. Finally,
preventive therapy is given to a limited extent for high risk patients. Anti-relapse and preventive treatment could
involve further hospitalization. During all periods of hospitalization, the patient is unable to work and is kept away
from the family. This situation is expected to improve under the project as the proportion of outpatient visits will
increase.
Although medication for TB is supposed to be free-of-charge, many patients have to purchase their own
medicines when these are unavailable in the health facility. There is no data available on the level of out-of-pocket
expenditures on TB drugs, but the cost of the drugs is often cited as a reason for non-completion of treatment. This
situation is also expected to improve under the project strategy as the supply of drugs becomes more regular.
HIV/AIDS Component
Dealing with High-Risk Groups. The HIV epidemic in Ukraine is identified primarily with IDUs, with
needle sharing believed to be the main risk factor involved. Most of the 20 percent of new HIV-positive individuals
who are believed to have been infected through means other than injecting drug practices are either partners of drug
users or children of these partners. However, there are indications that the disease is starting to spread to the general
(heterosexual) population. Commercial sex workers are becoming an increasingly high-risk group. Men who have
sex with men are less affected than in Westem European countries.
Although the disease is spreading beyond the original high-risk groups, these groups remain the engine that
drives the epidemic and the project intensifies prevention strategies that target them. Such a choice to focus on
high-risk groups rather than concentrating resources on protecting the rest of the population has its political
opponents. The project's public information campaign will address such opposition by sending the message that
targeting high-risk groups is in fact the most effective means to protect the rest of the population. The campaign will
also aim to reduce stigma and discrimination toward PLHAs. Several strong but difficult measures - including
needle exchange and distribution of condoms -- are necessary but again face potential opposition. The government
appears to be prepared to defend and carry out such activities in the face of potential opposition.
Because little is known about needle sharing pattems and beliefs regarding the sharing of needles among
IDUs or about their sexual practices, research activities under the project will aim to gather such information, which
could help improve targeting.
Sensitive Messages in Mass Media Campaign. Following the findings of the Situation Analysis, mass
media campaigns under the project would aim to go beyond raising awareness of AIDS (which is relatively high
among the population) to persuading the general population to adopt HIV/AIDS prevention behaviors such as
abstinence or consistent use of condoms. This campaign would include images of condoms and references to sexual
behavior that some sections of society may find offensive. The govemment will have to be prepared to defend these
sensitive public messages without which the campaign would not be effective. The Minister of Health has indicated
that the MOH is prepared to undertake such activities, despite their potential sensitivities.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
- 21 -



TB Component. Technical discussions on the new National TB Strategy and on project design have
involved an MOH-appointed Working Group including the Head or Deputy Head of the National Institute of
phthisiology and Pulmonology, the Chief Medical Specialist of the prison system and the chief TB specialists from
various regions.
HIV/AIDS Component. The preparation of the HIV/AIDS component has been undertaken with the active
involvement of NGOs. NGO groups have been consulted with respect to the best way to improve working relations
between NGOs and government agencies. In addition, NGOs will also play a critical role in the delivery of services
to vulnerable groups. They will have a representative on the project's Supervisory Council.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
See Section E.6.2
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
See Section E.4. 1
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Monitoring and evaluation activities under the project will measure the social impact of project activities,
including out-of-pocket expenditures on TB drugs, impact of the project on attitudes towards PLHAs, and impact of
information and education campaigns on risk behavior.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies appIV to the roiect?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)              0 Yes U No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                      U Yes * No
Forestry (OP 436, GP 436)                                         U Yes @ No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                         U Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                     U Yes W No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                      U Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                             U     y   No
Safety of Dams (OP 437, BP 4.37)                                  U Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)      U Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*           C Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The project is in environmental category C.
- 22 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The fiscal impact is analyzed in section E.2. It shows that conditions for fiscal sustainability are high. Furthernore,
over the medium term, cost savings may be achieved. By introducing mechanisms to guarantee the availability of TB
drugs, significant cost savings would be generated by preventing the progression to the more expensive to treat
MDR-TB. In addition, the faster pace at which an effective DOTS network can be shown to be effective, the faster
local resources could be shifted away from the hospital infrastructure to the outpatient DOTS network. Investments
in institution building for both TB and HIV/AIDS components should lead to the institutional sustainability of
project interventions.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth colurnn of Annex 1):
Z -iski - >--n-~,-' ---Ris atng,                 :          OWN -4  ikMtigtoMau--i- -:M
From Outputs to Objective
Lack of intersectoral cooperation              H         Supervisory Council will oversee project
between MOH, State Department of                         implementation.
Prisons and other ministries.
Capacity for implementing a large              M         Project implementation arrangements;
program to control two epidemics may be                  implemientation plans, and procurement
limited.                                                 logistics prepared in advance. Significant
training of staff of MOH and State Department
of Prisons. Strengthening of service
supervisory structures, and use of regular
reporting systems. Flexibility in project design
would allow to adapt to changing
circumstances.
Health workers and patients comply with        M         (i) Training of health workers;
treatment regimen and complete course                    (ii) Education of patients; and
of treatment for TB.                                     (iii) Public information campaigns.
Sufficient numbers of high-risk clients        H         (i) Development of mechanism to facilitate
are reached to make an impact on HlIV                    Government - NGO collaboration.
incidence.                                               (ii) Definition of priorities on basis of
epidemiological factors;
(iii) Maintaining up-to-date information on the
evolution of the disease; and
(iv) Start of harm reduction activities in areas
where there is already strong political support.
Promotion activities are not effective in      H         Well-designed education prograns and
changing high-risk behavior.                             evaluations of their effectiveness.
From Components to Outputs
Ineffective collaboration between the         M          At a broad level, the work of the Supervisory
prison administration and the MOH                        Council will help improve collaboration. The
regarding continuity of treatment of                     project includes activities to strengthen the
released prisoners.                                      referral system between the prison system and
the MOH (see annex 2). Cooperation is usually
- 23 -



better at the regional level.
Insufficient supplies of quality drugs are     M         Government undertaking to finance at least
provided.                                                US$ 10.2 million of drugs as counterpart funds
is supplemented by contingency financing of
US$6.1 million as part of the Bank loan.
Government maintains pro-active support        M         Advocacy campaign.
for HIV/AIDS prevention
Law enforcement agencies allow                 S         Information camnpaign for law enforcement
activities with high risk groups to                      agencies.
proceed without harassment.
Overall Risk Rating                            H         Intense supervision.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The project includes a number of elements that may cause controversy. With respect to HIV/AIDS,
potential areas of concern may include the following:
(i) There are three major potential areas of activities in HIV/AIDS programs: prevention, treatment, and
care. Given the early stage of the epidemic in Ukraine, there is strong technical evidence that the most effective and
urgent interventions are in the area of prevention. The Bank-financed portion of the national program devotes
significant resources towards these prevention activities, while still providing a limited amount in the area of
treatment (pilot project to treat a limited number of adults and children with antiretrovirals, and prevention of mother
to child transmission and care). Experience from other projects shows that activists are likely to criticize that more
funds are not going towards expensive anti-retroviral drugs treatment and more care activities.
(ii) Perceived excessive focus on high-risk groups as opposed to the mainstream general population. The
HIV/AIDS epidemic is still concentrated amongst individuals who engage in specific, often objectionable behaviors,
including injecting drug use and commercial sex. Concentration of resources and attention on these individuals is
justified because it is the more viable method to control the epidemic, but opponents will likely argue that resources
should not be expended on such marginalized groups in the population when other needs are great.
(iii) Increased incidence of AIDS cases, including babies, despite gear-up of prevention activities under the
project. This is the result of the inevitable time lag between measures and results.
Additional concerns may include: (iv) human rights abuses in dealing with vulnerable groups; and (v) the
need to procure sensitive goods (condoms, syringes) and media messages.
With respect to the TB component, the most controversial discussions on TB control strategy appear to be
over since the adoption of the "National TB Strategy Adapted to the World Standard". While this represents a good
compromise for all stakeholders including the Bank, it is important to remember that a broad spectrum of opinions
remains that spans from the most pro-DOTS (prison system, piloting regions) to those opposed to any change in the
system (a number of TB specialists). To minimize adverse reactions, activities introduced by the project should be
viewed as additional (e.g. smear microscopy) or representing gradual changes (e.g. increase in proportion of
outpatient care).
While these kinds of controversies are inevitable, they would be mitigated by employing the following
measures: (i) a national program of press and public relations to be implemented by the government to gain public
and professional support. This would include press conferences, interviews with journalists of the broadcast and print
media, distribution of easy-to-use fact sheets, regional meetings to conduct advocacy for local policy makers and
NGOs; (ii) implementation of campaigns for the general population to raise awareness of TB and HIV in order to
- 24 -



foster a more supportive climate of opinion; and (iii) intensive supervision, including regular meetings with donors
and NGOs to be organized by Bank rnissions.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(i)    the submission of a legal opinion on the Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank; and
(ii)   confirmation that the Borrower has made available to the MOH and SDP the counterpart funds required
during the first year of Project implementation
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(i)    adherence to Operational Manual;
(ii)   rnid-term review by March 2005, including review of use of contingency fund for drugs;
(iii)  maintenance of PIU acceptable to the Bank; and
(iv)   undertaking by the government to make budgetary allocations so that the MOH and the SDP have available
first-line anti-TB drugs in an aggregate amount equivalent to US$10.3 mnillion over the four-year period
from January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2006.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
Li 1. b) Not applicable.
[1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
L14. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
NA.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
E0I 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Di 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Jean J. De St Antole                 -. --d-eLuca Barbone
Team Leader                        Sector Manager                     Country Director
- 25 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
UKRAINE: Tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS Control Project
Key Performance'      ,    ta C6lectlariStratey.    X    .
Hi-ierar    of Obectyives         ndicat.rs                                        Cri .cal Assurriptlons
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
The Country Assistance
Strategy for Ukraine for
FY2001-2003 aims to assist
the government and civil
society in the implementation
of a broad-based poverty
reduction strategy and in
attaining job-creating,
sustainable growth. As
regards, the provision of basic
social services, Bank
assistance will focus on
addressing critical
emergencies and strengthening
community involvement in the
provision of improved basic
social services to the most
vulnerable groups. The
proposed project will benefit
the general population through
the control of two highly
infectious diseases. Its main
outcomes will most directly be
observed in the most
vulnerable population groups
as marginalized groups will be
specifically targeted for
project activities due to the
nature of the epidemics.
- 26 -



Key Porformance     ,. JData Collection Strategy               _
Hierarchy of Ol&thive     _        ndIicators     .    _.   ___    _   _           Critical Assumptionl
Project Development        Outcome / Impact            Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
TB Indicators
Sector Indicators          Reduce prevalence,
transmission of TB and
mortality from the disease
Program Indicators         For general RoDulation in                              Capacity for project
Rroject area                                          implementation builds up in
pace with project
Reduce TB mortality rate by  National and WHO statistics,  requirements.
15 percent;                Project baseline and
evaluation studies, special  Good cooperation between
Reduce by 20 percent the   studies                    MOH, State Department of
proportion of MDR TB                                  Prisons, and other institutions
For prisons
Reduce TB mortality rate by  TB mortality data
20 percent
Sufficient supplies of quality
Outcome/Impact Indicators  For general Population in                              drugs are provided
project area
Health workers and patients
Proportion of smear positive  Project reports, knowledge,  comply with treatment
TB cases among newly       attitudes, and practice surveys regimen and complete course
recorded should be at least 50  of population, patients and  of treatment for TB
percent                    health workers.
Conversion of 85 percent of  Quality assurance reports on
cases from smear positive to  laboratory testing and drug
negative (excluding MDR TB  quality.
cases)
Surveillance reports on drug
Reach a cure completion rate  resistance.
of 85 percent, excluding MDR
TB cases                   Field supervision reports
90 percent of detected TB
cases treated under the new
standard regimen
For prisons                Project reports
Proportion of smear positive
TB cases among newly
recorded should be at least 50
percent                    Project reports
Conversion from smear
positive to smear negative in
90 percent of cases, excluding
- 27 -



MDR TB cases.
Reach a cure completion rate
of 80 percent, excluding MDR
TB cases.
HIV/AIDS Indicators
Sector Indicators          Reduce incidence and
prevalence of HIV infection
Program Indicators        Improve knowledge, attitudes  Special studies on specific
and practices of groups at risk target groups
and of the general population
(for general population in at
least 25 percent of the targeted
population, and for prisons in
at least 15 percent).
For general population, deliver Project reports
the full range of prophylactics
and treatment in at last 4 AIDS
centers.
Outcome/Impact Indicators  Reduce the rate of vertical  Project report providing the
transmission of HIV by 50  proportion of HIV infected
percent.                  children per number of
pregnant women tested HIV+
- 28 -



i i4~esIndicators~ .       ~   -                             rtclsunt6i
-i'o          V                    - -                               , .CriticialAss6--    ;ns
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Output Indicators for TB   For general population
Legal framework for TB     Review of legal framework  Good intersectoral cooperation
control, based on National TB
Strategy adapted to the
international standard, is
functional
National technical/operational Project reports        Central capacity is
guidelines for TB control are                        strengthened
operational.
National guidelines and
training materials for TB
laboratories are operational.
1530 TB specialists trained.  Training evaluation report  Core group of trainers is
competent and dynamic
1530 TB laboratory specialists
trained.
1500 GPs trained.
1500 nurses trained.
Quality assurance system for                          There is a core group of
smear microscopy and culture                          experts experienced in TB
and sensitivity analysis is                           control to provide technical
operational.                                          assistance and motivate others
95 percent of smear cases are Special survey
confirmed by a higher-level
laboratory.
100 percent of health
personnel follow National TB
Strategy in the project area.
90 percent of TB diagnostic                           Timely establishment of
and treatment services provide                        reporting system
regular, timely, accurate
reports.
210,000 booklets are
distributed for public     Project reports
awareness campaign.                                   The IEC materials are well
prepared
Eight film loops are
distributed for public
awareness campaign.
- 29 -



75,000 posters are distributed
for the public awareness
campaign.
For prisons:
National technical/operational
guidelines for TB control
adopted by prisons are
operational
Diagnostic services in prison  Project reports
health services are operational
Treatment regimes based on
TB direct observations are
followed in at least 90 percent
of the project areas
Monitoring system of case
finding and treatment
outcomes is operational
Output Indicators for AIDS  For general population:
Implementation capacity for
National Mass media/PR    Project reports.          project implementation builds
campaigns completed                                 up in pace with project
requirements.
350-500 HIV+ mothers treated KAP surveys of population,
each year & 175-250       high-risk groups, health
newborns prevented from   workers.
becoming HIV+
Sufficient numbers of
1000 doctors, nurses,     Client satisfaction surveys of  high-risk clients are reached to
midwives will have improved  PLHA and their families.  make an impact on IRV
understanding of problems of                         incidence.
pregnant IDUs & PLHA & of Project baseline and
how to deal with them     evaluation studies         Clients comply with safety
precautions and change
Reduce by 15% number of                              high-risk behavior.
HIV+ persons offering blood
for transfusion
30 harm reduction programs  Project reports
operational
25,000,000 of condoms
distributed for IDUs
Non-stigmatizing, culturally
At least 15 CSWs programs                            acceptable interventions bring
are operational                                      about lasting behavioral
changes
15,000,000 of condoms
distributed for CSWs
- 30 -



10 MSM programs operational
Eleven new AIDS centers are
equipped and functioning   Prjcreot
equippedandfun g Project reports  Awareness is correlated with
In one pilot, increase access                        change in patterns of risky
for children for treatment of                        behavior
retroviral infection
In one pilot, an increase in
access of adult/children to                          Commitment of central staff to
treatment of opportunistic                           provide sufficient decision
diseases                                             making power to regional
levels
1000 health care staff trained
Special report            Capacity for planning,
Medical Informnation Program                         managing and supervision the
implemented                                          pilots is adequate
Increase by 20 percent NGOs
involvement into the project.
For prisons:
26 HIV+ mothers treated and
14 newborns prevented from                           Collaboration between
becoming HIV+                 .    .    .            government and NGOs
Triigeauto  eot remains constructive
19,000,000 condoms
distributed
179200 prisoners provided
with disinfectants
2,000,000 pieces of        Project reports
disinfectants distributed                            The IEC materials are well
690,000 prevention                                   prepared
information materials      Project reports
distributed
- 31 -



1.W Pe o;mance        f Data CoIIe0dib,,6n .tNO      c
ier c      of Qljectives.,    MM       d       j    [      -                  K. Cntica-Assup
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
1. Control of tuberculosis  US$28.7 million         Progress reports
(MOH)
2. AIDS Control (MOH)     US$32.2 million           Progress reports          Timely and adequate
counterpart funds
3. Prison component (TB and  US$12.7 million        Progress reports
AIDS Control)
- 32 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
UKRAINE: Tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS Control Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$28.70 million
(including contingencies)
Component I - Control of Tuberculosis - MOH (US$ 28.7 million, 37.2 percent of project cost). This
component includes: (i) training and education; (ii) diagnosis; (iii) treatment; (iv) public awareness campaign; and
(v) monitoring and evaluation.
Training and education (US$ 2.6 million). This subcomponent will be organized by the Institute of
Phthisiology and Pulmonology in Kiev supported by 12 regional centers. They will train TB specialists, laboratory
technicians, GPs, epidemiologists, statisticians and nurses in the detection and treatment of TB as well as in the
proper monitoring and supervision of treatment and outcomes. It will finance the training of trainers at the central
level and in the regions, vehicles, computer, and office equipment, materials, per diem, and travel.
Diagnosis (US$ 11.5 million). This subcomponent will finance the development of technical guidelines, the
purchase of vehicles, computer, office, and laboratory equipment, including microscopes and supplies to undertake
smear microscopy, and equipment for culture investigation at the regional level. The National Reference Laboratory
will be strengthened so that it can implement laboratory quality control for the country, and undertake investigations
including culture and drug susceptibility testing.
Treatment (US$ 10.2 million). This subcomponent will finance first-line drugs for the treatment of TB.
The financing will be made largely by the government (US$7.6 million) as part of its counterpart financing.
Additionally, an amount of US$ 2.6 million is included as part of the Bank financing in case of a larger detection of
cases and need for additional drugs for treatment.
Public Awareness Campaign (US$ 1.1 million). This subcomponent will finance mass media public
awareness campaigns, and training and educational materials to raise awareness of TB in the general population.
Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 3.2 million). To ensure high cure rates and reduce the risk of MDR TB,
compliance with treatment regimens needs to be monitored over a period of six months or more. In addition, patients
who are released from the prison to the civilian system need to be monitored. The subcomponent will finance
vehicles, travel and per diem, computer hardware and software, office equipment and supplies, training and
educational materials, and incremental operating costs of to administer the overall TB component. It will also finance
baseline studies, collection and analysis of data to monitor key project indicators, and audits.
Project Component 2 - US$32.20 million
(including contingencies)
Component II - AIDS Control- MOH (US$ 32.2 million, 41.8 percent of project cost). This
component includes: (i) prevention activities; (ii) treatment activities; (iii) care and support for PLHA; and (iv)
strengthening national capacity.
Prevention activities (US$ 22.9 million). This subcomponent will finance harm reduction programs among
IDUs, CSWs, and MSM including training, advocacy, training and educational materials, peer education programs,
vehicles, syringes, condoms and supplies, and dissemination of protocols for HIV pre ,ention. It will evaluate the
experience with establishing self-help groups for CSWs and review services offered to CSWs, by STI clinics. It will
also finance test kits and equipment to improve blood safety, and preparation and distribution of guidelines on the
rational use of blood. A public awareness campaign will be undertaken to increase information of the general
population about HIV/AIDS prevention, encourage the use of protective measures, and reduce stigma about those
infected.
- 33 -



Treatment activities (US$3.8 million). This subcomponent will finance: (i) the development of treatment
protocols; (ii) prevention of transmission of HIV from infected mothers to children; (iii) drugs and supplies for the
treatment of opportunistic infections; (iv) training of staff on attitudinal issues, psycho-social care and support of
HIV/AIDS patients; and (v) laboratory equipment.
This subcomponent will also finance a pilot project to help Ukraine develop capabilities to treat
HIV-infected persons with anti-retroviral drugs (ARVs) so as to improve their quality and length of life of
HIV-infected persons. It will finance the development of clinical protocols, training of physicians and clinical
workers, a program to pilot test the provision of ARVs to a limited number of adults and children, including the
purchase of drugs, and the monitoring of outcomes. ARVs are expensive drugs and the successful implementation of
this pilot would help Ukraine's chances to access funds from the Global Alliance.
Care and Support of PLHA (US$ 2.3 million). This subcomponent would increase access to services to
improve the quality of life of PLHAs. This would be accomplished through: (i) the training of psychologists, social
and welfare workers, and GPs; (ii) the review and revision of curricula for physicians, nurses and other health
workers; (iii) the establishment of a self-help group of PLHAs and their families to provide psycho-social care and
support, counseling, peer education and training, and piloting of non-hospital based care altematives; and (iv) the
printing of training and educational materials.
Strengthening national capacity (US$ 3.2 million). This subcomponent will help the national and
regional AIDS Centers carry out their mandates. It will help: (i) integrate HIV/AIDS, narcology, and STI services
with the primary health care system, notably through the training of GPs and nurses and the provision of vehicles,
medical, technical and office equipment; (ii) establish mechanisms to enhance cooperation between government
entities and NGOs in the delivery of HIV and harm reduction services; and (iii) evaluate the best practices of pilot
programs for possible replication.
Project Component 3 - US$ 12.70 million
(including contingencies)
Component III - Prisons Component (US$ 12.7 million, 16.5 percent). This component includes the
financing of TB and AIDS control activities in the prison system. It was designed as a separate component because
of the institutional nature of the prison system, which is self-contained and centrally managed.
A. Tuberculosis subcomponent (US$ 9.2 million). The prison subcomponent includes the improvement
of organization of TB control, diagnosis, treatment, and monitoring of outcomes, entailing the training of physicians
and other health workers, the upgrading of laboratory equipment, the adoption of cost-effective treatment protocols,
the printing of training and educational materials, the provision of first and second-line TB drugs, computer and
office equipment, and the monitoring of treatment results. Training will be undertaken in close collaboration with the
MOH. As for treatment, the government will finance US$3.2 million of drugs. In addition, an amount of US$3.0
million is included under Bank financing and may be used for first or second-line drugs, as required. The State
Department of Prisons has adopted a cautious strategy regarding the possible use of second-line drugs. It believes
that it may not use these drugs until at least the third year of the project, given the time required to establish a
well-functioning TB program and build the capacity to test drug-resistant patients.
B. AIDS subcomponent (US$ 3.5 million). This subcomponent will help improve HIV prevention among
prison inmates by: (i) expanding current prevention programs throughout the system, including the financing of IEC
materials, condom and bleach disinfectant, and laboratory equipment and supplies; (ii) preventing mother-to-child
transmission; and (iii) financing drugs for the treatment of children under three years.
- 34 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
UKRAINE: Tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS Control Project
Costs                   Bank financing   % of Bank
Component              (US$ million)    % of total  (US$ million)    financing
1. TB Component (MOH)
Training and education             2.556           3.3         2.398           4.0
Diagnosis                          11.479          14.9        9.442           15.7
Treatment                          10.233          13.3        2.599           4.3
Public awareness campaign          1.132           1.5         1.132            1.9
Monitoring and evaluation          3.279           4.3         3.279            5.5
Total                            28.679          37.2         18.850          31.4
H. AIDS Component (MOH)
Prevention activities             22.854          29.7         19.435          32.4
Treatment activities               3.835           5.0         3.835            6.4
Care and support for PLHA          2.285           3.0        .2.154           3.6
Strengthening national capacity    3.211           4.2         2.968           4.9
Total                            32.185          41.8         28.392          47.3
m. Prisons Component
A. Tuberculosis
Improvement of organization        0.335           0.4                          0.2
Diagnosis                          1.671           2.2         1.671            2.8
Treatment                          6.155           8.0         2.989            5.0
Monitoring                         1.045           1.4         1.044            1.7
Total                             9.206           12.0        5.841            9.7
B. AIDS
Infornation of prison officers     0.276           0.4         0.276           0.5
Training of physicians             0.161           0.2         0.151            0.3
Training of supervisors            0.180           0.2         0.180            0.3
Condoms and disinfectants          2.786           3.6         2.786           4.6
Mother-to-child transmission       0.009           0.0         0.006            0.0
Treatment of children              0.093           0.1         0.093            0.2
Total                             3.505           4.6         3.492            5.8
Total Prisons                    12.711           16.5        9.333           15.6
Contingencies                      3.425           4.5         3.425            5.7
Grand Total                      77.000          100.0        60.000          100.0
- 35 -



Component                 Local        Foreign        Total
I. TB Component (MOH)
Training and education               0.2           2.4           2.6
Diagnosis                            2.1           9.4           11.5
Treatment                            7.5           2.3           10.2
Public awareness campaign             -             1.1          1.1
Monitoring and evaluation             -            3.3           3.3
Total                               10.2          18.5          28.7
H. AIDS Component (MOE)
Prevention activities                3.5           19.4          22.9
Treatment activities                  -            3.8            3.8
Care and support for PLHA            0.1           2.2           2.2
Strengthening national capacity      0.2           3.0           3.2
Total                               3.8           28.4          32.2
III. Prisons Component
A. Tuberculosis
Improvement of organization          0.2           0.1           0.3
Diagnosis                             -             1.7           1.7
Treatment                            2.5            3.6           6.2
Monitoring                            -             1.0           1.0
Total                                2.8           6.4           9.3
B. AIDS
Information of prison officers        -             0.3           0.3
Training of physicians               0.1           0.1            0.2
Training of supervisors               -             0.1           0.1
Condoms and disinfectants             -             2.7           2.7
Mother-to-child transmission         0.1             -            0.1
Treatment of children                  -            0.1           0.1
Total                                0.2           3.3           3.5
Total Prisons                        3.0           9.7          12.7
Contingencies                         -             3.4           3.4
Grand Total                         17.0          60.0          77.0
- 36 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
UKRAINE: Tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS Control Project
Introduction. This annex presents the economic analysis of proposed TB and HIV/AIDS project in Ukraine and
provides the justification for Bank funding of the project.
The objectives of the project for the HIV/AIDS component are to:
(i)    increase awareness among the general population about HIV/AIDS;
(ii)   reduce HIV/AIDS-related high-risk behavior among vulnerable populations, namely intravenous drug users
(IDU), men who have sex with men (MSM) and commercial sex workers (CSW).
(iii)   strengthen AIDS Centers at the regional level so that they improve their coverage of preventive programs
and provide a broader range of medical services, including the treatment of opportunistic infections, and
social support; and
(iv)    implement a pilot program for the treatment of retroviral infection for adults and children.
The objectives of the project for the TB Component are to:
(i)    increase the proportion of smear-positive TB cases among newly-recorded to at least 50 percent;
(ii)   increase the cure rate to at least 85 percent (excluding MDR TB cases) for the civilian population; and
(iii)   decrease fatality rate by 15 percent.
Project Benefits. The HlV/AIDS component would directly benefit those groups at highest risk of being infected by
HIV as well as the general public. Through its targeted interventions, the project will directly benefit socially
excluded groups such as IDUs, MSM and CSW. In addition, the benefits from the public awareness campaign
supported through the project are particularly important since studies show that HIV/AIDS has begun to spread
among the general population of Ukraine.
The direct benefits of the TB component include: lives saved, disease prevented, disability avoided or diminished,
reduced absenteeism from work, and savings from health care costs for treatment. Since people at high risk of TB
typically live in over-crowed areas such as inner cities or prisons, as in the case of the HIV/AIDS component, there
are direct benefits for poor and socially marginalized groups.
Fiscal Impact of the Project. This section analyzes the estimated recurrent cost implications of the project on the
budget of the MOH. The majority of project costs are allocated for goods (e.g. pharmaceuticals, laboratory
equipment and consumables, needles, syringes, disinfectants, condoms, test kits). No civil works are financed
through the loan. In addition, the loan will finance incremental costs (e.g. travel and per diem of supervisors) during
the life of the project. The incremental costs are already factored into the project costs. The specific recurrent costs
(measured in terms of operations and maintenance) for the project are low given the nature of the investments.
However, from the sustainability perspective, in -order to maintain the benefits obtained from the project, the
recurrent costs could be high (pharmaceuticals, condoms, rapid HIV/AIDS testing kits). If the preventive programs
are successfully implemented, the demand for these commodities will increase. The proposed project will not
increase the number of staff in the health sector, bur rather re-channel their activities. In addition, the project covers
incremental costs on a declining basis. It is also assumed that Government contributions (approximately US$17
million in total and US$4 million per year) would have to continue. Taking price inflation into account, this means
approximately US$ 6.3 million per year. Recurrent costs on Bank investments at calculated at a base rate of 7
percent and higher (12 percent and 20 percent).
Health Expenditures in Ukraine. In 1999-200, Ukraine spent approximately 5.0 percent of GDP on health care, of
which 71 percent was public and the remainder private. Public expenditures on health constitute approximately 8
percent of total government expenditures (table 1). Ukraine spends approximately US$42 per capita at current
exchange rates. For the fiscal impact analysis, it is assumed that the GDP will continue to grow at the predicted rates
- 37 -



(4 percent per year). Each year, the government spends more than it is able to collect, which contributes to a budget
execution problem. Therefore, in the context of a growing nominal GDP, it is assumed that public expenditures on
health will remain at the lower levels (1998 levels).
Table 1: Relevant Economic Date for Ukraine
!M90M       _       _ .  1 2   ! 998             2001       _W 20-62W
Nominal GDP (US$ billion)    50,142     41,823     31,569      30,351         --          --
GDP growth (%)                -3.0      -1.9        -0.2         4.2         4.0          4.0
(projected)  (projected)
Total Govenmment               --       39,714     47,150      59,553       68,366      79,242
Expenditures (USS billion)                                                             (projected)
Public Expenditures on Health           3,620       3,861       4,619       5,518        6,237
(in billions of US$)
Health as % of total                    9.1%        8.1%        8.0%        8.0%         7.9%
govermment. expenditures
Source: Intemational Monetary Fund (IMF), 2001
Results. The results of the analysis (Table 2) show that the fiscal impact of the project (Bank plus govermnent
contributions) is only about 5-6 percent of the total health budget. Govenmment contributions are approximately 1.4
percent of the total health budget (approximately US$5 million per year). This is one indication that the fiscal
impact of the project is minor for the Ukrainian health budget. The calculation of recurrent costs on Bank
investments shows that the impact at 7 percent (US$ 3.85 million per year, 1.1 percent of health budget), 12 percent
(6.6 million per year, 1.8 percent of health budget), and 20 percent (11 million per year, 3.0 percent of health
budget) is marginal. Even when this is combined with continued government investments of approximately US$6
million per year, the total is approximately in the range of 2.5 - 5.0 percent of total health budget. Given the public
health nature of the interventions supported through the project and their large extemalities, the government should
in any case be supporting activities in HIV/AIDS and TB control, even if that means reducing spending on other
health activities for which public finance is less justified. Based on this analysis, it is concluded that the fiscal
impact of the project is marginal, and conditions for fiscal sustainability are high.
Table 2: Fiscal Impact of the Project
* -;  -   Fiil  2003  effift  O2QAd ] 2T00 -Z IZ008SW               _2_09_
Total health expenditures  362     362      362      362       362        362      362
(public) (US$ million)
Project disbursements as  22.8     19.6     17.1     17.5      17.5       17.5     17.5
a % of health budget and  million  million  million  million  million   million  million
recurrent costs         (6%)      (50/o)  (4.70%)   (4.7%)    (4.7%)  1 (4.7%) 1 (4.7%)
Cost-Benefit analysis of the HIV/AIDS Component.
Methodology and Approach. The objective of the cost-benefit analysis is to quantify the direct and indirect benefits
from the implementation of the project. Once the benefits are quantified, these are combined with the present value
of investments. This is needed to derive net benefits (i.e. benefits net of project costs). The investment costs for the
project are US$77 million over a four year period. Of the US$ 77 million, 45 percent of total investment costs are
allocated for the HIV/AIDS component.
The epidemic was modeled using the Aids Impact Model (AIM) approach. This model was developed by the Futures
Group Intemational (John Stover et al.) and is well accepted intemationally. It is in the public domain. In order to
calculate the benefits, it is necessary to derive the number of new cases each year and the number of AIDS deaths,
- 38 -



The assumptions, described at the end of this analysis, were modified for Ukraine. In cases where information was
not available for Ukraine, the default value was used. Data on HIV/AIDS prevalence and number of new cases each
year and number of deaths from HIV/AIDS was obtained from the government.
The direct benefits are estimated based on the reduced burden on the health care system resulting from the reduction
in morbidity and the associated costs of seeking care for opportunistic infections from full-blown AIDS. For Ukraine
this was calculated at US$900 per case. This is consistent with the health expenditure figures for Ukraine (US$42 per
capita) and available costs of hospitalization and treatment. In order to estimate the total direct cost savings (direct
benefits), the analysis calculated the annual treatment costs multiplied by the annual number of HIV/AIDS cases
averted under the intervention scenario.
In addition to the direct benefits, indirect benefits were also calculated. Indirect benefits are defined as the savings
associated with reduced morbidity and mortality and the impact on the quality of life and the positive economic
benefits associated with the reduced cost of illness and death of adults during their prime working years. The indirect
benefits estimated for the project include the cost of the loss of production for the Ukrainian economy as implicated
by the number of cases. The assumptions for the direct and indirect benefit calculations are described below:
Discount rate: 10 percent
Cost of treatment of HIV/AIDS per case: US$ 900. Average hospitalization costs in Ukraine are 6 dollars
per day which includes I dollar for the cost of drugs. It is expected that in between outpatient visits, drugs
and hospitalization for a patient with full-blown AIDS, a conservative estimate is US$900 per case. This
does not include the costs of antiretrovirals.
Mean age of death: 27 years
Disability adjusted Life Years (DALY at age 27): 22.7 years
Value per life saved: GDP per capita for Ukraine 2000 ($ 894.04) World Bank Data Base (SIMA), 2002.
times the DALYs (22.7 years) equals $ 20,295
Regarding the effectiveness of interventions, it was assumed that 70 percent of all WHV/AIDS cases could be
eliminated through a comprehensive program. Under this scenario with intervention, the percentage of HIV cases
averted would be zero in the first two years of project implementation, 10 percent in the third year, 20 percent in the
fourth, 40 percent in the fifth, 60 percent in the sixth, and 70 percent from the seventh year onwards.
Results. The analysis of direct and indirect benefits from the project is presented in Table 3. It shows that the
project, if successfully implemented, could avert up to 23,448 HIV/AIDS cases until 2009 and 6,210 cases during
the life of the project. The present value of direct benefits from the project for the high and low case scenario is
US$13 million and US$8.9 rnillion, respectively. The present value of indirect benefits is US$ 164 million under the
high case scenario and US$ 118.5 million under the low case scenario.
- 39 -



Table 3: Direct and Indirect Benefits from HIV1AIDS:Interventions
Direct Benefits
High                                       Low
Cost of   A IDS                             Cost of  ATDS
Treatment  Cases   Saved Costsa Present Value Treatment Cases Saved Costs Present Value
Year        per Case  Averted   (US $)   'of Saved Casts perCave Averted  (tJU  )  of Saved Costs
2003          900                                         900
2004          900                                         900
2005          900       525     472,500      390,496      900      399    359,100    296,777
2006          900      1,955    1,759,500   1,321,938     900     1,543  1,388,700   1,043,351
2007          900      3,730   3,357,000    2,292,876     900     2,800  2,520,000   1,721,194
2008          900      6,502   5,851,800    3,633,507     900     4,428  3,985,200  2,474,496
2009          900     10,736   9,662,400    5,454,173     900     6,754  6,078,600   3,431,211
Total Pv                                     13,092,991                               8,967,029
Indirect Benefits
High                                               Low
Present
AIDS                   Present Vabie             AIDS                     Value of
Valueper  Deaths  Indirecti Benefits  of Indirect Value per Life Deaths  Indirect Benefits  Indirect
Year    Life Saved Averted    (VS B) Renefits           Saved     A verted     (US $)       Benefits
2003      20,295                                       20,295
2004      20,295                                       20,295
2005      20,295  77        1,562,693     1,291,481    20,295      88        1,785,934    1,475,979
2006      20,295  608      12,339,182     9,270,610    20,295     458       9,294,976     6,983,453
2007      20,295  2,072    42,050,635    28,721,149    20,295     1,609     32,654,185   22,303,248
2008      20,295  3,869    78,520,225    48,754,882    20,295     2,874     58,326,991   36,216,472
2009      20,295  6,650    134,959,808   76,181,293    20,295     4,502     91,366,775   51,574,163
Total PV     '                        164,219,417                                     118,553,315
Investment Costs and Calculation of Net Benefits. Table 4 presents the investment costs for the project and Table
5 the cost-benefit analysis for the HIV/AIDS component. The results show that the stream of benefits yields a net
present value around US$ 140 million with an intemal rate of return of over 49 percent for the high case scenario.
For the low-case scenario, the stream of benefits in net present value is around US$ 90 million with an internal rate
of return of 38 percent.
- 40 -



Table 4: Net Present valbe of Investment Costs
Value of nvestment'
Year               (US $)                  PVof lnvestment fUS $),?j
2003                12,540,000                  12,540,000
2004                10,780,000                   9,702,000
2005                 9,405,000                  8,464,500
2006                 9,625,000                  8,662,500
2007
2008
2009
PV of
Itvestment                42350,000                   39_369,000
Table 5: Cost-benefit analysis of HIV/AIDS High and Low Case Scenario
High Case
Project  Direct Benefits  Indirect  Total Benefits
Year   investment   .(US$)    Benefits (S$)    (US $)    ?Vet BeneJi  Present Valuo of Net Benefits
2003     12,540,000                                         -12,540,000       -12,540,000
2004     10,780,000                                         -10,780,000       -9,800,000
2005      9,405,000     472,500     1,562,693   2,035,193    -7,369,807       -6,090,750
2006      9,625,000    1,759,500  12,339,182   14,098,682     4,473,682       3,361,144
2007                   3,357,000  42,050,635   45,407,635    45,407,635       31,014,026
2008                   5,851,800  78,520,225   84,372,025    84,372,025       52,388,390
2009                   9,662,400  134,959,808  144,622,208  144,622,208       81,635,466
,-_NPV                                                                               & _   275
.)                                           _      _   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~49.06
Low Case
Year       Project  Direct Benefits  Indirect  Total B'.neflts            Prwsent Value of Net
Investment    (US $)    Benefits (US $)  (US $)   Net Benefits        Benefits
2003       12,540,000                                        -12,540,000     -12,540,000
2004       10,780,000                                        -10,780,000      -9,800,000
2005        9,405,000      359,100     1,785,934   2,145,034  -7,259,966      -5,999,972
2006        9,625,000     1,388,700   9,294,976   10,683,676   1,058,676       795,399
2007                      2,520,000   32,654,185  35,174,185  35,174,185      24,024,442
2008                      3,985,200   58,326,991  62,312,191  62,312,191      38,690,968
2009                      6,078,600   91,366,775  97,445,375  97,445,375      55,005,374
NPV               -                                                    is . .90,176,211
IRR-1                      -                                                    37.7
-41 -



Low Case
Figure 1: AIDS Cases (Wth and Without Intervention), for high and low
Scenarios
50,000
45,000
40,000
35,000-
30,000
L0 25,000-
20,000
a 15,000
10,000
5,000
0
Year
+High-No Intervention      f Low-No InteRention      x  High-Intervention  -   o-_
Figure 1: AIDS Deaths (With and Without Intervention), for high and low Scenarios
45,000
40,000
35,000 
- 30,000 -
2 25,000 -
cn 20,000-
15,000 
10,000 -    i     -
5,000
0 
Year
High-No Intervention    6  Low-No Intervention   -- High-Intenrention     x- Low-lnt !
- 42 -



Sensitivity Analysis. The net benefits and intemal rate of return discussed above assumes that the project will be
implemented without any problems. The sensitivity analysis was caried to determine project cost-benefit under
conditions where the project is implemented on time, but the quality of project interventions is not adequate with
implications for the total benefits to be derived from the project. Table 6 describes these results. It shows that for a
20 percent and 40 percent reduction in total benefits both for the high and low case scenario, the net benefits are still
positive as is the internal rate of return. However, the calculations for a 2 and 3 year project delay shows that this
would yield a negative internal rate of return. This analysis assumes that the project would only start disbursing in
2005 and 2006 with resultant implications for the benefits to be obtained from the project within the stated time
period (2003-2009). Since the results are negative for the high case scenario, they would naturally be even more
negative for the low case scenario.
Table 6: Sensitivity Analysis for HIV/AIDS Component
High                       ~~~~~Low
Type of Sensiii'ity Anaysh      NPV            ERR           NPV            ILR
Reduction in Benefits:
20 % reduction         69,501,024       26.04       77,185,095        29.96
40 % reduction        31,778,836        11.14       36,389,404        13.77
Delay In Implementation:
2-year delay         -21,793,985       -5.60
3-year delay         -15,735,200       -3.50
Cost-Benefit Analysis of the TB Control Component. The objectives for the cost-benefit analysis of the TB
component are simnilar to those of the HIV/AIDS component, i.e., to determine the direct and indirect benefits from
project interventions, and compare them with the investment costs to obtain the net benefits and the IRR. In this case
too, the starting point for the analysis is to determine the incidence and prevalence of the disease and predict the
number of new cases in the presence and absence of the intervention. In 2000, the number of new TB cases in
Ukraine was 27,000. Because of under-reporting, the actual number may be closer to 34,000. Incidence is closely
related to socio-economic conditions which is unlikely to improve much over the next 4 years to have any impact on
the total number of new cases. Also, as diagnosis will improve under the project, incidence may further increase. For
these reasons, it is considered reasonable to maintain a number of new cases treated per year at a constant 34,000
over the next 4 years. The number of new cases under the TB treatment to be supported through the project is
presented in Table 7. The benefits are both direct and indirect.
Direct Benefits. The National TB Strategy approach involves 2 months of hospitalization followed by 4 months of
outpatient treatment compared to 8 months of hospitalization for all patients under the previous system. The direct
benefits to be derived from the TB component consist of a reduction in the cost of treatment. The project life is 4
years.
One hospital day costs US$5 per patient (everything included, i.e. hotel services, medical staff time, drugs etc.). The
cost of drugs included in the above is US$1 per day. It includes not only TB drugs, but vitamin injections and other
drugs provided as a matter of course to TB patients in Ukrainian hospitals. Cost of treatment per patient under the
present system = 8 months x 30 days x $5 = $1,200.
Under the project, patients would be hospitalized for two months and this would be followed by 4 months of
outpatient treatment. The cost of drugs for this six-month period is estimated at $60. Cost of treatment per patient
under the project = (2 months x 30 days x $4) + $60 (cost of drugs over 6 months) = $300.
-43 -



Savings per case = 1200 - 300 = $900. This multiplied by the number of TB cases treated per year with a discount
rate of 10 percent provided the present value of direct benefits (or saved costs).
Indirect Benefits. The second benefit is the economic benefit derived from reduction in mortality (both civilian and
prisons). Total annual number of deaths from TB = 7,850 and this is projected to decrease by 2 percent a year, even
without project, based on recent trends. The project is estimated to reduce TB fatality rate by 15 percent over 4 years
for the civilian population and by 20 percent for the prison population. To be conservative, a rate of 15 percent is
assumed. Indirect benefits are calculated in terms of the gain in economic productivity using the assumptions for the
HIV/AIDS component. Since TB also affects adult males in their prime years of economic productivity, these
assumptions for the TB component are correct.
Table 7: Direct and Indirect Benefits from the TB Component
Direct Benefits
Cost of
Treatmenu per TB Cases
Year        Case      Averted Saved Costs (US $)  Present, Value of Saved Costs
2003         900                                            0
2004         900       10,200     9,180,000             8,345,455
2005         900       20,400     18,360,000            15,173,554
2006         900       30,600     27,540,000            20,691,210
2007         900       34,000     30,600,000            20,900,212
2008         900       34,000     30,600,000            19,000,192
'Tot:alPS -V                      .                           : 7 084,110,622
Indirect Benefits
TB
Value per Lyfe Deaths  Indirect Benefits  Present. Value of Indirect
Year        Saved     Av,erted      (US$)               'Benefits
2003           20,295                                       0
2004           20,295   493       10,005,291            9,095,719
2005           20,295  1,039      21,086,202            17,426,613
2006           20,295  1,717      34,846,014            26,180,326
2007           20,295  1,717      34,846,014            23,800,296
2008           20,295  1,717      34,846,014            21,636,633
Total,p?V                                                 98,139,587
Results of the Cost-Benefit Analysis of the TB Component. As Table 8 shows, the benefits from the TB
component amount to US$ 152 million with an IRR of 170 percent. As in the case of the HIV/AIDS Component, a
sensitivity analysis was carried out to account for potential delays in project implementation and reduced benefits (20
percent and 40 percent) The sensitivity analysis for the TB component (Table 9) shows that even with reduced
project benefits (20 and 40 percent and delays in implementation), the net benefits and the IRR would remain
positive.
-44 -



Table 8: Cost-Benefit Analysis of the TB Component
Project  Direct Benefits  Indirect  Total Benefits         Present Value o
Year   Investment    (US $)   Bekiefits (US $)  (U,S' $)  Net Bedqrifs  Nol Benefits
2003    10,260,000     0            0           0        -10,260,000  -10,260,000
2004    8,820,000  9,180,000    10,005,291   19,185,291  10,365,291    9,422,992
2005    7,695,000  18,360,000   21,086,202  39,446,202   31,751,202   26,240,662
2006    7,875,000  27,540,000   34,846,014  62,386,014   54,511,014   40,954,931
2007               30,600,000   34,846,014  65,446,014   65,446,014   44,700,508
2008               30,600,000   34,846,014  65,446,014   65,446,014   40,636,825
-       -                                               IS_, 1%695,618
]F4Ri ',                                                                  170.43
Table 9: Sensitivity Analysis for the TB Component
T   Seiaseidvit,aysis        NVE
Reduction in Benefits:
20 % reduction           125,505,878   133.99
40 % reduction
Delay in Implementation:
2-year delay             22,804,492    71.92
3-year delay             4,047,422     25.98
Key Assumptions Included in the AIMS Model. There are five special parameters that need to be specified for
each AIM projection, which include: (i) the start year of the epidemnic, (ii) the perinatal transmission rate, (iii) the
percentage of infants with AIDS who die in the first year of life, (iv) life expectancy after AIDS diagnosis, and (v)
the reduction in fertility related to HIV infection.
t. Start Year of the Epidemic. The first year of the epidemic is the year in which the first cases of HIV were
detected. In this projections we used the year 1990 as the start year of the epidemic since, as reported by UNAIDS
(2000) with only 4 cases detected.
2. Perinatal Transmission Rate. The perinatal transmission rate is the percentage of babies born to HIV-infected
mothers who are infected themselves. Studies have found that this percentage ranges from about 13 to 32 percent in
industrialized countries and 25 to 48 percent in developing countries (Bryson, 1996; Dabis et al., 1993). AIM uses a
default value of 32 percent, typical of developing countries. If country-specific studies are available, this figure can
be changed by the user. It may also be changed for future years if the country implements programs to prevent
mother-to-child transmission of HIV. In our projection for Ukraine we used the default value since data on perinatal
transmission rate is not available.
3. Percentage of Infants with AIDS Dying in the First Year of Life. AIM uses a distribution of the incubation
period (discussed below) to calculate the number of people progressing from HIV infection to AIDS. This
information can be used to calculate the number of infants infected perinatally that develop AIDS at each age. In
- 45 -



order to calculate the impact on the infant mortality rate, it is necessary to know how many infants who develop
AIDS die before their first birthday. This percentage is only used to determine the impact on the infant mortality rate;
it does not affect any other aspect of the projections. The default value in AIM is 67 percent and should be used
unless some country-specific information is available. The impact of this factor on the infant mortality rate depends
on the incubation period for children. If the incubation period assumptions specify that 25 percent of HIlV-positive
children develop AIDS in the first year of life, then using the default value for this parameter means that 16 percent
(25 x 0.67) of infected infants would die before their first birthday. If the incubation assumption is higher or lower,
then the percentage dying as infants will also change. Our projection uses this default value.
4. Life Expectancy After AIDS Diagnosis. Life expectancy after AIDS diagnosis is the average number of years a
person will live after developing AIDS. In the developing world, this period ranges from six to 18 months. The
default value in AIM is one year. Changes in this parameter generally have little effect on the overall projections.
The default value is used for the Ukraine projection.
5. Percent Reduction in Fertility for HIV-Positive Women. It is not clear how the total fertility rate might be
affected by an HIV/AIDS epidemic. The default value in AIM is that fertility among 15-19 year old women is 50
percent higher among HIV-positive women than HIV-negative women and that fertility among women 20-49 is 20
percent lower among HIV-positive women than HIV-negative women. We used this default value for the Ukraine
projection.
Incubation Period. The incubation period describes the amount of time that elapses from the time a person becomes
infected with HIV until he or she dies from AIDS. AIM uses the cumulative distribution of the incubation period.
This distribution is defined as the cumulative proportion of people infected with HIV who will die from AIDS, by
the number of years since infection. For example, it might be that for all people infected in a certain year, 1 percent
will die; 3 percent will die within two years; 7 percent within three years; etc. The incubation period can be specified
for up to 20 years. The cumulative percentage dying from AIDS by year 20 will be the percentage that ever dies from
AIDS. Thus, if this value is equal to 95 percent, it implies that 5 percent of people infected with HIV will never die
from AIDS. AIM uses separate incubation distributions for adults and children. The Ukraine projection uses AIM
incubation periods.
1. Adult Incubation Period. A number of studies have calculated the distribution of the incubation period for
different groups of adults (Alcabes et al., 1994; Buchbinder et al., 1994; 1996; Chevret et al, 1992; Chiarotti et al.,
1994; Downs et al., 1991; Hendriks et al., 1992, 1993; Hendriks, Satten et al., 1996; Law, 1994; Operskalski et al.,
1995; Veuglers, 1994). Estimates of the median time from infection to AIDS range from 6.5 to 16.1 years, with
most of the estimates at 9-10 years. Estimates of the mean time to AIDS generally are slightly longer. Differences are
due to a variety of factors. Progression to AIDS occurs faster in older people and in those infected through male
homosexual contact. Aside from these factors, the mode of infection does not seem to affect the progression to
AIDS.
-46 -



Cumulative Proportion Progressing from HIV Infection to Death AIDS,
by Time Since Infection, for Adults
ince     FI& t        E          -S1ow          Slow -
InfectIonK.. .t_--Meni-~                         __omen_ ____M_en- 1. -.Wornn-48
I          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
2          0.03         0.01         0.02         0.01
3          0.07         0.03         0.05         0.03
4          0.12         0.07         0.10         0.05
5          0.19         0.12         0.15         0.10
6          0.27         0.19         0.22         0.15
7          0.36         0.27         0.29         0.22
8          0.45         0.36         0.37         0.30
9          0.54         0.46         0.45         0.38
10          0.62        0.56         0.53         0.47
11          0.69        0.65         0.61         0.56
12          0.76        0.73         0.68         0.64
13          0.82        0.81         0.74         0.72
14          0.86        0.86         0.79         0.79
15          0.90        0.91         0.84         0.84
16          0.93        0.94         0.88         0.89
17          0.95        0.96         0.91         0.93
18          0.97        0.98         0.93         0.95
19          0.98        0.99         0.95         0.97
20          0.99         0.99        0.97          0.98
Source: Stover, J. (1999)
Incubation Period for Children. Children who are infected perinatally generally progress to AIDS faster than
adults. Studies have reported median time from birth to AIDS to range from one year to 6.3 years (Auger et al.,
1988; Commenges et al., 1992; Downs, Salamini, and Ancella Park, 1995; Jones et al., 1989; Lui et al., 1988;
Oxtaby et al., 1992; Pliner, Weedon, and Thomas, 1996; Salamini et al., 1992;). Several of these studies have found
that some children (perhaps 40 percent) progress to AIDS within a few months while the rest take considerably
longer. A UNAIDS review of available evidence (UNAIDS 2001B) suggests that the survival is best described by a
rapid progression from infection to death for some children and much slower progression for others. The default
pattem used in AIM is shown in the Table below.
-47 -



Cumulative Proportion Developing ARDS, by Time Since Birth
'Yiears Since
Birth
1           0.36
2            0.49
3            0.55
4            0.57
5            0.59
6            0.60
7            0.61
8            0.64
9            0.72
10           0.85
11           0.97
12           1.00
13           1.00
14           1.00
15           1.00
16           1.00
17           1.00
18           1.00
19           1.00
20           1.00
Source: Stover, J. (1999)
Age and Sex Distribution of Infections. To calculate HIV incidence from the prevalence input, AIM needs to have
some information on the distribution of infection by age and sex. This information is provided through two editors,
one for the ratio of female to male prevalence and one for the ratio of prevalence at each age group to prevalence in
the 25-29 age group. In most epidemics, there are more male than female infections early in the epidemic. As the
epidemic matures, the numbers become more equal and then, in heterosexual epidemics, there will eventually be
more female than male infections. This pattem is especially noticeable in areas such as the Caribbean and Latin
America, where the early infections were primarily among homosexual and bisexual men and the epidemic later
spread to male and female heterosexuals.
HIV surveillance surveys will usually provide estimates of prevalence by age. These figures can be used to calculate
the ratio of prevalence in each five-year age group to prevalence in the 25-29 age group. If prevalence by age is not
available, reported AIDS cases can be used to estimate these ratios, although AIDS cases refer more closely to HIV
incidence than to prevalence. Although AIDS cases are usually under reported and female cases may be even more
under reported than male cases, the reported cases may be useful for examining the distribution of cases by age
within each sex, unless there is some reason to suspect strong age or sex biases in reported cases. Since AIDS cases
are a reflection of infections that occurred 5 to 10 years earlier, it is necessary to adjust the figures for this time lag.
Thus, the distribution of new AIDS cases reported in 1995 should be used to determine the distribution of prevalence
in 1985.
AIM has two default pattems, one for heterosexual epidemics and one for epidemics that are driven by transmission
-48 -



among men who have sex with men or injecting drug use. The default distributions are shown in the Table below.
AIIM Default Ratios of HIV Prevalence by Age and Sex
Age
G_OUg   Male    IFemale
0-4    0.00   -0.00
5-9    0.00     0.00
10-14   0.00     0.00
15-19   0.16     0.36
20-24 .5      < .c;0!93,
25-29    1.00    1.00
30-34    1.30    0.86
35-39    1.33    0.73
.40-M4   1.10 .  >^ ... 062 -:S
45-49   0.87     0.51
50-54   0.55     0.32
55-59   0.23     0.09
'-60'-64'  0.14   00,S.
65-69   0.07     0.03
70-74   0.00     0.00
75-79   0.00     0.00
8Q+--] 0.00      0.00:.
Source: Stover, J. (1999)
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Main Assumptions:
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
- 49 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
UKRAINE: Tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS Control Project
Total      Year 1'      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4
Project Cost
1. TB Control (MOH)            28.7         5.2         7.7         7.9         7.9
11. AIDS Control (MOH)         32.2         5.6         8.3         8.2         10.1
III. Prisons component          12.7        2.0         3.0         3.5         4.2
Contingencies                   3.4         0.6         0.9         0.9         1.0
Total Financing Required       77.0         13.4        19.9       20.5         23.2
Project Financing
Bank                           60.0         10.5        15.5        16.0        18.0
Government                     17.0         2.9         4.4         4.5         5.2
Total Project Financing        77.0         13.4        19.9        20.5        23.2
Financing for "Year 1" is combining financing for both financial years 2003 and 2004
- 50 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
UKRAINE: Tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS Control Project
Procurement
Procurement. Goods and related technical services under the IBRD financed components of this project would
be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit
published in January 1995 including all revisions up to January 1999. Contracts for Consulting Services
required for the Project would be awarded following the World Bank Guidelines "Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997, revised in September 1997, January 1999 and
May 2002. The project elements, their estimated cost and procurement methods, are summarized in Table A.
Other procurement information, including capability of the implementing agency, estimated dates for publication
of GPN and the Bank's review process is presented in Tables B and C. Project activities not financed by the
Bank will be procured in accordance with procurement rules of respective financing organizations subject to the
provisions under paragraph 1.5 of the Procurement Guidelines.
1. Goods. Goods, drugs and related technical services (approximnately US$44.1 million) consisting of
equipment and consumables for laboratory; pharmaceuticals (drugs) for the treatment of HIV/AIDS (for the
prevention of mother-to-child transmission and treatment of adults and children under a pilot program); AIDS
prevention and control supplies (needles, syringes, disinfectant, condoms, test kits etc.); office equipment and
computers with software; vehicles and technical services of drug and supplies storage, handling and distribution
and printing for education-training materials would be grouped to the extent possible and considering project
objectives, in package sizes that would encourage competitive bidding. For firms wishing to participate in
bidding for condoms and for distribution services for drugs and supplies, a pre-qualification process would be
used to identify qualified bidders, up-dated every two years. In-country storage and handling of drugs and
project goods would be managed and contracted as described further. The following methods of procurement
would be followed:
(i)    International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures would be used for contracts above
US$100,000 equivalent for a total amount of US$34.7 million for the procurement of
pharmaceuticals and condoms, laboratory equipment and supplies, infornation systems,
computers and office equipment, and vehicles. Technical Services of a logistics firm would
be competitively bid by ICB to provide services of warehousing, receipt of goods, specialized
storage, delivery to project sites, including local transportation and insurance, inventory
control, reporting and auditing of end use for drugs, laboratory and other medical and
information technology equipment and supplies (US$1.0 mnillion). Technical services for
printing of education-training materials under contracts above US$100,000 would be
competitively bid by ICB (US$1.0 million). Technical services required would be clearly
defined in the technical specifications and this would provide clear criteria for the lowest
evaluated bid to be selected. Pre-qualification will be carried out for the supply of condoms
and for the technical services of a logistics firm.
(ii)    Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures would be used to provide HIV/AIDS drugs
for a total of US$1.7 million for a pilot project to treat HIV+ adults and children. These drugs
would be provided under LIB because there are only a limited number of suppliers for these
goods. Bids would be sought from a list of potential suppliers broad enough to assure
competitive prices.
(iii)  National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures would be used for the printing of
training-education materials for contracts under US$100,000 equivalent, for an aggregate
amount of US$0.82 million.
(iv)   International Shopping (IS). This procedure would be used for the purchase of equipment
- 51 -



for laboratories, reagents, drugs, and office equipment and supplies, and publications which
are needed for small quantities of off-the-shelf goods and standard commodities, estimated to
cost less than US$100,000 per contract for an aggregated amount of US$0.34 million. This
procedure would also be used for second-line anti-TB drugs as described in para- I (viii) of
this annex, up to an aggregate amount of US$3,000,000. Shopping, which requires to obtain
three quotations from at least two countries, would be used here because more competitive
methods are not justified on the basis of cost or efficiency. The ECA Regional sample format
for intemational shopping "Invitation to Quote" available on the ECA Procurement Web Site
will be applied.
(v)     National Shopping (NS). These procedures would be used for contracts up to US$50,000
equivalent to an aggregate of US$ 0.12 million, for the purchase of supplies and goods readily
available in the local market, publications, books and supplies needed by the PIU to meet
project requirements. The ECA Regional sample format for international shopping "Invitation
to Quote" available on the ECA Procurement Web Site will be adjusted for national shopping.
(vi)    Direct contracting (DC). Supplies of anti-TB second-line drugs which are of a proprietary
nature and obtainable only from one source, costing $ 500,000 equivalent or less in the
aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, s described in para. I (viii) of this annex.
(vii)   Procurement under Special Arrangements (SA) with WHO. Procurement of HIV/AIDS
test kits (up to an aggregate of US$1.03 million) would be undertaken through a special
arrangement with WHO as contemplated under para. 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines
because it would be the most economical and efficient way of procuring these goods. The
latter has a bulk purchase scheme whereby it purchases a wide range of test kits at vastly
reduced prices. These test kits can then be purchased by national organizations involved in
AIDS reduction programs at the listed price. It makes sense for the project to buy test kits
from WHO because: (i) WHO have a selection of all the most effective kits; (ii) the products
are already quality assured by WHO; and (iii) prices from WHO would be significantly lower
because the project's requirements would not be sufficient to allow bulk discounts as large as
those obtained by WHO.
(viii)  Procurement of TB Drugs. First-line TB drugs estimated to cost US$10.2 million would be
procured by the Borrower using Borrower's funds and procurement methods. In addition, an
amount of US$2.6 million is included as part of the Bank financing as a contingency in the
case that Borrower-procured first-line drugs for MOH patients would not be sufficient. This is
included in the procurement table under the goods category and would be procured under
ICB.
A contingency of US$3.5 million for TB patients is also included as part of the Bank
financing for the prison component in case requirements for treatment exceed the Borrower's
drug availability. These funds would be used either for first-line drugs or, if necessary, for
second-line drugs for the treatment of drug-resistant patients. Procurement of first-line drugs
would be undertaken under ICB.
The State Department of Prisons has adopted a cautious strategy regarding the possible use of
anti-TB second-line drugs. It believes that it may not use these drugs until at least the third
year of the project, given the time required to establish a well-functioning TB program and
build the proper capacity to treat drug-resistant patients. Second-line anti-TB drugs would be
procured by a procurement agent competitively selected by WHO through a working group
called the Green Light Committee (GLC). The GLC is composed of representatives of a
number of institutions recognized for their scientific knowledge of TB and experience with TB
control around the world. The GLC includes WHO, M6decins sans Frontieres, Centers for
- 52 -



Disease Control, Harvard, Royal Netherlands Tuberculosis Association (KNCV), and a
representative of the National TB Program of a high-burden country. It assesses the readiness
of country programs to implement DOTS+ programs and helps improve access to
quality-assured second-line TB drugs at discounted pnces. Because of the unique nature of the
market for second-line drugs charactenzed by a limited number of suppliers, the procurement
agent would have to rely on international shopping or direct contracting methods of
procurement to be conducted in accordance with paragraphs 3.5, 3.6 and 3.7 of the Bank
procurement guidelines.
The implementation of the TB control program needs periodic monitoring of adherence to
international standards for DOTS+ projects. To that effect, there will be a need to grant an
exception to the eligibility rule conceming government agencies to allow single-source
contracting of the National TB Institute for the monitoring. Individual national or international
consultants (with technical qualifications satisfactory to WHO) may be subcontracted to assist
the National TB Institute in the monitoring.
The use of the contingency fund would be reviewed with the Bank at mid-term review and it
would be decided whether to use the funds for drugs or whether they should be reallocated for
other uses such as equipment or training. The financing of TB drugs would be as follows.
Bank          Governmernt          rotal
MOH                   2.6              7.6              10.2
Prisons               3.5              2.6               6.1
Total                 6.1              10.2             16.3
2.  Civil Works. Minor civil works for the rehabilitation of health facilities will be financed by the Borrower
using Borrower procedures. Estimated value of rehabilitation to be completed under the Project is US$2.3
rnillion.
3.  Selection Procedures for Consulting ServIces. Contracts for consulting services for a total of US$14.67
million (of which US$4.1 million is for training as described below in paragraph 4) would be packaged to
combine related skills and services, in order to make them attractive, increase competition, and to reduce the
number of contracts to be managed by the PIU. The following methods of procurement would be followed:
(i)   Quality and Cost-based Selection (QCBS) procedures would be used for contracting
consultant services related to TB and HIV/AIDS strategy development, laboratory quality
control, surveillance, civilian and prison treatment programs, training, public awareness
programs and STI prevention and control, up to an aggregate amount of US$6.76 million.
(iii)  Consultant Qualification procedures would be used for contracting specialized firms for
contracts, largely devoted to in-country training facilitation contracts, monitoring and
evaluation, software development and research under US$ 100,000 for an aggregated amount of
US$2.2 million.
(iii)  Least Cost Selection procedures would be used for auditing services contracts for annual audit
throughout the life of the project for an aggregate value of US$0.08 million.
(iv)  Individual Consultants would be hired in accordance with Section V of the Guidelines.
Individual consultants would be used for small assignments of short-term duration such as
evaluations, and for consultants of the PIU implementing the project for an aggregate amount
- 53 -



of US$0.82 million.
(v)    Single Source procedures would be used for the direct contracting of authorized government
TB and HIV/AIDS training institutes, and for services for the moitoring under the TB control
program of the adherence to international standards for DOTS+, described in paragraphs I
(viii) above and para. 4 below, up to an aggregate of US$0.18 Million.
(vi)   Fixed Budget Selection (FBS) procedures would be used for services on public awareness
campaign including design and implementation of the PAP for an aggregate value of US$ 4.63
million. Two phases of selection are planned as detailed in Table C. The procedures will be
carefully handled with a precisely defined TOR and an evaluation committee composed of
external professionals in such fields. Upon first phase, the experience and lessons of first phase
will be taken into account to decide on procurement approach to proceed with the second
phase.
4.   Training. In-country training is estimated to cost a total of US$4.1 million. Of this total, US$0.26
million would represent the actual costs of designing and organizing the training, and the difference of US$3.83
million is for direct costs of training (per diems, travel, hotels, supplies), which will be mostly contracted to
finns through QCBS or CQ selection procedures.
For contracts with authorized government TB and HIV/AIDS training institutes such as the Ukraine AIDS
Center and Institute of phthisiology and Pulmonology, estimated to cost an aggregate of US$0. 15 million, single
source procedures would be used. For other contracts, Consultant Qualifications (CQ) would be used for
contracts under US$100,000, and QCBS would be used for contracts over US$100,000. Contracts would be
packaged to encourage regional contracts of larger value covering several regions.
As is the case around the world, because of the "public good" nature of TB and AIDS control, there are cases
when training of health workers would be undertaken by govemment institutes such as the TB Institute and
AIDS Center. Their services are of unique and exceptional nature, must be provided in the local language, and
no suitable altematives from private sector consultants are available.
The training plan would be up-dated by the Borrower annually and approved by the Bank prior to execution.
Expenses for study tours and training costs paid by PIU under the project shall be covered under training
category and disbursed based on SOEs up to an aggregates of US$0.43 million.
5.   Incremental Operating Costs. Travel and per diem costs of PIU consultants and related staff directly
associated with supervision and monitoring of project activities, rent and upgrading of office premises, fuel for
and maintenance of vehicles, office materials and supplies, communications would be financed under the Loan
for the duration of the project (US$0. 11 million) on a declining basis starting at 100 percent in the first year and
75 percent in year 4 and thereafter.
6. Notification of Business Opportunities. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) would be published in the
UN "Development Business" around the period of Loan Negotiations and would be annually updated. For ICB
goods contracts and large-value consultants contracts (of more than US$200,000), a Specific Procurement
Notice would be advertised in the Development Business and national press, and in the case of NCB, in a major
local newspaper in the national language.
7. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Scheduling of Procurement. Procurement of goods and services for the project would be carried out in
accordance with the agreed procurement plan (Table C), which would be updated annually, included in the
progress report, and reviewed by the Bank.
8. Prior Review
- 54 -



(i)     Goods and Technical Services. Prior review of bidding documents, including review of evaluation,
recommendation of award and contract would be conducted for all ICB, LIB, DC, and UN Special
Arrangements. Prior review will also be required for all pre-qualification procedures. The first two
NCB, IS and NS contracts would require prior review, regardless of the cost.
(ii)    Consulting Services. Terms of reference for all consulting assignments would be subject to prior Bank
review. Requests for Proposal (RFP), short lists, termns of condition of contracts as well as evaluation
reports and recommendation for award would be prior reviewed by the Bank for contracts for
individual consultants above US$50,000, firms above US$100,000, and training to be selectd on the
basis of single source. All documents and recommendations involving sole source contracting would be
subject to Bank prior review.
(iii)   Training. Eligibility of government training institutes other than the approved organizations listed in
paragraph 4 as being selected to implement specialized training of medical personnel would require
Bank prior review.
After award of contracts, should any material modifications or waiver of terms and conditions of a contract
resulting in an increase or decrease above 15 percent of the original amount, the Bank would undertake a prior
review of such modifications (including modifications to contracts for consulting services).
9. Custom Duties and Taxes. All custom duties and taxes for goods specifically imported for the project and
for all technical assistance would be financed by the Borrower.
10. Action Plan for Strengthening Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement. The following
actions would be taken to strengthen the procurement capacity of the PIU:
(i)     Procurement advisory services would assist the PIU to undertake tasks of logistical planning,
development of procurement plans, training plan, and preparation of operating procedures for this
activity. Early procurement of drugs, laboratory equipment and supplies would require assistance for
medical specifications. Contractual arrangements for these services would be competitively tendered
for the first three years of the project during crucial periods of the procurement cycle. The role of the
consultant would be to provide assistance on specific procurement assignments and to assist the PIU in
preparing the bidding documents according to Bank guidelines and on schedule.
(ii)   Initiating a Project Launch Workshop before the loan effectiveness,  as part of the project
implementation and capacity building initiatives, especially in procurement.
(iii)  The project would be subject to intense supervision by the Bank. During the first year of project
implementation, there would be at least two supervisions.
(iv)   The PIU and MOH project management and procurement staff would be given the opportunity to
attend intensive procurement training, by the time of loan effectiveness, such as the course offered by
the ILO in Turin, to be financed under PHRD grant.
(v)     Periodic ex-post review by the Bank of I in 5 contracts during the supervision missions.
- 55 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                           Procurement Method
ICB        NCB         Other      N.B.F       Total
____ ___ _   __ ___ __   _ ___ ___ C o st
1. Works                                     -                 -         2.3         2.3
(0.0)       (0.0)
2. Goods (including health            34.7                    6.7        10.2       51.6
products and drugs)                  (34.7)                  (6.6)       (0.0)     (41.3)
3. Consulting Services                  -          -         11.7        3.6         15.3
(11.1)      (0.0)      (11.1)
4. Technical Services                  2.0        0.8                                2.8
(2.0)       (0.8)                             (2.8)
5. Training                                                  (4.1         -          4.1
________  ________  ~(4.1)   __  _ _  _    (4.1)
6. Incremental Operating Costs          _                     0.2        0.1         0.3
(0.1)       (0.0)      (0.1)
7. Front-end Fee                        -          -          0.6         -          0.6
(0.6)                  (0.6)
Total                                 36.7        0.8        23.3        16.2        77.0
(36.7)      (0.8)      (22.5)      (0.0)       (60.0)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies and taxes
and are rounded.
Other includes:
1. Goods: "Other" includes packages to be procured through Special Arrangements (SA) with WHO, LIB, DC,
International and National Shopping.
2. Consulting Services: "Other" includes international training, consultant services, to be contracted through
selection procedures of QCBS, CQ, fixed budget, least cost, single-source and individual consultants.
3. Training: "Other" includes all costs associated with in-country training to be procured (and for direct costs,
disbursed from the project) under Agreed Procedures developed by the Borrower and approved by the Bank.
4. Incremental Operating Costs comprise travel and per diem costs of PIU consultants and related staff directly
associated with supervision and monitoring of project activities, rent and upgrading of office premises, fuel for and
maintenance of vehicles, office materials and supplies, and communications.
5 Non-Bank Financed includes US$2.3 million civil works, US$10.2 million for first line TB drugs, U$3.6 million
services, and US$0.1 operating costs to be financed by Borrower using its own funds and contributed to the Project
over the four year period.
- 56 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: High
Table B: Summary of Procurement Activities
ICB           LIB          NCB           is           NS       Other methods
Goods, Drugs Above         Aggregate     Below          ggregate of  Below $50,000 DC for second
and Technical $100,000     US$1.7 million $100,000 for  $3,000,000 for Aggregate  ine drugs
Services      Aggregate                  printing     second-line TB  0.12 million  aggregate $0.5
Procurement   $36.7 million              Aggregate    drugs                      million (all
thresholds                               $0.34 million  (all packages)           packages)
Individual and                                         For other:                SA with WHO
aggregate                                              elow                      Aggregate
$100,000                   $1.03 million
ggregate,
$0.34 million
Prior review  All packages  All packages  First 2     First 2      First 2      All SA
contracts     contracts    contracts      ackages
QCBS      Fixed Budget      CQ         Least Cost  Single Source  Individual
(firms)                                                           consultants
Consultants    Aggregate    Aggregate     Aggregate    Aggregate    Aggregate     Aggregate
$6.76 million  S$0.4.63    $2.2 million   0.08 million  $0.18 million  $0.82 million
million
Prior review  Shortlist, TORs, Shortlist, TORs, Shortlist, TORs, Shortlist, TORs, TORs and draft Shortlist, TORs,
evaluation    evaluation   evaluation    evaluation   contracts for  evaluation
reports and draf reports and drafl reports and drar reports and dra government  reports and draft
contracts for all contracts for all contracts for all ontracts for  training  contracts for all
contracts     contracts above contracts above audit contracts institutes and all contracts above
_US$100,000   $100,000                  lother contracts $50,000
- 57 -



________________    ____       Table Bl:_Procurement Plan              ____________
- . - -  Ices    ~~~~~     ~~~~Pack-  C'o'st . - S'PN  Prep.  Iss uie  <.Opeo  '-Ej.     w       Sign
AIDS test kits       ~WHO I         4 53. 4 6           M n-O3    Mar-OS3  M y.03   jon-OS3   Sal-OS    Ju1-03
WH 02         576,374             Ap,-04    Ap,-04   M y-04   jun-04    Jul-04    Jul.04
A.Uret-4.1 a         ~~LiB I        7 7 13 50           So .02    aOl-O2   Nov.02   Jsn.O3    Fob-OS   M a r-O
LIB2          9 4 17 60           Jan04     Jan-04   Mar.04   Mo y-04   J.n-04   Jul-04
AIDS druga (.pp. nfo.n)      IC B 1 3     1 .0 30,8354  Ja-04   Jan .04  Jan-04   5. r-04   Ma .04   Ju-04     Jl.Ou 
Drugsro, pp. nfcc~on. IC B3        1,0 59.271  Aug-02   Aug-02    AuR.02   Oct-OS   Doc-OS   J2.-03    Fob-OS
Qualgty ob,cks of dr.g,      CQ350          40O,O000            Ju-O3     Jul-03   A.g-03  _Sep-03   001-03    S.p-03
~~~~~~                             ~~~~~~      ~~CQ 36  4 0,0 00  Fnb.05  M a-0S  Apr03  Ma y-03  juo-OS  M y-03
IC 10 2       6590910 F4eb6No-03  Fo-03     A o-04   Apr-04    Jul-03   Joyt-OS   yu-OS
Inspetio. ondomm, drgs ISS ____      32,62              000D-02   J no-OS3-O F       ob-3MrOS  AFob-OS3  M ar-OS
CIS7S          13,10 0             Apr-03   A n-OS   Mab-05   Mon-O5    Jor-OS    S-OS
Syringes____... _dies __IC_______  15       60,30  0 __Aug_ _02   A oo-02  A on-O2  Jan-OS  Fob-O2   Jo- O3    Mar-03
______________________________ IC_aN14  0,74690 ___Feb__04  Feb-04  F.b-04  JAn-04  junb04    J.1-04   MAr-04
0 iiff100sqot                ICn B(rniolg)313 3,076  A.S___02_  Aog-OS   Fub-O2    OCM0n-O  AN-vOS  AD-OS      Ma -OS
N IC          134.2310  M r___04_  Mon-Sr4  004-O     Jn-04   A g-04    Sep-04    Mar-04
Swabs                 IC~~~~~ 02      4 ,0 00  A.g__02__ A Fob-OS  Fob-O2   Mar-03   Aor-OS   A r-02    Mac-OS
NCB 34         3 ,000   F.b___04_  Jun-OS   F.b-OS  JAp,04    AJa-04    Au ag-OS  Ong-OS
L.b. eqip. and-gc.tsIC OTIOS       0, 500.00  NovAu-04  Nov04       g0 00004 ja-00   Mar-OS   A pr-OS   Ma. -OS3
IC 0104      2, 500.000  Ful-02   Sop-OS    OOS      Do4S      FbO N      or3J..4  r0  p-OS  Apr-OS
VrIbicgofd.ges 000           ICO IB       1.3104,9 6  Mar 3     M-03 SanOS Sa-OS   Ap,-03   aop-03   Jo-OS     Jo-OS
ICB 019       4936,630  Nov-04y N04    4    M0a0-04   Juo-04   Mar-OS   Apr-OS   Nay-O4
Sorroy, poblir opinion  C~~~i I      983.0 30          JDr-02     Jan-03   Fob-OS   Mar-OS2   A pr-OS  MAor-OS
Softare__________p__________  CQ IS0gio 01M00So-OS                       Jot-O3   A u-OS    A.p-OS   S0p-03    Sog-0S
Poblir Inforgnagioo Coon paggo  CBTS1  2 1,76,2250  0uo102  Org-OS  Oug-OS  DOct-03  D-03     Mar-OS    Apr-03
ICBS13       1,70,220 0 Novg-OS  NAuv-03    Ag-OS     Jon-OS   Mar-OS   Ap-OS    MFny-OS
Offic.cq.ipment       ICB0O04       300.00I0  F0-4       0-0b0-04 e-3 Ar0   Fob-O3   Apr-OS    Jay-O3   Juo-03
IC5 6S 30,3000          0D-02 DosO           0-02     Fob-OS   Apr-OS   May-OS     r03-O
0 Me. equip. .. a     CQII          11,00 7  __61   _   Db-02    F1b00-OS   Fob-OS   MApr-OS  A pr-OS   Mar-OS
F________i________e__NCSI 16                 42 _____           Ap-03   MDn-O3     Jon -OS  AugbOS   Sop-OS    Or-OS
Conditioners          N~CS2I        37.00     Org-OS    FOr-OS    OgOS     Dc3      Fob-OS-0  Ap0  Mar-OS  Apr-03
PA dstribuo. an  trsCQ 143                  00.000              Apr04  -OS   May-OS  lao-Os  MSal-OS  A pg-0S  Jul-OS
PAPintiong on d- ad .1onpl.  ICB OS       13107,5 2  Apr -OS    Apr-OS   May-OS    Aon-OS   Aug-OS   Orp-OS    S0p-O3
IC BT1S       4 6307,23  N ov-04  Nov-04    D0c-04    Ja-00    M ar-OS  Apr-OS    M ny-OS
Suraega Pubiolgpronron       C QI9 . 621000       D______       Mo-OS    Apr-OS3   Fb0 M nvO rJa-OS   Sal-OS    u-OS
C Q6S5         10.2000 J________   M03O     Jui-03S   Jul-O3   Sep-03   Sop-OS   Ang-03
Trogniog of troinora  ~~~~CQ9        S5 2000             Ma-SApr-    OS M0 ny-OS     Jun-OS   Jul-OS    Ja-.0 3-
IC 426         57.50 0  D c.___O4  Du-04    Dul-04    Feb-05   Sop-OS   M Org-OS  Soj-0
Tra~~oiog of pbyo~~~oiooa  CQ1 S 7  3804,0 00  D.c___02_  Fob-OS2  Ma-OS2   Fr-03-M A-OS     y2030-OS
______________________________  CQ 16II , 01.00         Dc_____la..()_3Jun-03_Jl-S ugO   or-03  Oprg-OS  So -OS
PIC__creation_and_quality_control  QCO SO6  326.00 0  Apr-OS    A pr-OS  May-OS    Jun-OS   Aua-05   Sop-OS    Org-OS
_______________________________   CQB 197   12.0004 c-0  May-OS   un-OS2    Sa-OS    Fb-03    So -05   Apr-O3
PAP______desig   ________     C Q01 0      326,00 0  JulOS      Ju-OS     Sa-OS    Sop-OS   Nov-OS   A0g-03    Jnu-04
PAP - core and rupl.   CBTS5           72,4302  A pr-OS  A pr-OS  May-OS    Jun.-OS  Au -OS   Sop-OS    0 01-03
ICBTSS         3 0,4211  No-0     Fo-OS     Mar-OS    JA, r-S  M a -OS  Jun-OS    Ma -03
D.sig. rainingprogr.CQ62             10.63              Fob-O M,3  Apr-OS  A oy-03    a O Jun-   OSJ.0  Mn -OS
CQ63          I10.109              Fo-OS    Mar-OS    A n.-OS  MAg-OS   San-OS   MAg-03
QCOSS          1346.0   Ar0        MApr-03  A y0-   Mo-O3     Aua-03S  Sjul-OS   Suo-OS
ICQ 9           4,4024            Ma -OS    Jo -OS   Joo-0S    Ju-O Aug-    e-OS  Sog-OS
Q C S 0  2 68 0   J.-3 J58      3 -M3          Sp0      Nv3       Dco3     Jn0



Training of n.....                CQ5S              1 3.446               M a-03     Api03r  .-03         Ja-03-     Jul-03     Jun-03
____________________________  C9            4,4 82 _____         M ar-03    Mar-03     Apr-03    May-03     Jun-03     Jul-03
IC 19              4,40 8 2  ____       MaBy-05   May-OS      Jun-05     Jul-O5    A.g-05     Sep-05
Train,ng ofauruna/teldshers       QCBS9           326,800     Ja-03       Jun-03     Jul-03    Aug-03     Oct-03     Nov.03     Dec-03
Training in statiatics            CQ6              09,944 _____           Feb-03     M ar-03    Apr-03    M ay-03    Jun-03     May-03
_____________________________  C26          1,102 7 _______      Jan-03     Jun-03     Jul-03    Aug-03     Sep-03     Oct-03
Teaining in counseling            CQ7              62,000 _____           Feb-03     M ar-0'3   Apr-03    May-03     Jan-03     M ay-03
CQ21              5 4,000 _____         M ay-03    Jun-03  IJul-03      Aug-03     Sep-03     Aug-03
_____________________________CQ27         35,000 _______         Oct-03     Nov-03     Dec-03    Jan-04     Feb-04     Jan.04
_____________________________CQ48         208,000 _______        Apr-04    May-04     Jan-04      Jul-04    Aug-04     Jul-04
Training of laboratory staff      CQ20              1 2,804 _____        M ay-00     Jun-00     Jul-00    Aug-00     Sep-00     Aug-00
____________________________CQ46          308,411 _____          Dec-03     Jan-04     Feb-04    Mar-04     Apr-04     M ar-04
____________________________IC20           4,482 _____           Apr-03     Apr-03    M ay-03    Jun-03     Jul-03     Aug-03
Training of leaders TB/Lab        CQ49             24.344 _____           Feb-03     M ar-03    Apr-03    May-03     Jun-03     May-03
Training ofmuanageru              CQ51             20,214 _____           Feb-03     M ar-03    Apr-03    M ay-03    Jun-03     M ay-03
IC24               2,8017 _______       Jun-03     Jun-03     Jul-03    Aug-03     Sep-03     Oct-03
Training prevention programs      Ica                8,574 _____          M ar-03    Apr-03    May-03     Jan-03     Jun-03     Jun-03
Seminars non industry             CQ64               7,500 _______        Jul-05    Aug-05      Sep-05    Oct-OS     Nov-05     Oct-OS
__________________________           ______CQ41  _22__060_       Jul-03    A.   0      Se -0     Oct-03     Nov-03     Oct-03
CQ43     ___3 8     ___12  __     Jut-O5     Aug-OS     Sep-OS     Oct-OS    Nov-OS      Oct-OS
Training sem,tanra                IC 1?              9.083 _____         M ay-03    M ay-03     Jun-03     Jul-03    Aug-03     Sep-03
IC25         2,28   _________     Jun-03     Jan-03     Jul-03    Aug-03     Sep-03     Oct-03
_C27_9_0           ____3   ___    Dec-04     Dec-04     Jan-OS     Feb-OS    M ar-OS5    Apr-OS
_C33     ___   03 7______         Mar-O5     M ae-OS    Apr-O5    May-05      Jun-05     Jul-05
QCBSI I         260,440     Jul-03      Jul-03     Jul-03     Sep-03    Nov-03     Dec-03      Jan-04
_CBS21     141_72  ______         Sep-03     Oct-03     Nov-03     Jan-04     Feb-04    M ar-04
QCBS12           1 25,9802  M ar-03     Mar-03     M ar-0 3   May-03     Jul-03    Aug-03     Sep-03
QCBS22           1 25,9802  Mar,-OS     M ar-OS    M ar-OS    M  y0      Jul-0O _  Au-5        Sp0
Training lab and GPs              QCBS7           326,800    Apr-03       Apr-03    May-03      Jun-03    Aug-03     Sep-03     Oct-03
Training of cell leaders          QCBS20          1800000 _____          Aug-03      Aug-03     Oct-03    Dc-03      Jun-04     Feb-04
Training MTCT                     SS[ - A          77,000 _____           M ar-03    Apr-03    May-03     Jun-03     Jan-03     Jun-03
Study tours           TRNGI      5_____    00_ _______        Apr-03     Apr-03     Apr-03     Apr-03     Apr-03     Apr-03
TRNO2             56,000 _____          Aug-00     Aug-00     Aug-00     Aug-00    Aug-00     Aug-00
Training for PlU staff            TRNO3            56,000 _   ___        M ay-03    May-03     May-03     May-03     M ay-03    May-03
TRNOO             20.000 _______        Oct-03     Oct-03     Oct-03     Oct-03     Oct-03     Oct-03
Training hlth proc. mgma.         TRNO4            309,790 _______       Aug-03     Aug-03     Aug-03     Aug-03     Aug-03     Aug-03
TRNO4             23,000 _______        Feb-03     Mar-03     Apr-03    Ma-0         ay0      Ma0
Training warebouse/diat.          TRNG5            30.000 _______        Aug-03      Aug-03    Aug-03     Aug-03     Aug-03     Aug-03
Training visits overseas          TRNO6             1 2,600 _______       Sep-03     Sep-03'    Sep-03    Sep-03     Sep-03     Sep)-03
TRNG9             1 2.600 _______       Oct-03     Oct-03     Oct-03     Oct-03     Oct-03     Oct-03
Intermational confereunce         TRNG7            45,200 _______         Oct-03     Oct-03     Oct-03    Oct-03     Oct-03     Oct-03
TRNGIO            4 5,200               Oct-03     Oct-03     Oct-03     Oct-03   -Oct-03      Oct-03
TRNG 14            0,500 _______        Jul-OS      Jul-OS    Jul-OS     Jul-OS     Jul-OS     Jul-OS
TRNG 17            8.500 _______        Jul-03      Jul-03    Jul-03     Jul-03     Jul-03     Jul-O3
TRNG 13            8.500 ______         Jul-05      Jul-OS    Jul-OS     Jul-05     Jut-OS     Jut-OS
TRNG 16            0,500 _______        Jul-03      Jul-03     Jul-03    Jul-03     Jul-03     Jul-03
Trainang courses                  TRNGI I 1          1,589                Oct-03     Oct-03     Oct-03     Oct-03    Oct-03     Oct-03
TRNG15             1,793 _____          Jul-OS      Jul-OS     Jul-OS    Jul-OS     Jul-OS     Jul-OS
Monitoring AIDS prevalence        CQ4              5 1,147 _____          Feb-03     Mar-03     Apr-3   a-03         Jun-03     M ay-03
Monitoring of PAP                 CQ8              72,000 _____           M ar-03    Apr-03'   May-03      Jun-03     Jul-03    Jun-03
CQIO              72.000 ______         Aug-03     Sep-03     Oct-03     Nov-03     Dec-OS    Nov-03
TA for procurement                CQ 12            54,900 _______         Jun-03     Jul-03     Aug-03     Se-3      Oct-03      Sep-03
1C3               24,000 _______        Jan-03     Feb-03     M ar-03    Ar0        Ap-3       Apr-03
Consultants                       CQ 13            5 1,42 9 _______       Jun-03     Jul-03     Aug-03     Sep-03    Oct-03     Sep-03
CQ23              5 1,4 29 _____         Jut-OS    Aug-0S     Sep-0S     Oct-OS    Nov-OS      Oct-OS
Reaearcb sex workers (beh.)       CQ22             5 2,000 _______        Jul-03     Aug0       Se-03     Oct-03     Nov-03     Oct-03
Lab tenting                      CQ25              40,000 _____          Dec-02      Jun-03     Feb-03    Mar-03     Ap-3       Mar-03
CQ37              40,000 _______        Jun-OS      Jul-OS    Aug-OS     Sep-0S     Oct-OS     Sep-OS
Help Group                       CQ26              35,716 _____          Nov-03      Dec-03     Jan-04     Feb-04    Mar-04     Feb-04
CQ3O              35,716 _____          Jun-OS      Jul-OS    Aug-OS     Sep-O5     Oct-OS     Sep-OS
Supervision orTB regions         CQ28              3 4,090 ______         Jun-03     Jul-03    Aug-03     Sep-03     Oct-03     Sep-03
CQ61              34,0908______         Jun-04      Jul-04    Aug-04     Sep-04     Oct-04     Sep-04
Outpatient counsehang            CQ29              34.000 _______         Jun-03     Jul-03    Aug-03     Sep-03     Oct-03     Sep-03
_____________________________CQ39          34,000 _______         Jul-OS    Aug-0S      Sep-05    Oct-OS     Nov-OS     Oct-OS
Seminars far MVD                 CQ31              85,746 _____           Jul-03     Aug-03     Sep-03    Oct-03     Nov-03     Oct-03
Researcb an bebavior prisoners   CQ32              50,000 _____           Feb-OS     M ar-OS    Apr-OS    M ty-05    Jun-OS     M ay-OS
____________________________CQ33           50,000 _____          Ma"y-OS    Jun-OS      Jul-OS    Aug-OS     Sep-OS     Aug-05
creation seir training centers    CQ34             50.000                 Jul-03     Aug-03     Sep-03    Oct-03     Nov-03     Oct-03
CQSO              40,000 _____          Feb-OS     M ar-OS    Apr-O5     May-OS     Jun-OS    May-OS
1TA storage and distribution      CQ35             4 5,5 00 _______       Jan-03     Feb-03     M ar-03    Apr-03    M ay-03     Apr-03
FPolls and surveys                CQ40             3 2.000 _______        Jul-OS     Aug-0S     Sep-OS     Oct-OS    Nov-OS      Oct-OS
lConference                       CQ44             40,0001______          Mar-03     Apr-03     May-03     Jan-03     Jul-03     Jun-03
-59 -



CQ56            10,000               Sep-03    Oct-03    Nov-03    Dec-03    Jan-04    Dec-03
Workshops for mass media       CQ47            33,944               Feb-03    Mar.03    Apr-03    May-03    Jun-03    May-03
TA to implement program        CQ57           501,429               Dec-02    Jan-03     Feb-03   Mar-03    Apr-03    Mar-03
Brochures for prison officers  CQ59            38,207               Apr-03    M ay-03   Jun-03    Jul-03    Aug-03    Jul-03
CQ60            38,207               Nov-04    Dec-04    Jan-05    Feb-05    Mar-05    Feb-05
Evaluation visits              IC 1            17,000               Sep-03    Oct-03    Nov-03    Dec-03    Dec-03    Dec-03
IC2             17,000               Sep-05    Oct-05    Nov-05    Dec-05    Dec-05    Dec-05
ICI4             5,671               Jun-03    Jun-03     Jul-03                       Oct-03
IC31             5,671               M ar-05   M ar-05   Apr-05    M ay-05   Jun-05    Jul-05
IC31             5,671               Mar-05    Mar-05    Apr-05    May-05    Jun-05    Jul-05
Inspection visits              IC4             I 1,650              Mar-03    Apr-03    May-03    Jun-03    Jun-03    Jun-03
IC12            11,650               Sep-05    Oct-05    Nov-05    Dec-05    Dec-05    Dec-05
Tech Assistance                IC5             22,500               Mar-03    Apr-03    May-03    Jun-03    Jun-03    Jun-03
IC 10           22,500               Jul-05    Aug-05    Sep-05    Oct-05    Oct-05    Oct-05
QCBSI          545,893    Mar-03     Mar-03    Mar-03    May-03     Jul-03   Aug-03    Sep-03
ST local TA                    IC6             20,000               Jan-03    Feb-03    Mar-03    Apr-03    Apr-03    Apr-03
IC I1           20,000               Aug-05    Sep-05    Oct-05    Nov-05    Nov-05    Nov- 5
Organization of hospice        IC7             10,500               Oct-03    Nov-03    Dec-03    Jan-04    Jan-04    Jan-04
IC 13           10,500               Oct-05    Nov-05    Dec-05    Jan-06    Jan-06     Jan-06
Obs. HIV in TB patients        IC 15            5,478               Jun-03    Jun-03     Jul-03   Aug-03    Sep-03    Oct-03
IC32             5,478               Mar-05    Mar-05    Apr-05    May-05    Jun-05     Jul-05
Trips/per diem lab inspection  IC21             3,546               Aug-00    Aug-00     Sep-00   Oct-00    Nov-00    Dec-00
IC28             7,777               Jan-05     Jan-05    Feb-05   Mar-O5    Apr-05    May-05
Monitoring visits              IC22             3,546                         Sep-03     Oct-03   Nov-03    Dec-03     Jan-04
IC 16            3,546               Jun-03     Jun-03    Jul-03   Aug-03    Sep-03    Oct-03
IC29             7,777               Jan-05     Jan-05    Feb-05   Mar-05    Apr-O5    May-05
IC30             7,777               Jan-05    Jan-05     Feb-05   Mar-05    Apr-05    May-05
Web-site development           IC23             3,000               Oct-03     Oct-03   Nov-03    Dec-03     Jan-04    Feb-04
Project Audit                  LCI             80,000               Aug-03     Sep-03    Oct-03   Nov-03    Nov-03    Nov-03
Training center HIV/AIDS       QCBS2          124,400               Jan-00     Jan-00    Mar-00   May-00     Jun-00    Jul-00
QCBS4          189,600   May-03                May-03     Jul-03   Sep-03    Oct-03    Nov-03
TA fin. mgmt, procurement      QCBS3          300,000    Jul-02      Jul-02   Aug-02     Sep-02   Nov-02    Dec-02     Jan-03
Capacity building              QCBS6          102,793    Jun-03     Jun-03     Jul-03    Aug-03    Oct-03   Nov-03     Dec-03
Monitoring program effect.     QCBS14         201,600    Mar-03     Mar-03    Mar-03    May-03     Jul-03   Aug-03     Sep-03
QCBSI9         201,600    Aug-05     Aug-05    Aug-05     Oct-05   Dec-05     Jan-06    Feb-06
Research behavior IDUs         QCBSI5         100,000    Mar-03     Mar-03    Mar-03    May-03     Jul-03   Aug 03     Sep-03
Dev. training prog. for TB     SS2 - TB        75,000
PIU costs                       _             338,600
338,600
Ioi a f -. '-- 'r            i             S60  lb;;b,              - __-
- 60 -



Procurement Information
Ex-post Review             Ex-post review mechanism: Review carried out in accordance with Para.
4 of Appendix I of the Bank's Guidelines and reviews during supervision
missions.
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and
Technical Assistance requirements
Brief statement
Overall responsibility for Project management and coordination would rest
with the PIU. The PIU would be supported by Technical Assistance
consisting of: PIU Director, Procurement Specialists, Financial
Management, consultants for HIV/Aids and TB, including Information
Systems. An assessment of MOH procurement capacity has been
conducted, as a newly established department under it would be directly
involved in the procurement management by providing clearance to each
contract, the report indicates "High" risk based on the fact that the MOH
has very limited experience of procurement, their procurement staff are
untrained and unfamiliar with World Bank procurement practices and are
inexperienced even in public procurement under Ukrainian legislation.
Some experience has been gained by the local procurement consultant
working on the PHRD Grant for project preparation, but he has no
experience with procurement of Health Sector Goods and the large
consultancy contracts and special services agreements. The capacity of
MOH and the PIU without outside support and immediate training would
be inadequate to handle the procurement activities workload under the
project. Therefore, procurement training plan and hiring of an international
procurement advisor would assist to build procurement capacity for the
project. The project will also contribute to procurement capacity building
for local public procurement within the MOH and Prisons Department.
Country Procurement        Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions for the first year
Assessment Report or Country  ready? Yes.
Procurement Strategy Paper  RFPs and bidding documents for the first year of project implementation
status A CPAR for Ukraine  are being prepared and would be ready by Loan effectiveness.
has been completed. For this
Project, the Government
would follow the agreed Bank
procurement procedures as
described in this document
and in the Development Loan
Agreement.
Section 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of Project Launch Workshop: November 2002
Estimated date of publication of General Procurement Notice: June 2002
Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development
Business: Yes
Domestic Preference for Goods: Yes
Domestic Preference for Works, if applicable: No
Retroactive financing: No
Advance procurement: Yes. Advance procurement will be carried out for
pre-qualification of suppliers of condoms and for distribution agents.
Documents are already prepared.
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
All procurement related documentation that requires Bank's prior review
- 61 -



would be cleared by Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS) and relevant
technical staff. Packages above mandatory review thresholds would be
reviewed by the RPA. The PIU would maintain complete procurement
files, especially for the contracts subject to Post-review, which would be
reviewed by Bank's supervision mnissions. The Procurement Plan would be
updated annually. Procurement information would be recorded by the PIU
and submitted to the Bank as part of the quarterly and annual progress
reports. This information would include: revised cost estimates for the
different contracts; revised timing of procurement actions, including
advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual
contracts; as well as compliance with aggregate limits (within 15%) on
specific methods of procurement. A Management Information System
(MIS), with a procurement module would help the PIU monitor all
procurement information.
Co-financing: No
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team
responsible for the procurement in the Project:
Name: Yingwei Wu         Ext: 35291
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: A
procurement specialist has been hired at the Resident Mission in Kiev,
who will be giving advice to the PIU to facilitate procurement
implementation.
Management and Control of the Logistics Element
Justification. Laboratory equipment, including microscopes, must be delivered on time, and early during the life of
the project so that diagnosis of TB can be improved. Also, providing drugs on time to patients is at the heart of the
success of this project. Drugs must be delivered on time because: (i) if regions do not receive the drugs on time,
patients cannot be treated and, as a result either the delayed treatment becomes more costly or, in some cases, the
patient may even die; (ii) if treatment is interrupted because a batch of drugs has not arrived on time, the patient may
develop drug resistance and (iii) drugs have an expiry date after which their use becomes dangerous. Under the
proposed scheme, drugs would be procured through ICB and delivered at one Ukrainian entry point. There would be
a logistics contract with a firm that would be in charge of clearing customs, warehousing and then ensuring final
delivery to different locations in up to 27 participating regions throughout the vast territory of Ukraine. Also, as the
project does cover both the civilian and the prison populations, a part of the equipment and drugs would need to be
delivered to the regional MOH and another part to the prison system.
The processing of imported equipment and drugs for delivery to different regions involves: (i) obtaining of import
licenses; (ii) clearance of cargo through customs; (iii) obtaining of licenses for storage and distribution of drugs; (iv)
storage and delivery to regions; (v) insurance of cargo; and (vi) certification and tests. Storage and transport are not a
minor issue in the case of drugs because the latter are perishable. In some cases, special temperature conditions may
be needed. To avoid pilferage, security issues must be addressed through reinforcement of walls, proper locking
systems, protective alarms, or specialized guards. To be able to do all this requires a strong management capacity, a
good knowledge of the key players in Ukraine, and an understanding of what kind of transport is available for
different destinations. At the present time, drugs are transported through various means: by rail (using carloads,
containers or baggage load shipments), by air, or by truck. The methods selected depend on distances, topography,
time of the year, weather, and obviously cost. The situation would vary for each region.
Leaving that task to several different foreign and local suppliers may not ensure that the right drugs would be
delivered in the right places at the right time. Not all companies produce all the TB and AIDS drugs so that drugs
would end up coming from more than one supplier who would (if it had the capacity to do so) deal with several
- 62 -



would end up coming from more than one supplier who would (if it had the capacity to do so) deal with several
delivery agents. The same argument applies for laboratory and other medical and information technology equipment,
condoms, syringes and supplies. Such a scheme would require that the government (the MOH and PIU) plan and
monitor this complex process. They would have to work continuously with hundreds and possibly thousands of
interlocutors and firms in all regions of the country. This entails a planning and management capacity that the MOH
and the PIU clearly do not have. The result could be significant delays in project implementation and increased costs.
Using a logistics company ensures the reliable execution of every supply phase such as obtaining import licenses,
customs clearance, storage, contracting of transport companies (or using their own fleet), monitoring the movement
of goods, keeping up-to-date and complete records of which drugs are where at what time etc. The scheme is
optimum in terms of Bank and government monitoring of the process because the Borrower would deal with only
one operator.
There are a number of logistics companies in Ukraine. A number of Ukraine or foreign companies have licenses
for the storage and distribution of pharmaceutical products. Some are partly state-owned, some are private with or
without foreign share holding and have a broad coverage. A state-owned company cannot participate unless it meets
eligibility criteria.
Proposed Procurement Arrangements. The PIU would prepare detailed specifications of technical services and
issue a tender ICB technical services documents for the provision of required services for the duration of the project.
The services would include:
A.      The provision of a central warehouse located at a point suitable for receiving imported drugs and
equipment, to be Kiev. The warehouse would manage the processes of cargo receipt, random sample
testing, customs clearance, checking and interim storage. It would also control the distribution of the drugs
to regions and prisons in accordance with delivery schedules to be agreed once short-term drugs
requirements are defined.
B.      Receipt, customs clearance and distribution of medical equipment, laboratory equipment, and computers
and office equipment for medical facilities. Goods will be consolidated before being shipped to the final
destinations, for instance condoms, syringes, and disinfectants required for AIDS prevention activities in the
regions can be consolidated and shipped together, saving on distribution costs.
C.      A computer system capable of monitoring all events within the logistics cycle as well as providing data
transfer to the MOH.
D.      Provision of insurance services, covering the goods from receipt in Ukraine through to acceptance at the
agreed responsibility hand-over point.
E.      Transportation of goods from the central warehouse to regional destinations or the prison system. This may
include temporary storage in the regions and would therefore require suitable available warehousing in the
regions.
F.      Collection of proof of delivery documents and delivery to the MOH.
G.      Availability of all necessary licenses and permission to carry out the tasks within Ukraine
Either one or a combination of intemational and local firms with appropriate licenses and facilities could be well
placed to offer a comprehensive service to the MOH. The tender would be advertised and open to any firm eligible
to bid under Bank Procurement Guidelines.
The estimated cost of these services of receipt, storage, handling, insurance, testing, distribution and monitoring,
including transportation to final points of distribution has been calculated to be approximately 2.5 percent of the
value of goods procured. The availability of funds for these services must be readily available to ensure prompt,
efficient, timely and verifiable delivery of drugs and supporting goods to the regions.
The implementation of the logistics contract would be supervised on a continuous basis by the PIU who would
contract an individual consultant to that effect.
- 63 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Expenditure Category           Amount                    Financing percenttage
(UJS$ million)                                             .._.
Goods (excluding drugs)            30.970           100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
80% of local expenditures for items procured
locally
Contingency for drugs               9.970           100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
80% of local expenditures for items procured
locally
Consulting services (foreign        1.170           100%
consulting firms and individual
consultants)
Consulting services (local         9.130            87%
consulting finns
Consulting services (local         0.750            92%
individual consultants)
Technical services                  1.000           100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
80% of local expenditures for items procured
locally
Training                           4.105            100%
Incremental operating costs        0.105            100% through June 30, 2003, 90% through June
30, 2004, 85% through June 30, 2005, 80%
through June 30, 2006, 75% thereafter
Front-end fee                      0.600            1% of total loan
Unallocated                        2.200
r.,a                             60.000
It is expected that the proceeds of the Loan will be disbursed over a period of 5 years, which includes six months for
the completion of accounts and the submission of withdrawal applications. Disbursement and withdrawal procedures
are detailed in the World Bank Disbursement Handbook (2001 edition). All disbursements are subject to the
conditions of the Loan Agreement and the procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter. Disbursements will follow
the transaction-based method. FMR-based disbursements will not be introduced at this stage of the project, because
of significant risks relating to (i) project financial management development and lack of capacity in implementing
entities to provide adequate planning and currency risk management; (ii) corruption perception; and (iii) control
risks. This documentation will be made available for the required audit as well as to the Bank supervision missions,
and will be retained by the PIU for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which
the last disbursement was made under the project. The processing, disbursement and monitoring of the allocations of
the proceeds of the Loan and Borrower counterpart financing will be managed by the PIU in coordination and
consultation with the Ministry of Finance.
Issues and recommendations. It is required that the PIU and implementing agencies have introduced a common
planning mechanism, which will incorporate timing of procurement procedures, preparation of disbursement
documents and coordination of payments with the Treasury.
- 64 -



Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, one separate overseas Special Account denominated in US dollars in a foreign
commercial bank. The Government will be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the funds provided under
the Loan, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that audits of the financial statements or reports
are submitted to the Bank. For the purposes of spending in local currency MOH and State Department of Prisons will
open a transit account in local Ukrainian bank. The authorized allocation for the Special Account will be US$ 1.0
million with the initial depositing of US$ 0.5 million. Once the total disbursement from the SA has reached an
aggregate amount of US$ 2.5 million, the initial allocation will be increased to the authorized amount of US$ 1.0
million. Replenishment applications will be submitted monthly and will be fully documented. This will include also
bank statements and reconciliation statements, except for the expenditures claimed on the Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs) base. Independent auditors appointed under the relevant Bank procurement arrangements would audit the
Special Account annually. A conversion 'transit' account may also be established in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the National Bank of Ukraine to facilitate the payment of local suppliers and contractors, but transfers
into such account from the Special Account shall only be made to the extent that sums in local currency are due to be
paid.
Government Contribution. The Borrower will provide its contribution on a regular basis through the Treasury
system in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. The Government will be asked to ensure that annual budgets are
sufficient to maintain the regular supply of pharmaceuticals to be provided as counterpart funds to the project.
Disbursements Mechanism. Accounting, procurement, disbursement and audit will be linked for effective financial
management, so that the Bank can receive accurate and timely information on the Project and, at the same time,
reduce administrative burden and ensure better client services.
- 65 -



Financial Management Assessment Report
1.   Executive Summary and Conclusion.
This project is aimed to provide support under the national programs and activities in TB and AIDs control and
medical treatment. The project has TB and AIDs major components and is to be implemented by two implementing
agencies: Ministry of Health and State Department of Prisons.
A final review was undertaken in November 2002 by the FMS Kazakov Vitaly to determine whether the financial
management arrangements within MoH and State Department of Prisons are acceptable to the Bank. A financial
management assessment report is included in Annex 6b. A summary of the conclusion is included below.
On the base of the assessment provided it has been concluded that the project financial management arrangements
satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
A summary of financial management assessment and conclusions are as follows:
FPnancial Management essessment       Rating                     Comments
1. Implementing Entity              Satisfactory  Design, control and accounting procedures are
well defined and followed according to the rules
stated for the State Government agencies. These
agencies have accounting departments, internal
control departments. They are also the subject
for Accounting Chamber revision and Central
Controlling Department revision.
2. Funds Flow                       Satisfactory  The funds flow will be organized using Special
account for WB financing and Treasury account
for co financing and local currency payments.
This represents a traditional scheme of funds
flow. The only complication is the need for two
registration accounts in Treasure maintenance
for needs of two implementing agencies local
currency spendings.
3. Staffing                         Satisfactory  It is planned that PIU will play the major
coordinating and consulting role for the
implementing agencies. The PIU staff will need
additional training on IAS and FMRs based
reporting. It is considered that PIU will have three
specialists dealing with financial management and
accounting.
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures  Satisfactory  Implementing agencies are under the general rules
for accounting in budget organization. They both
have accounting policy and procedures regulated
by the Government. They use Local accounting
standards, and their accounting and reporting
requirements are standard for the state agencies.
The PIU accounting policy is based on the WB
l________  requirements and cash basis applied.
5. Financial manual                 Satisfactory  Each of implementing agencies has a set of
internal instructions that regulate operations,
including financial and accounting. Financial
manual was developed for the project needs,
which is to prescribe operations and procedures to
be followed while implementing project according
-66-



to the requirements of IBRD.
6. Intemal Audit                       NA        No reliance placed on intemal control.
7. Extemal Audit                    Satisfactory  The project will be the subject of annual audit by
the audit company acceptable to WB.
8. Reporting and Monitoring         Satisfactory  Draft FMR. reports have been agreed
9. Information Systems              Satisfactory  FIS of the project has two components of
recording and reporting. MOH and SDP will
record transactions in their accounting systems,
while PIU will provide accounting, budgeting
and reporting. Preliminary, FIS will be based on
EXCEL program with a following transfer to a
specialized software.
10. Disbursement                    Satisfactory  The project will use a SOE based disbursement
procedures. PIU staff has got an experience on
the WB disbursement requirements, while
implementing Grant.
11. Risk Management                 Satisfactory  See below for risk management
Overall linancial M a nagemelt   Sat4:ifactory
Rating_
2.    Project Description Summary. The project is proposed as a Specific Investment Loan. This project will be
implemented over four years. The project has three components. TB component in total amount of US$28.68
million. The total amount of spending for the AIDS component is US$32.18 million. Due to the nature of the
expenses required dealing with TB/AIDS problems within the prisons it is decided to separate expenses related to
State Department of Prisons into the one component. The expenses of State Department of Prisons component will
comprise the amount of US$12.7. These costs include funds sources, IBRD loan and Ukraine counterpart co
financing. The total financing of the project is US$77 million, and US$60 million is funded by the World Bank loan.
3.   Country Financial Management Issues. Country financial management issues are more closely developed in
the CFAA (country financial accountability assessment). This assessment identified the major areas of accountability
problems within the Public finance sector. One of the problem that have a direct influence on the TB/AIDS project
implementation is a weak external control over the spending in the medical establishmnents, that was proved by the
results of the Control and Revision Department recent check. This check showed a low level of control over the
regional medical establishments in the sphere of budget money spending, breach of the rules of accounting and
safeguarding of medicines, etc. CFAA study showed that MoH as one of the line Ministries which did not have an
Internal Control and Revision Department, that may course a lack of control over the use of assets, that is proved to
some extent, by the information received from the Control and Revision department.
4.     Financial Management System Assessment
4.1    Project Management and Coordination. The project will be implemented by the two agencies involved:
Ministry of Health and State Department of Prisons. These two agencies are independent and the question of
coordination is to be solved by authorizing PIU group to provide support, monitoring and coordination of different
aspects of procurement, disbursement and financial management. The PWI group will be created in the Ministry of
Health as a separate department, which will include employees of the Ministry of Health and consultants, which are
to be hired to provide services and support for the project implementation.
The PIU will also be responsible for overall project financial managernent and accounting. It would maintain books
of accounts for the project, prepare and disseminate financial statements and financial management reports, and
ensure timely audit of the financial statements. The PIU should keep copies of all the financial documents. Original
financial documents may be stored at the accounting departments of implementing agencies for the local accounting
- 67 -



financial documents may be stored at the accounting departments of implementing agencies for the local accounting
requirements needs.
Financial management and internal organization controls were reviewed by visiting the MoH and State Department
of Prison, as well as PIU. The purpose of the visit was to evaluate the presence of capable employees, their
educational and professional levels, existence of written standards and procedures, including clear responsibilities
and levels of authority description, audit arrangement and financial management and reporting system.It was
concluded that financial management arrangements currently satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements to the project.
4.2     Staffing of the Accounting/Finance Function. Each of the participating implementing agencies has
separate accounting departments, which are responsible for the reporting and controlling needs of the Ministries.
These accounting departments will play a major role in the recording, monitoring and reporting for the local needs as
well as they will provide assets safeguard in the Ministries, including provision of the control over the project assets
in the regions. PIU group staff will include financial management specialist whose responsibilities include running of
the accounting and financial management issues in the format required by the World Bank. The financial manager is
to provide accounting according to IAS and prepare quarterly reports in the FMRs format. There are also two other
specialists to be hired to deal with accounting and financial management issues.
Issues and recommendations
It is necessary to provide training to the specialist in PIU in the new FMRs preparation as well as financial
management issues training for the implementing agencies staff.
4.3     Accounting and Internal Controls. Accountings of the implementing entities are based on the local
accounting standards, which were developed on the base of major [AS. It is declared that National accounting
standards should not contradict IAS that gives some confidence to the nature of accounting information. A set of
rules on accounting and reporting was developed for the purposes of state budget organization, which represents
accounting policy to be followed. PIU accounting policy is based on LAS requirements with limitations placed by the
cash accounting system, which is used for the state budget agencies. PIU accounting policy and procedures are
included in the financial manual. Financial manual also describe the system of internal control and subordination
including functional obligations of the PIU staff and their accountability.
4.4     Computerized Accounting Systems. Financial information system of the project will include three
separate components. It includes accounting system in MoH, which is based on the IC accounting program and
completely tailored for the local accounting need; accounting system of the State Department of Prisons, which also
tailored for the needs of the local accounting and reporting requirements, and PIU financial information system. It is
not planned to purchase a standalone financial system or to develop a tailor made financial system for the needs of
the project that will increase the financial risks of the project. The PIU financial information system will be
developed on the base of Excel program and will provide financial reports in the formnat required by the WB. It is
considered that some funds may be directed for the financial system development, which is to change Excel based
financial information system.
Issues and recommendations
It is recommended to purchase a financial information system to install in PIU for the need of financial management.
In case of Excel based financial system installation, it is required to have full description of the model implemented
with a controlling tools and authorizations
- 68 -



5.     Accounting and Financial Flows. Accounting of the project will include three parts that reflects the
implementation structure of the project. It is anticipated that MoH and State Department of Prisons will keep all the
primary documents related to their components expenditures and save them according to the procedures regulated by
the local legislation. For the purposes of the WB requirements, these primary documents are to be saved for at least
one year after the closing project audit. The copies of the primary documents are to be saved in PIU. Financial
reporting of the implementing agencies will include their part of the project spending and they will report to the
controlling authorities according to the local rules and regulations. PIU will maintain accounting records of the
whole project spending and will prepare, on the base of these records, financial reports in the format required by the
WB.
Financial flow of the project is comprised of the two major components, which are WB loan proceeds and
UJkraine Government co financing. The project account will be opened to administrate the WB loan proceeds. This
account will be used for direct payments under the project and transfers to Special Account. The project will also use
a Special Account payment mechanism. This Special account will be used to support the need of the both
independent implementing entities. For the purposes of local currency payments MOF will identify the local
commercial bank to provide convertion services. It is also agreed that entities will have their own registration
accounts in the Treasure for the local currency payments. Co financing funds flow will be administered by the
implementing entities and will go through the Treasury system.
6.     Financial Monitoring Reports. The PIU will maintain accounts of the Project and will ensure appropriate
accounting of the funds provided. It has been agreed that the PIU will be responsible for designing appropriate
financial monitoring reports (FMRs) and preparing FMRs on a quarterly basis. The FMRs include: (a) Project
Sources and Uses of Funds, (b) Uses of Funds by Project Activity, (c) Project Balance Sheet (where appropriate), (d)
Special Account Statement Plus Local Bank Account Statement, (f) Physical progress report, and (g) Procurement
report. The format of the financial reporting forms has been agreed and the preliminary model for the FMRs
reporting was developed. It is agreed that PIU financial reporting system will be based on the local chart of accounts,
that will help to ensure integration of PIU accounting system with implementing agencies accounting systems. It is
also decided to use special chart of accounts for financial system in PIU to automate preparation of FMRs for the
purposes of WB reporting. All these accounts are to be fully documented and their implication is to be described in
the operational manual in its financial part.
Issues and recommendations
Physical progress report's indicators are to be monitored and review on the annual base as well as costs associated.
7.     Financial Risk Analysis
From a financial management perspective, the proposed TB/AIDS is considered a high-risk project. A summary of
the consolidated risk assessment for the project is as follows:
it^  ..'t   or-*,kRZ  Iv       I ,, R atill    SA            (tslgsnlt
Inherent Risk
Country specific
1. Country Financial Management Risk   High     Based on CFAA, the public finances have
accountability problems that include controlling
over the proper use of public funds.
Project specific                    _
2. Project Financing Issues            High      Timely counterpart funding could be a major issue
due to the Treasury and Budget money involvement.
3. Project complex structure           High     Project assume a significant number of procurement
of small value goods with a following dissemination
- 69 -



in the regions.
4. Perceived corruption                  High    CFAA notes and overall perception of high corruption
This issue has a direct implication to the TB/AIDS
roject due to the complex structure of the Ministnes
involved that anticipates dissemination of the medical
support to the regional divisions. Low salary structure
of implementing agencies creates risk of misuse of
oods puchased.
Overall Inherent RisA  High
Control risk_
1. Implementing Entity                 High      Both agencies have a complex structure with a
significant amount of divisions.
2. Funds Flow                         Moderate    The funds flow scheme is quite transparent and
obvious. The Treasury controlling procedures
backs documentation and controls over counterpart
financing funds flow and the Bank controlling
procedures back Bank loan disbursement.
3. Staffing                          Substantial  PIU employees have a background experience in
dealing with WB grant, but taking in account the
complexity level of project it is assessed that initial
control risk of staff is substantial.
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures  Substantial  Extensive training and strong local accounting team
may mitigate low experience in WB procedures.
5. Internal Audit                       N/A       No reliance is placed on the Control and Revision
Departments within implementing agencies.
6. External Audit                    Substantial  This audit will be provided according to the WB
procedures by the audit firm acceptable to the WB.
External audit will be provided on the annual base,
but taking in account that Project has a high inherent
risks and substantial to high control risks, the audit
risk is considered as substantial.
7. Reporting and Monitoring           Substantial  Reporting format has been agreed and developed in
Excel. PIU will submit quarterly reports to the WB
for review. PIU wil aslo submit reports to the MoF
and provide accounting for MoH.
8. Information Systems                  High      Information system of the PIU is Excel based, that
does not give a convenient level of assurance for
appropriate level of controls and authorization of
._________ _operation requirements.
v-.* ,.-      4Js+.-eriltIutrI Cwrl isJi ~i4Jltanll q  z^ I'-''..' 
Taking in account that inherent risk of the project is assessed as high and control risk of the project is assessed as
substantial to high the overall project risk related to financial controls is assessed as high. The following risks are to
be underlined and addressed: i) the amount of loan facility is significant and complex structure of implementing
agencies involved; ii) low level of experience of PIU staff of complex WB projects implementation, iii) cofinancing
requirements; iv) weak public sector financial management capacity, assets safeguard and eligible use of goods
purchased under the project.
Mitigation of the specified risks actions:
strengthening of control over the use of goods and funds of the project from the PIU, internal audit
departments of implementing agencies by the periodic supervision of processes of assets safeguards in regions;
external audit control over the processes of assets safeguards;
training of the PIU and MOH and SDP relevant staff in financial management;
- 70 -



-      coordination seminar of MOH, State Treasury, MOF and SDP as to the project implementation;
-      timely budget preparation and assurance of the cofinancing inclusing in the State Budget.
8.     Auditing Arrangements.The PIU will be responsible for ensuring that its financial statements, special
accounts, and Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) or Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) are audited by an
independent acceptable to WB auditor, a member of a professional body that is a member of the Intemational
Federation of Accountants (IFAC), in accordance with standards on auditing that are acceptable to the Bank. The
annual project audit will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for. Financial Reporting and Auditing of
Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). The audit report shall be in a fornat in accordance with the
International Standards on Auditing promulgated by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). The
audited financial statements of the project will be sent to the Bank within six (6) months of the end of the
Govenmment's fiscal year. The audit costs will be financed from the loan funds.
Issues and recommendations
TOR for the audit should be agreed with the WB to follow the needs and requirements, which will cover the specific
project features.
9. Impact of procurement arrangements. According to the initial procurement evaluation this project is considered
as a high risk for the procurement arrangements. It is also considered as a complex project due to the division of
financial flows into two that should satisfy needs of MoH and State Department of Prisons. Procurement tenders,
nevertheless, will be provided for both components as for one without any break out. All procurement arrangements
will be undertaken by the PIU which is to prepare document to be signed by the beneficiaries involved. Procurement
plan has anticipated that great number of contracts to be processed during the, project implementation that will cause
additional risks in financial management and accounting of the project. The key playing role in the coordinating,
reporting and monitoring in this case will be placed on the PIU staff.
10. Supervision Plan. The reports of the progress of the project implementation will be monitored in detail during
supervision mnissions. Financial management reports will be reviewed on a regular basis by the field-based FMS and
the results or issues identified during the supervision missions will be followed up. Financial audit reports of the
project will be reviewed and issues identified and followed up. It is proposed to have first supervision one month
after effectiveness or after disbursement begins, with the following quarterly supervisions.
- 71 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
UKRAINE: Tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS Control Project
iSr@  - *hi .1.,                         Plunned   - :
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      12                           18
First Bank mission (Identificatlon)             09/06/1999                  09/06/1999
Appraisal mission departure                     01/21/2001                  01/21/2001
Negotiations                                    08/05/2002                  10/18/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   03/01/2003
Prepared by:
Jean J. de St. Antoine
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worhed on the project Included:
; @  *~Pamx   =   v-s                   $eciallty'    -,    a   '        ;- '-*
Jean J. de St. Antoine            Task Team Leader
Galina Sotirova                   Program Team Leader
Claudia M. Pardinas Ocanla        Senior Counsel
Sarbani Chakraborty               Health Specialist
Yelena Fadeyeva                   Operations Officer
Judith Eliza de Costa             Administrative Assistant
Maria Vannari                     Operations Officer
Sidonie Jocktane                  Program Assistant
Roque Ardon                       Senior Financial Management Specialist
Karina Mostipan                   Procurement Specialist
Laura Shrestha                    Public Health Specialist, Former TTL
Yingwei Wu                        Procurement Specialist
Rasul Bagirov                     Operations Officer
Dmitro Derkatch                   Communications Associate
Vitaly Kazakov                    Financial Management Specialist
Katerina Rybalchenko              Operations Assistant
Diana Weil                        Adviser, Peer Reviewer
Debrework Zewdie                  Senior Public Health Specialist, Peer Reviewer
Teresa Ho                         Lead Public Health Specialist, former TTL
Ian Conachy                       Projects Assistant
Nicholay Chistyakov               Senior Financial Officer
- 72 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
UKRAINE: Tuberculosis and HIVIAIDS Control Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Operational Manual and Detailed Project Implementation Plan (September 2002)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Tuberculosis drug management
Plan of a national response to HIV/AIDS in Ukraine for 2001-2003 (draft), December 2000
Report on a Joint Review of Tuberculosis in Ukraine: WHO, 2000
Joint Review of Tuberculosis in Ukraine, WHO, USAID/CDC, December 1999
List of HIV/AIDS Prevention Projects Run by UNAIDS, UN - Agencies and other major sponsoring organizations in
Ukraine, 2000 (2)
Treatment, care and support of injecting drug users living with HIV/AIDS: Implications for Ukraine, July 2000
National organizations (a list of 63 NGOs operating in 24 oblasts)
Some non-government organizations focusing on HIV in Ukraine with the capacity to expand their services
*Including electronic files
- 73 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
UKRAINE: Tuberculosis and HIVWAIDS Control Project
15-Nov-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amnount in US$ Millions                             disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                       IBRD        IDA                  GEF     Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig   Fmm Rev'd
P069858        2002 SIF                                               50.21      0.00                 0.00       0.00     49.21      0.50       0.00
P054966        2002 PRIV SEC DEV (APL #1)                             30.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     30.00       0.30       0.00
P048790        2002 AZOV-BLK SEA CORR BIODIV CONSV (GEF)              0.00       0.00                 6.90       0.00      7.39       0.26      000
P035788        2001 LVIV WATER/WW                                     24.25      0.00                 0.00       0.00     24.25       4.23       0.00
P055738        2001 SEVASTOPOL HEAT SUPPLY IMPROVEMENT                28.20      0.00                 0.00       0.00     28.19       5.17       0.00
P055739        2000 KIEV PB ENERGY EFFIC                              1829       0.00                 0.00       0.00      16.08      3.95       0.00
P044728        1998 ODS PHASE-OUT (GEF)                                0.00      0.00                23.20       0.00      3.56       4.25      -2.92
P049174        1998 TREASURY SYSTEMS Project                          16.40      0.00                 0.00       0.00       4.22      4.22       0.02
P044832        1998 KIEV DISTRICT HEAT.                              200.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00     174.65    129.12       6.97
P044851        1997 EXPORT DEVELOPMENT                                70.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00       0.62      3.20       0.00
Total:     437.35        0.00              30.10        0.00      338.17     154.20      4.07
- 74 -



UKRAINE
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic
1996                FUIB                           0.00    5.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    5.00     0.00    0.00
1998                HVB Bank Ukraine               0.00    2.28     0.00    0.00     0.00    2.28     0.00    0.00
2001                JSC Okean                     10.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
2000                MBU                            3.50     1.70    0.00     0.00    0.00     1.70    0.00    0.00
1994/96             Ukraine VC Fund                0.00     1.50    0.00    0.00     0.00    1.15     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         13.50   10.48     0.00    0.00     0.00    10.13    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                          Loan     Equity     Quasi     Partic
1996               FUIB                              10.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1998               HVB Bank Ukraine                   5.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitmnent:        15.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
- 75 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
UKRAINE: Tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS Control Project
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central     Low-
Ukraine      Asia    Income      Developrent dlamond-
2001
Populatlon. mid-year (millions)                       .49k1      475      2.511                 Life expectancy
GNI per caplta (AVas methoOd US$)                      710      1,960      430
GM (Atias-rneW,bd US$ billions)                      -35.0:      930      1.069
Averafe annual growrth, 1995-01
Population (IX)                                        -0.8       0.1       1.9
Labor force (%)     .05                                           0.6       2.3     GNI                              Gross
per                    -        primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avallable, 1995-01)                               capita                       enrlmery
Povertyr r(6 of population below nafional poverty line)  *23
Urban'populatlon (96 of tdtalpopulation)               '68        63        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        68'       69        59
lnfantmortality (per1,000 lIvebirths)                  -13        20        76
Child malnutrItion (% of children under 5)  --                ...            ..          Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved w'ater source (%6 of populaion)             90        76
Illiteracy (9 of population age 15+)                     0         3        37
Gross primary errioment (% of school-age population)    82       102        96            -   U   kraine
Mahle         '                                        83        103       103                  Low-income group
Female                                                81       101        88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     i991i      2000      2001
;                        ~~~~~~~~Economic ratlos^
GDP (US$ billions)                             ..     81.4    . 31.3       37.0
Grossdomestic lInvetment/GDP                   .. -     '26.3  '  19.2     20.4
E_x_                                                  263Trade
Eports of goods and servkeslGDP                       285        62.4      56.1
Gross domestic savings/GOP                         '.8.5         24.2      22.0
Gross national savings/GOP                                       23.9      24.1
Currnt acoount balancelGDP                      t      -3.6:      4.7       3.8     Domestic      A
Intere;t;payments/GDP '                                          . 1.8      20 s                                 Investment
Total debtGDP .P-                                                38.9      33.7
Ttal debt serviceexports.                                        18.1      10.6
Present value of debVGDP                                        -35.4      30.7
Present value:df debt/exports                                    54.6      51.5
Indebtedness
'1981-91  1991-01    2000       2001   2001-05
(averege annual growth)                                t
GDP=                                   .      -7.2      5.8   .   9.1       4.5                  Ukraine
GDR per capita                         .      -6.6    .6.7       10.0       5.3                   Lov-income group
Exprt ofgoodsfandserices              0..      .6     188         9.7       7.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991       2000      2001     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(96 of GDP)                                                                         2
Agriculture                                    ..     22.8       16.2      16.6     2
Industry                                       ..     50.5       37.2      39.0      o
Manufacturing                                 ..     42.3      34.3      35.0       .        _3                  o    01
Services                                        ..    26.7       46.6      44.4    -20 
Private consumption                            ..     54.1       54.3      55.4    .4o
General govemment consumpdon                    ..    17.4       21.5      22.5
Imports of goods and services                   ..    23.9       57.4      54.5                 GOt        -  GDP
(average annual growth)                   1981-91  1991.01      2000      2001     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                    ..     -4.2        5.9      10.9    30
Industry                                       ..     -8.3       10.9       8.6   1i
Manufacturing                                ..      -7.7      12.8      14.2                                f
Services                                        ..    -1.4        4.6       7.0     0
00   51
Private consumption                            ..      4.9        5.2       9.1     15
General govemment consumpion                    ..     4.4       -1.9       8.6   430 .
Gross domestic investment                       ..   -14.6       12.1       8.5              -   E   s       :  tnpoft
Imports of goods and services                   ..    -0.3       16.6      12.0
Note: 2001 data are prelinminary estgates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators in the country (in bold) oDmpared vith Its income-group average. ff data are ndssing, the diarnond will be incorplete.
- 76 -



Ukraine
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991     2000      2001     Inflation (%)
Domesfc prkces
Consumer prices                              ..   163.4      25.8     10.9    400
Implicit GDP deflator                        ..    95.6      23.2      8 8     30
200
Government finance                                                             loo
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                             o
Current revenue                              ..      ..      35.1     35.6            99    97   95    99     o    0O
Current budget balance                       .        ,,       1       44 4          -     GDP deflator  O'CPi
Overall surplusldefiet                       ..      ..      -1.3     -1.6
TRADE
1981     1991     2000      2001     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ rmlllbns)
Total exports (fob)                          ..  23,988    15,722    17,091    2s.000
Ferrous and non-precious metals            ..       ..     6,468    6,720
Mineral products                            .       ..     1,377    1,824
Manufactures                               ..       ..     2,584    3,180    15.000
Total Imports (cf)                           ..  21,994    14,943    16,839 6
Food                                       ..       ..      908    1,126
Fuel and energy                            ..       ..     6,419    6,590     5
Capital goods                              ..       ..     2,625    3.379       a
905  9   97   99s  99  oo   01
Export price Index (1995=100)                ..      ,.        97       94
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                   ..      ..       115      112               *Exports     *rlmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..      ..        84       84
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981     1991      2000     2001     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ rniftions)
Exports of goods and services                ..  24,671    19,522   21,086 8
Imports of goods and services                ..  22,162    17,947   20,473_
Resource balance                             ..   2,509     1,575      613     4
Net Income                                   ..      ..      -942     -667     2
Net current transfers                        ..      ..       848     1,456
Current acoount balance                      ..  -2,928     1.481     1,402                           99    oo   ol
Finandng items (net)                         ..      ..    -1,083      204
Changes In net reserves                      ..      ..      -398    -1,606    4
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (US$ millions)       ..      ..     1,476    3,090
Converslon rate (DEC, locaMlUS$)             .. 3.68E-5       5.4      5.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(USS millions)                                                                 Composition of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         ..      ..    12,166    12,481
IBRD                                       ..      ..     1.991    2,328                   G: 447
IDA                                        ..      ..         0        0                             A: 2,328
Total debt service                           ..      ..     3,662    2,343 
IBRD                                       ..      ..       142      212            -
IDA                                        ..      ..         0        0                  } ;,
Composilion of net resource flows                                                F 4.974       |             c: 198
Ofcdal grants                                      ..        -8        3               0 - ,,,+
Ofnicial creditors                                 ..    -1,060      716               .
Private creditors                          ..      ..       332     -809
Foreign direct investment                  ..      ..       594      769                                D: 334
Portfolio equity                           ..      ..      -201     -866                        E: 2,418
World Bank program
Commitments                                ..      ..        18      353     A- IBRD                   E- Bitateral
Disbursements                              ..      ..       113      407     B - IDA  D - Other rmultilateral  F- Pvate
Principal repayments                      ..       ..        24       69     C - IMF                   G - Short-tern
Net flows                                 ..       ..        88      338
Interest payments                         ..       ..       118      143
Net transfers                              ..      ..       -29      196
uevelopment economics                                                                                          to/J/Puz
- 77 -



Additional
Annex 11
Ukraine: Tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS Control
Project
Technical Terms
Acid-fast bacilli (AFB)            Bacteria that retain a carbol-fuschin stain after the application of
acid-alcohol decolorizing mixtures; the most important of these bacilli
is Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the agent that causes tuberculosis.
AIDS                               Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome. Disease characterized by a
loss of proper immune system function, leading to infection by
infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
Acquired MDR TB                    Infection with a strain of M. tuberculosis resistant to at least isoniazid
and rifampicin in a patient who has previously received at least one
month of antituberculosis therapy; also called secondary MDR-TB.
Active case finding (ACF)         Case-detection strategy characterized by the systematic search for
individuals with tuberculosis in a population; this contrasts with
passive case finding, a case-detection strategy in which symptomatic
individuals identify themselves to health services.
Antiretroviral therapy             Treatment with medications that inhibit the replication of retroviruses.
This term is most commonly used to refer to medications that inhibit
HIV replication, e.g. AZT (zidovudine), ddl (didanosine), ddC
(zalcitabine), protease inhibitors, and nucleoside analogs.
Bacilli Calmette-Guerin            BCG. Bacilli used to vaccinate against TB. The vaccine is believed to
have moderate efficacy; it does not prevent TB infection but it is
understood to reduce the risk of developing all forms of active TB. Use
varies widely between countries. For developing countries with high
rates of TB, WHO supports universal BCG immunization.
Case-detection rate               Number of correctly identified cases of a disease of interest within a
given time period, given the total estimated incidence.
Completed treatment                Specific outcome category used in TB cohort analysis; defined as
patients who have completed treatment but without bacteriological
proof of cure.
Cured                              Specific outcome category used in TB cohort analysis; this category
includes patients initially smear-positive who are sputum smear
negative at, or one month prior to, the completion of treatment and on
at least one previous occasion. This category also includes the patients,
who were initially culture positive and became culture negative at the
end of treatment
Default                           Term referred to TB patients in treatment who have failed to take their
antituberculous drugs for two or more months at any time since
registration as a TB patient. The term "interrupted treatment" is also
used.
- 78 -



DOTS                               Refers to a specific type of tuberculosis-control program under the
aegis of a country's National Tuberculosis Program, requiring the
following elements: (i) government commitment to sustained TB
control activities; (ii) case detection by sputum smear microscopy
among symptomatic patients self-reporting to health services; (iii)
standardized treatment regimens of six to eight months for at least all
confirmed sputum-positive cases with directly-observed treatment
(DOT) for at least the initial phase of the treatment; (iv) regular
uninterrupted supply of all essential antituberculosis drugs; and (v) a
standardized recording and reporting system that allows assessment of
treatment results for each patient and of the TB control program
overall.
Drug resistance                    Characteristic of microorganisms that are not killed or inhibited by a
specific antibiotic due to the selection of naturally-occurring resistant
mutants through inadequate therapy. May result from the
administration of too few medications or irregular intake of drugs.
Drug-susceptibility testing        Laboratory tool for assessing susceptibility of TB bacillus to
antibiotics; a key component in designing treatment regimens for
patients with drug resistance.
Epidemic                           Occurrence of a disease in a community or region above the expected.
In common usage refers to a disease that is relatively new to or
previously suppressed in a given population.
Failure                            Specific outcome category used in TB cohort analysis. Refers to those
TB patients who remain or become agair sputum smear-positive five
months or later after the start of treatment.
First-line drugs                   Term used to describe the most efficacious antituberculous drugs,
including isoniazid (INH or H), rifampicin (RIF or R), pyrazinamide
(PZA or Z), ethambutol (EMB or E), and streptomycin (SM or S).
Fluoroscopy                        Radiological screening method used to diagnose pulmonary TB; used
widely in the former Soviet Union.
Good Manufacturing Practices or GMP. Guidelines for pharmaceutical manufacturers that provide minimum
quality standards for the production of drugs.
Harm reduction                     Refers to programs providing education, condoms, bleach, needle
exchange, and teferral for drug treatment to injecting drug users
(IDUs) to reduce transmission of the HIV epidemic to the IDUs
themselves and to the rest of the population.
Human immunodeficiency            Human retrovirus that infects CD4    lymphocytes leading to
immunosuppression and
Virus (HIV)                       the development of opportunistic infections. In patients infected with
HIV, TB is the world's most common lethal opportunistic infection.
Incidence                         Number of new cases of a disease in a population over a period of
time. Usually expressed as a rate, i.e. number of new cases of a disease
over a period of time divided by population at risk of the disease in the
time period.
- 79 -



Individualized Treatment           TB treatment based on the drug-susceptibility test of an individual's
patient infecting
Regimens (ITR)                     strain. The regimen includes those drugs to which a patient's infecting
strain has documented in vitro susceptibility.
Infection                          When used in reference to tuberculosis, the presence of M. tuberculosis
in the body accompanied or not by signs of clinically active disease
such as cough, fever, or night sweats. As regards TB, also named
latency.
Monoresistance                     Resistance to only one antituberculous medication.
Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis   Strains of M. tuberculosis resistant to at least isoniazid and rifampicin,
considered the
(MDR TB)                           two most efficacious antituberculous drugs.
Oblast                             Primary administrative region within Ukraine, containing several
rayons.
Polyresistance                     Resistance to more than one antituberculous medication, but not to
both INH (isoniazid) and RIF (rifampicin). By convention, resistance
to both rNH and RIF defines the isolate as MDRTB. Polyresistant
strains of tuberculosis may be as difficult to treat as MDRTB.
PPD-screening                      Method by which PPD (see below) skin testing is used to detect
infection with M. tuberculosis.
Prevalence                         Number of people in a population who have a certain disease at a
certain point or interval in time divided by the population of interest
(e.g. 300 cases of smear-positive TB per 100,000 population).
Primary drug resistance            Drug resistance diagnosed in patients without a history of prior
antituberculous therapy. Results from direct transmission of a
drug-resistant strain of M. Tuberculosis.
Purified Protein Derivative        PPD. Substance native to the tubercle bacillus that is injected under the
skin to screen for prior exposure to M Tuberculosis. Induration at the
time of the injection site suggests prior infection with M  Tuberculosis.
See PPD-screening above.
Reference laboratory               Mycobacteriology laboratory to which samples are sent for
drug-susceptibility testing. Also perforrns quality control for other
laboratories providing TB diagnostic services.
Second-line TB  drugs              Antituberculous medications used to treat drug-resistant TB.
Second-line drugs include: amikacin, capreomycin, cycloserine,
ethionamide, fluoroquinolones, kanamycin, para-aminosalicylic acid
(PAS), rifabutin, and thiacetazone.
- 80 -



Sexually-transmitted disease      Infections acquired during sexual contact, including chlamydia, HSV,
HIV, and
(STD) or sexually-transmitted      gonorrhea; strains of human papillomavirus associated with cervical
cancer are also
infection (STI)                   likely STIs.
Short-course chemotherapy          Treatment of active TB using INH and RIF-containing regimens lasting
nine months or less.
Smear conversion                   Difference in a patient's sequential smear microscopy test results (a
positive result on one exam followed by a negative result on another,
or vice versa). Failure to smear-convert from positive to negative after
several months of directly-observed short-course chemotherapy may
suggest that the patient is sick with MDRTB.
Smear negative                     Term referring to the absence of M. tuberculosis bacili on smear
microscopy examination. Because of the low sensitivity of smear
microscopy, a negative smear does not necessarily indicate the absence
of TB disease. Patients who are smear-negative but who have a
culture-positive result are considered to be less infectious than
smear-positive patients, reflecting lower bacilary load.
Smear positive                     Term used to describe the presence of acid-fast bacili (AFB) on smear
microscopy.
Sputum smear examination           Microscopic examination of patients' sputum that can reveal the
presence of M. tuberculosis.
Standardized treatment regime      TB treatment in which all patients enrolled are administered a single
treatment regimen without prior testing of the susceptibility pattern of
each patient's infecting strain.
Surveillance data                  Data collected to monitor the occurrence and spread of a disease,
treatment outcome and drug susceptibility patterns.
Transferred out                    As treatment outcome. Those patients who have been transferred to
another reporting unit and for whom the treatment outcome is not
known.
- 81 -



Additional
Annex 12
UKRAINE - TB and HIV/AIDS Control Project
The Implementation of Outreach Services for HIV/AIDS
Prevention activities. To help prevent the spread of the epidemic, the project will finance preventive outreach
activities targeted to high-risk groups. This will consist of harm reduction programs among IDUs, CSWs, and MSM
including training, advocacy, IEC, peer education programs, provision of condoms, syringes, and dissemination of
protocols for needle and syringe disposal.
Overall scheme. The main executor of this component would be the Ukraine AIDS Center working with the regional
AIDS Centers (RACs), of which 28 had been established in 20 regions by February 2002. They would contract
NGOs to work with high-risk groups and implement outreach programs. Goods (including condoms, syringes,
needles) would be procured centrally and provided to NGOs. The latter would be contracted on a competitive basis
to implement harm reduction programs. NGOs would submit proposals that would be evaluated using criteria
included in the Operational Manual. The criteria to be used are in line with those used by the International
Renaissance Foundation (Open Society Institute), one of the largest financiers of NGOs in the field of HIV/AIDS in
Ukraine, so that many NGOs in Ukraine would already be familiar with the criteria and basic operating principles.
The project cycle would consist of the following five steps.
1. Promotion. Regional AIDS Centers (RACs) would promote the financing of outreach activities through
advertising or other means and receive proposals from NGOs or other groups to carry out outreach. Proposals would
consist of the following: (i) description of problems and objectives; (ii) approaches to be taken to solve the problem,
including budget and timetable; (iii) methodology to evaluate success; and (iv) background and experience of
participants.
2. Selection. RACs would evaluate the proposals using criteria included in the Operational Manual, rank them
accordingly, and send their evaluation report to the Ukraine AIDS Center (UAC). A small selecting committee would
consist of national experts from UAC, MOH and at least one independent person from an international NGO. The
committee would review the evaluation reports and ratify selection proposals from RACs. It would have a power of
veto if it found procedures not to have been followed properly.
3. Contracting. Contracts would be drafted by the PIU. They would consist of tripartite agreements between the
MOH (National or Regional AIDS Center), the PIU and the NGO (or private).
4. Disbursements. Disbursements would be made by the PIU against progress in implementation.
5. Supervision. RACs would undertake the supervision of outreach work using guidelines provided in the
Operational Manual.
Selection criteria would be as follows. Preference would be given to those applications which:
(i)    have clear objectives and goals aiming at HIV prevention among IDUs, CSWs and MSM (one or a
combination of these groups);
(ii)   include needle exchange, dissemination of protocols for needle and syringe disposal, condom distribution,
training, advocacy, IEC, counseling as required to reach the objective;
(iii)  answer the main harm reduction principles;
(iv)   refer vulnerable groups to the existing health care structures;
(v)    have support from the local administration and interior affairs;
(vi)   have an effective evaluation mechanism;
- 82 -



(vii)   provide successful reports on their activity; and
(ix)   demonstrate that they are sustainable.
NGO Capacity. Ukraine has sufficient NGOs in number, type, implementation and technical capacity to carry out
the outreach and other services contemplated by the project. Currently, there are about 100 NGOs working actively
on HIV issues in Ukraine. Of these, about 20 are working directly on prevention among those at highest risk for
infection (especially IDUs and CSWs), and another 30 NGOs appear to have the capacity to work with these groups,
making a total of 50. Capacity building activities are being conducted by other donors (see below) and are expected
to continue for at least 3-5 years. A list of 63 NGOs operating in 24 regions is provided in the project files. Another
document in the files provides a brief analysis of NGOs that have a capacity to expand their services. This document
lists 49 NGOs operating in 24 cities. NGOs have been informed of the loan development process and know a great
deal about the proposed loan activities. More promotion will be undertaken at the project launch and beyond.
Some of the main financiers of NGOs are the International Renaissance Foundation (Open Society Institute), the
British Council, Alliance, and the AIDS Foundation East West. All these organizations are doing capacity building.
Harm reduction training by the AIDS Foundation East West has been going on for two years and was recently
refunded for two more years. Alliance is currently funded by USAID to implement a program of information centers
and NGO capacity building. The US has already initiated discussions about a further grant, concentrating on NGO
capacity building over the next 3-5 years. As USAID cannot fund condoms, needles and syringes (because of its
guidelines), it concentrates on capacity building. These efforts would be complemented by the Bank loan that will
finance these items.
UNDP, using its own funds as well as those of SIDA, intends to start a set of integrated projects concentrating on
young people, IDUs and CSWs in one city, attempting to set appropriate conditions for scale-up to 60 percent
coverage of IDUs and CSWs with prevention services. Most likely, this will be in a new region, possibly Cherson,
where there are few or no NGOs working on HIV at present.
One process that may prove useful for linkages in the longer term is a UNICEF program which is funding
government services (Social Services for Youth, which exist in most cities) to carry out needle exchange in several
cities. The most successful of these programs is the Kiev needle exchange program that has reached a high coverage.
Most of the NGOs mentioned here operate in close collaboration with government services, usually the regional
AIDS Centers. As many of the RACs have been created recently, they will need strengthening. This will be
undertaken by the project which will provide equipment, prevention and information materials, and training to the
RACs. Added to this will be increased funding of NGOs for their outreach activities. As a result, it is expected that
the combined response of the government and NGOs will be strengthened by both the loan activities and the
international NGO programs.
- 83 -



Additional
Annex 13
Ukraine: Tuberculosis and HXV/AIIDS Control Project
HIV/AIDS In the Europe and Central Asia Region
Salient Features of the HIV/AIDS Epidemic In the ECA Region. Until 1995, Europe and Central Asia (ECA)
countries escaped the worst ravages of HIV/AIDS. The total number of infections for the entire region at
mid-decade was estimated at less than 30,000 in a total population of approximately 300 million. In comparison,
474,000 persons were living with HIV in Western Europe, 1.2 million in Latin America, 4.2 million in Asia, and
12.9 million in Africa. However, as experience has shown, HIV does not respect international boundaries, nor
does it discrirninate by nationality, race, ethnic group, or religion. By the end of the 1990s, the situation had
changed dramatically in the region. The number of infected persons had increased ten-fold, reaching 360,000.
From 1995 onwards, HIV started spreading among drug injectors in cities of several newly independent states
(NIS) countries, including Ukraine, Belarus, the Russian Federation, Moldova, and Kazakhstan. The first
outbreaks were reported in the southern Ukrainian cities of Odessa and Nikolayev in 1995. These were followed
by further spread in the same country, as well as by outbreaks in Svetlogorsk in Belarus, in Chisinau and Baltsi
in Moldova, in a prison in Temirtau in Kazakhstan, and in an increasing number of cities in the Russian
Federation (including Kaliningrad, Krasnodar, Nizhniy Novgorod, Tumen, Rostov, Tver, and Tula). One-quarter
of the infections are believed to have occurred during 1999. Particularly high rates of infection within the ECA
population, as high as 65 percent have been found in sub-groups that engage in high-risk behaviors, especially
injecting drug use.
While national rates of HIV prevalence, all less than one-half of one percent within the general population, are
considered low by international comparison, the particularly worrisome aspect is the high rate of increase in the
number of cases in the past few years. The world's steepest HV curve in 1999 was recorded in the Russian
Federation, where the proportion of the population living with HIV doubled between end-1997 and end-1999.
The Core of the Epidemic in the ECA Region. Both case reporting and prevalence data suggest that the
HIV/AIDS epidemic in the ECA region is being fueled by high-risk behaviors, particularly injecting drug use
(IDU). The available evidence suggests that the epidemic is still highly concentrated in populations who inject
drugs, in an increasing number of cities in the NIS. Most cases continue to be found in Ukraine, Belarus, the
Russian Federation, Moldova, and Kazakhstan. HIV remains rare in other places in the NIS, in IDU populations
in central and southeast European countries (except Poland and Yugoslavia), and in virtually all other population
groups in central and Eastern Europe and central Asia. Prevalence among sex workers, arguably the most
vulnerable group after IDUs, remains low throughout the region, with only one major exception, opiate-injecting
sex workers in Kaliningrad, Russia.
Adult (15-49 years) HlIl/AIDS Rates in Europe and Central Asia (1999)
tFa Ink4ithin it,A ,'         W'C-.aiitre:,   ' *'$ ;AfultJ fIY/A lI S HRiIte "'4
Global Average                      1.07
ECA Region Average                    0.211
l                      Ukraine                         0.96
2                      Belarus                         0.28
3                 Republic of Moldova                  0.20
4                  Russian Federation                  0.18
5                       Latvia                         0.11
6                      Poland                          0.07
Data Source: UNAIDS, end-1999 estimates.
Notes: (1) adult rates (%) are derived from the number of adults hving with HIV/AIDS at the end of 1999, divided by the 1999 adult population.
- 84 -



Since drug injecting is illegal, it is difficult to estimate the size of the drug injecting population, let alone the
extent to which they are linked to sexual networks with non-injectors. There is, however, no doubt that the
drug-using populations in the NIS are both very large and are rapidly growing. In Russia and Ukraine, the
estimated prevalence of injecting drug use is 1-2 percent, with rates as high as 5 percent in some cities. Drug
injecting is becoming extremely common among unemployed young people in many of the industrial cities of the
Russian Federation and Ukraine, and has become well established, even among schoolchildren. Very high rates
of HIV prevalence have been recorded among persons who inject drugs -- up to 60-70 percent in studies in
Ukraine, Belarus, and Russia. Rates of 40-50 percent have been reported in Poland and Yugoslavia. HIV
prevalence amongst those who inject drugs in the NIS is patchy, not uniformly high, illustrating that the epidemic
gradually moves from city to city, from district to district. In 1999, the epidemic hit Moscow City and region.
St. Petersburg may become the next hot spot of the epidemic. The virus has been spreading. It was recently
introduced into networks of drug injectors in Russian cities where HIV was previously unknown. The virus has
even reached the Siberian city of Irkutsk, where nearly 1300 infections have been reported, most of them in
1999.
Potential Rapid Spread of HIV. While the epidemic is currently concentrated amongst persons who inject
drugs, there are worrisome pre-conditions present that suggest that an exceptionally rapid and vast spread of HV
is possible:
(i)  sharing drug-injecting equipment without sterilization between users is an extraordinarily efficient way of
spreading HIV and has led to the spread of HIV through drug-injecting populations with unparalleled
speed in other regions. The risk of infection to those who share injection equipment is higher and more
immediate than for any other group engaging in high-risk behavior. The very large populations who use
injecting drugs and who are not infected yet, are therefore at immediate and high-risk for HIV infection.
(ii)  there is a concurrent, and as yet unrelated, epidemic of classic sexually transmitted diseases (STDs),
especially syphilis, in Russia, in the western NIS, and in the Russian-speaking populations in central Asia.
Given the large number of people affected and the severity of their sequels (infertility, ectopic pregnancy,
congenital syphilis, neonatal blindness), the STD epidemics require an effective response in their own
right. Increases in STI rates also suggest that people are having unprotected sex with non-monogamous
partners. Moreover, STD infection greatly increases the vulnerability to HIV infection. If HIV were to
spread from drug-injecting populations into this larger population, it would find fertile ground for a much
wider expansion of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Given that the overlap between the two epidemics is still
small, in order to have an impact on the HIV epidemic now, STD prevention and care strategies need to
focus on the most vulnerable groups of the population: injecting drug users and sex workers.
(iii) commercial sex work, which is on the rise, brings in more infections as sex workers get infected with HIV
from clients who do not use condoms. If the sex workers themselves do not use condoms, they will infect
their clients. The larger the number of clients, the quicker the spread of the disease. Also, if they keep
getting new clients (as opposed to repeat ones) the rate of transmission will be even higher;
(iv)   changes in sexual norms; and
(v)   economic crisis, economic transition (including unemployment); There is some evidence that both HIV
and IDU are particularly prevalent where the economic. crisis has hit hardest. Young towns like
Svetlogorsk and port cities such as Kaliningrad and Odessa, with high unemployment and easy drug
re-supply, appear to be the most vulnerable.
Rationale for increased attention to HIV/AIDS in the ECA Region. There are four main reasons for
increased attention by governments to the epidemic. First, the HIV/AIDS epidemic is rapidly worsening in ECA.
The world's steepest HIV curve was recorded in the region. Second, the opportunity still exists, but only for a
short time longer, to prevent the costly spread of infection from those who engage in high-risk behaviors to the
general population, but only if adequate prevention measures are taken now. Third, worsening of health
outcomes is likely: major increases in mortality, coupled with reductions in life expectancy at birth in one of the
- 85 -



only regions already experiencing increasing adult mortality. Finally, the economic costs of an HlV/AIDS
epidemic are considerable, as manifested in direct costs for the care of infected persons and through indirect
costs to communities and households, as AIDS primarily affects the most productive age groups in society.
Increased demands on public facilities and social disruption are likely.
Note: adapted from Laura Shrestha, Information Brief, April 2000, HIV/AIDS in the
ECA Region; updated HIV/AIDS estimates from UNAIDS.
- 86 -



Additional
Annex 14
Ukraine - Tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS Control Project
Implementation Strategy for Tuberculosis Control
Ukraine is in the midst of an epidemic of tuberculosis and of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. Cases are rising each
year, and the system that was in place to diagnose and treat these patients' is no longer functioning effectively.
Every day, the human and economic costs of the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine are increasing. Faced with this
public health emergency, urgent action is required.
However, tuberculosis control requires a systematic and well-implemented approach or else efforts to improve a
situation may actually make it worse.  For example, the widespread application of the last remaining
anti-tuberculosis drugs to patients with MDR TB in Ukraine (under the present program conditions) would lead to
the development of resistance to these drugs, and to the development and spread of untreatable MDR TB.
To face the epidemic, Ukraine has adopted a new TB control strategy called "the National TB Strategy Adapted to
the World Standard". The main components of this strategy are as follows: (i) training and education of specialists;
(ii) introduction of smear microscopy as an important diagnosis tool; (iii) introduction of standardized treatment
regimen (except for drug-resistant cases) and direct observation of TB drugs intake; (iv) implementation of a
standardized TB register and monitoring system; and (v) the implementation of a public awareness campaign.
To implement this strategy, guidelines and training materials would be produced. Diagnosis of TB would be
improved, treatment would be directly observed and a reporting system according to international standards would
be established. As Ukraine is a large country with 27 regions, the project would start implementation in the civilian
population in 4-5 selected regions. When outcomes start to improve, another 4-5 regions would be added and so on.
To decide that more regions can be added, the previous set of regions should have achieved the following: (i) smear
positive cases should represent at least 50 percent of newly detected cases; and (ii) smear conversion rate after an
intensive phase of treatment would be at least 90 percent. Other objective outcome measures may also be used.
Under this scheme, it is expected that, over four years, 90 percent of Ukraine's population would be covered by the
new strategy. The implementation in the prison system would start simultaneously, which would allow to improve
the referral of patients from prisons to the MOH.
To increase the chances of success for the project, implementation would start in those regions which are currently
best equipped, have good communications, and more qualified specialists. In each region, implementation would
start from the center and would continue in smaller cities, rayon centers, and eventually would reach remote rural
areas. More advanced cities and rayons would be chosen first. Experience shows that if this is not followed, poor
interim results may delay or block further expansion of the program.
Training and education. Training materials. A certain number of materials are already available. WHO has
prepared training modules that fully correspond to the Ukrainian National TB Strategy. CDC has produced similar
materials for nurses. There are training modules available from several NGOs for the training of GPs and laboratory
technicians. Two months would be required to adapt these materials for Ukraine and make them specific to the local
circumstances and translate them in the local language. These would be reviewed and endorsed by the MOH. The
training materials would then be published and distributed to the training centers.
Training centers. The IPP would organize and coordinate all training in Kiev and 12 centers in the largest region
hospitals or dispensaries. Training centers would be organized as follows.
- 87 -



Training Center                       Beneficiary
Institute of phthisiology and  The National TB Training Center would
Pulmonology                    organize and coordinate training for all the
country and would train the first group of
trainers
Kiev City TB Dispensary        Kiev City
Institute for Improving Doctors' Cherkasy, Zhytomir, Chemigiv and  Kiev
Skills in Kiev                 regions
Temopol TB Dispensary          Temopol, Lutsk, and Rivno regions
Lviv TB Dispensary             Lviv and Zakarpaty regions
Ivano-Frankivsk TB Dispensary  Ivano-Frankivsk and Chemovsty regions
Kherson TB Dispensary          Kherson and Nikolaiv regions
Odessa TB Dispensary           Odessa and Kirovograd regions
Simferopol TB Dispensary       Crimea Republic and Sevastopol City
Dnipropetrivsk TB Dispensary   Dnipropetrivsk and Zaporizh regions
Donetsk TB Dispensary          Donetsk and Luhansk regions
Vinitsa TB Dispensary          Vinitsa and Khmelnitsk regions
Kharkiv TB Dispensary          Kharkiv, Poltava, and Sumy regions
These centers would be provided with the space for training, furniture and equipment (projectors, screen, and
computer), training materials, manuals and literature about the National TB Strategy. The training centers
would elaborate their own educational materials and adapt hem to local circumstances. Specialists from both
civilian and prison system would be trained at the regional training centers. In case the regional centers do not
yet have trainers ready, prison staff would be trained by the National Training Center.
Trainers. In each regional training center, trainers would be medical university professors, Chief TB
Specialists, and experienced TB doctors. Such a group of trainers has already been trained in the Donetsk
region from September to December 2001.
For the first training at the IPP in Kiev (National TB Training Center), facilitators would be invited from
abroad. During the first two weeks, a group of trainers would be trained out of which a group of 10-12 would
be tested and selected.
At each local training center, facilitators from outside would conduct the first training as well. There would be
newly prepared facilitators from the IPP in Kiev or from Donetsk where a number of trainers have already been
trained. Training of trainers would be undertaken during the first two weeks, and a group of 10-12 specialists
would be tested and selected out of a larger group. The trainers would have an excellent knowledge in TB and
would be capable to train their colleagues. The selection process would ensure that some of them have the
experience of medical services in the prison system. Further training courses would be conducted by the newly
appointed local faculty. The project would finance per diem and travel for the trainers.
Training courses. The following scheme is contemplated for training courses. During the first week, three
groups of health personnel would be trained: TB specialists, laboratory technicians, and GPs. In each group
there would be 12-15 trainees, and in total about 4045 people would have been trained during the first week.
The following week, the same would be repeated, resulting in a total of about 80 specialists trained. Providing
2-3 courses within each region would allow the majority of key specialists among TB doctors and laboratory
technicians to be trained. Training for GPs and other medical workers would be continued for 3-6 months
depending on the number that need to be trained in each region.
Epidemiologists, statisticians, and nurses would be added to the 2-3 courses given to the main specialists. As
- 88 -



the nurse training program is shorter than the one for doctors, it is possible to train twice as many nurses during
the same time. Refresher courses would be given after one year.
Practical implementation of the new strategy would start once the majority of specialists are trained.
Detection of TB and strengthening of laboratory services. At the present time, laboratories are old and
outmoded. There is a lack of microscopes, sputum collection containers, slides and other supplies. Quality
control is weak.
Sputum collection. Sputum for patients with TB symptoms (coughing) would be collected in all polyclinics and
analyzed by microscopy for mycobacterium tuberculosis. The medical facility would register the patient and
send the sputum to the nearest level I laboratory (see below). Depending on the results of the microscopy and
other methods (clinical, X-ray etc.) the GP would decide to treat the patient or to refer him or her to TB
services. All medical facilities would be provided with containers for sputum collection and boxes for its
transportation.
Organization of laboratories. Laboratories would be organized at four levels.
Level I. These would consist of laboratories located in TB or general medical facilities. They would undertake
smear microscopy. There would be one laboratory per 50,000 - 100,000 population. They would be equipped
with modem microscopes and supplies. Sputum collected in medical facilities that do not have laboratories
would be transported to level I laboratories.
Level II. These level-II laboratories would be located in sub-regional TB dispensaries within the region and
smaller regional TB dispensaries that produce smear microscopy and culture (without drug susceptibility).
Sputum and smears collected and investigated in other medical facilities would be transported to level II
laboratories for culture. In addition to microscopes and supplies, this type of laboratory would be equipped
with more advanced equipment for culture investigation. Level II laboratories would be located in smaller
regional centers (Tsherkasy, Zhitomir, Tscernigiv, Kiev region, Sevastopol, Kirovograd, Sumy, Luhansk,
Poltava, Zaporizhe, Uzhgorod, Tshemovtsky, Lutsk, Rivno, Khmelnitsky, Nikolaiev).
Regional reference laboratories. These laboratories would perform the same 'functions as level 11 laboratories
plus drug susceptibility testing. They would be established in the 12 large regions that would also have training
centers. The smaller regions would send samples for drug susceptibility testing to the neighboring level Ill
laboratory or to the central reference laboratory.
Central reference laboratory. This level IV laboratory is the only laboratory that would produce the whole
range of investigation on mycobacterium tuberculosis in the country. It supervises the quality control of all
investigations.
Quality control. The central reference laboratory is responsible for quality control in the whole country. It
investigates microscopy, culture and drug susceptibility testing.
Treatment of tuberculosis. Standardized treatment schemes, organized in categories, would be applied. These
treatment schemes would be taught to all specialists during training courses. After an initial hospitalization
period, patients would continue treatment on an outpatient basis. Medical staff would observe drug intake by
patients. The most appropriate course of action would be selected by local specialists according to local
circumstances.
There would be 4-5 specialized centers to treat drug-resistant TB, including 1-2 in the prison system. The staff
of these centers would be trained in clinical care before undertaking treatment of MDR TB patients. This kind
of treatment would be introduced only after part of the country has been implementing the National TB
Strategy, and laboratory services have been strengthened. Culture and drug susceptibility test results of all
prospective patients with MDR TB would be provided to these centers.
- 89 -



Implementing the standardized register of TB and monitoring system. Standardized TB registers according
to the international standard would be put together by the IPP and introduced. The IPP would be responsible to
regularly monitor and evaluate the implementation of the National TB Strategy using a monitoring manual. It
would form its own evaluation team that would conduct regular monitoring visits to the regions. In turn, each
region would have its own monitoring team that would visit the rayons, at least once a month. Each rayon
would be visited at least once a year.
Evaluation criteria would be used as follows: accuracy of diagnosis (100%), smear positive TB cases to be at
least 50% of all newly detected pulmonary TB, smear conversion rate after intensive phase of treatment (90%),
cure rate (85%), defaulters, transfers and deaths (not more than 5% each), percentage of directly observed cases
in the outpatient departments (90%), and accuracy, timeliness, and regularity of quarterly reports.
Drug resistance surveillance. Laboratories and communication system (computers, modems, phone lines etc.)
would be strengthened so as to improve TB and drug resistance surveillance in the country. That would allow
the establishment of a strategy to control MDR TB in Ukraine.
Public awareness campaign. A public awareness campaign would be conducted to encourage people to refer
to a medical facility if they have been coughing for more than three weeks or have other symptoms of TB. The
campaign would explain that TB can be cured and the treatment is free of charge. The following groups would
be targeted: (i) the population at large, that is at risk of being infected; (ii) TB patients; (iii) the families of TB
patients; (iv) general medical staff; (v) prison inmates and non-medical prison staff. In addition to TV and radio
spots, the following media would be used: booklets, information sheets, posters to be placed inside trains,
tramways and buses, and billboards.
TB control in prisons. Taking into account that there are more than 200,000 prisoners in Ukraine, the TB
notification rate is almost 100 times higher in prisons than in the civilian system. More than half of all chronic
TB cases in the country are former prisoners.
The prison system would implement the same technical and operational system used in the civilian system.
Direct observation of drug intake is easier in the prison system as patients are always under survey. The prison
TB system would be implemented as part of the National TB Strategy, but it also has many specific
characteristics. The implementation of the strategy should start throughout the whole prison system. Training of
prison medical staff would be provided at the regional level by regional trainers. Prisons located in regions that
have not yet started implementing the National TB Strategy would send their staff to be trained at the IPP in
Kiev. When training starts in the regions, it would start first in those regions that contain large numbers of
prisoners (such as Kherson, Dniepropetrovsk, etc.) so as to train TB specialists in the prison system. Regions
that have few or no prisoners with TB (mainly the western part of the country) would be included later in the
expansion plan.
Laboratory services would follow the same scheme as in the civilian sector. Level I laboratories would be
established for 3-4 colonies or prisons, SIZOs, larger hospitals, and TB hospitals. Level II laboratories would
be established for 1-3 neighboring regions according to the number of prisoners. Where numbers of prison TB
patients are not very high, the civilian level II laboratory would be used. Level III laboratories would serve both
the civilian and prison populations. The National Reference Laboratory would serve the whole country.
TB registers would be the same, but the prison system would establish its own evaluation and monitoring team.
This team would be made up of the same specialists in the prison system that are responsible for data
collection, registers and monitoring and would work in close collaboration with its counterparts in the civilian
sector. Patient files of released prisoners would be transferred to the MOH so that those released prisoners with
TB could continue their treatment.
- 90 -


















Report No.:        25062  UA
Type:     PAD



