Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4682-UA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS Control Project in Ukraine) 
 
between 
 
UKRAINE  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Page  2
2
Dated April 15, 2003 
 
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4682-UA 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated April 15, 2003, between UKRAINE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank). 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Category” means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and 
the term “Categories” means more than one (1) Category collectively; 
 
(b) 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve-month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year; 
 
(c) 
“HIV/AIDS” means the human immunodeficiency virus and acquired 
immune deficiency syndrome; 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(d) 
“MDR” means multiple drug resistant tuberculosis; 
 
(e) 
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health, established and 
functioning pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s President Decree No. 918/2000 
dated July 24, 2000, and any successor Ministry assigned the functions presently vested 
in the MOH under the said Decree; 
 
(f) 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the agreed performance 
indicators set forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by the Borrower under 
the Project to measure the progress in the implementation of the Project and the degree to 
which the objectives thereof are being achieved; 
 
(g) 
“National Strategy for TB Control Adapted to the World Standard” 
means the strategy defined in the Borrower’s National Program for TB fighting for 2002-
2005, approved by the Borrower’s President Decree No. 643/2001 dated August 20, 
2001, and including as its main components: (i) training and education of specialists;    
(ii) introduction of smear microscopy as an important diagnosis tool; (iii) carrying out of 
tuberculin-diagnostic 
and 
screening 
fluorography 
among 
the 
high-risk 
groups;              
(iv) introduction of standardized treatment schemes and direct observation of tuberculosis 
intake; (v) implementation of a standardized tuberculosis register and monitoring system; 
(vi) carrying out of 
Bacille Calmette Guerin
 (BCG) vaccination of new-borns on the fifth 
(5
th
)
day of life and at seven (7) and fourteen (14) years; (vii) carrying out of preventive 
measures in areas of high-risk of TB infection: (viii) conducting of chemoprophylaxis 
and antirecurrent treatment among the risk groups; and (ix) the implementation of a 
public awareness campaign; 
 
(h) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual adopted by the Supervisory 
Council (as hereinafter defined in paragraph (m) of this Section) on December 18, 2002, 
setting forth the principles, procedures and guidelines to be applied by the MOH and SDP 
in the implementation of the Project, including the organizational structure for Project 
implementation, financial, administrative, procurement and supervision and monitoring 
procedures, Project implementation plan, procurement plan, Project indicators to be used, 
and criteria for the evaluation of proposals submitted by non-governmental organizations 
to participate in the Project; 
 
(i) 
“Program on HIV/AIDS Prevention” means the Program on HIV/AIDS 
Prevention for 2001-2003 approved by the Borrower’s Cabinet of Ministers Regulation 
No. 790 dated July 11, 2001, the objectives of which are: (i) to stabilize the 
epidemiological situation in the country; (ii) to reduce the risky behavior among the 
young population; and (iii) to reduce the social tension in the society and the negative 
consequences of the epidemic; 
 
(j) 
“Project Implementation Unit” or “PIU” means each the executing Unit 
referred to in paragraph 2 of Section I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
(k) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(l) 
“State Department of Prisons” or “SDP” means each the Borrower’s 
State Department of Prisons under the jurisdiction of the Borrower’s Cabinet of 
Ministers, established and functioning pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s 
President Decree No. 827/98 dated July 31, 1998, and any successor Department or 
Ministry assigned the functions presently vested in the SDP under the said Decree; 
 
(m) 
“Supervisory Council” means the top-level oversight committee referred 
to in paragraph 1 of Section I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and 
 
(n) 
“TB” means tuberculosis. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to sixty 
million dollars ($60,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. 
(a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a separate special deposit account in a foreign commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan ($600,000).  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. 
(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Interest 
Payment 
Date” 
means 
any 
date 
specified 
in         
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR 
Total 
Spread” 
means, 
for 
each 
Interest 
Period:           
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate and the 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
Page  7
-
5
-
the Loan upon not less than six (
6)
months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. 
(a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out: (i) Parts A and B of the Project through the 
MOH; and (ii) Part C of the Project through the SDP, all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, environmental, financial, 
public health and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and selection and employment of the consultants’ services
 
required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. 
(a)  The Borrower shall maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. 
(a)  The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a 
financial monitoring report (FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as of the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of the first quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after each subsequent quarter, and shall cover such quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. 
The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have made available to the MOH 
and the SDP the counterpart funds required during the first year of Project 
implementation. 
 
Section 5.02. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement
 
is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. 
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance of Ukraine 
 
12/2 Hrushevsky St. 
 Kyiv, 
01008 
 Ukraine 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
131450 
  (380-44) 
293-6256 
 
(380-44) 219-3477 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
UKRAINE 
 
By /s/ Kostyantyn Gryshchenko 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Luca Barbone 
Director 
Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova 
Europe and Central Asia 
Page  12
-
10 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods,  
29,170,000 
100% of foreign expenditures, 
 
excluding drugs 
 
100% of local expenditures  
 
(ex-factory cost), and 80% of 
 
local expenditures for other items  
 
procured locally 
 
(2) 
Drugs 
9,970,000 
100% of foreign expenditures, 
 
100%
of local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost), and 80% of  
 
local expenditures for other items  
 
procured locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’  
 
 
 services: 
 
(a)    Foreign consulting 
1,170,000 
100%  
 
firms and foreign 
 
individual consultants 
 
(b)    Local consulting 
9,130,000 
87% 
 
firms 
 
(c)    Local individual 
750,000 
92% 
 
consultants 
 
(4) 
Technical Services 
2,800,000 
100% of foreign expenditures, 
 
100%
of local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost),  and 80% of  
 
local expenditures for other items  
 
procured locally 
 
(5) Training 
4,105,000 
100% 
Page  13
-
11 - 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(6) 
Incremental 
105,000 
100% through June 30, 2003; 
 
operating costs 
 
thereafter, 90% through June 30, 2004;  
 
thereafter, 85% through June 30, 2005;  
 
thereafter, 80% through June 30, 2006;  
 
thereafter, 75%  
 
(7) 
Front-end fee 
600,000 
Amount due under Section 2.04 of  
 
this Agreement 
 
(8) Unallocated 
2,200,000
TOTAL 60,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
(c) 
the term “foreign consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is 
registered or incorporated in the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(d) 
the term “foreign individual consultant” means an individual consultant 
who is a national of a territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(e) 
the term “local consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is 
registered or incorporated in the territory of the Borrower; 
 
(f) 
the term “local individual consultant” means an individual consultant 
who is a national of the territory of the Borrower; 
 
(g) 
the term “technical services” means expenditures incurred to finance:    
(i) the services of a logistics firm under Parts A.2, A.3, A.5, B.1, B.2 and B.4 of the 
Project to provide warehousing, receipt of goods, specialized storage, and delivery to 
Project sites, including local transportation and insurance, inventory control, reporting 
and auditing of end use for drugs, laboratory and other medical and information 
Page  14
-
12 - 
technology equipment and supplies; and (ii) the services for printed training and 
educational materials under Parts A.1, B.1, B.3, B.4, C.1 and C.2 of the Project; and 
 
(h) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means expenditures incurred to 
finance the operating costs incurred by the PIU in the administration of the Project, and 
which specifically includes rent and upgrading of office premises, purchase and 
maintenance of office equipment, travel and per diem costs of consultants to the PIU and 
of related staff directly associated with the supervision and monitoring of Project 
activities, office materials and supplies, fuel for and maintenance of vehicles, and 
telephone, fax and internet access services. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (i) goods, under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each, excluding those referred to in paragraphs 2 (a) and 
(b) of Part D of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (ii) services of consulting 
firms, under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iii) services of 
individual  consultants,  under  contracts  costing  less  than  $50,000  equivalent  each;        
(iv) training, excluding training under the contracts referred to in paragraph 2 (a) (ii) of 
Part D of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (v) incremental operating costs, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  15
-
13 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to reduce TB and HIV-infection/AIDS morbidity 
and mortality through the implementation of an effective National Strategy for TB 
Control Adapted to the World Standard and the Program on HIV/AIDS Prevention 
largely focused on prevention of transmission of the said diseases among high-risk 
groups. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A:
Control of Tuberculosis
Carrying out of a program to assist the MOH control the expanding epidemics of 
TB and MDR TB and upgrade the country’s capabilities in such areas, through the 
provision to the MOH of the means to implement its National TB Strategy Adapted to the 
World Standard and strengthen the Borrower’s capacity both at the central level and at 
the country’s twenty-seven (27) regions selected for the Project, specifically including: 
 
1. 
Training and Education
Carrying out of a training and education program of TB specialists, laboratory 
technicians, general practitioners, epidemiologists, statisticians, and nurses on the 
detection and treatment of TB and proper monitoring and supervision of treatment and 
outcomes, including provision of the required training of trainers, equipment, materials, 
and per diem and travel costs. 
 
2. Diagnosis
Development of technical guidelines, and the provision and distribution of the 
related microscopes, supplies and equipment, for undertaking smear microscopy and 
culture investigation at the regional level, and strengthening of the National Reference 
Laboratory so that it can implement laboratory quality control for the country and 
undertake investigations, including culture and drug susceptibility testing. 
 
3. Treatment
Administration of the required amount of first-line drugs for the treatment of TB. 
 
Page  16
-
14 - 
4. 
Public Awareness Campaigns
Carrying out of a mass media public awareness campaign aimed at raising the 
awareness of the general population on TB. 
 
5. 
Monitoring and Evaluation
Implementation of a monitoring and evaluation program designed to achieve high 
cure rates and reduce the risk of MDR TB by means of ensuring compliance with 
treatment regimes, including for patients released from prison to the civilian system, 
comprising the carrying out of baseline studies, collection and analysis of data to monitor 
Project Indicators, and provision of the required vehicles, computer hardware and 
software, office equipment and supplies and the incremental operating costs generated for 
the execution of this Part A of the Project, and carrying out of the audits under the Loan. 
 
Part B:
Control of AIDS
Carrying out of a program to assist the MOH directly targeted interventions to 
prevent further transmission of the AIDS virus and thereby support its implementation of 
the Program on HIV/AIDS Prevention, specifically including: 
 
1. Prevention 
Activities
Carrying out of a program suitable to provide support: (i) to reduce harm among 
injecting drug users, commercial sex workers, and men who have sex with men, 
including the provision of training, advocacy, information, education and 
communications materials, peer education programs, syringes, condoms, and 
dissemination of protocols for HIV prevention; (ii) to evaluate relevant experience with 
establishing self-help groups for commercial sex workers and review services offered to 
such group by sexually-transmitted infection clinics; (iii) to prepare and distribute 
guidelines on the rational use of blood, including provision of test kits and equipment to 
improve blood safety; and (iv) to undertake a public awareness campaign to increase 
information of the general population about HIV/AIDS prevention, encourage the use of 
protective measures, and reduce stigma about those infected. 
 
2. Treatment 
Activities
(a) 
Implementation of a program specifically aimed at preventing the 
transmission of HIV from infected mothers to their children, comprising the development 
of treatment protocols, training of staff on attitudinal issues, psycho-social care, and 
support to HIV/AIDS patients. 
 
(b) 
Execution of a pilot project to assist the Borrower develop capabilities to 
treat HIV-infected persons with anti-retroviral drugs so as to lengthen their lives while 
improving their quality and treatment of opportunistic infections, encompassing the 
Page  17
-
15 - 
development of clinical protocols, training of physicians and clinical workers, and 
implementation of a program to pilot test the effectiveness of using anti-retroviral drugs 
in a limited number of adults and children, including the necessary administration of 
drugs and the monitoring of the treatment results. 
 
3. 
Care and Support of the People Living with HIV/AIDS
Expansion of the access to services available to people living with HIV/AIDS as 
to improve the quality of their lives, by means of training of psychologists, social and 
welfare workers and general practitioners, the review and revision of curricula for 
physicians, nurses and other health workers, and the establishment of a self-help group of 
people living with HIV/AIDS and their families in order to provide care and support, 
counseling, peer education and training, and thereby pilot of non-hospital based care 
alternatives. 
 
4. 
Strengthening National Capacity 
Strengthening of the national and regional AIDS Centers as so to enable them to 
adequately carry out their mandate, in particular, through support targeted to: (i) integrate 
HIV/AIDS, narcology and sexually-transmitted infection services with the primary health 
care system, notably through the training of physicians and nurses and the provision of 
the relevant medical and technical equipment; (ii) establish mechanisms to enhance 
cooperation between the government entities and non-governmental organizations in the 
delivery of HIV and harm reduction services; and (iii) evaluate the best practices of pilot 
programs for possible replication. 
 
Part C:
Control of Tuberculosis and AIDS in Prisons
Carrying out of a program aimed to support TB and AIDS control activities in the 
Borrower’s prisons system, and encompassing:  
 
1. Prison 
Tuberculosis
Improvement of the organization of TB control, diagnosis, treatment and 
monitoring of outcomes, entailing the training of physicians and other health workers, the 
upgrading of laboratory equipment, the adoption of cost-effective treatment protocols, the 
administration of first- and second-line drugs for prisoners, and the monitoring of 
treatment results. 
 
Page  18
-
16 - 
2.  
Prison 
AIDS
Improvement of HIV prevention among prison inmates, in particular by means of 
the expansion of current prevention programs throughout the system, including the 
making available of information, education and communications materials, condom and 
bleach disinfectant, the training of peer educators to educate prisoners, and measures to 
prevent mother-to-child transmission. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2006. 
Page  19
-
17 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)
*
August 15, 2008 
 
1,670,000 
February 15, 2009 
 
1,690,000 
August 15, 2009 
 
1,710,000 
February 15, 2010 
 
1,730,000 
August 15, 2010 
 
1,755,000 
February 15, 2011 
 
1,775,000 
August 15, 2011 
 
1,795,000 
February 15, 2012 
 
1,820,000 
August 15, 2012 
 
1,840,000 
February 15, 2013 
 
1,860,000 
August 15, 2013 
 
1,885,000 
February 15, 2014 
 
1,905,000 
August 15, 2014 
 
1,930,000 
February 15, 2015 
 
1,955,000 
August 15, 2015 
 
1,975,000 
February 15, 2016 
 
2,000,000 
August 15, 2016 
 
2,025,000 
February 15, 2017 
 
2,050,000 
August 15, 2017 
 
2,075,000 
February 15, 2018 
 
2,100,000 
August 15, 2018 
 
2,125,000 
February 15, 2019 
 
2,150,000 
August 15, 2019 
 
2,175,000 
February 15, 2020 
 
2,205,000 
August 15, 2020 
 
2,230,000 
February 15, 2021 
 
2,255,000 
August 15, 2021 
 
2,285,000 
February 15, 2022 
 
2,310,000 
August 15, 2022 
 
2,340,000 
February 15, 2023 
 
2,380,000 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
Page  20
-
18 - 
SCHEDULE 4
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Technical Services
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (i) the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines); and (ii) the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section: (i) goods, including first-
line anti-TB drugs under Part A.3 of the Project, drugs for opportunistic infections 
treatment under Part B.2 of the Project, laboratory equipment under Parts A.2, B.2, C.1 
and C.2 of the Project, prevention and control supplies for AIDS under Parts B.1, B.2 and 
C.2 of the Project, computers and office equipment under Parts A.1, A.2, A.5, B.4 and 
C.1 of the Project, and vehicles under Parts A.1, A.2, A.5, B.1, B.4 and C.1 of the 
Project; and (ii) technical services: (A) of a logistics firm under Parts A.2, A.3, A.5, B.1, 
B.2 and B.4 of the Project for drugs, equipment and supplies storage, handling and 
distribution; and (B) for printed training and educational materials for health workers and 
beneficiaries under Parts A.1, B.1, B.3, B.4, C.1 and C.2 of the Project, shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and technical services to be  
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B. 
 
(a) Prequalification
Bidders for condoms under Parts B.1 and C.2 of the Project and for technical 
services of a logistics firm for drugs, equipment and supplies storage, handling and 
distribution under Parts A.2, A.3, A.5, B.1, B.2 and B.4 of the Project shall be 
prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
Page  21
-
19 - 
(b) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and technical services shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(c) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
(d) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding
HIV/AIDS drugs under Parts B.2 and C.2 of the Project which the Bank agrees 
can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $1,700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding
Technical services for printed training and educational materials for health 
workers and beneficiaries under Parts A.1, B.1, B.3, B.4, C.1 and C.2 of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $820,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. International 
Shopping
(i) Goods (excluding printed training and educational materials for health 
workers and beneficiaries under Parts A.1, B.1, B.3, B.4, C.1 and C.2 of the Project) 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $340,000 equivalent; and (ii) second-line anti-TB drugs, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  22
-
20 - 
4. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $120,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
HIV/AIDS test kits, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,030,000 
equivalent, may be procured from the World Heath Organization in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
 
6. Direct 
Contracting
Supplies of second-line anti-TB drugs which are of a proprietary nature and 
obtainable only from one source, costing $500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
7.
 
Procurement Agent
The World Health Organization shall, on behalf of the Borrower, select as the 
Borrower’s agent a firm specializing in handling the international procurement of second-
line anti-TB drugs: (i) in accordance with methods broadly similar to the procedures set 
forth in the Consultant Guidelines (as hereinafter defined in Part A of Section II of this 
Schedule); and (ii) taking into consideration the quality of the proposal and the cost of the 
services.  In accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.10 of the Guidelines, the 
agent, on behalf of the Borrower, shall strictly follow all the procurement procedures 
outlined in paragraphs 3 (ii) and 6 of this Part C. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and technical services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
Page  23
-
21 - 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods to be awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Part B and paragraphs 1 and 5 of Part C of this Section I; and (ii) 
the first two (2) contracts for technical services for printed materials to be awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Part C of this Section, regardless of the 
cost thereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first two (2) contracts for goods to be awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Part C of this Section I, regardless of 
the cost thereof; (ii) the first two (2) contracts for goods to be awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 4 of Part C of this Section I, regardless of the cost thereof; 
and (iii) each contract to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 6 of 
Part C of this Section I, the following provisions shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consul
tants’ services and training shall be procured in accordance with: (i) the 
provisions of Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto; and (ii) the following provisions 
of Section II of this Section. 
 
Page  24
-
22 - 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provi
ded in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services and 
training shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services and training to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph: the short list of consultants for services for monitoring and evaluation under 
Parts A.5, B.1, B.4, C.1 and C.2 of the Project, software development under Part C.1 of 
the Project, and research under Part B.4 of the Project, and for training under Parts A.1, 
B.1, B.3 and C.1 of the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for audits under Part A.5 of the Project, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $80,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services in the Borrower’s territory for monitoring and evaluation under         
Parts A.3, A.4, A.5 and C.1 of the Project, software development under Parts A.2 and A.5 
of the Project, and research under Parts A.4, B.1 and B.4 of the Project, and training in 
the Borrower’s territory under Parts A.1, B.2, B.3, C.1 and C.2 of the Project, estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $2,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Training to be provided by the Borrower’s training institutes estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$150,000 equivalent, and services for monitoring under the TB control program of the 
adherence to international standards for the directly-observed therapy, short course Plus 
(DOTS+) up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $30,000 equivalent, may, with the 
Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  25
-
23 - 
4. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for public awareness campaigns under Parts A.4 and B.1 of the Project, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,630,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
5. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$820,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants and training providers, which shall include 
contract cost estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and 
procedures, shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the 
issuance to the consultants and the training providers of any requests for proposals.  Such 
plan shall be updated every twelve (12) months during the execution of the Project, and 
each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services and training shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) each contract for training 
selected in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Part C of this Section II, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
Page  26
-
24 - 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply; provided, however, that prior review and approval by the Bank of the terms of 
reference for all such contracts and of the eligibility of the Borrower’s training institutes 
shall apply. 
Page  27
-
25 - 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Section I:
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Supervisory Council shall be responsible for the overall strategic 
coordination of the different Project activities among the Borrower’s ministries, 
departments and other executive central bodies involved in the Project.  It shall be headed 
by Borrower’s Vice-Prime Minister and shall include representatives from the 
Borrower’s Parliament (
Verkovna Rada
), Office of the President of Ukraine 
(
Administratsiya Presidenta Ukrainyu
), the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of 
Economy, the MOH, and the SDP, relevant non-governmental organizations, and 
international organizations.  Specifically, the said Council shall be assigned responsibility 
for: (i) developing and monitoring compliance by the MOH and the SDP with the Project 
financing schemes; (ii) ensuring conformity of the Project activities with the Borrower’s 
evolving health sector policy; and (iii) monitoring Project implementation and 
observance of the schedule therefor.  For such purposes, the Borrower shall ensure that 
the Supervisory Council is maintained throughout Project implementation under 
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank and that it meet at least twice a year, or more often, 
as and when convoked by any of the Project managers of the MOH or the SDP. 
 
2. 
Day-to-day coordination of Project implementation shall be undertaken by the 
PIU, which for this purpose shall report directly to the MOH, under Parts A and B of the 
Project, and to the SDP, under Part C of the Project.  The PIU shall furthermore support 
the MOH and the SDP in the daily Project management activities in collaboration with 
the two (2) groups referred to in the following paragraph 3, including all aspects of 
procurement and selection and employment of consultants, disbursement and financial 
management.  To that end, the Borrower shall take all action required on its behalf to 
maintain the PIU throughout Project implementation under the MOH under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, headed by a Director assisted by competent staff, 
including, at least, procurement specialists, financial management specialists, technical 
specialists for TB and AIDS, prison system specialists, and a public information 
specialist, all in adequate numbers, and provided with adequate financial resources.  
More specifically, the PIU tasks shall consist of: (i) preparation of the Project 
implementation plans for submission to the Supervisory Council not later than forty-five 
(45) days before the beginning of the following Fiscal Year; (ii) preparation of bidding 
documents and following-up on the ensuing bidding process; (iii) disbursements of Loan 
funds; (iv) financial management; (v) Project monitoring; and (vi) reporting semiannually 
to the Borrower and the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) (iii) of 
Section 9.07 of the General Conditions. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that each of the MOH and the SDP maintain 
throughout Project implementation within its respective structure a group comprising 
three (3) or four (4) full-time staff and which shall be vested functions for: (i) providing 
Page  28
-
26 - 
overall methodological guidance and coordination of Project Parts to be implemented, 
respectively, by each of the MOH and the SDP; (ii) providing methodological support for 
Project implementation; (iii) collaborating and coordinating with the PIU in the 
preparation and carrying out of bidding procedures; (iv) reviewing reports and proposals 
prepared 
under 
the 
Project; 
(v) 
reviewing 
Project 
plans 
and 
progress 
reports;                
(vi) preparing documentation and reports to serve as the basis of the decisions by the 
Supervisory Council; (vii) timely clearing with the MOH and SDP responsible authorities 
all of the Project documents prepared by the PIU; (viii) drawing, as appropriate, upon the 
staff of the Borrower’s institutions such as the Phthysiatry and Pulmonology Institute of 
the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, the Ukrainian AIDS Prevention Center, 
and the Department on Medical Provision and Sanitary-Hygienic Control of the SDP on 
aspects concerning protocols, training, monitoring and evaluation, and their role of 
reference laboratories.  
 
Section II:
Project Implementation Responsibilities
1. 
Implementation of TB control activities under Parts A and C of the Project shall 
be undertaken, respectively, by the MOH for the civilian sector and by the SDP for the 
prison system, the Borrower ensuring that the Phthysiatry and Pulmonology Institute of 
the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, as the leading institution and with the 
support of the twelve (12) regional centers, take the lead in research and methodological 
support to the training of TB specialists, laboratory technicians, general practitioners, 
epidemiologists, statisticians, and nurses, overseeing the strengthening of laboratory 
services in the country and quality control, monitoring and evaluation of the 
implementation of the National Strategy for TB Control Adapted to the World Standard 
through its own monitoring and evaluation team which shall conduct regular monitoring 
visits to the regions, with said regions conducting, in turn, regular monitoring visits to the 
Borrower’s regional subdivisions (
rayons
)
through their own monitoring and evaluation 
teams, and supervising the establishment and performance by the SDP of its own 
monitoring and evaluation team as required as a result of the intrinsic characteristics of 
the prison system. 
 
 
2. 
Activities on HIV-infection/AIDS-control under Parts B and C of the Project 
shall be implemented, respectively, by the MOH for the civil population and by the SDP 
for the prison system.  Such implementation responsibilities under Part B of the Project 
shall be specifically devolved to the Ukraine Prevention AIDS Center and twenty-eight 
(28) selected strengthened Regional AIDS Centers, which shall work together mainly to 
contract non-governmental organizations to work with high-risk groups and implement 
outreach programs, while monitoring and evaluation shall rest the sole responsibility of 
the Ukraine AIDS Center. 
 
Page  29
-
27 - 
Section III:
Project Implementation and Reporting Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall take all action required to cause the MOH and the SDP to 
apply and follow at all times the Operational Manual provisions in the carrying out, 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operational Manual or any 
provision thereof. 
 
2. 
For purposes of ensuring the timely and sustainable implementation of Parts A.3 
and C.1 of the Project, appropriately before the end of Fiscal Years 2002, 2003, 2004, 
and 2005, the Borrower shall make budgetary allocations so that the MOH and the SDP 
have available first-line drugs for the treatment of TB in an aggregate amount equivalent 
to ten million three hundred thousand dollars ($10,300,000) over the four (4) year period 
starting on January 1, 2003, and ending on December 31, 2006, all in accordance with 
yearly installments and dates to be determined by agreement each year between the 
Borrower and the Bank on the basis of an analysis of the usage of the anti-TB drugs 
provided by the Borrower the previous calendar year as well as the estimate of the needs 
for the following calendar year.  
 
3. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about January 31, 2005, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project, including the progress in the use of 
the Loan proceeds to finance drugs, during the period preceding the date of said report, 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by March 31, 2005, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Page  30
-
28 - 
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and 
(6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $1,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $500,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,500,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  31
-
29 - 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  32
-
30 - 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  33
-
31 - 
M:\BACKUP\UKRAINE\w-1997Negotiated.doc 
10/28/2002 10:27 AM 
 
M:\BACKUP\UKRAINE\w-1997.doc 
 
