R ESST RI CT ED
Report No.   PTR-96a
This report b for offical ue only by the BDank Group and specifally authorized orgnizations
or personL It nUY not be published, quotd or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibilty for the accuracy or oompleteness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
AN ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
INDIA
November 30, 1971
Transportation Projects Department



Currency MLi2ivalents
Currency Unit  =  Indian Rupee (Rs)
Rs 1.00        =  Paise 100
US$1.00        = Rs 7.5
Rs 1.00        = US$0.13
Rs 1,000,000   = US$133,333
Weights and Measures
Metric           US Unit
1 ton        1.102 short tons
1 km         0.621 mile
1 ton-km     0.6&4 short ton-mile
1 pass-km    0.621 pass-mile
1 meter      3.2b1 feet
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations
BG     - Broad Gauge (1.676 m)
nF     -  Development Fund
DRF    -  Depreciation Reaerve Fund
1MU   -  Electric Multiple Unit
IR     -  Indian Railways
MG     - Meter Gauge (1.000 m)
NG     -  Narrow Gauge (0.762 m and 0.610 m)
PF     -  Pension Fund
RDSO   -  Research Design and Standards Organization
(of Indian Railways)
RRF    -  Revenue Reserve Fund



INDIAN RAILWAYS
APPRAISAL OF AN ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...............................    i
1.   INTRODUCTION ..........................................               1
2. BACKGROUND ...............                                              1
A.   Economic Setting ......          ...........................    1
B.   The Transport Sector ......           .......................   3
C.   Role of Indian Railways in the Economy ...........              3
D.   Transport Policy and Planning ....................              4
3.   THE INDIAN RAILWAYS ....... ..............                            5
A.   Organization, Management and Staff ...............              5
B.   Accounts, Costing and Audit ......................              7
C.   Property  .........................................             8
D.   Manufacturing Units ......        ...................           9
E.   Performance .......         ...............................   10
F.   Commitments under Previous Credit .............         ...   11
G.   Railway Planning ......          ...........................   12
4.   THE PLAN AND THE PROJECT .............            .................   13
A.   The Plan .        ........................................   13
B.   The Project ..........         ............................   14
C.   Financing of the Project ......            ...................   15
D.   Execution of the Project, Procurement and
Disbursements ........         ..........................   15
5.   FINANCES AND EARNINGS ................ .................   16
A.    Introduction .............       ........................   16
B.   Past Performance .........         ........................   16
C.   Financing Plan ..........         .........................   19
D.   Forecast Performance .......          ......................   20
E.    IR's Financial Policy and Proposed Rate Covenant .   21
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. Ratter (engineer),
Spencer (financial analyst) and Colliou and Neuner (economists), and has been
edited by Miss V. Foster.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                      Page No.
6.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION . ...................................   22
A.   Analysis of Selected Subprojects .....     ............  23
B.   Analysis of Investment for Selected Zonal Railways   23
C.   Analysis of Major Subprograms ......     ..............  23
D.   Overall Evaluation ..........    .....................  24
7.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .....     ...........  25
TABLES
1.  Route Length by Freight Traffic Density Groups
2.  Present and Planned Holdings of Locomotives:  April 1971-April 1974
3.  Present and Planned Holdings of Freight and Passenger Cars:
April 1971-April 1974
4.  Age Inventory of Steam Locomotives, Freight Cars and Passenger Cars
as on March 31, 1970
5.  Operating Performance 1960/61-1969/70
6.  Freight Traffic:  1960/61-1970/71
7.  Freight Traffic, Actuals and Forecasts 1960/61-1975/76
8.  Passenger Traffic 1960/61-1969/70
9.  Comparison of Suburban and Non-Suburban Passenger Traffic
10  Projections of Non-Suburban Passenger Traffic
11.  Revised Investment Program for the Fourth Five-Year Plan 1969/70-1973/74
12.  Foreign Exchange Requirements During the Project Period 1971/72-1973/74
13.  Results of Operations 1965/66-1970/71
14.  Balance Sheet March 31, 1970
(Notes to Table 14)
15.  Source and Application of Funds 1971/72-1975/76
16.  Revenue and Expenditure Forecast 1971/72-1975/76
(Notes to Table 16)
17.  Forecast of Freight Revenue and Tonnage
for the Period 1971/72-1975/76
18.  Forecast Balance Sheets 1971-1976
ANNEXES
1.  Data on Transport Sector
2.  Organization Chart
3.  Financial Arrangements with Government
4.  Existing Rolling Stock
5.  Operational Performance
6.  Costing and Pricing
7.  Bombay Suburban Service
(Map of Area Railway Lines)
8.  Summary of Principal Commitments in Connection with Credit 162-IN
and of Action Taken
9.  Corporate Plan for Indian Railways (Statement by Indian Railways Board)
Appendix A - Areas Suggested for Study by IDA for Corporate Planning



ANNEXES (Continued)
10. Comments on Forecast of Traffic and Capacity
11. Principal Items Included in Project
12. Description of Materials and Components to be Procured from Proceeds
of the Proposed IDA Credit
13. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
14. Financial Effect of Social Burdens on Indian Government Railways
15. Economic Evaluation of the Project
Appendix A - Actual Investments 1961/62-1968/69
Appendix B - 1971/72 Program, New Works Costing over Rs 2 Million
Appendix C - Investment by Zonal Railways (Excluding Rolling Stock)
MAPS
1. Indian Railways-Trunk Route and Main Routes with High Density of Freight
Traffic, IBRD 3509
2. Indian Railways (Whole Network), IBRD 2593R






INDIAN RAILWAYS
APPRAISAL OF AN ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        An efficient and coordinated transport system is vital to India.
Great distances separate areas of production and consumption, and the rapid
growth of population, coupled with the necessary agricultural and industrial
growth to sustain it, emphasizes the importance of rail transport for long
distance bulk traffic and road transport for distribution over shorter dis-
tances.
ii.       Investment in the transport sector absorbs one-third of the total
investment in India. Indian Railways (IR) still performs the dominant trans-
port role, but its share of investment under the national Fourth Plan 1969-19'-4
is only about one-third of the allocation to the transport sector, compared
with about one-half in the previous five-year plan, consequent upon increasing
emphasis by Government on road transport. However, India lacks a positive
policy and a coordinated long term plan for the development of the transport
sector as a whole, and IR undertakes its own planning against a background
of uncertainty of its future role, and the complementary role of road and
other modes. An opportunity exists in India to develop a total transport
system fitted to its real needs, and thus to avoid the mistakes made in
many developed countries, but this opportunity may be lost unless early
steps are taken by Government to establish transport policy and to assure
its implementation by coordinated transport planning in each mode.
iii.      Indian Railways is well managed and, in the circumstances in which
it operates, can be compared favorably with large railway systems in all parts
of the world. The IR Board is seeking to give IR a more commercial orienta-
tion, but its efforts are limited by Government constraints, such as those
requiring the operation of unremunerative services, limitation of tariff and
fare increases, and retention in employment of redundant staff. The contribu-
tion of IR to these and other unremunerative services for social benefits can-
not be assessed with accuracy, but certainly exceeds Rs 1,500 million (US$200
million) per annum. Despite this burden, IR has achieved an operating ratio
varying between 79.5 and 84.7 during the past five years and after paying
"dividends" 1/ to the Government of about 5.7% of its cumulative investment
in IR, has limited its "deficit" in 1970/71 to Rs 198 million (US$26 million
equivalent), representing about 2% of gross revenue during a period of fall-
ing traffics caused by serious industrial unrest and recession.
iv.       IR has now undertaken to carry out a 15-year corporate plan, anti-
cipating complementary planning being carried out for other modes by Govern-
ment agency. The plan will serve as a basis for capital investment in IR
1/ These payments are officially described as "Dividend on Capital-at-
Charge" but they have to be paid whether or not there are sufficient
earnings; hence they are more akin to interest on Loan Capital.



- ii -
from 1975 onwards. During thic period, IR will meet the growing challenge of
road and other competition. anld must concentrate on rising standards of ser-
vice coupled with reduction in costs. IR will no longer be able to bear the
full burden of social benefits it now carries and must look to Government to
assume financial responsibility for them.
v.        Meanwhile the project which forms the subJect of the present apprai-
sal consists of the completion of IR's Fourth Five-Year Plan for 1969-1974
which remains to be carried out in the last three years of the Plan period.
A total inve3tment of US$1,084 million equivalent is required to provide for
an estimated annual growth of about 4% for freight traffic and 3% for
passengers. Investment is about evenly divided between additional equipment
and facilities and replacement of wornout assets. The foreign exchange
content of the project is estimated at US$170 million equivalent. A special
item of US$5 million has been included for the purchase of reserve stores of
components for locomotive construction, to assure continuity of production
at IR workshops. Of the total investment, 40% is allocated to the provision
of diesel and electric locomotives and rolling stock, 42% to track renewals
and line works, 6% to electrification and the remainder to a variety of minor
works, including staff welfare (3.4%).
vi.       As the project is concerned with the continuance of the Fourth
Five-Year Plan, it contains a large proportion of works already in hand and
the total expenditure is spread over about 6,000 individual works, each cost-
ing over Rs 500,000 (US$67,000), and many more of lesser magnitude. Limita-
tions of data and the sheer size of the project precluded detailed assess-
ment of economic justification of the project as a whole by IDA staff. The
approach has therefore been to examine representative major projects and
overall plans for the principal groups of work, such as track renewals, and
at the same time to examine IR's procedures for investment analysis and
budgeting. It has been established that the renewal works planned are in
accordance with the needs of IR to maintain proper standards of operation
and safety, that the proposed and current new works and equipment are re-
quired to cater for the additional traffic forecast and that they will
improve service and reduce costs. Where, as in the case of some electrifi-
cation schemes in progress, economic return appears to be marginal, comple-
tion is desirable, since the alternative course of suspension or termination
of the work in its present state would cause disorganization and heavy loss.
The procedures of IR for the analysis and selection of investment projects
are to be improved to permit better assessment of the relation of in-
dividual projects to each other and the effect of the investment program
as a whole.
vii.      With the proposed project, IR's financial performance is expected
to improve over the next few years. The operating ratio shoulH decrease to
less than 80% in 1973/74 and improve further thereafter. Net revenue from
operations ir 1974/75, the first year after completion of the project, is
estimated at 7.1% on capital-at-charge. This improvement, however, may
be affected by unforeseen influences on the traffic forecasts resulting
from, inter alia, the refugee problem in the Calcutta area and by a pos-
sible continuance of industrial unrest. In addition, IR employees are likely



- iii -
to get a substantial pay award, the cost of which will have to be recovered
through improved efficiency or rate adjustments.
viii.     The proposed credit is predicated on the formulation of a long-term
corporate plan. IR has made a good beginning in this complex task and is ex-
pected to carry it forward effectively and to associate with the plan improved
investment planning procedures. Confirmation of these intentions was given
during loan negotiations. Government also intends to take immediate action
toward the determination of transport policies and the establishing of
coordinated planning in the transport sector. The project is suitable for
an IDA credit of US$75 million equivalent.






INDIAN RAILWAYS
APPRAISAL OF AN ELEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India and Indian Railways (IR) have asked IDA
for a credit of US$75 million equivalent to finance part of IR's invest-
ments during the last three years of the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1969/70-
1973/74). Total IR investments during these three years are estimated
at Rs 8,133 million (US$1,084 million equivalent) with a foreign exchange
component of US$170 million equivalent. As in previous Bank Group lending
operations for IR, the proposed credit would finance specific imported
equipment and materials; other foreign exchange requirements would be
covered by various bilateral arrangements and from the Government's free
resources of exchange.
1.02      Since 1949, the Bank Group has made six loans and four credits
for IR, a gross total of US$631 million equivalent; this is the Bank Group's
largest participation in any single enterprise. The first nine lending opera-
tions have been satisfactorily completed and have together enabled IR to carry
nearly three times the freight and twice the passenger traffic handled in 1951
with an operating ratio varying between 74.7 and 84.7% over the whole period.
The last credit (162-IN) was made in 1969 for US$55 million equivalent; funds
were fully disbursed a few days after the closing date, September 30, 1971.
1.03      Other Bank Group lending for transportation in India comprises
three loans and one credit for the ports of Calcutta, Madras and Bombay
(a total of US$82 million equivalent), one credit for roads (US860 million
equivalent) and one loan for civil aviation (US$5.6 million equivalent).
Also, IDA financed the purchase of commercial vehicle components as part
of the six Industrial Imports credits made between 1964 and 1970; it is
currently considering financing a first shipping project and a second high-
way project.
1.04      This appraisal is based on information supplied by the Government
of India and IR and on the findings of a Bank mission in March/April 1971
comprising Messrs. Ratter (engineer), Spencer (financial analyst), and
Colliou and Neuner (economists). The report has been prepared by them and
edited by Miss V. Foster.
2. BACKGROUND
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      Since the inception of national planning in 1951, national income
has doubled in constant prices but the population has at the same time in-
creased by one-half so that per capita income rose by only one-third, and
today it remains below the equivalent of US$100 per year. In the first 15
years of planning, emphasis was laid on the creation and expansion of indus-
try, particularly heavy industry; in recent years, the Government has stressed



- 2 -
the development of agriculture and exports. As a result, grain production has
increased significantly and there have been substantial gains in the production
of non-traditional export goods, especially engineering products. However, some
other industrial activity, notably steel, has been in recession. By the end
of the Fourth Five-Year Plan (March 1974), the Government projects a further
increase in grain production and a complete industrial recovery. According
to the Bank's latest economic report on India, there is little question that
India's economy should grow substantially in the remaining years of the Plan
and that the transport sector can therefore anticipate a significant increase
in demand for its services.
2.02      Growth of per capita income is the primary aim of the Government's
economic policy and the first consideration in planning its various sectors.
The Government, however, pursues a number of other policy objectives which
fundamentally affect all spheres of economic activity.
2.03      India is committed to economic self sufficiency and therefore
severely restricts the import of items which can be home produced or for
which a substitute can be found. This partly explains the restriction on
road transport because of its dependence on oil and is reflected in IR's
emphasis on investment on capital equipment which can be produced locally
(para. 3.02). India is pursuing a full employment policy which results in
IR overstaffing and further explains IR's emphasis on indigenous production
(para. 3.04).
2.04      India is encouraging economic development in backward areas by
transport subsidies and industrial licensing and by equalizing the price
of important commodities such as wheat, petroleum, fertilizers, steel and
cement, throughout the country. The Government is committed to a program
of socialization which includes various controls on the expansion of large
private business, the licensing by the Government of new or expanded in-
dustrial activity and, in selected sectors, ownership by the state. Thus,
the production of road vehicles, although in the private sector, is subject
to Government license and the operation of buses is being progressively
nationalized by the states of India.
2.05      IR plays a significant role in Government finance.  The
"dividend" on capital represents about 3% of the Government's total cur-
rent and capital receipts; at present it is approximately balanced on
the expenditure side by the Government's investments in IR. The Govern-
ment's investment in IR capital over the past twenty years has accumulated
to about 25% of all its investment expenditures. The debt service (in-
terest and principal) on the foreign debt which the Government has incurred
for IR amounts to roughly US$50 million equivalent per annum, or about one-
tenth of the service on total public foreign debt. While IR does not direct-
ly service foreign debts incurred by Government on its behalf, IR's continued
payments into the central budget are important to central finances; if there
were a decline in IR's own financial performance, it would have a direct ef-
fect on the national budget.



-3-
2.06      In evaluating the role of IR in the budget, account must be taken
of the social burdens which the Government requires IR to perform without
full compensation. These include certain passenger and goods traffic, which
IR carries at less than cost, and welfare services for IR employees and their
families (a total of about 7 million persons), which are together estimated
to cost IR more than Rs 1 billion per annum. IR also provides valuable con-
tributions to national technical development in general through work done
by its Research, Design and Standard Organization (RDSO) at Lucknow and its
application to indigenous manufacture of railway and other equipment. Finally,
IR remains one of the most important training grounds in India for manag-
ers and engineers and in this sense has a unique importance in the task of
planning long term development of industry and transport and of its ultimate
execution. IR can continue to assume these burdens only as long as it re-
tains some monopoly powers and thereby accrues the required surpluses. As
the restrictions now placed on its competitors are lifted, IR's capacity
to render unremunerative social services would be progressively reduced.
2.07      In summary, all economic activity in India, including transport,
is shaped by certain basic problems and policies which have been devised to
relieve them: a rapidly growing population with low average income and the
encouragement of labor intensive production methods; regional and social
disparities and policies to control industrial concentration and promote re-
gional dispersion of development; and chronic shortage of foreign exchange
and controls on imports and import substitution.
B. The Transport Sector
2.08      In 1951, India already had a well developed railway network while
other modes of transport were comparatively insignificant.  Today, despite
substantial growth in highways, motor vehicles and aviation, railways remain
the predominant mode of transport in India. IR accounts for roughly 50% of
total pass-km and 66% of total goods ton-km. However, the highway system
(motorable roads only) has expanded by 50% in the last 20 years, the number
of trucks and buses has more than tripled in this period and airline pass-km
went up sevenfold. Further details on the transport sector in India are
given in Annex 1.
C.   Role of Indian Railways in the Economy
2.09      IR today is predominantly a mass carrier of passengers and freight
over long distances. Apart from suburban services, 1,180 million passengers
were carried in 1969/70. Passenger traffic is generally increasing and is
doing so more rapidly in the long distance services. The share of low rated
bulk commodities in IR's revenue earning traffic is progressively increasing
(in the last ten years from 65 to 73% of total tonnage) and the length of haul
is increasing. IR traffic benefited from the increase in the production of
bulk producing or consuming industries. As steam generation of electricity
over the past two decades increased by a factor of five, IR's coal traffic
to steam plants went up about three times. Similarly, IR took a very large
part of the five-fold increase in cement production and most of the five and
one-half times rise in iron and steel production. Petroleum traffic on IR



- 4 -
tripled with the greatly increased use of internal combustion engines. On
the other hand, as road and air traffic has increased, IR has lost some of
its traffic to this competition. Tn 1951, IR was moving about three-quarters
of all cotton cloth produced in India, while today its actual loadings have
declined to one-fourth despite a greatly expanded output. Internal air pas-
senger traffic now equates to about one-fourth of IR's first and second
class passenger business. The pattern of IR's overall freight traffic growth
also testifies that certain portions of its system have become relatively
less patronized: meter gauge (MG) and narrow gauge (NG) traffic grew 50/
over the twenty-year period, as against an overall growth of more than 100%.
2.10      IR plays a significant role in India's economy:  it contributes
measurably to India's national product (about 1.5%); is a large manufac-
turer of goods, the sales value of which exceeds Rs 500 million; is one of
India's largest employers (about 8% of employment in enterprises employing
25 or more persons); and is a large national consumer of commodities (about
30% of steel, 20% of coal, 10% of high speed diesel fuel).
D.   Transport Policy and Planning
2.11      The Central Government has no long term policy for the planning
and management of the transport sector as a whole; sector development
therefore reflects accommodation of the modes to each other on a segmented
basis and not according to a formulated plan after analysis of available
alternatives. There is no single minister or other authority expressly
charged with setting policy and resolving conflicts. Developments in
transport are today largely shaped by wider economic policies. IR, for
instance, is prevented from discharging redundant labor and is required to
retard the acquisition of modern equipment, to pay substantial fixed dividends
to the public treasury and to provide many services at less than cost, all
in the interest of wider economic and fiscal goals. This set of circumstances
can be sustained only if IR continues to have a partial monopoly, a position
which, despite contrary administrative efforts, will progressively weaken
with the evolving need for a growing variety of transport services and
the greater efficiency of competing modes in supplying them. The necessity
for policy direction thus increases as competition grows within the transport
sector and as IR's competitive predominance is gradually eroded.
2.12      In the absence of comprehensive Government action in the trans-
port sector as a whole, IR remains the best organized authority operating
in the sector. Nevertheless, as the road network expands, road transport
steadily grows, and the Government is investing in aviation which will re-
sult in erosion of some railway long distance traffics. These developments
are essential but will increase the difficulties under which IR operates.
In circumstances of strong competition from other modes, IR pricing systems
will need adjustment, and cross subsidizing of low rated traffics will no
longer be possible. Reduction in the costs of rail transport will be essen-
tial to retain the financial viability of IR, and it will no longer be able
to bear the cost of social benefits incurred in retaining redundant staff
and operating railway services which are unremunerative. The problems of
IR are therefore bound to become more complex and careful planning of the
transport sector is essential to solve them.



2.13      At present, all modal planning is loosely coordinated by the Plan-
ning Commission whose functions, however, cover much more than the transport
sector itself and relate primarily to setting performance targets for the
whole economy. Some coordination through control of investment levels is also
exercised by the Planning and Finance Ministries exemplified by the reduction
mentioned above in the share of railways in total transport investments. The
general effect, however, is that the action of Government, which is fundamen-
tal in any transport system, falls unequally on the various modes. Prices
for the services of some modes, such as railways and aviation, are strictly
controlled while much of road transport is in effect priced by the market.
On the other hand, road transport operations are strictly licensed at the
interstate level. Road vehicle production is in the private sector, but the
quantities produced are strictly controlled by the Government through its
industrial licensing procedures. The incidence of taxation on the modes
varies considerably and is not designed to keep them at equal competitive
advantage.
2.14      Not only does the sector lack clear overall policy or planning,
but coordination of detailed planning in the individual modes, primarily a
Government responsibility, needs to be improved through better data col-
lection and project analysis. IR is engaged in preparing a long term cor-
porate plan (paras. 3.23 to 3.27) but this will have no sound basis unless
there is parallel planning by the other modes.
2.15      The development of sectoral policy and planning is undoubtedly made
more difficult by India's federal structure.  However, the Central Government
has exclusive control over railways and aviation and a predominant influence
in ports and shipping. Even road transport can be strongly influenced by the
Central Government through its financing of national highway construction and
maintenance, its statutory authority over interstate vehicle movements and its
control over vehicle manufacture. The Government has at its disposal in the
transport sector powers which probably go well beyond those it has in most
other sectors, powers which would be enhanced if exercised in a planned and
coordinated manner and which would ease the difficulties in dealing with
Federal problems.
2.16      In recognition of the foregoing problems, the Government has
decided to undertake a full review of the transport sector, with emphasis
on the need for better coordination and effective institutions to achieve
policy objectives. The Association will contribute to this review by means
of a comprehensive sector mission. The review is expected to take about 18
months and to lead to an understanding between the Government and the Asso-
ciation on the basic policies to be followed as a framework which will form
the basis of future Bank Group activity in the transport sector.
3. THE INDIAN RAILWAYS
A.   Organization, Management and Staff
3.01      IR is the second largest railway system under one management in
the world, being exceeded in size only by the railways of the USSR. Apart



- 6 -
from its sheer size, IR is a complex system, containing nine railway zones,
each under a General Manager reporting directly to the Railway Board. The
system contains four track gauges and three modes of traction - steam, diesel
and electric - with steam still predominant in the number of locomotives in
service. The efficiency of IR in operation, as measurec by non-labor in-
dices in common use, compares favorably with large railway systems in Europe
and America.
3.02      Formal jurisdiction over IR vests in the Minister of Railways who
is a member of the cabinet. Railway capital and operational budgets are
submitted to Parliamentary debate in detail, with results which frequently
have a direct impact on the commercial results of IR (e.g., in setting of
limits to tariff increases and requiring the operation of unremunerative
services). Rates and fares are set on a countrywide basis and, to some
extent, are not based on traffic costs. Government policies concerning in-
digenous manufacture and restriction of import of manufactured equipment of
all kinds limits the pace of modernization of IR, particularly in the dis-
placement of steam locomotives by diesel traction.
3.03      There has been no major change in the organization of IR manage-
ment in recent years (Organization Chart is shown as Annex 2). In October
1971, a new Board Chairman was appointed for a two-year term. The Board is
anxious to intensify the use of new management techniques in long term
planning, operational and technical research and in economic appraisal of
investment. It wishes to generate a more commercial attitude within IR, to
encourage the continued development of cost accounting in determination of
traffic costs and to exploit the services offered by railways through improved
marketing methods. In addition, it is convinced of the need for long term
planning in the transport sector as a whole and realizes the need for a
proper balance between the role of railways and other modes of transport in
future development.
3.04      IR employs a permanent staff of 1,350,000, which contains a large
majority of low paid, unskilled laborers. The number has remained static
over the last five years although labor productivity has risen by over 8%
in relation to traffic carried. National agreements on service conditions
preclude discharge of redundant staff. Under these conditions, apart from
retraining staff and transferring to other work, and limiting recruitment
to essential replacement, the solution to staff redundancy depends upon
absorption of labor by business growth. In these circumstances, the finan-
cial savings to be derived from automation and other labor saving devices
are limited. IR has adopted a policy of introducing "employment oriented
projects" by which modern equipment is acquired for the technical benefits
it brings, rather than for the reduction in manpower it would allow. IR
also employs about 300,000 men as casual workers for load transfer of goods
at gauge interchange points and on construction works. Recent legislation
may enforce the transfer of about 70,000 of these men to the permanent
staff. If IR is judged only on its own essential manpower requirements,
it is heavily overstaffed, but the cost of labor is low.



-7-
B.   Accounts, Costing and Audit
3.05      IR's accounts are those of a Government department and are designed
to show the origin and use of public funds. The Government authorizes all
the capital and operating funds required by IR in accordance with annual bud-
gets approved by Parliament and acts as IR's treasurer. All capital expendi-
tures on additions are authorized and financed by an increase in Government's
capital-at-charge provided they can be shown to produce a financial return
of 6.75%. All renewals are charged to the Depreciation Reserve Fund which
functions as a reserve for renewals. Other expenditures of a capital nature
which do not satisfy the financial return test are charged to revenue or to
Development Reserve Fund.
3.06      Bank loans and IDA credits are channeled through Government to
IR and, insofar as they relate to additions, appear in IR's accounts as
interest-bearing permanent capital known as capital-at-charge and become
part of the Government's investment. The portion of foreign loans obtained
to finance replacements is reimbursed in local currency to Government by
IR as expenditures are incurred. Although in the past 20 years Government
has collected some Rs 15 billion in "dividends" from IR, the additional
capital provided by Government to IR in the same period amounts to about
Rs 24 billion. This contribution of Government includes the proceeds of
substantial foreign exchange loans and credits (including Bank and IDA).
In financing the entire cost of replacements, IR makes a substantial con-
tribution to total expenditure on capital account, having provided during
the past five years, 1966/67-1970/71, some Rs 6 billion 1/ from its own
resources, equivalent to 48% of total capital expenditure. Further de-
tails on the financial arrangements between IR and the Government of India
are shown in Annex 3.
3.07      Despite its rather peculiar features, IR's accounting framework is
acceptable. There is, however, one area in which improvements should be made,
namely the prompt recording in monthly accounts of expenses on stores and
fuel. Determined efforts are being made to resolve this problem, and it
was confirmed during negotiations that these efforts will continue and the
Association be informed of progress achieved. Current negotiations with
USAID for consulting assistance in computerization, which will include
stores accounting, should also lead to improved inventory control.
3.08      Although some progress has been made in the past in costing analysis,
much remains to be done. In 1969, consultants appointed by the Bank reviewed
costing and related problems in IR and made recommendations for improvements,
covering, among other things, the introduction of localized profit and loss
accounts, the need for an increase in staff for the expanded traffic costing
1/   This figure includes temporary loans from government of Rs 959 million
which should be repaid during succeeding years.



-8-
work, the format for the presentation of figures and the need for on-the-
spot investigations. IR has started implementing some of the consultants'
recommendations and has expanded the costing department; however, because of
the need to train staff, results cannot be expected quickly and the introduction
of a complete and adequate costing system is bound to require several years.
During negotiations, IR confirmed that it will continue its efforts to
improve costing information and its application, along with other relevant
factors, to rating policy.
3.09      IR's accounts are audited by the Director of Railway Audit (Comptrol-
ler and Auditor General's Department). The emphasis of this audit is on en-
suring that funds have been applied in accordance with budgetary allocations
approved annually by Parliament. The Director of Audit prepares each year
a detailed report drawing attention to a wide variety of matters which are
reviewed and investigated by the Public Accounts Committee which, in turn,
publishes a report of its discussions, recommendations and findings. The
detailed auditor's report and the proceedings of the Public Accounts Com-
mittee are exhaustive and satisfactory.
C.  Property
3.10      IR operates over 59,684 km of route, of which 48,832 km (82%) is
single line. The broad gauge constitutes about half of the total system
and carries 71% of pass-km and 84% of freight ton-km. The remainder of the
system consists of meter gauge (25,847 route km) and two narrow gauges
(4,476 km). The meter gauge system comprises 43% of route-km and the nar-
row gauge system 7.5% while traffic carried on these systems is about 20%
and 1% of the total, respectively. This suggests the scope for system ration-
alization and for closure of uneconomic lines that could result from the
development of road transport in future years. So far, line closures have
been refused by Government, despite annual losses of about Rs 80 million on
77 branch lines in the meter and narrow gauges.
(i) Permanent Way
3.11      IR has adopted a route classification system for the determination
of economic technical standards for track structure and maintenance, related
to the volume of traffic using the route. (Table 1 gives a breakdown of the
route-km by freight traffic density.) "Trunk lines," and other broad gauge
main lines carrying the heaviest traffic (Map IBRD 3509) totaling about
16,000 track-km are being relaid when renewal is necessary with heavier rail
(105 lb per yard), and a program of installation of long welded rails is
under way. The objective is to provide for higher train speeds, up to
120 km per hour or more, and for heavier axle loading, while reducing main-
tenance costs and prolonging the life of the track. Corresponding improve-
ments are being carried out on the most important meter gauge lines which
will cater for speeds of 80 km/h. Track maintenance is being mechanized in
places where traffic is dense a[nd where there is difficulty in obtaining
adequate standards by manual methods. Apart from these areas, the prospect
for mechanization is limited by policies affecting the employment of labor.



-9-
(ii) Rolling Stock
3.12      Present and planned holdings of locomotives, coaching stock and
wagons are shown in Tables 2 to 4 and described in Annex 4. Over 9,000
steam locomotives remain in service with 1,202 diesel and 604 electric loco-
motives. About 20% of the coaching stock is over 30 years old and about 8%
of the freight wagons have seen 40 years of service. Nevertheless, availa-
bility in service of the whole fleet is satisfactory.
D.   Manufacturing Units
3.13      IR manufactures all locomotives at its own plants at Chittaranjan
and Varanasi. Both workshops are well equipped and the staff are competent
and well trained. Chittaranjan makes electric locomotives, with capacity
for about 70 units per annum, and also produces shunting diesel locomotives.
Varanasi produces diesel locomotives and has a capacity of about 150 BG main
line units per annum. On the basis of available figures, electric and diesel
locomotives are produced at below landed cost of imported locomotives of
similar type. Imported components amount in value to 15% of diesel and 20%
of electric locomotives but are being steadily eliminated by indigenous
production, with the aim of total elimination within three or four years.
Production of diesel locomotives has not yet achieved full capacity; the
number of locomotives produced at Varanasi in 1970/71 was only 68, or 42%
of installed capacity. This serious situation was largely caused by delays
in supply of essential components from local and foreign sources. The
Association has suggested special procurement of a stock of essential spares
to avoid such delays. Officials of IR have recommended a procurement of
foreign components costing US$5 million which should permit full production
of the Varanasi factory to be achieved in 1973/74. The cost of this higher
inventory level, representing about six months' supply at full production,
is considerably less than the present cost of the underutilized plant and
delayed deliveries. Improvement in output is essential to meet the demands
of the 1971-1974 plan. As a part of the long term corporate plan, it will be
necessary to determine the required output of diesel and electric locomotives
in future years to obtain the most economic rate of displacement of steam
and consequently to plan the future capacity of both workshops.
3.14      IR also has a large factory near Madras constructing passenger
rolling stock, including electric multiple units; its capacity is about 700
coaches per annum. There is additional capacity in the country for the
production of a further 700 coaches annually. IR additionally uses two of
its large wagon overhaul facilities for production of goods wagons, partic-
ularly those of large, heavy design. The productive capacity amounts to
at least 3,000 wagons per annum. In addition, the Government has licensed
14 private firms to produce the equivalent of 40,000 BG four-wheeled wagons
per annum; peak production at any one time has never exceeded 27,500 equiva-
lent units per annum and in recent years has been much lower.
3.15      IR's large scale entry into production has raised problems of
policy. IR properly considers its primary business to be running a railway
and therefore subordinates optimal utilization of its factories to the needs



- 10 -
of the railway. There have been occasions, however, when IR has had to re-
spond to the Government's drive for more export production and despite its
own need for more coaches has diverted some of its own factory production
to export orders. By gearing the output of its factories to the require-
ments of IR alone, uneconomic use of manufacturing capacity can occur. Fur-
ther study will be undertaken by IR to determine the policies to be followed
in manufacturing units including (a) the alternatives of production in IR's
workshops as against purchase of some products from outside sources and (b)
the desirability of IR manufacture for outside markets.
E.   Performance
(i) Operational Performance
3.16      Statistics of operating performance are given in Table 5 and are
discussed in Annex 5. Performance of diesel and electric locomotives is
satisfactory and shows steady improvement. Steam locomotive utilization
shows a declining trend as diesel replaces steam in main line services,
thus underlining the economies to be obtained from the elimination of steam
traction in minimum time. Wagon utilization has fluctuated in the last
three years, due to recessions in trade, and more recently due to social
disturbances and vandalism in the Calcutta area. Passenger services have
not kept pace with increasing demand, and severe overcrowding is occurring,
especially in suburban traffic.
(ii) Pricing and Quality of Service
3.17      Over the past ten years, IR fares and rates have risen more slowly
than other prices in the Indian economy, but the nature of traffic has also
changed as has the operating pattern and quality of IR's services. IR's
fare and rate structure contains many forms of cross subsidization but their
economic effect may be limited because the operations of a free market are
restricted as a result of the great number of Government controls on the
economy (Annex 6). With increasing competition from other modes, and the
ever present need to balance the railway budget, pricing based on real costs
of railway operations is increasingly important. At the same time, it will
be necessary for IR to study progress made and to be achieved in improving
the quality and competitive strength of its services to shippers with re-
gard to prompt availability of wagons, transit time and freedom from damage
and to passengers in terms of reliability and amenity. Changes in the
nature of traffic permitting improvements in operational efficiency (e.g.,
unit trains), coupled with improved railway equipment, have already reduced
transport real costs. Today IR moves about 50% more traffic units per em-
ployee than it did 20 years ago, and the haulage costs are being steadily
reduced by the introduction of diesel and electric traction. With the
availability of comprehensive cost data, IR will be able to compare the
costs of providing services and changes in the quality of these services
over time and make more accurate assessments of its present and future
competitive strength. Cost oriented pricing is at present impeded by legal
restraints against price discrimination, and IR will have to study means
available to achieve greater flexibility in pricing.



- 11 -
3.18      IR intends to increase still further the full train load traffic
to minimize time loss in train marshalling. Two-thirds of coal and petro-
leum products and nearly all export ores already move in full train loads.
Other promising operational improvements are in the development of container
traffic and two-decker car transport (from car factories to principal cities).
Efforts are being made to improve transit times of freight trains and to im-
prove passenger services, i.e., speeding up of trains and the extension of
sleeping accommodation on almost all fast night trains. IR has given
assurances that it recognizes the need to continue to improve the quality
and competitive strength of its services and is arranging for studies to be
made by the Indian Statistical Institute directed toward improvement of
freight wagon availability and service to the shippers. IR also stated that
it has delegated further powers to the zonal railway managements in fixing
special rates for regular and substantial traffics.
(iii) Suburban Services
3.19      IR provides suburban services at particularly low season ticket
rates in Calcutta, Bombay, Madras and Hyderabad. In the first three areas,
EMU 1/ stock accounts for nearly 85% of all suburban travel. IR additionally
accommodates commuter traffic in all other important metropolitan
areas as part of its lower cost local train service. Many of these areas
are growing very rapidly and IR will have to cope with the consequent in-
crease in commuter traffic. IR's local and suburban season ticket fares
are, in fact, subsidized by other IR revenues.
3.20      Suburban traffic, in terms of pass-km, is most dense in Bombay
(Annex 7), which accounts for about 63% of the total, and Calcutta, which
covers another 17%. IR is planning major investments in the railway facili-
ties serving these two cities (estimated roughly at 9% of IR's 1971/72 pro-
gram) and the bulk of the expenditures are related to the needs of commuter
traffic, but these outlays can be justified only in terms of the contribu-
tions they make to India's urbanization.
3.21      Whatever may be the economic merits of providing commuter services
at less than cost, IR should not be asked to subsidize them.  This view is
strongly held by the IR Board, which intends to press this point with Govern-
ment, in connection with action to be taken affecting other unremunerative
services of social benefit (paras. 5.17 and 5.18). Meantime, IR has accept-
ed responsibility under Government arrangements for planning, designing,
building and operating new rapid transit systems in Bombay, Calcutta, Madras
and possibly Delhi, at Government expense.
F.   Commitments under Previovs Credit
3.22      Various covenants were entered into by the Government of India
in the Credit Agreement for Credit 162-IN. These undertakings and the
1/   Electric Multiple Units consist of three passenger coaches, one of
which is powered.



- 12 -
action taken on them are summarized in Annex 8. As a result of circumstances
beyond the control of IR -- poor freight traffic and an interim wage award
costing Rs 360 million a year -- it was impossible for the financial targets
to be fully met. For the future, it is essential to get a clear understanding
from Government on its financial policy towards the Railways; this matter is
discussed in paragraphs 5.17 and 5.18. In these circumstances, IR has
taken appropriate action and made satisfactory progress on the covenants
and understandings agreed upon when negotiating Credit 162-IN.
G.   Railway Planning
3.23      The planning of the development of IR has up to now been carried
out in five-year stages, setting a framework for detailed investment plans
produced annually and submitted to Government for approval. It has neces-
sarily been concentrated on short term development; consequently, there is
lack of clarity regarding long term objectives. For example, no long term
plan is yet available for the replacement of steam by electric and diesel
traction nor for the replacement of aging wagons by others of improved design.
Further consideration should be given, in the development of the main line
infrastructure, to provide for the potential higher speed of new traction
and rolling stock. Finally, planning must take full account of the effects
on the railway of the long term development of the road network and of road
vehicles, especially where investment in infrastructure and freight depots
and yards is concerned.
3.24      The proper determination of long term objectives and investment
priorities requires a corporate plan looking forward about 15 years, as a
framework for five-year investment planning. Such a plan would be adjusted
annually and would cover all interdependent railway activities. It would
be founded on a logical sequence of traffic forecasting, route allocation,
and determination of future operational patterns. It would specify the
re-equipment necessary in traction, rolling stock and infrastructure, the
prospects for rationalization of parts of the system, and the total effects
on manpower. A capital investment plan can then be made, and its financial
effect expressed.
3.25      IR fully accepts the necessity for corporate planning on the lines
indicated, and in a Board statement (Annex 9) IR has demonstrated a complete
understanding of its nature. Proposals detailing the areas for study
(Annex 9, Appendix A) had been previously presented by the Association
and discussed at senior management levels in IR. IR is strengthening
the staff of the Directorate of Planning and aims at producing the first
corporate plar. in two years. IR is capable of undertaking the task, but
may require the assistance of consultants in some specialized fields.
3.26      A major difficulty arises from the inadequacy of complementary plan-
ning and coordination by the Government Planning Commission for the develop-
ment of road transport in India and a major effort will be required to make
this work effective in order that a realistic plan for railway development
can be undertaken. IR fully realizes its dependence for essential data on
transport policy and sector planning which will outline the role to be
played by the Railways in the development of the future transport system.



- 13 -
3.27      During negotiations, the Borrower agreed that (a) IR will prepare
and keep up to date a corporate plan covering all aspects of IR's business
and submit to IDA not later than December 31, 1973, for review and comment,
an initial version of the corporate plan which will cover the period April 1,
1974 to March 31, 1989, will include provision for the matters specified
in Appendix A to Annex 9 and will take into account any plans in other
modes of transportation; and (b) pending submission to IDA of the corporate
plan, IR will submit for review and comment, six-monthly progress reports
on such planning.
4. THE PLAN AND THE PROJECT
A.   The Plan
4.01      IDA Credit 162-IN covered the first two years of IR's Fourth Five-
Year Plan. The present project consists of the last three years 1971/72-
1973/74 of the Plan. The basic objectives of the Plan as stated by IR are:
(a) to fully provide for freight and passenger traffic
anticipated during the plan period; and
(b) to modernize the system with respect to its equipment
and practices to the maximum extent permitted by the
availability of funds, so as to improve the efficiency
of the transport network and to reduce costs.
The original Plan provided for an expenditure of Rs 15.25 billion over the
five-year period, of which Rs 4.5 billion has been expended in the two 'rears
1969/70 and 1970/71. The Plan has recently been revised to take into account
changes in traffic forecasts and is now estimated to require a total expen-
diture over the five years of Rs 12.6 billion. The original forecast of
total freight for 1973/74, the last year of the Plan, was 264 million tons.
Following reviews of recent traffic trends by the Government's Planning
Commission and IR, the forecast has been reduced to 240 million tons. Pas-
senger traffic is expected to grow at an annual rate of 3%. However, any
forecast of traffic, or of IR's carrying capacity, is subject to more than
normal uncertainty because of continuing labor unrest in the Calcutta area,
coupled with widespread vandalism on railway property. This has already
had a serious effect on IR business. The effects of the East Pakistan
crisis cannot yet be foreseen but clearly may be profound. Annex 10
explains some of the difficulties involved in forecasting traffic and
capacity. Tables 6 to 10 show past and forecast traffic for freight and
passenger services.
4.02      Under the circumstances, IR has prepared the best estimates it
can of the likely traffics during the period in which most of the invest-
ments included in the project will be completed. The estimates indicate
modest growth, and appear reasonably in line with IR's planned capacity
in 1974. IR has given assurances that it would further refine its traffic



- 14 -
forecasting procedures by: (a) more deta41ed analysis of general goods
traffic; (b) preparation of passenger and freight forecasts by principal
classes of services, distances and routes; (c) continuance of review of
construction progress on industrial and power projects which are likely
to be major generators or users of traffic; and (d) closer analysis of
trends and traffic patterns to forecast the likely average length of haul
of future railway traffic.
B.   The Project
4.03      The project is planned in detail for the year 1971/72, but for the
remaining two years is set out mainly in financial terms allocated to sub-
projects and general categories of work. The physical dimensions of the
procurement and individual programs have yet to be set out as projects
planned and engineered in detail. The total estimated cost of the project
is Rs 8,133 million (US$1,084 million equivalent) with a foreign exchange
content of US$170 million equivalent. Detailed expenditures for each year
are shown in Table 11 and a summary of project expenditure follows:
_  _Rs millions       _       US$ millions        %
Total IDA
For-          Expen- Credit
Local Foreign   Total   Local  eign   Total diture US$M
Locomotives and
Rolling Stock       2,195.2 1,069.5 3,264.7   292.8 142.6   435.4   40.2   51.5
Workshops               184.6    -       184.6    24.6   -        24.6    2.3
Machinery               102.4    33.8   136.2    13.7   4.5    18.2    1.7    3.5
Track Renewals       1,290.3    37.5 1,327.8   172.0   5.0   177.0   16.3    5.0
Bridging                198.9    -       198.9    26.5   -        26.5    2.5
Line Capacity
Works               1,204.6    33.7 1,238.3   160.6   4.5   165.1   15.2    3.0
Signalling and
Communications        268.8    29.3   298.1    35.8   3.9    39.7    3.7    3.0
Electrification        443.1    33.7   476.8    59.1   4.5    63.6    5.8    4.0
Other Electrical
Works                   71.3    -        71.3      9.5   -        9.5    0.9
New Lines              402.0    -        402.0    53.6   -        53.6    4.8
Staff Welfare
and Quarters          277.5    -        277.5    37.0   -        37.0    3.4
Users Amenities         113.2    -       113.2    15.1   -        15.1    1.4
Other Works and
Services               55.5    -         55.5      7.4   -        7.4    0.7
Road Services           50.4    -         50.4      6.7   -        6.7    0.6
Subtotal             6,857.8 1,237.5 8,095.3   914.4 165.0 1,079.4   99.5   70.0
Special Store!s          -       37.5    37.5       -     5.0      5.0    0.5    5.0
Total                6,857.8 1,275.0 8,132.8   914.4 170.0 1,084.4  100.0   75.0



- 15 -
4.04      The foreign exchange cost is the total estimated cost of direct for-
eign procurement. The local expenditures will include only an insignificant
amount of foreign exchange. Details concerning the project are given in
Tables 11 and 12 and Annex 11.
4.05      Cost estimates are based on experience with recent similar works
and on established reasonable procedures for estimating. There is no general
provision for contingencies since the project is part of an ongoing investment
program, the physical content of which will be adjusted to take account of
changes in available funds from budget allocations.
C.   Financing of the Project
4.06      IR's financing plan during the three-year period of the project is
shown and discussed in paragraphs 5.08 to 5.11. The proposed IDA credit
would contribute to the financing of the foreign exchange content of the
project with respect to payments made from September 1, 1971, which would in-
volve some retroactive financing not exceeding US$5.5 million (foreign ex-
change paynents made before that date being covered from other sources, in-
cluding IDA Credit 162-IN). Three-fourths of the proposed credit is allo-
cated to locomotives and rolling stock; the foreign exchange component of
this item is much higher than would normally be the case because of the in-
sufficiency of steel supplies from local sources. Items to be financed
under the credit are detailed in Annex 12.
D.   Execution of the Project, Procurement and Disbursements
4.07      Items to be financed by IDA under the credit will consist of
(a) complete pieces of machinery and equipment ready for use on IR; (b)
assemblies or components to be incorporated in the manufacture of railway
equipment in India, primarily locomotives and rolling stock; and (c)
materials, principally steel and copper, to be used by IR or its suppliers
or contractors in India for producing railway equipment. It has not been
possible to examine the manufacturing operations in the many private sector
plants which will use IDA financed components and materials or to judge
the efficiency of these plants. IR procurement from the private sector
in India is normally based on competitive tendering.
4.08      IDA financed items will be procured by IR or other Government
agencies through international competitive tendering except for (a) a
limited number of imported components for assembly in railway equipment
manufactured in India under license, and (b) certain items which IR pro-
cures from particular sources in order to reduce the types of equipment
in use and thereby avoid inventory and other costs. The total value of
procurement for these purposes (hereafter referred to as non-competitive
procurement) is estimated at about US$17 miLlion equivalent (category 8
in Annex 12). Allocation for these items under the credit will be limited
to this amount and reallocation of the remainder of the credit to these
items will not be permitted.  IR has indicated that after the period covered
by the proposed credit, its requirements of foreign exchange for this class
of procurement will be substantially reduced following further development
of local manufacture.



- 16 -
4.09      A considerable part of the expenditures under the project is for
the completion of ongoing works in progress on April 1, 1971, and some ex-
penditures will cover works which will not be completed until after the end
of the project period in March 1974. Estimated disbursement schedule is
shown as Annex 13.
4.10      Subject to review and agreement with the Association, savings in
any category of the proceeds of the proposed credit will be available to
cover increases in any other category with the exception of that referred
to in paragraph 4.08.
5. FINANCES AND EARNINGS
A.   Introduction
5.01      The financial arrangements between the Government and IR as
approved by Parliament are fixed by a Convention Committee which is consti-
tuted at five-year intervals. Under the arrangements, the "dividend" which
IR must pay to the Government on capital-at-charge has been increased several
times, and with effect from April 1, 1966 has been fixed at 5.5% on capital
provided to March 31, 1964 and 6.0% on capital provided thereafter. These
"dividends" have the character of interest and are independent of the level
of net earnings in a given year.
5.02      In connection with Credit 162-IN, it was agreed that rates and
fares will be set to produce sufficient revenues (a) to maintain an operat-
ing ratio not higher than 80% and (b) to meet all working expenses, deprecia-
tion and pension fund allocations, expenditure charged as open line works
and miscellaneous transactions, "dividend" on capital-at-charge and a contri-
bution to the Development Fund. Based on the present rate of "dividend", the
implementation of the above covenant was expected to give the equivalent of
a return of about 7% on capital-at-charge. The covenant was consistent
with the broad financial policy of IR in the past.
B.   Past Performance
5.03      Table 13 shows the financial results from operations for the years
1965/66 to 1970/71; the operating ratio has risen from 79.5% to 84.2% and, in
each year except 1965/66, earnings were insufficient to cover the dividend.
The inability of IR to meet its financial objectives is due to a number of
reasons: (a) freight traffic, which is generally profitable, rose more
slowly than expected; (b) passenger traffic, which as a whole is subsidized
by other IR operations, rose steadily and (c) the average costs rose more
quickly than the average revenues. The difficulties with freight traffic
were most severe in the year 1970/71 when originating revenue earning tonnage
declined by nearly 3% as a result of a significant drop in traffic to and
from steel plants and in coal traffic generally, due largely to industrial
disputes. IR earnings were also affected by civil disorders in eastern and
northeastern regions and by unofficial strikes. As a measure of the



- 17 -
troubles encountered by IR, it is reported that, during the year, 23 men
of the Railway Protection Force lost their lives and another 165 were injured
in the course of their duties.
5.04      Although the rising trend in the operating ratio indicates a
deterioration of IR profitability, the level reached is far from being
critical. By and large, IR has managed to remain a financially viable un-
dertaking despite unfavorable circumstances. Indeed, in assessing the
financial performance of IR, the following considerations must be taken
into account:
(a) As discussed in Annex 6, average receipts per ton-km and
pass-km are low, and there is a preponderance of low rated
bulk traffic. Action has been taken to increase rates and
fares effective July 1, 1971; the changes have been reviewed
and are soundly based.
(b) About 80% of total traffic is carried on the BG system, and
there is some subsidization of MG and NG lines. For 1969/70,
the BG system produced an operating surplus of Rs 1,751 million
with an operating ratio of 76.2%, while the MG and NG systems
incurred operating losses of Rs 82 million and Rs 55 million,
respectively. Al.hough it will not be possible to remove the
deficits quickly, the investment program does make provision
for a number of cost saving projects on MG and NG lines.
Passenger services on BG and MG taken together meet fully
distributed costs but make only a very small contribution to
the dividend payable to Government, which is met almost
entirely from freight operations.
(c) As mentioned above, in recent years Government has not enabled
IR to recover cost increases promptly; furthermore, it has
continued its policy of burdening IR with substantial social
obligations (e.g., passenger service earnings fall short of
their dividend contribution by about Rs 500 million and the
cost of IR's medical services is about Rs 160 million p.a.).
In presenting the Railway Budget for 1971/72, attention was
drawn to the impact of these social burdens in an Appendix,
which is reproduced as Annex 14. Recommendations on measures
to deal with this problem are made in paragraph 5.17.
(d) Personnel costs, including welfare, medical, education and
training expenses, are the largest item of operating expenditure,
absorbing 53% of the total (including depreciation) in 1969/70
compared with 57% ten years earlier. These percentages compare
favorably with those prevailing on other railways, and produc-
tivity in terms of staff per millio- gross ton-km has shown
an improvement of 17% during the tE;. ye -s to 1969/70.



- 18 -
(e) Appropriations to the Depreciation Reserve Fund 1/ (which are
in accordance with conditions agreed with the Association regard-
ing Credit 162-IN) are approximately the same as they would be
if calculated by reference to the replacement cost of depreciable
assets and their respective useful lives.
5.05      Table 14 summarizes the balance sheet of IR at March 31, 1971.
Government invested capital-at-charge amounts to Rs 33,308 million, and
net revenue from operations for 1970/71 at Rs 1,595 million represents a
return on average capital-at-charge of 4.9%. Although capital-at-charge
represents only the cost of fixed assets financed by Government, this
return can be considered as satisfactory. Over the years, capital-at-charge
has increased steadily, but the percentage of gross revenue to capital-at-
charge has for the past 20 years been fairly consistent at around 30%,
which compares well with other railways' figures.
5.06      IR has no long-term debt of its own.  However, in recent years,
IR has drawn temporary loans 2/ from the Government to meet the dividend
payable to Government and expenditures normally chargeable to the Develop-
ment Fund. The arrangement with Government is that these loans will be
repaid out of available surpluses in the future, but the situation is
somewhat unusual in that Government is borrowing from one of its pockets
to replenish another. If, however, there is to be a continuance of the
present policy, which fails to ensure that revenues are sufficient to meet
all outgoings, then it is clear that the temporary loans, which have al-
ready reached a high level (Rs 959 million as at March 31, 1971), cannot
continue to be described as "temporary". This matter has been discussed
during negotiations; the IR Board has, in memoranda presented to the
Railway Convention Committee 1/, apprised the Committee of this problem.
The Committee has had several meetings and is expected to present an
interim report to Parliament by the end of 1971.
5.07      In summary, the decline in recent years in IR profitability calls
for corrective actions, such as the increase in rates and fares effective
July 1, 1971, to reverse that trend, but IR's financial performance has
remained reasonably good and compares favorably with that of most other
railways. As mentioned in paragraph 3.06, during the past five years IR
financed, out of net internally generated funds, 48% of its total capital
expenditures; even so, the fact that IR was unable in recent years to comply
with the rate covenant of Credit 162-IN raises the question of whether the
objectives set in that covenant were not too ambitious in the first place;
a somewhat different covenant is proposed for this project (para. 5.18).
1/   See Annex 3.
2/   These temporary loans do not appear in the published balance sheet --
except by way of note.



- 19 -
C.   Financing Plan
5.08      Table 15 shows the Source and Application of Funds for the period
1971/72 to 1975/76. During the three-year period of the project (1971/72
to 1973/74), funds required by IR and the source of such funds will be as
follows:
US$
Equivalent
Rs Millions         (millions)      %
Required Funds
Capital investment /1                      8,133               1,084         97
Increase in inventories                      286                  38          3
8,419               1,122        100
Source of Funds
Internal cash generation
Railways internal cash generation         10,264               1,368
Less required for:
Dividend payments                          5,473                 730
Interest on loans                            179                  24
Repayment of loans                           364                   48
Increase in fund balances                    330                  44
Available for capital investment           3,918                  522        47
Government Contribution
Capital-at-charge /2                       3,837                 511         45
Temporary loans                              664                   89          8
Total funds from Government                4,501                  600        53
Total Sources of Funds                     8,419               1,122        100
/1   Includes Special Stores Procurement Rs 38 million (about US$5 million
equivalent).
/2   For capital investment and increase in inventories.



- 20 -
5.09      The above financing plan is based on the present financial arrange-
ments (particularly with respect to "dividends" and temporary loans) between
the Govern ent and IR. IR will be able to finance 47% of its total invest-
ment requirements out of net internally generated funds. The assumptions
underlying this forecast are discussed in paragraph 5.12 and explained in
more detail in the Notes to Table 16. The balance would be provided by the
Government, either in the form of an increase in capital-at-charge, or in
the form of temporary loans to be repaid from future revenue surpluses.
5.10      The Government contribution to capital-at-charge will include
part 1/ of the proceeds of foreign exchange loans and credits necessary
to cover IR foreign exchange requirements. Table 12 shows the foreign
exchange requirements for IR investments during the project period, de' lls
of loans and credits already available and further financing required.
The figures are summarized below:
US$ millions
Total Foreign Exchange Required          170.0  (15.7% of total
project cost)
Already Available:
IDA Credit 162-IN                       25.0
Bilateral Loans/Credits                 28.3
To be Obtained
Proposed IDA Credit                     75.0
Bilateral Loans/Credits                 30.0
Government Resources /1                 11.7
170.0
/1   Half of the items to be financed by the Government are
components for locomotives and rolling stock; the other
half, a variety of other items; some of this procurement
might have been eligible for financing under the proposed
credit but it is considered that, as in the previous credit,
the Government should retain a residual responsibility in
foreign exchange.
5.11      Of the total foreign exchange requirements, IDA would be contri-
buting US$25 million from Credit 162-IN and US$75 million from the proposed
credit, together making 59% of the total. The foreign exchange to be found
from future bilateral loans and credits has still to be finally arranged.
D.   Forecast Performance
5.12      Table 16 shows the forecast of revenue and expenditure for thr
years 1971/72 to 1975/76 on the basis of completion of the proposed project.
1/   To the extent that they finance additions to IR fixed assets.



- 21 -
The details of the assumptions made are shown in the Notes to that table and
in Table 17 which gives details of the forecast freight revenue. Basically,
revenue forecasts are conservative; expenditure estimates, however, are
based on 1971 price levels and do not include any provision for a substan-
tial increase in salaries and wages likely to take place in the first half
of 1972; the annual cost of this increase cannot be forecast but there is
some risk that it may be as much as Rs 1 billion (see Notes to Table 16).
The forecast of overall financial results cannot, therefore, be considered
as very firm, unless IR is able to compensate for these cost increases, if
and when they materialize. Normally, the Government should -- in accordance
with its undertaking to IDA -- allow IR to adjust its rates and fares accord-
ingly, but the experience of many other railways suggests that there is a
limit to the increases in tariffs that such undertakings can reasonably in-
troduce and that competition from other transport modes sometimes even pre-
vents them from maintaining tariffs at the same level in real terms. This
points out the need for IR to control costs, to continue and accelerate the
past trend of increases in productivity and to implement the planned opera-
tional and managerial improvements discussed in Chapter 3.
5.13      On the basis of the assumptions made, IR's financial performance
is expected to improve over the next few years. The operating ratio is ex-
pected to decrease to less than 80% in 1973/74 and to further improve slightly
thereafter. Net revenue from operations in 1974/75, the first year after
completion of the project, is estimated at 7.1% on capital-at-charge, and the
return on net assets (after deducting cumulative appropriations to DRF and
amounts charged to revenue) would be 7.9%, which is a rather good performance.
Starting in 1972/73, IR would be able to pay the "dividend" out of net earn-
ings, while generating also gradually increasing surpluses for allocation to
the Development Fund and/or repayment of temporary loans.
5.14      Forecast balance sheets to 1976 are shown in Table 18.  Temporary
loans owing to Government, which at March 31, 1971 amounted to Rs 959 mil-
lion, are expected to increase in the following two years to Rs 1,308
million. On the basis of present forecasts, it is feasible for the tem-
porary loans to be reduced to Rs 617 million by March 31, 1976 and for this
balance to be cleared in the following two years.
E.   IR's Financial Policy and Proposed Rate Covenant
5.15      IR's broad financial policy in the past has been to ensure that
sufficient revenues are earned to meet its operating expenses including
depreciation and "dividend" on capital-at-charge, and to leave a surplus for
allocation to Development Fund. In recent years, IR has not met these
objectives because it has been confronted with unforeseen increases in
costs (the budgets were always presented showing surpluses) which have not
been promptly or fully compensated by economies or additional revenue. It
cannot be concluded from these shortfalls that the policy itself is unsound
and should be changed, although some flexibility in its implementation
may be called for in exceptional circumstances.



- 22 -
5.16      The principle of a "dividend" payment to Government is a sound one
and should be retained; to some extent, such "dividend" payments are in lieu
of debt service payments, since under present arrangements the Government
itself assumes the service of debt incurred for the benefit of IR. There is
certainly a good justification for having IR contribute to the Government
budget as long as such imposed contributions do not impair its ability to
compete with other transport modes for traffic that it can carry at the least
economic cost.
5.17      As mentioned above, IR will have to make special efforts to remain
profitable. On its part, Government should facilitate IR's compliance with
its obligations by giving full support to the operational improvements
planned by IR and by either compensating IR for losses on unremunerative
services and social burdens undertaken at Government request or at least
giving relief to IR from the impact of temporary loans and interest thereon
resulting from such losses. As stated in paragraph 5.04 (c), action has
already been taken to disclose, in the budget documents, the losses borne
by IR on uneconomic services and the impact of the social burdens. Further-
more, the Railway Minister, in presenting the IR budget to Parliament, drew
attention to the serious effect of these burdens on IR finances. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that all these problems have been
referred to the Railway Convention Committee in memoranda submitted to them
by the IR Board (para. 5.06).
5.18      Section 4.05 of Development Credit Agreement No. 162-IN provides
(para. 5.02) that IR revenues should be sufficient to cover all operating
expenses and the "dividend" on capital-at-charge, and leave surpluses for
investments. Coverage of operating expenses and "dividend" alone requires
a rather high level of net internal cash generation by IR, and such coverage
would be an adequate test of satisfactory minimum financial performance on
the part of IR. It has therefore been agreed that the rate covenant for
the proposed credit provide for coverage of operating expenses (including
adequate appropriation for Depreciation Reserve Fund and Pension Fund) and
"dividend." It has also been agreed that appropriations to the Deprecia-
tion Reserve Fund should not be less than Rs 1,050 million, Rs 1,100 mil-
lion, Rs 1,150 million, Rs 1,200 million and Rs 1,250 million for the
fiscal years 1971/72 to 1975/76, respectively (see Notes to Table 16).
6. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
6.01      The project consists of a very large number of individual items,
of which over 6,000 cost more than US$67,000. Apart from this, economic
evaluation is complicated by lack of information on the integrated effect of
related projects, by insufficiency of cost data and by conflicting standards
of analysis applied by IR. Detailed quantification was therefore impossible
and evaluation of the project could be undertaken only by judgment based on
broad assessment and sampling. Examinations of certain parts of the invest-
ment have been made as indicated in the following paragraphs.



- 23 -
A.   Analysis of Selected Subprojects
6.02      Five subprojects were selected as samples for review from among
the 30 to be commenced this year by IR and costing more than Rs 2 million
each. These samples covered five types of investment: electrification,
track doubling, signalling, yard mechanization and construction of a
diesel locomotive shed. Internal rates of return were adequate except for
electrification, which was low. However, some factors which might have
improved the electrification result could not be taken into account and,
in the absence of better economic data, there is no basis for not completing
projects already under way. A detailed review of each project is contained
in Annex 15. In general, the projects were based on improved utilization
of IR's capital equipment, and labor savings did not play a significant
role in them. The cost of fuel was a significant element in the choice
between electrification and dieselization. The question of the appro-
priate price for fuel involves complex issues of import policy and re-
source allocation, which are now being studied by a special committee of
the Government; the Bank has been consulted in this work. Until the study
is completed, correct pricing of fuel inputs will not be feasible.
B.   Analysis of Investment for Selected Zonal Railways
6.03      The 1971/72 investment program was examined for two zonal railways,
the Central and Western, both radiating from Bombay. The Central and the
Western Railways have the largest shares of the total 1971/72 investment,
respectively 17% and 16%. In each case, the investments on permanent way
were concentrated on the main lines with only an occasional expenditure
along outlying branches of the system. This indicates the appropriate
emphasis in the location of investments, since in 1969/70 the IR main
routes carried more than 80% of net ton-km of goods traffic. The bulk
of line investments in the Central is on the Bombay-Delhi and Delhi-Madras
main lines with many individual doubling schemes and extension of electrifi-
cation. The Western's investments concentrate on the Bombay-Ahmedabad corri-
dor (additional loops and electrification) and the MG connection between
Ahmedabad and Delhi (primarily better signalling). IR will ensure that a
proper balance of investment will be maintained to meet zonal requirements
while obtaining the optimum result for the Railways as a whole.
C.   Analysis of Major Subprograms
6.04      The two most important subprograms consist of rolling stock and
track renewals, constituting 40% and 16%, respectively, of total investment.
The analysis of the replacement of steam traction by diesel (11.5% of the
total investment) shows that this investment has a rate of return over 20%,
whether on BC or MG. Diesel traction reduces both labor and fuel costs and
maintains its advantage over steam under a variety of alternative price
assumptions, including a zero cost for labor. The rate of return on diesel-
ization is so high as to suggest the desirability of accelerating the program.
Despite the high rate of return, IR is only slowly converting to diesel trac-
tion. At the present rate, it may take more than 30 years to complete the
work. Among inhibiting factors are the relatively young age of the steam



- 24 -
fleet and the under-utilization of capacity at the diesel factory through
inadequate supplies coupled with political pressures which are opposed to
import of locomotives and to a hasty expansion of local production wihich
may have repercussions on the coal industry. These questions are complex,
and IR has given assurances that all economic aspects of replacing steam
by diesel traction will be considered in the preparation of the corporate
plan, including the establishment of alternative levels of capacity in the
diesel manufacturing units.
6.05      At present, IR assesses its rolling stock needs to meet added
traffic demands on the basis of standard ratios of locomotive, wagon and
coach performance per unit of traffic with allowance for loadability charac-
teristics of certain important categories of traffic. With better cost- ng
information, IR will be in a position to assess its rolling stock requi-e-
ments in more detail, and IR has given assurances that in its corporate
plan it would assess specialized rolling stock requirements in relation to
forecasts of particular traffics and improved operations.
6.06      Full data were not available with respect to savings in maintenance
and operating costs which could be attributed to the renewals of track and
rolling stock. An effective analysis of such costs requires development of
performance criteria based on operations of IR's system as a whole, one of
the main objectives of corporate planning. Track renewals are based on use
and condition while rolling stock replacements are also judged on condition.
IR recognizes that decisions to repair or replace should be based on quanti-
fiable criteria and has indicated that in the development of the corporate
plan, it would investigate ways and means of adopting cost benefit studies
in the formulation of standards for track renewal and rolling stock replace-
ment.
D.   Overall Evaluation
6.07      Allowing for the uncertainties of future traffic and capacity,
an attempt has been made to illustrate the return on the whole investment.
For purpose of the overall evaluation, about 6% of total investment items
(e.g., staff quarters) are excluded on the ground that they are not directly
related to the production of IR transport services and are more properly re-
garded as items of expense. The evaluation also excludes the investments
attributable to suburban services, about 9% of total IR investment, on the
ground that these services must be analyzed in relation to the economic cri-
teria applicable to the urban complexes involved. Goods traffic has been
projected to increase from 111 billion ton-km in 1969/70 to 142 billion in
1975/76. To assess how much of this increase would be diverted to road
transport at a higher cost if the project were not carried out would be
mere conjecture. However, the diversion of only 2 billion ton-km would be
sufficient to cause excess economic costs of Rs 180 million per annum. Only
a part of IR's investments are to increase capacity, the remainder being de-
voted to cost saving operations. Since annual investment in diesel locomo-
tives amounts to Rs 160 million, the annual return to be achieved on this
alone would be of the order of Rs 40 million. This analysis indicates a
first-year return of 10% on the 85% of the total investment subject to the



- 25 -
overall evaluation. Further details on the economic evaluation of the pro-
ject are shown in Annex 15.
6.08      It is concluded that, taken as a whole, IR's investment program
responds reasonably well to the needs of India's economy. Investment
evaluation by IR makes use of discounted cash flow techniques in some
major subprojects, but should be more widely used and refined in application.
The credit agreement accordingly provides that (a) the methodology for
appraisal of IR investment projects will continue to be progressively im-
proved, and to cover all associated investment necessary to enable the
objectives of such projects to be achieved; and (b) criteria now used for
such appraisals will continue to be progressively replaced by discounted
cash flow criteria as trained staff become available. IR should lay
greater stress on cost saving investments in the future. Until the avail-
ability of comprehensive cost data and the completion of the corporate plan,
IR will not be able to formulate detailed and quantified management objec-
tives. The project, therefore, provides for investments in essential re-
newals, cost saving works and limited expansion of capacity to carry forecast
traffics. Pending completion of a corporate plan for IR and detailed plan-
ning for the transport sector, these objectives are satisfactory.
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a) Introduction of long-term corporate planning
(para. 3.27);
(b) Adoption of rate covenant (para. 3.18); and
(c) Improvement of investment analysis (para. 6.08).
7.02      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for an IDA Credit
of US$75 million to the Government of India.
November 30, 1971






TABLE 1
INDIAN RAILWAYS
Route Length by Freight Traffic Density Groups
Density uroups of Net Ton Km      Route Length in Km as per
per Route Km Der day          Density Statements (1969/70)
Broad Gauge      Meter Gauge
1,000  and  less            4,528              9,697
1,000       2,500           3,578              7,504
2,500   -  5,000            2,819              5,218
5,^000   -   7,500          2,215              2,284
7,500   - 10,000            3,C52             1,026
10,000   -  20,000           8,505                118
20,000   -  30,000           2,940                -
30,000   -  45,000             92,                _
45,ooo   -  60,000             673                -
60,000  and  above             12'              _
Total  29,361            25,847
July 1971



INDIAN RAILWAYS
Present and Planned Holdings of Locomotives:
A=     _1
(in units)
hbpected
Holdings        To be put in Service        To be Retired               Holdings
Broad Gauge             ~~Aprl17    ~~17-A j19                       April 1971-April 1974~      kpril ).9'(
Broad Gauge
Steam                          5,711                                            325                   5,386
Diesel Mainline                  772                  221                       -                        993
Diesel Shunters                  12Lt4                                                                  215
Electric                         582                   211                       53                      740
Mieter Gauige
Steam                          3 44t2                  18                      176                    3,284
Diesel Mainline                  266                  Il2-                                               394
Diesel Shunters                    7                                                                       7
Electric                          20                                            -                         20
Narrow Gauge
Steam                            390                                            42                       348
Diesel Mainline                   33                    30                      _                        63
All Gauges
Steam                          9,543                   18                      543                    9,018
Diesel Mainline                1,071                   379                       _                    1,h50
Diesel Shunters                  131                    91                                               222
Electric                         602                   211                      53                       760               3
July 1971



INDIAN RAILWAYS
Present and Planned Holdings of Frei:ht and       en    Car
Apri 197 ~4ril 197 ar
Expected
Holdings       To be put in Service        To be Retired                Holdings
April197       AiL         Ar`l 1974           i971-Aprl 1ril 1974
Broad Gauge
Rail Cars                               26                     2                         _                        28
Electric Multiple Units             1,57'                     i                         69                     2,019
Other Passenger C,.rs              18,289                  2,475                       900                    19,864
Freight Cars                       361,928                26,781                     7,900                   383,829
Meter Gauge
Rail Cars                               38                     6                         -                         44
Electric Multiple Units               '72                                               54                       172
Other Passenger Cars               14,035                  3,2 273 900                                        2,4h410
Freight Cars                      121,917                  3                         3,000
Narrow Gauge
Rail Cars                              19                     20                        _                         39
Other Passenger Cars                I5680                    200                        261                    1,619
Freight Cars                         9,920                 1,045                     1,100                     9,865
All Gauges
Rail Cars                               83                    28                         -111
ELectric Multiple Units             1,746                    568                       123                     2,191
Other Passenger Cars                34,004                 3,95o                     2,061                    35,893
Freight Cars                      496,785                 31,649                    12,000                   5'16,h34
1/ Holdings of freight cars are IDA missionts estimates.  They are given in "t-erir., of four-wheelers"; this means
that they are expressed in terms of standard carrying capacity for each gauges i          B3  - ?220 tons,
MG - 14.6 tons, NG = 10.9 tons per four-wheeler.
t4
July 1971



TABLE 4
INDIAN RAILWAYS
Age Inventory of Steam Locomotives, Freight Cars and Passenger Cars
as or, March 3L, 1970
(Broad Gauge and Meter Gauge)
9 &                                        46 &
Steam Locomotives              Under       10-17      18-40      4i1-45    Over       Total
BG                         1,137       1,993      1,614       215        903      5,862
MG                            555      1,237      1,125       253        278       3,448
Total BG & MG                   1,692      3,230       2,739      468      1,181       9,310
(%)                        (182)      (34.7)     (29.4)    (5.0)      (12.7)    (100.0)
7 &                                        46 &
Freight Cars                    Unider     8-14       15-4       1-5       Over        Total
BG Bogies                      34,213     14,05,       2,399      388      1,155      52,208
BG Four-Wheelers               51,107     88o053      76,89i    5,024      7,924    228,999
MG Bogies                      12,769      4,254       5,620      544        978      24,165
MG Four-Wheelers                6,804     26:071      28,510    4,862      6,671      72,918
Total BG & MG                 iD4,893    132,431    113,420   10,818      16,728    378,290
(%)                        (27.7)       : 0)      (30O0)    (2.9)       (4k4)    (100.0)
9 &                                                   41 &
Passenger Cars      Under       10-17    18-30         31->      36-4O     Over        Total
BG              7,188      5,412       1 ,534       739       594      1,952     17,119
MG              4,755      i91421      27            955      399      1,295     13,842
Total BG & MG      11,943       9,833      3s551      1,694       993      3,2h7      31,261
(%)            (38.2)      (31.5)      (11.3)      (5.4)    (3.2)      (10.4)    (100.0)
July 1971



INDIAN RAIlLATS
Operating Perfornance 1960/61 to 1969/70
EWIAD GAUGE                                                                                        METER GAUJGE
1960-61       1965-66       16-67   U       6-66         1968-69       1969-70                      1960-61       1965-66          9-6         1967-68       1968-69       1969-70
1. Percentage of service-
able locomotives
Stem                                    85-55         86.46         85.37          85.52         86.00         85.82                        86.37         87.21          85.64         86.20         87.59          57.02
Diesel                                  87.62         90.48          90.33         90.48         88.88         88.28                        59.05         87.41          87.01         89.13         89.71          89.29
Electric                                80.57         86.97         82.06          81.65         81.41         83.20                        75.00         81.50         87.00          91.10         88.20          92.90
2. Percentage of service-                     91.77         91.58          91.h3         87.61         85.7h         86.6o                        92.5l         93.51          97.96         91.35         88.15          88.10
able passenger cars
3. Percentage of service-                     96.68         96.01         95.63          95.66         96.00         95.78                        39r40         96.63         96.17          96.27         95.97          95.84
able freight cars
4. Engine-ke per day per
engine in use
Passenger:
Tte8sm                                    274            260           260           257            256           253                         220            222           223           225           227             229
Diesel                                    250           559           592            623           65P           670                          27T           249           267           416            485            446
Electric                                  363           331           339            33 lI                                                    177           237           298           379            394            374
Freght:
Steam                                     155           125            125           124           .             123                          ie4           138           137           135            137            137
Diesel                                    300           353           357            361           361           356                          273           283           276           282            281            283
Electric                                  156           327           339            335           349           350                          '7l           143           181           197            233            254
5. Gross tor  per freight train               1,354         1,470         1,484          1,584         1,514 5        496                           648           716           712            718           734            734
6. Net tons per freight train                   656           725            735           725           7?            7>                           298           347           346           348            358            362
7. Car-km per freight car day                  76.9          72.7          69.6           71.5          72 5          i5 6;                       51.6           59.7          57.6          56.8          58.8            6o.1
8. Net ton-km per freight car day               998           934           892            889           905             '                         505            507           480           474            503            522
9. Gross ten-kI  per freight                 19,640        22,252        22,556         22,967        25,399        24,385                        7,908         9,036         8,883         8,979          9,578          9,963
train hour
10. Net ton-km per freight                    io,8o8        12,262        12,400         12,433        13,200        13,036                       4,232         5,047          4,949         4,985          5,340          5,617
train hour
11.  Punctuality of pgssenger                  85.75         87.99         85.31          84.76         83.41         84.72                       82.58         87.60          83.50         86.90          85.61          85.71
trains (%)
12. Average freight car load (tons)            18.5          18.6          18.5           18.1          18.2          17,9                        104            ii.6          11.5          11.6           11.7           11.8
13. Locomotive utilization (number
of hours worked per day per
engine available for use-%)
Steam                                   58.o          58.0          48.3          48.8           48.3         459.6                        42.8          44.4          44.9           44.6           44.6           44.6
Diesel                                  78.1          8o.8          76.6           80.0          80.4          79.6                        62.8          73.0           70.0          73.3           74.6           72.5
Electric                               47.0           72.0          67.5           70.4          76.3          75.8                        19.0          42.9          44.8           58.3           50.8           49.6
All traction                            48.7          51.2          51.5          52.5           53.3          55.o                        42.9          45.6           56.1          46.3           46.3           46.7
14. Average speed Of all goods
trains ( km/h )
Steam                                   15.6          13.0          12.3           12.2          12.2          12.1                        13.7          13.2           13.0          12.9           13.3           13.5
Diesel                                  22.2          23.7          23.9          23.4           23.2          22.9                        i8.6          17.6           17.6          18.0           18.2           18.8
Electric                                19.5          23.4          25.1           24.5          25.6          25.5                        31.8          18.3           i6.6          18.1           19.9           19.5
All traction                            16.1          16.4          16.5           16.8          17.5          17.7                        13.7          14.0           13.8          13.9           14.4           15.9
15. Average speed of through freight
trains (km/h)
Steam                                   18.9          16.6          15.4          15.5           15.6          15.5                        16.8          16.2           16.1          15.6           15.9            16.2
Diesel                                  22.5       .  24.0          25.1           23.5          23.3          23.0                        21.9          17.7           17.8          18.3           18.4            19.0
Electric                                20.1          23.7          25.3          24.8           25.8          25.8                        31.9          18.3          i6.6           i8.1           19.9           19.4
All Traction                            19.2          20.1          20.1           20.2          21.0          21.1                        16.9          16.7           16.7.         16.6           17.0            17.5
16. Average lead of a ton of freight (km)    570              556            555           581           582           587                         316           368            379            395            411            415
17. Wao  turn-amnd tdays)                      11.2          11.8           12.3          12.6          12.7          12.7                        n.a           8.41           3.03           9.54           9.69           9.51
July 1971



INDIAN RAILWAYS
Freight Traffic 1960/61-1970/71
Annual Percentage Increase (%)
Tons Originating (million)                        Net ton-Km (million)                      TonsOriginating               Net Ton-Km
Revenue                                        Revenue                                         Revenue                    Revenue
YEAR            Earning         Service         Total          Earning          Service          Total         Earning        Total        Earning        Total
1960-61          119.8           36.4           156.2          72,333           15,347           87,680          8.2           6.5           4.8           6.9
1961-62          125.6           34.9           160.5          75,353           15,865           91,218          4.8           2.8           4.2           4.0
1962-63          139.4           39.4           178.8          83,140           17,553          100,693         11.0          11.4          10.3          10.4
1963-64          147.6           43.5           191.1          88,62b           18,217          106,841          5.9           6.9           6.6           6.1
1964-65          148.8           45.0           193.8          88,752           17,818          106,570          0.8           1.4           0.1          -0.3
1965-66          162.0           41.0          203.0           98,979           17,957         116,936           8.9           4.7          11.5           9.7
1966-67          164.0           37.6          201.6           99,284           17,323         116,607           1.2          -0.7           0.3          -0.3
1967-68          162.4           34.2          196.6          101,121           17,739         118,860          -1.0          -2.3           1.8           1.9
1968-69          170.8           33.2          204.0          108,129           17,011         125,140           5.2           3.8           6.9           5.3
1969-70          173.8           34.1          207.9          111,826           16,422         128,248           1.8           1.9           3.4           2.5
1970-71          168.6           32.4          201.0          111,228           15,603         126,831          -3.0          -3.3          -0.5          -1.1
1/ Provisional
November 1971



INDIAN RATL1Ar.,
Freight Traffic (Actual ed Forecast) 1960/61-1975/76
Average Annual Growth Rate()
(net ton-km)
Tons Originating (million)                                             Net ton-Km (million)                               A C T U A L            FOREAST
A CT UA L                       F 0RF,C A TT                       A C T UA                        FO0R E CA ST             1961/62-     _1966/7-      I767
1960/61      1965/66       1969/70      i973/74       1975/76      1960/61       19A65/6A     1969/70       1973/74 1/   1975/76       1965/66       1969/70       1975/76
Revenue Earning Traffic
1. Steel Plants
Finish,d Products                      3.8           6.3           7.1          8.0          10.0        3,32          5, 19u       6 741         7,592         9,490          7.7           6.8           5.9
RAs Materials (excluding woal)        10.5          17.4         16.5          21.0         27.4         1,982         3,335        2,966         3,759         4,905          9.0          -2.5           8.8
2. Coal
For Steel Plants                       8.2          12.0         12.6          13.0         18.C         2,301         3,642        4,121         4,264         5,379          7.9           3.1           4.4
Washeries                            )               4.6          6.1           7.5          8.5      )                  95           134           165           222
Other Users (excluding IR)           ) 22.7         29.8         34.3          42.0         43.0        18,233        22,767       26,771        32,802        33,583          3.8           4.2           3.9
3. Irn Ore Export                                2.6          5.2           8.8          16.0         16.5         n.a. 2/      2,653         4,892        8,864         9,141           n.a. 2/      16.4         10.9
4. Cement                                        6.5           8.6         10.7          13.3         13.5         2,471        3,979         6,256         7,725        7,B70           6.2          11.9           3.9
5. Oeneral Goods
Foodgrans                             12.7          14.5         15.1          15.7          16.0        9,620        11,737       13,400        13,970        14,192          3.3           3.3           1.0
Fertilizere                            1.4           2.5          4.6           7.0           8.0        n.a. 2/       1,843        3,760         5,663         6,472          n.-.         19.2           9.5
Misral Oils                            4.7           7.5           8.8         12.0          13,0        2,560         4,480        4,958         6,768         7,332          9.8           2.7           6.7
Other                                 46.6          53.6         49.2          52.0          58.6       31,846Y       39,254       37,827        39,260        44,243          6.5  3/      -1.0           2.6
Total Revenue Earnig Traffic                   119.7         162.0        173.8         207.5        232.5        72,333       98,979       111,826      130,832       142,829           6.3           3.1          4.2
Non-Revenue Traffic
Railway Coal                                19.5          20.3         18.0          15.0         14.0        13,580        15,555       14,703        12,270        11,452          2.6          -1.2          -4.0
Railway Materials                           17.0          20.7         16.1          18.0         18.0         1,767        2,402         1,719         1,926         1,926          6.3          -3.5           1.9
Total All-Traffic                              156.2         203.0         207.9        240.5         264.5       87,680       116,936      128,248       145,028       156,207          5.8           2.5           3.4
1/ Figures obtained by multiplyirg forecast "tons originating" by actual 1969/70 average lead for each commodity.
I/ Not available separately; included under "other".
37 Inmludes "iron ore export" and "fertilizersa%
September 1971



INDIAN RAIDYrs
Plassener Traf fc
1960/61         1961/62          1962/63           1963/64          1964/65           1965/66          1966/67           1967/68          1968/69           1969/70
Pass-km (millio,m)
First cla-s,  i r-cordi tioned                         110             LL7               130              138              143               146              151               153              134               146
First cl sS, ordinry                                 1,931           2,110             2,293            2,496             2,693            2,976            3,137             3,070            3,137             3,454
Second class, mail                                   1,110           1,311             1,103            1,216            1,271             1,278            1,082             1,097            1,077             1,202
Second class, ordinary                                 687             697              659               665              68                701              708               677              577               587
Third class, n;r-condi tioe d                          108             113               130              139               142              140              168               231              216               277
Third class, mail                                   22,278          23,337            25,204           26,976            28,01,           29,062           29,085            32,612           33,574            34,798
Third  as-,                                              ord,.  y                                           1,'4L6 54,4)00 54, ! 1 24265  61,991           67.8T4           69323             68,225            72.918
Total                                          77.665          81,88583991                        88,588            9389             96,2S4          iu2,              107,163          106.940           113,382
Train-ik, passenger sd pasecegor
Cooventiosal trains                                189,963         192,278           196,03           196,80,          206,69:           214,394          218,776           220,509          220,020           222,599
Electric multiple unite                             13,978          14,4,33           11I,793          15'I,             15,763           15,910           17,992            19,306           20,hol            22,035
Rail-ors                                             3,505           4,491             4 O8?            3,57             2.90              2.95i            3192              3.2              3,056             2,623
To tat                                        207,446          211,212          21h.901          217,45?,          225,362          233,328          239,960           242,944          243,557           247.257
Vehicle-km, pasren6er and passenger
proportion of med. th-Sad.)
Ceorentienal trains                              3,594,474       3,692, 768        3,825,325        3,909,281        4,072,009         4,276,661        4,350,332         4,353,628        4,390,718         4,550,065
Electric slLtiple unita                             98,380         105,033           216,860          230,616          245,640           263,528          274,593           287,805          318,541           343,312
Rail-cars                                            4,006           5,286            9,240             7,999            6.577            6.647             7,252            7,027             6,624           5.460
Total                                       3,696,860       3A038 7           4,051,425        4,117,926         4,324,226        4,546,836         4632.177              .460        4,715a883        41898,837
Passenger reveesn  (Rupees in thousands)
First class, air-conditioned                        11,0b          13,815            16,124           17,325          l18,08             19, 95           20,590            23,319           22,775            24,680
First class, ordinary                               83,26Y          98,049           117,836          133,971          146,956           168,656          172,049           181,51U          194,305           204,099
Second class, mail                                  36,820          40,7271           43,9Y2           51,286           55,335            59,720           50,406           55,278            56,285            61,292
Second class, ordinary                              20,532          22,869            23,457           24,404           25,689            28,094           28,155           28,060            24,881            25,256
Third class, air-conditioned                         3,367           3,b74             4,688            5,209            5,291             5,550            6,802            10,008           10,254            13,205
Third class, mail                                  111,717         480,257           558,765          639,205          690,745           779,488          780,521           917,249          978,897         1,013,497
Third class, ordinary                              759.19h         852,358           927,001          980,092         1,050,714        1,130.305        1,234,882         1.3U,013         1.363.607         1.446.594
Total                                       1,326.711       1,511,946         1.691,656        1,851,492         1.992,781        2,191,718        2.293,408         2.526,438        2.65L.004         2.788,623
Revenue per poss-kc  (in Paise)
First class, air-conditioned                         10.70           11.60             L2.30            12.50             12.60            13.60            13.67             15.29            16.90             16.90
First class-ordinary                                  4.31            4.65              5.14             5.37             5.46              5.67             5.48              5.91             6.19              5.91
Second class, sail                                    3.32            3.66              3.99             4.21             1.33              4.67             1.66              5.04             5.23              5.10
SRc.nd class, ordinary                                2.99            3.28              3.56             3.67             3.73              4.01             3.97              4.15             4.31              4.30
Third clas, air-conditioned                           3.13            3.13              3.62             3.74              3.74             3.77             4.05              4.32             4.75              4.76
Third class, mil                                      1.85            2.06              2.22             2.37              2.46             2.68             2.68              2.82             2.92              2.91
Third class  ordin-ry                                 1.48             1.57             1.70             1.72              1.74             1.82             1.82              1.89             2.00              1.9S
Aerage all clauses                                    1.71            1.85              2.01             2.09              2.13             2.28             2.25              2.36             2.48              2.46
July, 1971



TABLE 9
INDIAN RAILWAYS
Comparison of Suburban and Non-Suburban Passenger Traffic
Average Annual
Growth Rate
1960/61    1965/66    1968/69    1969/70    1961/62-1969/70
Passenger originating
(million)
Suburban                    685       1,025       1,084      1,159         6.0
Non-Suburban                 909      1 057       1 129      1 179         3.0
Total                                                                   4.2
Pass-Km (million)
Suburban                 11,818      17,235      19,515     22,168         7.1
Non-Suburban             65 847      79 059      87 425     91 214         3.8
Total       ~77                                         113 382         4.3
Average Lead (Km3
Suburban                   17.3        16.8        18.0       19.1        11
Non-Suburban                72.4       74.8        77.5        77.3        0.8
1/ The figures refer to passengers booked between stations
within the suburban areas of Bombay, Calcutta, Madras and
Secunderabad (Hyderabad).
July 1971



INDIAN RAILWAYS
Projections of Non-Suburban Passenger traffic
Distance Zone         Passengers Originating (in millions)               Percentage to Total (%)
_  (Km)         1969/70    1973/74   1978/79    1953/84           1969/70    1973/7h    1983/84
1-80                  806       1,080     1,188       1,278             79.2        80.1       77.1
80-250                1h2         168       195         222            14.0         12.5       13.4
250-500                43          58        73          90             h.2          h.3        5.4
500-800                15          17        22          27             1.h          1.3        1.6
Over 800               12          25        32          41             1.2          1.8        2.5
1/
Total               1,018       1,348     1,510       1,658           100.0        100.0      100.0
1/ The break up excludes military and season ticket passengers -
the total number of originating passenger non-suburban being 1179.
July 1971



INDIAN RAILWAYS
Revised Investment Prcgram for the Fourth Five-Year Plan 1 969/70-1 973/74
(in Rs million)
Total 4th                     Total
1/                   2/                              3-Year Project                                  5-Year Plan               3-Year Project
Items                           1969-70              1970-71               1971-72               1972-73              1973-74                 1969-74                  1971-74      %
Rolling Stock                    992.2               1,053.1               1,121.8               1,068.0               1,074.9                 5,310.0                 3,264.7    40.3
Workshop & Sheds                  27,5                  37.9                  51.1                  63.6                  69.9                   250.0                   184.6      2.3
Machinery & Plant                 29.5                  34.3                  58.0                  40o0                  38.2                   200.0                   136.2      1.7
Track Renewals (Net)             211.8                 260o4                 350.0                 477.8                 500.0                 1,800.0                 1,327.8    16.4
Bridge Works                      42.3                  38.8                  53.1                  70.0                  75.8                   280.0                   198.9     2.5
Line Capacity Works              338.9                 362.8                 429.4                 421.9                 387.0                 1,940.0                 1,23B.3    15.3
Signalling & Safety               81.2                  90.7                 167.0                  63.0                  68.1                   470.0                   298.1     3.7
Electrification                  118.4                 124.8                 160.3                 155.6                 160.9                   720.0                   476.8     5.9
Other Electrical Works            12.2                  36.5                  42.0                  114.0                 15.3                   120.0                    71.3     0.9
New Lines                        106.9                  151.1                164.4                 110.5                 127.1                   660.0                   402.0      4.9
Staff Welfare                     23.4                  30.9                  30.4                  32.3                  33.0                   150.0                    95.7     1.2
Staff Quarters                    60.8                  57.4                  60.0                  61.8                  60.0                   300.0                   181.8     2.2
Users' Amenities                  44.7                   42.1                 38.8                  36.0                  38.4                   200.0                   113.2      1.4
Other Specified Works             17.8                   26.7                 23.9                  18.0                  13.6                   100.0                    55.5     0.7
Road Services                     19.1                   30.5                 29.6                  10.0                  10.8                   100.0                    50.4     0.6
Total                     2,126.7               2,378.0               2,779.8               2,642.5              2,673.0                12,600.0                  8,095.3   100.0
V/  Actuals
2/ Provisional
-1
November 1971



TABLE 1 2
INDIAN RAILWAYS
Foreign EXcharge Requirements Duiring the Project Period 1971/72-1973/74
Requirements
1971/72        1972/73        1973/74           TOTAL
US$ millions
Components for:
Electric Locomotives                              11.1            8.5            9.8              29.4
Piesel Electric Locomotives                       13.3          1-5.3           17.9              46.5
Diesel Hydraulic Locomotives                       3.0            3.3            4.6              10.9
Electric Multiple Units                            2.2            3.6            3.0               8.8
Coaches                                            2.8            3.9            3.5              10.2
Wagons                                             5.5            4.6            4.2             114.3
37-9          39.2           43.0             120.1
Track Renewals,
L ne Capacity Works and Other
Electrical Works                                      2.5            3.5            3.5               9.5
Signalling and Telecommunication E3quipment           2.2            1.0            0.7               3.9
Electrification Equipment                             1.4            1.6            1.5               4.5
Plant and Machinery                                     ..           1.5            1.5              14.5
Sundry Railway Equipment and Mate:'ials               7.3            7.1            8.1              22.5
and services                                        5.9                                            165.0
Special Stores Procurement                             -             2.3            2.7               5.0
Already Available                                    52.8           521.0                           170.0
IDA Credit 162-IN                                 25.0             -                              25.0
Bilateral sources LI                              19.8            8.5             -               28.3
Balance Requirement /                                 8.0           47.7           61.0             116.7
i/ Finance already available from Bilateral sources is as follows:
us$ millions
US Aid and Export Import Bark                                    5.2
Canada                                                          4.7
Federal Republic of Germany                                      5.3
France                                                           2.1
Japan
United Kingdom                                                   7.0
Switzerland                                                      1.0
Belgium                                                          0.3
Austria                                                          0.1
Other Sources                                                    2.6
28.3
2/ The balance of foreign ex-h., -e required is to be covered as follows:
US$ millions
Proposed IDA Credit                                             75.0
EXpected to be available frorr 3ilateral
financing                                                      30.0
From Government resources                                       11.7
ll6.7
November 1971



TABLE 1
INDIAN RAILWAYS
Results of Operation 1965/66-1970/71
1965/66       1966/67       1967/68        1968/69       1969/70          1970/71
Gross Operating Revenue                                                             (Rs milion)
Passenger                                            2,192          2,294          2,526         2,651         2,789            2,955
Other coaching                                         394            390            395           450           481              621
Goods                                                4,655          4,816         5,028          5,628         5,943            6,157
Sundries                                                95            188            232           259           300              334
Total Revenue                                     7,336           7,688         8.181          8.988         9.513           10,067
Operating Expenses
Administration                                         556            605            664           711            752             830
Repairs and maintenance                              1,576          1,699          1,901         2,090         2,238            2,485
Operating Staff                                      1, -5          1,120          1,239         1,336         1,414            1,574
Fuel                                                 1,0-M          1,102         1,278          1,391         1,511            1,469
Operating other tIhan staff a-i fuel                   2:0            265            318           357            375             390
Miscellaneous expenses                                 245             264           262           255            322             312
Labor welfare                                          186            201            220           227           237              263
Working Expenses                                  4,85'           5,256         5,882          6,367         6,849            7,323
Appropriations to:
Depreciation Reserve Fund                              ,50          1,000            950           950            950           1,000
Pension Fund                                           _20            135             99            99             99             149
Total Operating Expenses                          5,829           6,391         6,931          7,416         7,898            8,472
Net Revenue from Operations                            1,507          1,297          1,250         1,572         1,614             1,595
Charges to Revenue of a Capital riat-u'e:
Open line works                                        107            100             93            77             73               68
Miscellaneous transactions                              51             56             57            67             75               79
Net Revenue                                            1,349          1.141          1,100         1,428         1,466             1,445
Dividend on Capital-at-Charge J/                       1,163          1,324          1,415         1,507         1,564             1,646
Net Surplus (Deficit)                                    186            '183)         (315)          (79)           (98)            (198)
Operating Ratio                                         79.5            *3.1          84.7          82.5           83.0             84.2
Rate of Return on Average Capital-at-Charge  (%)    5-3                 4.1           3.8            4.7           4.7              4.4
1/ Rate of Dividend on Capital-at-Charge:
On Cai'.al Provided by Government
(a)  To March 31, 1961        (b)  After March 31, 1964
1965/66                                h.5%                            5.75%
1966/67 and later years                5.5%                            6.o%
November 1971



TABLE 14
INDIAN RAILWAYS
Balance Sheet March 31, 1971
Rs Millions
Assets
F;Ixed Assets                                                           38,971
inventories                                                              2,025
40,996
^.e eivables                                                             1,832
r.ah and Deposits wit'.- Go-ernmenz
wash                                               334
Deposits                                        2,429                  2,763
To:.X  As6e-L                                                45.591
Capital and Reserve F)nds
-=nvestment firanced from:
Government Capital-at-Charge                                          33,308
Government Tenporary Loans:       DF               651
.RRF            308                   959
Railway Sources:
Depreciation Reserv-e ?>i.                    2,230
Development Fund                               3,651
Revenue                                        1,807
7,688
Less portion financaci by te7:orary
Loans from Go- -Ernment                     959                  6,729
40,996
Railway Funds
Depreciation Reserve =iid                     i,444
Revenue Reserve F:n2
Development FLnd                                  13
Pension Fund                                     929                 2,428
Current Liabilities                                                      2,167
Total Capital ard Reserves                                   45,591
November 1971



NOTES TO TABLE 14
Sheet 1
1.   Fixed Assets
The value of fixed assets shown in the Balance Sheet is their
original cost but the additional cost of like for like replacements over
their original cost (the inflationary element) is charged against DRF. The
full cost of all assets including the additional cost of replacements is
Rs 47,034 million. Included in this total are works in progress, land and
other non-depreciable assets amounting to Rs 6,159 million. The book value
of depreciable assets is:
Rs millions
Total fixed assets                             47,034
Less non-depreciable assets                     6,152
Cost of depreciable assets                     40,875
2.   Depreciation Reserve Fund
This balance represents cumulative contributions to date less
(a) assets withdramn from service and (b) the full cost of replacements.
3.   Inventories
These are financed from Capital--at-Charge.
4.   Investment Financed from Railwav Sources
These are the published figures representing amounts the Railways
should have provided from their owm sources over the years towards the capi-
tal investment programs. In recent years net earnings have been insufficient
to make any allocation to Development Fund and the Revenue Reserve Fund
has been used up in meeting dividend payments. Consequently, in order to
meet the cost of expenditure charged to the Development Fund and the short-
fall in dividend payments, IR has drawn temporary loans from Central Govern-
ment to ensure that its funds did not become overdrawn. The outstanding
temporary loans at Maroh 31, 1971 which have been drawn to augment the fund
balances are- shown in IA' s balance sheet only by way of note and are as
So1lows i  ~~----



NOTE TO TAELE 14
Sheet 2
Corresponding figures
at
Development Fund                 Rs millions           March 1972
(Estimated)
Loans drawn in 1967/68                112
1968/69               141
1969/70               181
1970/71               217
651                 872
Revenue Reserve Fund
Loan drawn in 1969/70                  39                 348
1970/71                219
Total temporary loans obtained)      _
from Central Goveimment at    )
March 31, 1971 excluding       )
accrued interest               )      9                 1,220
The above figures are based on the Budget Explanatory Memorandum issued
in March 1971. The balance sheet figures have been adjusted to show
the outstanding loans.
5.  Development Fund - finances expenditure of a capital nature for:
(i) Operating improvemonts costing over Rs 300,000 each;
(ii) Users' amenities irrespective of their cost;
(iii)  Staff amenities co3ting more than Rs 25,000 each.
6.   Items Financed from Revenue are:
(i)  Operating improvements costing up to Rs 300,000 each;
(ii) Staff amenities costing 7ess than Rs 25,000 each.
7. Provident Fund
The balance on the fund at March 31, 1971, Rs 4,175 million, is
not shown in the above balance sheet since these funds are held in a special
deposit account specifically for paying benefits to employees. Contributions
to the fund are charged to operating expenses.



INDAL RAILWAYS
Source and Application of Funds 1971/72-1975/76
Totals for
Project Years
1971/72          1972/73          1973/74          1974/75          1975/76                         1971/74
Rs Millions
Source of Funds
Net Revenue from Operations                                1,669            2,016            2,245            2,487             2,731                          5,930
Less Dividend on Capital-at-Charge                       1,738            1,822            1,913            1,994             2,089                          5,473
(69)             194              33?              493              642                             457
Contribution to DRF                                        1,076            1,126            1,176            1,227             1,278                          3,378
Capital works charged to Revenue                              90              108              108              100              100                             306
Increase in Pension Fund excluding Interest                   67               92              113              107              102                             272
Interest on Fund Balances                                    120              128              130              141              160                             378
Railways Cash Cl     on                                  1,284            1.648            1,859            2,068             2,282                          4,791
Totals
Capital Funds to be received from Government               1,510            1,113            1,214            1,600            1,700                           3,837
RRF                     80                                                                                80                80
Temporary Loans from Government       DF                     221              265               98                                             584               584
3,026            3,171            3,668            3,982                           9,292
Application of Funds
Capital works charged to Revenue                              90              103              108              100               100                            306
Replacement works DRF                                      1,000            1,350            1,280            1,000             1,100                          3,630
Works charged to Development Fund                            200              223              223              200               200                            646
Additions charged to Capital                               1,490              961            1,062            1,550             1,650                          3,513
Total Capital Expenditure                                2,780            2,642            2,673            2,850             3,050                          8,095
Totals
Increase/(Decrease) in Inventories                            20              152              152               50                50                            324
Repayment of Temporary Loans         RRF                      40              177              147               24                -           388               364
DF                       -               -                -                 215             403
Interest on Temporary Loans          RRF                      14               18               10                3                -                              42
DF                       35               47               55               53               40                             137
2,8 E9           3,036            3,037            3,195            3,543                           8,962
Increases in Fund Balances                                   206              -10              134              473               439                            330
Opening Cash and Fund Balances                             2,763            2,969            2,959            3,093             3,S66                          2,763
Closing Cash and Fund Balances                             29 2,9                           3,093            3,S66             4,005                           3093
Reconciliation of Temporary Loans
Increase In Fund Balances       DRF                .146              -154              -38             t 299             .262  Outstanding 1971      308      671
Pensions            .113             .144             .172             +174              +177
DF                   -13               -                -                -                 -   Received 1971/74       80      584
RRF                _-40                -                -                _-                                          3      1,235
Repaid 1971/76        388      618
Temporary Loans-Balance Outstanding  RRF             348              171               24                -                -  Outstanding 1976        -         7
DF              872            1,137            1,235            1,020               617
November 1971



TABLE 16
INDIAN RAILWAYS
Revenue and Experditure Forecast Years 1971/72-1975/76
1970/71            1971/72       1972/73       1973/74      1974/75       1975/76
Actual            (Budget)       - - - - -    F O R E C A S T   - - - - - -
Rs millions
Gross Operating Revenue
Passenger                               2,955               3,187        3,319         3,418        3,521         3,626
Other Coaching                            321                 595          615           635          655           675
Goods                                   6,157              6,560         7,160         7,622        8,032         8,448
Sundries                                  334                360           380           400          420           440
Total Revenue                  1,6                 10,702        11,474              12,075  12,628      13,189
Operating Expenses
Personnel Costs                         4,380              4,579         4,791         4,969        5,128         5,288
Fuel                                    1,469              1,560         1,605         1,645        1,701         1,756
Other Costs and Stores                  1,474              1,515         1,589         1,668        1,717         1,769
Total Working Expenses           7,323              7,654         7,985        8,282         8,546         8,813
Appropriations to:
Depreciation Reserve Fund               1,)OO              1,050         1,100         1,150        1,200         1,250
Pension Fund                              149                150           175           200          200           200
Total Operating Expenses        8,472               8,854         9,260        9,632         9,946        10,263
Net Revenue from Operations               1,595               1,848        2,214         2,443        2,682         2,926
Charges to Revenue of a Capital nature;
Open Line Works                              68                  90          108           108           100          100
Miscellaneous Transactions                   79                  89           90            90            95           95
Net Revenue                               1,448              1,669         2,016         2,245        2,487         2,731
Dividend on Capital-at-Charge             1,646              1,738         1,822         1,913        1,994         2,089
Net Surplus/(Deficit)                      (198)                (69)          194          332          493           642
Operating Ratio                            84.2                82.7         80.7          79.8          78.8         77.8
November 1971



NOTES TO TAELE 16
1. Gross Operating Revenue
Passenger and freight revenue forecasts take account of increases
in rates and fares from July 1, 1971. Passenger traffic revenue is based
on annual increase in volume of 3%, which is very conservative. During the
past ten years, suburban traffic has increased by an average of 7.1% annually
and nonsuburban traffic by 3.8%, an overall increase of 4.3%. Freight revenue
forecasts are based on annual increase of revenue earning tonnage of 6.9% (details
in Table 17). Achievement of financial targets is most sensitive to shortfall
in high-rated traffic; while the tonnages of expected coal and high-rated general
goods traffic are similar for 1975/76, a 5% shortfall in traffic would mean a
loss of about Rs 80 million in coal revenues as against a loss of Rs 148 million
in general goods, It is to be notedthat the forecast for higher rated general
goods assumes a growth in net ton-km of 2.6% per annum, which is conservative and
should be achieved in the light of special efforts being made by IR to obtain the
traffic.
2. Operating Expenses
Expenditure estimlates take full account of expected increases in costs
resulting from the anticipated increase in traffic volume; estimates are based
on 1971 price levels. No provision has been made for the effect of final award
by the Pay Commission.  This Commission reviews pay scales once every ten years!!
and has already made an interim award costing Rs 360 million a year; the best
estimate of the likely date of a final award is the first half of 1972. The
lowest paid workers in the steel industry have had their pay increased from
Rs 180 to Rs 252 a month and, since the lowest paid workers on the railways get
Rs 152 a month, the likely award according to one tentative estimate, could
cost IR Rs 1,000 million a year. An increase of this magnitude would be very
serious for IR and would mean an increase in working costs of about 15%.
Allocation to the Depreciation Reserve Fund (DRF) up to the year
1973/74 is in accordance with existing covenants to the Association. Con-
sultants have reported that the figures are adequate at least until 1973/74
although the present system of charging depreciation could lead to some under-
provision thereafter. Therefore, for the years 1974/75 and 1975/76, the al-
location is increased to Rs 10200 and Rs 1,250 million, respectively; these
figures are reasonable.
1/ In the intervening years, wage awards are linked to the cost of living index.






INDIAN RAILWAYS
Forecast of Freight Rtevenue and Tonnages for the Period 1971/72-1975/76
1971/72                1972/73                 1973/74                 1974/75                  1975/76
Tons         Rs        Tons          Rs        Tons          RS        Tons          Rs        Tons          Rs
(All figures are in millions)
Revenue Earning Traffic
1. Steel Plants
Finished Products                             7.1         507        7.3         525          8.0       576           9.0         648        10.0         720
Raw Materials (exluding coal)                16.5         203       18.9          233        21.0       259          24.2         298        27.4         337
2. Coal
For Steel Plants                             12.5         211       12.9         220         13.0       222          15.5         264        18.0         307
Washeries                                     6.2          44        7.0           51         7.5         54          8.0          58          8.5         62
Other Users                                  33.8         955       38.0        1,088        42.0     1,203          42.5       1,217        43.0       1,231
3.  lron Ore for Export                            12.0         364       14.5          439        16.0       1485         16.2         491        16.5         500
4. Cement                                          11.8         422       12.3          447        13.3        484         13.3         484        13.5         491
5. General Goods
Foodgrains                                   15.5         545       15.6          549        15.7       552          16.0         563        16.0         563
Fertilizers                                   5.0         203        5.9         239          7.0       284           7.5         305         8.0         325
POL                                           9.5         525       11.2         627         12.0       672          12.5         700        13.0         728
Other                                         48.6      2,436       50.5        2,548        52.0     2,623          55.3       2,790        58.6       2,956
Total Revenue Earning Traffic                     178.5                  1914.1                   207.5                   220.0                   232.5
Non-Revenue Traffic
Railway Coal                                     15.0                   15.2                     15.0                    14.5                    14.0
Railway Materials                                16.5                   17.0                     18.0                    18.0                    18.0
Other Goods Earnings                                            145                     194                    208                      214                     228
210.0      6,560      226.3        7,160       240.5      7,622        252.5       8,032        264.5      8,448
NOTES: 1. The tonnages shown above were supplied by Indian Railways and are based on the tentative forecasts of the Planning Commission.
2. The revenue figures are based on information supplied by Indian Railways but take into account proposed rate increases which
became effective July 1, 1971.
November 1971



TABLE 18
INDIAN RAILWAYS
Forecast Balance Sheets as at March 31, 1972-1976
1972          1973          1974          1975          1976
Rs Millions
Assets
Fixed Assets                                  4o,931        42,466        44,089        46,119        48,267
Inventories                                    2,045         2,197         2,349         2,399         2,449
42,976        44,663        46,438        48,518        50,716
Receivables                                    1,832         1,832         1,832         1,832         1,832
Cash and Deposits with Government
Cash                                           335           335           335           335           335
Deposits                                     2,634         2,624         2,758         3,231         3,670
Total Assets                          47,777        49,454        51,363        53,916        56,553
Capital and Reserve Funds
Investment financed from Government
Capital-at-Charge                            34,818        35,931        37,145        38,745        40,445
DF         872          1,137         1,235         1,020           617
Government Temporary Loans         RRF         348           171            24           -
Railway Sources
Depreciation Reserve Fund                    2,410         2,653         2,883         3,063         3,261
Development Fund                             3,851         4,074         4,297         4,497         4,697
Revenue                                      1,897         2,005         2,113         2,213         2,313
8,158         8,732         9,293         9,773        10,271
Less portion financed by temporary
loans from Government                     1,220         1,308         1,259         1,020           617
6,938         7,424         8,034         8,753         9,654
Railway Funds
Depreciation Reserve Fund                    1,590         1,436         1,398         1,697         1,959
Revenue Reserve Fund                             2             2             2             2             2
Development Fund                               -             -             -             -             -
Pension Fund                                 1,042         1,186         1,358         1,532         1,709
2,634         2,624         2,758         3,231         3,670
Current Liabilities                            2,167         2,167         2,167         2,167         2,167
Total Capital and Reserves            L ,77         49.44         51.363        53,916        56,553
November 1971



ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIANi RAILWAYS
Data on Transport Sector
1.        The following tabulation indicates the role of the various modes
in India's internal transport; for road, pipeline and coastal transport,
the data are somewhat speculative but suffice to indicate the main features
of the system: 1/
Annual                  Annual
Freight Traffic       Passenger Traffic
ton-km billion        pass-km billion
Rail (Revenue traffic only)                  112                    113
Road                                          47                    111
Coastal Shipping                               5                less than 1
Pipeline                                       5                      -
Air (Revenue passengers only)            less than 1                  2
Total                                        169                    226
According to these estimates, rail accounts for 50% of passenger and 66%
of goods traffic.
2.        The contribution of transport to India's national product was
nearly 4% (in 1968/69 about Rs 11.5 billion). Investment data for the
economy (most recent available are for the year 1965/66) show that during
the Third Plan Period (1961-1966) annual investment varied between 12 and
15% of national income at an average (in constant prices) of about Rs 20
billion per annum. It is estimated that transport as a whole took up about
one-third (Rs 6 billion) and railways about one-sixth (Rs 3 billion) of that
amount; IR's share in public sector investment was somewhat over one-half.
Since the end of the Third Plan, there apparently has been little change in
the rate of transport investment, but IR's share has declined from about
one-half to one-third of the total, due to investment cutbacks by IR in
response to shortfall in expected traffics and due to the Government's
increased emphasis on road building and expansion of the merchant marine.
1/ All figures rounded to nearest billion; rail and air are based on 1969/70
reports for Indian Railways and Indian Air Corporation, the domestic air-
line; road is based on Planning Commission estimates for 1969/70 which
may understate the amount of road traffic sinLe they imply a rather low
utilization of the fleet; pipeline data are based on estimated 1968(69
capacity; coastal shipping is based on 1967/68 tonnage data (most recent
available) and assumed average distance carried of 1,000 km and 1966
passenger statistics of less than 1 million and assumed average distance
carried of 500 km; figures do not include non-motorized traffic such as
bullock carts, sailing vessels, etc.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
3.        While IR still holds a predominant position in Indian transport,
road and air transport have grown rapidly in the last 20 years, thereby
not only breaking the monopoly position IR once held in remote areas of the
country but extending transport services far beyond the railway nietwork.
The highway system 1/ expanded by 50%O to 600,000 km, while the registered
number of trucks and buses more than tripled, from around 100,000 to nearly
400,000 units 2/ and airline passenger kn went up sevenfold to 1.6 billion.
4.        Despite rapid growth in road and air transport, these modes still
have a large remaining potential for development. The road network per unit
of area is low at .18 km per km2 and similarly the number of commercial
vehicles is very meager at .73 units per 1,000 head of population. Many
villages in India are still without an all-weather connection to the highway
network and, as these links are built, truck transport will become increas-
ingly available to India's agriculture provided that it is not unduly impeded
by a shortage of vehicles, high taxes on fuel and other imputs and obstacles
to economic operations such as octrois. 3/ Similarly, aviation today carries
only about 2 million passengers per annum, which represents less than 1% of
India's population, and suggests great scope for expansion. Even with heavy
taxes on fuel and a cross-subsidized rate structure, further growth should
be very rapid.
5.        By contrast, the two modes which compete with IR in bulk transport,
pipelines and coastal shipping, are relatively unimportant in India's trans-
port system. The only large pipeline system carries crude oil from the
northeast Indian oil fields to a refinery in Bihar and products from there
to the center of the country; the remaining pipelines are mostly short and
scattered. About half of the approximately 5 millions of coastal tonnage
is represented by petroleum products originating from the refineries scattered
along India's coast. While there is large additional traffic which could use
pipelines or could be shipped by coastal vessel, an active Government policy
is needed to plan and promote the use of these modes to economic advantage.
1/ Motorable roads only.
2/ In 1967/68 (the most recent year for which data are available), there
were about 290,000 trucks and 81,000 buses registered and it is esti-
mated that another 30,000 units were added to the fleet in the inter-
vening three years.
3/ Taxes levied on goods being brought into cities, towns or villages.
September 1971



INDIAN RAILWAYS
ORGANIZATION ChART
GENERAL MRNAGERS
DIRECIUORS
Central Railway, Bombay
Accounts
Civil Engireering                                                                        Eastern Railway, Calcutta
Electrical Engineering                                                                   Northern Railway, Delhi
Minister for Railways                                            Establishment                                                                             North Fastern Railway, Gorakhpur
Minister of State for Railways                                   Finance                                     Zonal Railways                                Northeast Frontier Railway, Pandu
Deputy Minister for Railways                                      leslth                                                                                   Soutlern Railways, Madras
Mechanical Engineering                                                                   South Central Railway, Secunderabad
Mechanical Engineering (Prod & Dev)                                                      South Eastern Railway, Calcutta
Planning                                                                                 Western Railway, Bombay
RAIliAY 30ARn                                                    Railway Electrification
Chairman                                                         Safety and Coaching
Financial Commissioner                                           Security                                                                                  GENERAL MANAGERS
Member Engineering                                               Signalling and Telecommenication                                                          Chittaranjan Locomotive Works, Chittaranjan
Member Mechanical                                                Statistic- ard Econonsics                   Manufacturirg Units                           Diesel Locomotive Works, Varanasi
Member Staff                                                     Stores                                                                                    Integral Coach Factory, Madras
Member Finance (Accounts)                                        Traefic Trnsnortation
Director General Vigilance
Additional Member Comsercial
Additional Member Mechanical
Additional Member Staff
Additional Member Works                                              ADVLSER                                 Research                                                  DIR_ GECTOR GENERAL
O.S.D. (Freight Structure)                                       Economics (Economic Unit)                                                                 Rasearch, Designs and Standards Organization, Lucknow
Secretary
November 1971






ANN'EX 3
INDIAN RAILWAYS
Financial Arrangements with Government
1.        The accounts of IR are those of a Government department and are
designed to show the origin and use of public funds. Government authorizes
all the capital and operating funds required by IR in accordance with bud-
gets approved by Parliament and acts as IR's treasurer. Bank loans and IDA
credits are channeled through Government to IR and, insofar as they relate
to additions, they appear in IR's accounts as Interest-bearing permanent
capital known as capital-at-charge and become part of Government's invest-
ment. The portion of foreign loans obtained to finance replacements is re-
imbursed in local currency to Government by IR as expenditures are incurred.
2.        Capital expenditures on fixed assets are financed as follows.  Ad-
ditions are financed entirely by an increase in Government's capital-at-charge
provided they can be shown to produce a financial return of not less than
6.75%. Additions which do not meet this requirement, mainly new minor works,
are financed from IR's own resources and are either charged to revenue if
less than Rs 300,000 or are met from net earnings channeled through the De-
velopment Fund which also finances user amenities and welfare works. Re-
placements are financed from IR's own resources through the Depreciation Re-
serve Fund 1/ at full replacement cost; the amounts set aside to this fund as
a charge to revenue are determined quinquennially (subject to annual review)
on the basis of an estimate of replacement costs during the following five
years.
3.        The financial arrangements between Government and the Railways as
approved by Parliament are fixed by a Convention Committee which is consti-
tuted at five-year intervals. Under these arrangements, "dividend" on capital-
at-charge has been increased several tiwAes, and with effect from April 1, 1966
has been fixed at 5.5% on capital provided to March 31, 1964 and 6.0% on cap-
ital provided thereafter. (For the three years 1963/64 to 1965/66, the cor-
responding rates were 4.5% and 5.75% respectively.)  These'hividendd'are pay-
able to Government even though in a given year the net earnings are insuf-
ficient to cover the'Tividend." In the last five years (1966/67 - 1970/71),
in order to meet the dividencd'payments, IR had to draw on its own reserves
(i.e., Development and Revenue Reserve Funds) and, when these were fully
used, it had to obtain temporary loans from Government which at March 31,
1971 amounted to Rs 959 million.
1/   The Depreciation Reserve Fund functions as a reserve for renewals of
capital assets. Appropriations are made annually to the Fund, the cor-
responding charge being described as Appropriation to Depreciation Re-
serve Fund under the heading of Operating Expenses. The term "deprecia-
tion" should be construed accordingly and operating ratios are calculated
after taking this appropriation into account.
July 1971



ANNEX 4
INDIANT RAILWAYS
Existing Rolling Stock
Locomotives
In April 1971, the locomotive fleet of IR consisted of 1,202 die-
sel, 604 electric and 9,436 steam locomotives of all types and gauges. Main-
tenance and availability in traffic and performance in operation are gener-
ally satisfactory. On BG railways, the average annual distance operated by
diesel locomotives exceeds 200,000 km in passenger traffic and over 110,000
km in freight. Steam locomotive annual kilometrage is 34% of diesel in
freight and 37% in passenger service.
Wagons
The wagon fleet of IR at the commencement of the Fourth Five-Year
Plan was 383,891 wagon units of all types and gauges, of which over 5% of
broad gauge and 15% of meter gauge are 40 or more years old. Although IR
recognizes the advantage of the bogie wagon for economic operation, there re-
mains a commercial demand for smaller, two-axle wagons for many traffics for
which the bogie wagon is unsuitable in present conditions of loading and
pricing. Considerable scope exists for improvement in loading arrangements,
coupled with pricing incentives to shippers. Studies being undertaken at
the RDSO include designs to provide for greater flexibility in the use of
special wagons and container flats for large containers, and to improve run-
ning gear to permit higher speeds and heavier train loads in operation; fur-
ther work is necessary, however, to produce standard designs for the wagon
fleet of the future, in the light of long term planning.
Coaching Stock
Holdings of coaching stock at the commencement of the Fourth Five-
Year Plan totalled 32,729, of which 20% was over 30 years old. The fleet has
been increased to 34,004 during the first two years of the Plan and the in-
tended size of the fleet for March 1974 is 35,893, after allowing for retir-
ing of about 3,000 old cars. Present holdings of electric multiple units
(EMU) 1/ for suburban passenger traffic total 1,746; the intended size of
the fleet in March 1974 is 2,191, after replacing 123 old units. This does
no more than keep pace with traffic growth, with serious overcrowding re-
maining. Prototype trials of meter and narrow gauge diesel rail cars are in
course, and it is proposed to construct 20 NG and 10 MG cars for service
trials aimed at reducing costs of passenger train operation on lightly
loaded services. Research and development in coaching stock is being de-
voted to bogie design for higher speeds (120 km/hp and over) and to the de-
si-n of longer coaches (85 feet) to reduce unit costs per passenger siace.
1/   Coaches used in suburban services with every third or fourth coach
containing a traction unit.
August 1971



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIAN RAILWAYS
Operational Performance
1.        The statistics on operation performance (Table 5) display a con-
sistent pattern, with little variation from one year to another. Perform-
ance of locomotives in service is satisfactory and shows steady improvement.
The slight fall in average daily kilometrage of steam locomotives results
from the steady displacement of steam power by diesel traction on main line
services. The percentage of net ton-km hauled by diesel and electric trac-
tion in 1969/70 was 67% of the total as compared with 51% in 1965/66 and 10%
in 1960/61.
2.        A measure of the efficiency of utilization of freight cars is given
by the following figures:
Net ton-km moved per annum per ton of freight car capacity
Year                     BG                   MG
1960/61                 16,558               10,125
1965/66                 15,567               12,255
1967/68                 14,857               11,413
1968/69                 15,083               12,079
1969/70                 15,267               12,535
There has been a slight decrease of utilization on BG since 1960/61 and an
improvement in the last two years due to a partial recovery in freight traf-
fic demands. There has been, on the whole, a regular increase of utilization
on MG. With increased dieselization and electrification over the last ten
years, coupled with the provision of specialized freight cars, the above uti-
lization figures are not impressive. The lower utilization on the BG is
caused by lower traffic levels than expected, leading to excess capacity,
particularly in special freight cars for iron, steel and coal traffic. In
1970/71, there was a further setback in freight car utilization due to re-
duced traffic caused by a trade recession, by labor unrest in the steel and
associated industries, and by serious vandalism, chiefly in the Calcutta
area, which has disorganized traffic movement.
3.        Steps have already been taken to reduce the excess wagon capacity
by cutting hack the investment in additional freight cars during the Fourth
Plan by 60%.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        Passenger services have not kept pace with increasing demand, which
has resulted in increased overcrowding. This is illustrated in the following
figures:
Passenger Traffic and Stock
(Other than EMU Train Services)
Average
Annual Growth
1960/61  1965/66  1968/69  1969/70  (1961/62-1969/70)
Pass-km
(million)               69,510   83,748   91,072   94,587           3.5%
Passenger train
(km million)               194      217       223       225         1.7%
Passenger cars in
service (at the
end of each year)       20,166   23,009   24,011   24,300           2.0%
Passenger car-km
(million)                3,468    4,068    4,247    4,393           2.6%
Number of seats
available
(thousand)               1,281    1,427    1,468    1,484           1.2%
5.        The growth of passenger traffic has been higher than anticipated.
Future investments in coaches will be insufficient to reduce overcrowding on
some services, the limiting factor, apart from finance, being the production
capacity available in the country.
August 1971



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIAN RAILWAYS
Costing and Pricing
Costing
Until recently, the traffic costing system of IR was based on sys-
tem and zone wide averages. Following consideration of the report by con-
sultants Davies and Robson (UK), IR has decided that the costing cell of the
Railway Board will be strengthened to achieve the recommendation of the con-
sultants which, briefly, is the "evolution of a re-shaped freight charges
system closely related to cost". Separate costing cells are to be established
for each Zonal Railway and the staff given intensive training in traffic
costing. The first three cells were appointed in June 1971. The Rail-
way Board costing cell will consolidate and generally monitor the results as
well as make the results available to other Zones for the purpose of estab-
lishing throughout costs of inter-zonal traffic.
Price Structure
Even without the detailed costing information which is to become
available under IR's revised costing system, it is known that several impor-
tant IR traffics were contributing less than their share to total IR expenses.
The spread remains substantial even today with revenue per ton-km at the low
end of the scale being about one-fourth the rates per ton-km at the upper end.
There are other instances of cross subsidization which can be shown even on
the basis of existing data: traffic moving on MG and NG does not cover its
costs and is subsidized by BG traffic; traffic moving between gauges, in ad-
dition, involves expensive transfer operations which are only partly recovered
from the shipper; traffic on many mountainous or remote lines is much more ex-
pensive to move than on the trunk lines but with few exceptions moves at the
same rate; passenger traffic as a whole is cross-subsidized by freight; with-
in passenger traffic there are the same cross subsidies by gauges and lines
as for freight; there is a large deficit in suburban operations and there
very likely are subsidies from mail and express to ordinary trains and from
upper class services to third class. IR has begun to use specially quoted
rates to keep traffic from moving to other modes and has used the periodic
adjustment of its prices to narrow the discrepancies in the price of its ser-
vices. With the availability of better cost information, therc will be fur-
ther scope for such adjustments. However, IR is seriously hampered in
achieving a fully rationalized pricing policy by its basic system of uniform
nationwide fares and rates and the rules against undue preferences which were
developed when railways were largely r. private monopoly in India. IR should
make increasing use of certain flexibilities available under the existing sys-
tem and has indicated its intention to do so.
IR's uniform price structure represents in part a conscious deci-
sion by the (Government to develop backward areas through stibsidized transport
charges. Suburban and local train services are also favored for social rea-



ANNEX 6
Page 2
sons. A number of export commodities (e.g., iron ore) are given special
rates to make their price more competitive on the world market. On the other
hand, average rates on petroleum traffic are three times coal rates, which
tends to favor the indigenous over the imported fuel.
It has not been possible to measure the effect of the distortions
in IR's price structure on the allocation of resources in India's economy.
The low coal rates may have contributed to the decline in coastal traffic
and may have caused heavy coal users to locate further from the mines than
would otherwise have been the case. Ilowever, other Government policies
might have had an equally distorting effect. For instance, the Government
has used its industrial licensing powers to promote industrial dispersion.
IR itself being a major shipper of its own coal has simply chosen to move it
by rail rather than sea. Most important, very many of IR's traffics are sub-
ject to uniform or basing point pricing or are under distribution controls
which tend to attenuate the effect of the price of transport services on
economic behavior. Cement is sold under a controlled nationwide price with
a freight pool; petroleum products are subject to price control with uniform
prices for the whole area served by each refinery and with a freight pool.
Virtually all steel is distributed by an allocating committee which uses uni-
form nationwide prices. Major food grains are sold partly under Government
price controls; moreover, the major part of IR's grain traffic comes from
the Government's own price stabilization and storage authority. Sugar and
cotton are partly sold under controlled prices. Export iron ore is shipped
on IR under a freight pool arrangement. Even coal is allocated in part by
administrative decision which no doubt dampens price fluctuations and the ef-
fect of transport costs on them.
There are indications that distorting effects do occur as a result
of this pricing system, but they are minor. For instance, for the first nine
months of 1970, the largest part, by far, of the cement consumed in the south-
ern and eastern regions of India originated there but some shipments did take
place from outside the regions. 1/ Moreover, the lead on cement traffic has
steadily increased over the past ten years. The indications of minor distor-
tions, however, also suggest the limited efficacy of Government uniform price
or subsidy policies in promoting more equal distribution of incomes and of
economic betterment.
Price Levels
The distorted price structure for IR's services has also made more
difficult the adjustment of IR fares and rates to the general price level.
As a result, the average receipt per pass-km and per freight ton-km in the
last ten years has lagged behind the general level of prices in the country
as shown by the following table:
1/ Eastern Economist, March 12, 1971, pp. 455 ff.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Indices of Prices
Average             Average                   Iron   Average Cost
Receipt             Receipt                    and       of IR
per pass-km  Index  per ton-km  Index  Coal  Steel    Employee
(Paise)             (Paise)
1960/61        1.71       100       3.87       100    100   100        100
1965/66       2.28        133       4.57       118    123   124         130
1968/69        2.48       145       5.08       131    162   149        163
1969/70        2.46       144       5.17       134    167   155         175
The gap between revenues and expenses has been narrowed and re-
sulted in a decline in the surplus from IR operations. The terms of trade
between IR and the rest of India's economy have changed against IR, reflect-
ing, in part, an erosion of IR's monopoly position. However, the nature of
IR's business has also changed. The traffic units of today are generally
less valuable and hence not comparable with those of ten or twenty years ago,
when IR was much less of a bulk carrier.
Fare and Rate Increases
IR has tried to use the occasion of recent fare and rate increases
to diminish the spread between the price of its various services but has en-
countered considerable difficulties due to objections by customers and Parlia-
ment. The proposals made in May of this year were, however, approved by
Parliament. In presenting the Railway budget for 1971/72, the Minister for
Railways referred to the growth in recent years in the volume of low rated
bulk traffic such as coal, ores, stone, cement, fertilizers and foodgrains.
In the years from 1960/61, these traffics have increased by 60% while growth
in other traffic has been only about 16%. As a result, Railway earnings
have not increased in proportion to the increase in traffic carried. Conse-
quently, with effect from July 1, 1971 with the exception of foodgrains and
some iron ore traffic, low class traffic rates were increased by about 5% to
9%. Coal rates were increased but incentives in the form of discounts are
to be given for movements in train loads. Proposed increases in passenger
fares have the effect of raising fares to a greater degree for short distance
travel than for long distance. All the proposals are soundly based, give
due weight to the aim of charging for the particular service provided and
avoid increases in competitive high rated traffic which is particularly val-
uable to the Railways and vulnerable to road competition. However, there
has been no alteration to the basic nationwide uniform fare and rate struc-
ture.
November 1971






ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIAN RAILWAYS
Bombay Suburban Services
Bombay suburban traffic presently accounts for 63% of the total
suburban traffic carried by IPn (in terms of pass-km). In 1971/72, IR will
invest in the Bombay metropolitan area about Rs 215 million, or about 8% of
its total investment program for that year, and most of this investment is
attributable to IR's suburban services. Further major investments will be
needed since, in the coming ten years, the population of Greater Bombay is
expected to reach a level of 7 million as compared with the present 5 mil-
lion, with a proportionate increase in demand for suburban traffic.
Present Position
Suburban services in Greater Bombay are provided by two Zonal Rail-
ways, the Central and the Western.  The routes are indicated on the map at-
tached to this Annex. The Central Railway's suburban system runs on the
quadruple-track main line (54 km) from central Bombay to Kalyan and the
double-track main lines from Kalyan towards Delhi and Madras, respectively
terminating at Kasarna 120 km northeast and at Karjat 100 km southeast of
Bombay. There are suburban services also on 35 km of Central Railway branch
and connecting routes. The Western Railway's suburban system extends from
central Bombay to Virar, a distance of 60 km including 30 km of quadruple
track.  aore than 60% of all suburban passengers are handled by the two
terminals in central Bombay.
Between 1960/61 and 1969/70, the total number of daily passengers
carried in Bombay suburban services nearly doubled, rising from 1.15 million
to 2.13 million. This rapid growth has increased overcrowding. A Central
Railway survey indicates that overcrowding during the peak period is to the
extent of 70%, i.e., against a carrying capacity (seating and standing) of
1,800 commuters per 9-coach train, these have been carrying, during peak
hours, up to 3,000 passengers. There is also serious overcrowding on the
Western Railway. To relieve overcrowding, IR has increased the number of
daily trains from 970 in 1960/61 to 1,151 in 1968/69 (the latest available
data). With the increase in traffic, the peak periods are getting longer
and IR has accordingly augmented its peak period train services by about
10%. The present peak periods extend from 8:30 to 11 in the morning and
from 5 to 8 in the evening.
Present Schemes to Improve Services
On both the Central and Western Railways, a large number of over-
aged EMU's were in operation at the beginning of the Fourth Plan period
(April 1969). On the Central Railway, the number of such vehicles was 112
out of a total holding of 459, or over 22%, and on the Western Railway, 130
out of 325 vehicles, or 40%. The entire EMU production by IR during the
earlier part of the Fourth Plan is being utilized only to replace the over-



ANNEX 7
Page 2
aged EM's in Bombay suburban services, and it is expected that they will be
replaced by the end of 1971/72. As the replacement EMU's are larger than
the existing equipment (198 passengers as against 168 per unit), some added
capacity will result.
Additional EMU rolling stock is to be introduced in the remaining
years of the Plan; the Central and Western Railways are being allotted 228
and 191 coaches, thereby increasing their fleets by about 50%. The new
rolling stock will permit a one-third to one-half increase of various peak
hour services, reduce delays in peak hour services due to equipment failures
and permit replacement of some of the remaining 6 or 8-car trains by the 9-
car rakes now used in most Bombay suburban services. On the Western Railway,
the capacity is being increased by quadrupling the last 4 km of line into the
center of the city at a cost of Rs 41 million.
IDA funds will assist the foregoing improvements through provision
of imported components and material for EMU's, electrical installations and
signalling works.
Further Possible Schemes
Further possible schemes to cater for the expected increased traf-
fic are under study.  The Central Railway recently completed a feasibility
study on the introduction of 12-car rakes. This would require not only ad-
ditional rolling stock (estimated to cost Rs 120 million) but substantial
construction work (estimated to cost 73.4 million) including extension of
pa3tforms; the study reported favorably on the proposal and indicated that
12?-car rakes could provide a further capacity increase of 33%. Introduction
of 12-car rakes on the main line suburban section of the Central Railway has
been accepted in principle by the IR Board. With the completion of existing
schemes on the Central Railway and the conversion to 12-car rakes, capacity
would be increased by about 55% on that Railway. On the Western Railway,
the increase in capacity as a result of quadrupling the line in central
Bombay would be on the order of 50%; in addition, if the running of 12-car
rakes is found to be technically and economically feasible (now under study),
there would be a further increase of about 33%. Thereafter, on both Railways
there would be little scope to further increase capacity on the existing per-
manent way, and provision of a grade separated rapid transit system would be
necessary if demand continued to increase, as appears likely. IR is now
making a techno-economic feasibility study of this proposal under special
allotment from the Government outside IR's regular budget. However, no
studies in parallel detail are being made of other parts of Bombay's trans-
port system or of other aspects of Greater Bombay's urban plan. A more pur-
poseful approach is necessary if the future problems of accommodating the
forecast commuter traffic are to be resolved; a complete planning exercise
will be required, covering development of land use associated with road and
rail transport needs.
July 1971



59-83 VIRARi 8<INDIAN  RAILWAYS
5570NALLASOPARAt                   BOMBAY AREA RAILWAY LINES
Si 63 BASSEIN ROAD i             'NOTE. Distances shown are in Kilomeiers and map is not drawn to scale."
47-64 NAIGAON
43286 BHAYANDAR                         
39 70 MIRA ROAD                                                                      3
36 34 DAHISAR                                                    3 33 02 THANA
30 56 MULUND
34-03 BORIVLI                    
26 56 BHANDUP
31-04 XANDIVLEE i       KANDIVLI                   2489 KANJUR MARG
MILITARY
DEPOT                        22-85 ViKHROLI
29-33 MALAD ,
19 30 GHATKOPAR
26 90 GOREGAON  i        A A       GO
AUXtLIARUY GOODS   1  0VDAVHg /
TERMINUS         1780 VIDYA'RA
23 67 JOGESHWARI                     EMU CAR SlED
21-88 ANDHERI
fTO MAN0U8
19 68 VILEPARLE t
15 39KURL      //    /
17-62 SANTACRUZ #
16- 22 KHAR ROAD I        BAMY                                                             REFSNvk'E
14 66 BANDRA                         I  12S7         2
////              \\K~~~~~OLVADA 11 48
12 93 MAHIM JNAl    <           KING'S CIRCLE 10 83        %
11 75 MATUNGA ROADt            MATUNGA 10 12
10- 17DADAR |      X      DADAR 8 85                           I  IRAOLI CABIN 10 22
10- i7DADAR          DA   8 8
9 11 VADALA RDC   TO 80MAY PORT (BOMBAY PORT TRUST RAILWAY)
8-99 ELPHINSTONE RDF               PAREL 7-65               710 SEWRI
\7C RRY ROAD 6 07
7-53 LOWER PAREL                INC CHPOKLI 533   COTTON GREEN
5 56 MAHALAKSHMI|                      BY CULLA 4-04  REAY ROA                       CENTRAL RAILWAY LINES
EMU CAR SHED                               \\<2 99 DOCK ID D    /                           WESTERN RAILWAY LINES
CENTRAL RAILWAY LINES NOT
BOMBAY CENTRAL                __ -                        USED FOR SUBURBAN SERVICES
4 59 BOMBAY CENTRAL S           2 08 SANDHURST                                -   -    WESTERN RAILWAY LINES NOT
ROAD iLow L_l)  4s\\ w  \USED FOR SUBURBAN SERVICES
3-59 GRANT ROADA       PARCEL OFFICE                  WADBUNDER
122 MASJID\\\
iCARNAC BUNDER
2-18 CHARNI ROAD H.
1 -00 MARINE LINES  .
0 00 VICTORIA TERMINUS
0-00 CHURCFGATE
SEPTEMBER 1971                                                                                                     IBRD 3573






INDIAN RAILWAYS
SummarY of Principal commitments in connection with Credit 162-IN and of action taken
Commitments                                                                                                    Action Talken
Credit Agreement
4.04  By March 1971 to prepare a plan for phased retirement of steam locomotives                  An outline of intended methodology has been received but proposals are geared
and related facilities.  Copies to be sent to IDA by June 1971.                             entirely to traffic levels and to production of diesel and electric locomotives.
The full plan of retirements will be very complex and necessarily becomes embodied
in the full Corporate Plan of the Railways.
L.05      (i)    From 1970/71 operating ratio not higher than 80                                     (i)    Figures for 197C/71 show operating ratio of 84.2
(ii)   Contribution to Development Fund must be:                                           (ii)   Contribution        1970/71        Nil
1970/71 % of capital-at-charge at end of year                                                               1971/72        Likely to be Nil
1971/72 3/4% of capital-at-charge at end of year                                                            1972/73        Likely to be 1%
1972/73 1% of capital-at-charge at end of year
(iii)  Depreciation to be not less than figures stated in                                  (iii)  This requirement has been complied with.
Agreement
.06  Studios of Economic Unit to be done as detailed in Sch.edule 4 of the                       Economic stadi es gene rally completed somewhat behind schedule but otherwise
Agreement.                                                                                  progressing satisfactorily, however, no progress on freight car replacement
study. Traffic projections still require refinement.
4.07  Studies to be made of degree of cross-subsidization of passenger services.                  Data collection almost complete (July 1971). First results should be avail-
Reports to be furnished annually to IDA.                                                    able December 1971.
Other Assurances
3. Government intends to report to IDA at six monthly intervals on transport                      This is being done.
coordination.
4. Board to exercise strict control on number of employees.                                       This is being done but statistics are likely to show increase in labor force
as contract labor (not previously on Indian Railways payroll) is no longer
permitted for duties of a perennial nature.
6. Freight car procurement program to be reviewed annually in the light of                        This is beirg d  re.
traffic trends.
11.  Tied Procurement.  Delegation promised to study means of changing to                          It is intended to obtain more supplies in India from manufacturers of parts who
competitive bidding and obtaining bilateral aid for this class of                             would themselves have licensing agreements with overseas producers.
procu rem ent.
12. Report of cost consultants to be discussed between Indian Railways and IDA                     Board has examined report and made comments available.  This matter is mentioned
with a view to deciding  on future course of action.                                          in the report.
13. Depreciation.   Railways (a) to continue studying possibility of a policy                      (a)  Board is against changing present policy;  (b)  Committee has been appointed and is
revision, (b) to advise IDA of Convention Committee findings, (c) to prepare                  expected to present an interim report by end of 1971;  (c) figures are made available;
annually estimate of depreciation on replacement cost basis and (d) to                        (d) Board is opposed to making figures available in published accounts but would include
consider incorporating revalued assets in supplementary accounts,                             them in statements prepared for IDA.
14. Railways to advise IDA of changes in dividend rate or other findings of                        No changes to report as yet.
Convention Couesittee.
15. DCF techniques to be adopted in making financial appraisal of investment                       A start has been made but the technique is not yet applied to all investments
in 1971/72 and later.                                                                         over Rs 2 million in 1971/72 program.
N m 1
November 1971






ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDIAN RAILWAYS
Corporate Plan for Indian Railways
(Statement by Indian Railways Board - March 1971)
1.        The IDA Mission which had visited the Indian Railways in August
1970 had suggested to the Railway Board an expansion of planning work in
Indian Railways to determine more clearly the long term objectives towards
which the individual Five Year Plans should be aimed. This would require
a Corporate Plan looking ahead some 15 years, covering such interdependent
areas as traffic forecasting, improved operating patterns, improvements in
line capacity, elimination of steam traction, replacement of old wagons by
others of improved design and so on. The Plan would also outline the finan-
cial effect of the developments foreseen as well as their impact on man
power. During the discussions with the IDA Mission, the Railway Board had
agreed in principle with the concept and undertaken to prepare, in consulta-
tion with the other Government agencies concerned, a long term Corporate
Plan which would state specifically and quantitatively certain broad objec-
tives which the Indian Railways propose to achieve.
2.        Subsequently, the IDA had suggested the outlines for a Corporate
Plan covering a period of about 15 years, adjusted annually to meet the
changing circumstances. The aim of the plan would be to outline long term
objectives in all interdependent Railway activities, to evaluate their over-
all financial effect, and to indicate priorities and timing of capital in-
vestment projects. The areas recommended by the IDA for study are given in
Appendix 'A'.
3.        The Railway Board are in general agreement with the IDA on the
desirability of corporate planning with the basic aim of making the Indian
Railways efficient and paying. While this is not an entirely new exercise
for the Indian Railways, it would be a refinement and extension of the prin-
ciple of perspective planning which has been followed in selected areas hith-
erto. The Railway Board accordingly addressed the General Managers of the
Railways and the Railway Production Units as well as the Director General,
R.D.S.O., for their views on the lines on which such corporate planning
should be carried out, having regard to:
(a) the basic tasks set for the Railways in the scheme
of overall national planning;
(b) the broad aims of transport coordination accepted by
Government;
(c) the limitations of finance;
(d) tlhe desirability of regulating and directing Railway
investments along the most economical and beneficial
chiannels;



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(e)  the singularly long periods of gestation of major Railway
projects; and long life of the railway assets and equipment;
(f)  the need for maintaining an appropriate and judicious balance
in the implementation of schemes, modernization in the dif-
ferent interdependent fields of Railways activity; and
(g)  the fact of concentration of traffic--passenger and freight--
along well-defined principal routes running across the length
and breadth of the country.
After considering these views, the Railway Board propose to proceed on the
broad outlines suggested by the IDA. However, they would like to add a few
more areas in which such a Corporate Plan should be developed:
(1)  Unification of gauges--conversion from Narrow Gauge and
Meter Gauge to the Broad Gauge;
(2)  Planning for suburban and non-suburban long distance passenger
traffic, including additional facilities required at terminals
and coaching holding yards;
(3)  Metropolitan schemes;
(4)  Production planning;
(5)  Modernization in management--
(i)  Management development schemes--training
facilities; and
(ii)  Improved management techniques and services, e.g.:
(a) Work Study
(b) Operations Research
(c) Costing
(d) Economic Studies
(e) Computerization
(6) Improved MIarketing and Sales and rating policy to meet
competition from other modes of transport.
4.        Since then the Planning Directorate of the Railway Board have ar-
ranged a number of studies and discussions with other Directorates to define
the basic objectives, specify the key issues involved and indicate the pos-
sible course of action in India. These are briefly discussed below:



ANNEX 9
Page 3
A.   Definition and Objectives
Corporate Planning is a tool of modern management, devised to im-
prove the integration and coordination of the diverse activities of an organ-
ization. It is an attempt to: (i) study the entire internal and external
environment of an organization so far as it can be foreseen; (ii) set real-
istic commercial targets capable of attainment within that framework and
within the resources available; and (iii) integrate all the necessary de-
partmental plans, operational, commercial and production, to achieve those
targets.
B.   Corporate Planning in Advanced Countries
Corporate Planning techniques have been adopted in advanced coun-
tries like Canada, Britain and Japan with considerable success. The Cana-
dian National Railways, perhaps the earliest to bring Corporate Planning into
action, undertook a comprehensive study of the future internal environment to
appraise its corporate strengths and weaknesses. The main objective behind
this study was to earn a profit consistent with maintaining the long-term
growth of the railways by: (i) selectively marketing an efficient, technic-
ally competent, transportation service; (ii) developing and marketing new
business capabilities in areas complementary to existing transportation
activities; and (iii) entering into other business opportunities which are
consistent with the best management of existing assets.
In their penetrating study, every key activity was thoroughly
analyzed and each major service costed in detail. An understanding of the
contribution of each service to total cost established the perspective for
future marketing, operating and financial planning for providing a basis
for consideration of alternative uses of resources, different patterns of
service and other options. The physical assets of the system were also
evaluated with an eye to securing better utilization and the implications
both of excess and of insufficient capacity were financially assessed; the
benefits of new technology, particularly computerization and automated de-
vices, were thoroughly investigated.
Externally, general economic forecasts in terms of the major demand
sectors of the gross national product and also specific forecasts issued by
markets and major industries were carefully studied. Foreseeable technolog-
ical developments in, and market demands for, other forms of transportation
were carefully gone into. Each functional department--rail passenger, ex-
press freight carload freight, etc.,-- executed its own studies within this
broad framework. From the resultant data, each was bidden to produce its
'strategic objectives'-- a 'strategy' being defined as a statement of the
general future action that must be taken if the railway is to retain the
longer term objectives. These objectives could be of two kinds: either
specific quantitative ohjectives such as sales targets, predicted market
share or specified price changes; or they could be descriptive objectives
such a3 an attack on a new market, a newq service, a discontinuation of an
existing service or the desirability of reorganizing methods of serving an
existing narket.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
There is also need for coordination in the build-up of investment
projects, so that from the investigation and evaluation of all aspects the
optimum solution can be reached. A high speed passenger project, for ex-
ample, is no longer a matter of traction alone, but is almost certain to in-
clude new rolling stock, signalling, track alterations and improvements,
alterations at level crossings, and modifications to clearances. It may well
include diversion of freight traffic, with the need to evaluate the financial
effect on the freight business.
C.   Possible Course of Action for India
An attempt to visualize India's needs for railway development dur-
ing the next 15 years is likely to be greatly influenced by two central
facts:
(i) The busy trunk routes connecting Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta
and Madras (although they form only about 15% of the route
kilometrage of the Indian Railways) carry the heaviest
traffic, about 50 percent of the total tonnage of traffic.
This trend is likely to persist in future and the concen-
tration of traffic may get more pronounced; and
(ii) A large proportion of railway freight will be bulk commodi-
ties. Eight bulk commodities, namely, (a) iron and steel,
(b) public coal, (c) ores including iron ore, (d) stones
including limestone, (e) cement, (f) fertilizers, (g) food-
grains and (h) petroleum products including crude oil,
account for about 80 percent of the revenue earning traffic
today as compared to only 46 percent in 1950/51. This shift
of railway traffic to bulk commodities will continue in the
future.
The forward planning of Railways, over a time-horizon of about 15 years,
should therefore, keep in view:
(a) Modernization of traction on trunk routes;
(b) Specialization in bulk handling as progressively
a larger proportion of important commodities will
be moved in full train loads;
(c) Significant changes in the methods of operation,
namely, loading, unloading, and consequential
terminal and yard facilities;
(d) Increasing demand for fast inter-city passenger ser-
vices; and
(e) The need for special types of rolling stock to meet the
changing needs of traffic.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
Thus, the rail investment during the next 15 years will have to be primarily
concentrated on the most effective way of achieving high volume operation on
a limited system of major routes. Traffic that is not efficiently handled
by rail will be shifted on economic grounds to other modes. It will be nec-
essary to continue efforts to base rates more in keeping with costs to as-
sure financial viability in the long run and to retain the high-rated com-
modities on railways in particular.
For all commodities, especially for high-rated commodities, speedy,
timely and safe arrival has to be ensured. For high-rated commodities, it
may even be necessary to arrange door-to-door delivery.
Aggressive marketing and sales techniques will have to be adopted;
chargeable freight instead of being on ad valorem basis might have to be more
cost-oriented and point-to-point. The cost-oriented charge should also be
comparable to rates offered by other modes of transport.
Increasingly, containerization has to be introduced. In the coming
era of containerization, once container berths are installed at Haldia on the
East Coast and Nava Sheva on the West Coast, the Indian Railways will be con-
fronted with a major opportunity. Unlike in most advanced countries like
Japan and European countries, the relatively long distances separating many
production and consumption centers from the major ports and the inadequacy
of Indian roads to support heavy container traffic, give an advantage to the
Railways.
Development of line capacity and terminals has to be commensurate
to meet the challenge of growing passenger traffic.
On lightly-travelled branch lines and other uneconomic routes, it
will be necessary to substitute road service for railway operation wherever
it is economically justified. (Although this is a desirable economic solu-
tion, it might be difficult to achieve in practice.)
In view of the above thinking and as a result of the study of the
experience of corporate planning in advanced countries, it was found that the
Indian Railways can use corporate planning as a vital tool: (i) to exploit
their great natural advantages as a bulk carrier of passengers and goods, and
(ii) to improve the character and quality of their services by making fuller
utilization of modern equipment as also by purposeful concentration on those
functions which they are capable of performing more efficiently.
5.        The approach to the Corporate Plan involves the following distinct
steps:
(i) An intensive explanatory study for identifying the various
routes and the quantum of traffic (major commodity-wise)
that is being carried on those routes;



ANNEX 9
Page 6
(ii) Identifying the cost of services and deciding on the
strategy to be followed to expand, rationalize or prune,
wherever necessary, the different types of services;
(iii) Devising means for consolidating the advantages of modern
traction and other facilities that had already been and
are increasingly being introduced over the various rail
routes;
(iv) Spelling out the specific action required in respect of
expansion and modernization of marshalling yards, freight
terminals, signal and telecommunication facilities, etc.;
(v) Laying down the commercial policies, including pricing
policies, proposed to be followed to attract and capture
traffic;
(vi) Identifying the passenger terminal facilities which are
to be provided for coping with the increasing passenger
traffic on intercity and suburban routes; and
(vii) Identifying requirements of special types of rolling stock
to suit future needs of traffic.
It has been found that this has been a long drawn out process even in ad-
vanced countries. For the Indian Railways identification of routes and the
quantum traffic commodity-wise will itself take considerable time. Identi-
fying the cost of services is likely to take even longer. Since the basic
data for preparation of an integrated corporate plan covering various inter-
dependent areas of Railway working would take a long time for compilation,
it was decided that as a first step, side by side with collection of the
above mentioned data, preparation of tentative perspective plans for dif-
ferent areas should be undertaken immediately on the basis of available data.
These perspective plans will necessarily need reconciliation. Integration
of the perspective plans into a corporate plan may be attempted when the
basic data mentioned earlier is forthcoming. It was decided that perspec-
tive plans should be prepared/updated in the following fields:
(1) Traffic projections
(2) Freight traffic plan
(3) Passenger traffic plan including plan for new
types of coaching stock
(4) Electrification
(5) Dieselization
(6) Signalling and telecommunication



ANNEX 9
Page 7
(7) Line capacity works
(a) conversion
(b) doubling
(8)  Marshalling yards
(9)  Track modernization plan for faster trains
(10)  Workshop plan
(11)  Commercial policies to attract traffic
(12) Passenger terminal facilities
(13)  Rail road coordination.
Discussions were accordingly held with concerned Directorates and the lines
on which the perspective plans were to be prepared indicated. So far the
following tentative perspective plans have been made out:
(1)  Electrification
(2)  Signalling and telecommunication
(3)  Track modernization
(4)  Gauge conversion
iIeanwhile long term Traffic Projections, based on production tar-
gets in each sector of the economy, as available with the Perspective Plan-
ning Division of the Planning Commission, have been attempted. A conference
of Deputy Chief Operating Superintendents (Planning) of the Railways was
also called on 10th and 11th February 1971, where the steps necessary for
corporate planning were discussed, particularly the action immediately to
be taken for preparing perspective plans of Railway-wise and section-wise
traffic projections, line capacity works required as a result, dieseliza-
tion, rationalization of marshalling yards and terminal facilities. Tenta-
tive proposals on this basis are yet to be worked out by the Railways.






APPENDIX A TO ANNEX 9
Page 1
Areas Suggested for Study by the IDA for Corporate Planning
1.   Estimates of total traffic in main commodities, and its distribution
between rail, road, and other modes.
2.   Allocation of traffics to specific rail routes, as indication of:
(a) required capacity increases
(b) opportunity to reduce capacity by line rationalization
or closure.
3. Determination of optimum operating pattern e.g.:
(a) Increase in length, weight and speed of trains
(b) Unit train or container operation.
14. Determination of number, location and equipment of freight tenminals to
be used, taking into account road distribution patterns.
5.   Rationalization of marshalling yard systems based on analysis of optimum
train pathing.
6.   Elimination of redundant freight terminals and yards and associated
trackage.
1.   Determination of traction required for route system and operating pat-
tern; introduction of electric and diesel traction and elimination of
steam.
8.   Replacement of wagon fleet with wagons of design suitable for future
operational requirements, incorporating higher speeds, and improved
load transfer systems. Consideration to be given to air braking sys-
tems and automatic couplings.
9.   Replacement of coaching stock.  Design to accord with commercial and
operational requirements for intercity and long distance traffic; local
and suburban services.
10. Track structure required for planned speeds, axle loads and traffic
density, with minimum maintenance cost; introduction of mechanized main-
tenance.
11. Resignalling to increase line capacity and minimize delays.
12. Workshop plan to provide for economic maintenance of traction and rolling
stock, and for building of new equipment. This may require expansion of
some workshops and concentration on a smaller number.



APPENDIX A TO ANNEX 9
Page 2
13. Manpower plan to provide for training, recruitment and resettlement of
redundant staff.
14.  Outline financial estimates of annual revenue and costs, and of capital
investment required after detenmination of orders of priority.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDIAN RAILWAYS
Comments on Forecasts of Traffic and Capacity
Traffic
Passengers
The past trends for principal components of IR's passenger business
are given below (data for 1970/71 not yet available):
Billions of pass-km
1960/61      1965/66       1969/70
By type of service:
Suburban                              11.81         17.24         22.17
Non-Suburban                          65.85         79.06         91.21
First Class (air-conditioned)         .11           .15           .15
First Class                          1.44          1.96          2.13
Second Class (mail) /1               1.11          1.23          1.20
Second Class (ordinary)               ,68           .70           .58
Third Class (air-conditioned)         .11           .14           .28
Third Class (mail and express)/1  22.25           29.00         34.77
Third Class (ordinary)/.            40.14         45.84         52.11
By gauge:
BG                                  42.88         51.51         59.87
MG                                  21.70         26.28         29.95
NG                                   1.28          1.28          1.39
/1   Mail and express trains' average lead is about 240 km; ordinary
trains' average lead is about 50 km.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Three points are to be made concerning the preceding tabulation:
(a) suburban traffic is growing much faster than non-suburban traffic, over
the decade of 7.1% as against 3.8% per annum - combined rate being 4.3% per
annum; (b) second class travel is virtually stagnating or declining; and (c)
long distance third class (including air-conditioned) is growing much faster
than short distance third class. In the case of the first class (air-con-
ditioned), the slight increase in pass-km is made up by a nearly three-fold
rise in originating passengers coupled with a more than a third reduction
in average lead, reflecting the inroads on longer hauls of about about equal-
ly priced airline services. BG and MG passenger traffic grew at just about
the same rate although in the case of the BG this growth was accounted for
more by an increase in number of passengers, while in HIG there was a rela-
tively greater increase in lead. NG virtually stagnated.
Over the past decade, India's population grew at about 2.25% per
annum, and per capita net national product (in 1960/61 prices) rose by about
0.4% per annum. Passenger traffic at 3.8% per annum appears to exceed some-
what the combined effect of population and income growth. IR has projected
growth of all passenger traffic up through 1975/76 at about 3%; based on a
projected population growth at 2.25% per annum and on a target rate of growth
for net national product by 1973/74 of about 5.5% (in current prices), this
estimate is conservative. It implies a possible decline in the influence of
suburban traffic on the overall passenger traffic growth rate and a possible
further decljne in the rate of growth of short haul traffic by diversion to
buses.
Table 10 contains IR's projections for non suburban passenger ser-
vices by distance, which indicate that long term growth will be concentrated
in the hauls over 80 km. IR has not produced forecasts for passenger traf-
fic by types of services or gauges. Since IR investments for passenger ser-
vices are to some extent identified with particular types of service (and
with the respective gauges), it would be desirable to prepare such detailed
forecasts. For instance, investments in air-conditioned services would ap-
pear to have limited prospects on the basis of the past five years' perform-
ance. IR is in the process of making a comprehensive cost study of all its
passenger services. During negotiations, IR has given assurances that
it will prepare passenger traffic forecasts by principal classes of services,
distances and routes.
Goods
Tables 6 and 7 summarize past trends and projections for goods traf-
fic. Table 6 also includes the preliminary estimate for originating tonnage
in revenue traffic for 1970/71. This estimate shows a decline of about 5
million tons, primarily due to declines in coal for other users (3.5 million
tons), other general goods (1.2 million tons) and steel plant traffic (about
1.5 million tons), partly counterbalanced by traffic increases for iron ore
exports, cement and mineral oils. The projections on the base of 1969/70 up
through 1975/76 show a growth in net ton-km of about 4% per annum, midway



ANNEX 1 0
Page 3
between the rates for the Third Plan and the period 1966/67-1969/70. While
the performance for originating tonnage for the first year (1970/71) does not
conform to the projected trend, a continuation of the past decade's trend of
increasing leads may counterbalance the ultimate effect of reduced originat-
ing tonnages. On this consideration and on the basis of the detailed analy-
sis below, it is concluded that the overall projections are not unduly opti-
mistic. However, sufficient doubts are raised to suggest the desirability of
more detailed analysis of traffic, as mentioned below.
Forecasts for the major components of traffic can be divided broad-
ly into three groups: traffic which is identified with the capacity and uti-
lization of certain large plants; traffic which depends on the economy gen-
erally or on broad sectors of economic activity; and non-revenue traffic
growing out of IR's own level of services and investments. IR bases its own
projections of traffic primarily on data supplied by the Planning Commission
and agencies of the Central Government concerned with particular commodities.
Large Plant Traffic
Steel. The finished products of steel plants consist of saleable
steel, saleable pig iron and miscellaneous other items. Steel and pig iron
are interchangeable to some extent because the inability of a plant to pro-
duce finished steel may mean a corresponding increase in pig iron shipments.
In 1969/70, steel plants shipped 7.1 million of finished products consisting
of 4.88 million tons steel, 1.45 million tons pig iron and less than a mil-
lion tons of other items. The 1970/71 steel production, due to continued
labor and other production difficulties, was just about the same, around 5
million tons.  At rated capacity the existing six steel plants could produce
about 6.86 million tons of saleable steel and .60 million tons of pig iron.
The potential for shipments from the steel plants is therefore about 1 million
tons more than at present.
Shipments to steel plants in 1969/70 consisted of coal from mines
directly to steel plants of 12.6 million tons, coal from washeries to steel
plants of 5 million tons, ant 16.5 million tons of other raw materials,
making a tot al of about 34 million tons. If steel production were to rise
to its full rated capacity, raw material supply to the mills might grow
by about one-sixtlh or 5-6 million tons. The potential traffic increase, if
the existing plants were fully utilized, would therefore be about 6-7 million
tons. It shiould be noted that (a) most of this traffic (the inputs especial-
ly) heas short leads and could not represent a particularly large addition to
total net ton-km, and (b) it is not likely that all plants will simultaneously
operate at full rated capacity.
Steel Plant traffic will also rise as new plants or plant expansions
now being built go into production. The Bank's Economic Report on India 1/
projects roughly the following increases in iron and steel capacity (in mil-
I;ons of tons of ingot<):
1/   SA-25a, HTay 11, 1971.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
1971/72                 1.6
1972/73                  .8
1973/74                 1.6
1974/75                  .0
1975/76                 2.0
6.0
Allowing for a one-fifth reduction from ingot capacity to saleable pig iron
and steel capacity, the 1975/76 finished steel traffic due to added capacity
would be about 5 million tons. The associated inputs would amount to about
25-30 million tons assuming the same conversion rate as for existing plants.
Additional traffic on the basis of existing and potential capacity in the
steel mills could thus range from 31 to 37 million originating tons. IR
projections are much more modest than these figures.
Power Stations. Approximately one-third of coal for other users
(excluding IR) goes to power houses. IR is maintaining close liaison with
the Central Water and Power Commission on the plans for major new thermal
power installations, and the estimated traffic for powerhouse coal is based
on these construction schedules. There is little doubt that electricity
will be generated to the extent that installed capacity is available.
Mineral Oil. Consumption of petroleum products has been going up
rapidly and the only constraint in the next few years will be refining capac-
ity, since India imports very few products directly. IR has therefore pro-
jected this traffic in relation to estimated completion of additional re-
fining capacity in India, taking into account likely completion of pipelines.
Cement. Although consumption of cement primarily reflects general
economic conditions, its production is closely tied to plant capacity. Tne
1969/70 production of cement was 13.5 million tons, very close to effective
capacity of 15 million tons. IRF expects that consumption will follow the
established trend of about .5 million tons expansion per annum; production
will keep pace but road traffic will obtain an increasing share of the total
shipments. There will be only small increases in limestone traffic because
most cement plants obtain their limestone by ropeway or road but the coal
consumption of cement plants should rise from 3.5 to over 4 million tons
per annum.
General Traffic
Foodgrains and Fertilizer. The projected increases for these traf-
fics reflect progress in agriculture; however, much of the increased grain
production will be consumed on the farms or within trucking distance from



ANNEX 10
Page 5
the farms and IR therefore allows only a marginal increase for grain traffic.
Fertilizer shipments would nearly double; recent slowdowns in the rate of in-
crease in fertilizer use may make this projection too optimistic.
Coal for Other UIsers. More than one-half of this item represents
consumption by various industries, among which brick yards, textile mills
and paper plants are particularly important.
Other General Goods. Like the previous item, this involves a
variety of industries, reflects the general level of economic activity and
frequently has long leads. It also includes some short lead bulky items such
as stones and sand. A considerable part of this traffic could be analyzed
in furthier detail and IR has given assurances that it will extend the scope
of its analysis in this direction.
Non-Revenue Traffic (Railway Service)
The principal components of the 34.1 million of railway traffic
(1969/70) are coal and ballast, which respectively accounted for 18.0 and
11.5 million tons. The former has lengthy leads of over 800 km while the
average for all railway traffic is only about 500 km. Railway coal consump-
tion will decline with increasing use of diesel and electric traction, and
more ballast will be hauled with IR's expanded track renewal program.
IR's overall traffic forecasts are made primarily to assess require-
n,ents for wagons, coaches and loconotives. They are made on a system-wide
basis but they generally do not include separate determinations of likely
trends in leads by commodities. During negotiations, IR has given assurances
that it will expand its analysis to take account of this factor as well.
In the case of most investments for individual fixed installations
costing over "s 2 million, IR's rules require the zonal administrations to
prepare a forecast of the traffic likely to use that facility. A sample of
these forecasts has been examined in connection with the selected subprojects
discussed in Annex 15 and indicates that IP.'s Board makes careful reviews of
the forecasts to assure that they are realistic.
SMCpi ty
Thie capacity of IR's system. is determined by application of
generalized performance rules; for instance, a standard four-wheel BG wagon
is supposed to carry about 330,000 net ton-km of IR's annual traffic. The
typical illustration of capacity assessment of an individual installation
is a railway line. IR has detailed rules as to number, length and weight
of trains which can safely pass over a track in a given time period, assuming
existing structures and signalling devices. The capacity of other facilities,
such as marshallin, yards, is determined by ad hoc investigations. While
it has not been possible to evaluate the measures of capacity in detail, it
is clear that they are not precine. This problem will be partly avoided



ANNEX 10
Page 6
through assessment of system interrelationships and other analytical
techniques to be introduced with corporate planning. However, no improvement
can hope to eliminate the problem completely and the capacity of IR (or
indeed of any large railway) to move traffic at any given time encompasses
not a single value but a range representing various levels of costs and
qualities of service.
Evaluation of the capacity of passenger services is a special prob-
lem now being reviewed under a large scale cost study of all IF passenger ser-
vices. After completion of this study, at the end of this year, IR shiould be
in a position to assess more accurately the number of seat-km potentially
available under alternative configurations in the use of its passenger equip-
ment.
November 1971



ANNEX 11
INDIAN RAILWAYS
Principal Items Included in Project
1.        Rolling stock (Rs 3,265 million or 40.2%) covers 699 locomotives
(18 steam, 470 diesel and 211 electric); about 21,000 wagons of various types
and gauges including about 17,000 BG wagons; 568 EMU's, 28 rail cars and
3,950 passenger cars. A breakdown by types and gauges is given in Tables
2 and 3.  About one-half of the expenditure is expected to meet requirements
for additional traffic, the remainder being for replacement of overaged roll-
ing stock. During the project period, the following are expected to be
retired: 543 steam locomotives to be replaced by diesel locomotives (the
production of steam locomotives will be stopped by the end of 1971), 53
electric locomotives, about 8,000 freight cars of various types, 123 EMU's
and 2,061 passenger cars.
2.        Track renewals and bridge works (Rs 1,527 million or 18.8%) include
rail renewals (about 3,700 km on BG and 700 km on MG) and sleeper renewals
(about 4,600 km on BG and 2,500 km on MG) providing heavier rails (on trunk
routes and important main routes), welding of longer rails and improved types
of sleepers.
3.        Line capacity works and signalling (Rs 1,536 million or 18.9%) in-
clude the doubling of the equivalentl/ of 750 track-km, the remodelling of
yards, the construction of sidings and a provision of Rs 95 million to start
gauge conversion of 557 km (Viramgam-Okha) in 1972/73.
4.        Electrification (Rs 477 million or 5.8%) represents the investment
expenditures to electrify the equivalent of 720 route-km.
5.        New lines (Rs 402 million or 4.8%) will complete construction
works of about 700 km of line started in previous years and will start the
construction of about 100 km of new lines. Total expenditures are the equiv-
alent of 250 km of new lines.
6.        Special stores procurement (Rs 37 million or 0.5%) will build up,
once and for all, a store of imported components to ensure an optimum use of
the production capacity of the Diesel Locomotive Works at Varanasi.
7.        The remaining expenditures (Rs 889 million or 11.0%) will cover re-
quirements for workshops, machinery, plants, etc. and staff and passenger
amenities.
1/ In fact, part of the investment expenditures helps complete works under
progress; part helps start new works.
August 1971






A14MZX 12
INDIA RAILWAYS
Description of Materials and Ccomponents to be Procured from Proceeds of the Proposed IDA Credit
value in
US$ Millions
Category                                Equivalent                Description of materials and components
1.  Components and materials (including steel)
required for the manufacture o:t
1.1  Electric locomotives                       )                   Tap changers, traction motors and components therefor,
transformers, resistances, silicon rectifiers, circuit
breakers, gears and pinions, liners, contactors,
pantographs, steel, wheels and axles, etc.
1.2  Diesel locomotives                         )                   Traction motors, generators, components for engines and
)                   chassis like crankshafts, turbochangers, compressors, ex-
hausters, piston, etc.  E-type control equipments, governors,
steel, wheels and axles, etc.
1.3  Electrical multiple units                  )     33.0          Components and materials for traction equipment,for motor,
coach, roller bearings, wheels and axles, electro pneu-
matic brake equipment, silent blocks, air blast circuit
breakers, copper bearing steel plates and sheets, fero-
bestos sheets, pantographs, wheel and axles, etc.
1.4  Coaches                                    )                   Wheels and axles, roller bearings, raw asbestos, stainless
steel plates, copper bearing steel plates and sheets.
1.5  Wagons                                     )                   Cast steel bogies and air brakes for BOY wagons.
2.  Equipment and material for line capacity works,                     Tie tampers, track recording cars, ultrasonic flaw de-
electrical works, etc.                                 3.0          tectors, sleeper handling equipments, rectifiers and
associated units, testing equipments, etc.
3. Rails                                                   5.          Rails and accessories.
4. Equipment for signalling and telecommunication                       Points machines, relays and panels for route relay inter-
schemes                                                3.0          locking, tokenless block instruments, retarders, track and
engine devices for automatic train control, transreceiversa
antenna towers, channeling and other equipments for micro-
wave, relays etc. for signalling works.
5. Equipment and material for electrification                           Electrolytic copper bars, telecommunication cables and train
schemes                                               4h           control equipments, sub-station and switching station equip-
ments, insulators, fittings, etc.
6. Plant and Machinery                                     3.5          Wheel lathes, hydraulic wheel presses, ultrasonic flaw
detectors, axles, returning and burnishing lathes, hydraulic
chain/draw gear testing machine, draw cut shapers for
manufacture of traction motors, special purpose boring
machines, jig boring machines, copying lathe for machining
of axles, commutator turning lathes, etc.
7. Other railway equipment and material; technical                      Non-ferrous metals like ti n and lead, wheels, tyres and
services approved by the Association                    6.5         axles, and other miscellaneous items mainly for rolling
stock.
8. Non-competitive procurement of components for:
8.1   Diesel locomotives                         )                   Rectifiers, control equipment, crankshafts, cylinder head
castings, turbochargers, compressors, fuel booster pumps and
pistons.
8.2   Electric locomotives                       )                   Airblast circuit breakers, tap changers, traction motor
17.0         components, switchgear, transformers, rectifiers, gears,
pinions and brake equipment.
6.3   Electric multiple units                    )                   Mainly traction and brake equipment.
75.0
November 1971






ANNEX 1 3
INDIAN RAILWAYS
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                                       Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                             at end of Quarter
US$ 000
1971/72
December 31, 1971
March 31, 1972                                               6,ooo
June 30, 1972                                               11,000
1972/73
September 30, 1972                                          17,000
December 31, 1972                                           26,ooo
March 31, 1973                                              38,000
June 30, 1973                                               5SO,000
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                          60,000
December 31, 1973                                           69,000
March 31, 1974                                              75s,0
November 1971



ANNEX 14
INDIAN RAILIAYS
Financial Iffect of Social Burdens
On Indian Government Railways
Per Annum
Rs millions
1.   Loss on unremunerative branch lines                                   80
2.   (a)  Loss on suburban traffic                  )
(b)  Loss on non-suburban passenger traffic   )59
and other coaching traffic                )
3.   Loss on low-rated freight like coal, foodgrains,
fodder, charcoal, firewood, salt, ores, etc.                         520
4.  Loss on freight concessiona on export trade,
relief measures, etc.                                                 10
1 ,200
Notes Besides, IR is also spending Fe 160 million on Railway Protection Forces,
Order Polio etc., Rs 195 million on Staff Welfare, Health and Medical
Services; Rs 30 million on educational assistance to railway employees'
children and Rs 100 million by way of subsidized housing of employees.
Source:  Supplement to the Government's Explanatory Memorandum on the
Railways Budget 1971/72 (Appx. XVII).
September 1971



ANNEX 15
Page 1
INDIAN RAILWAYS
Economic Evaluation of the Project
Investment Procedures
A review of IR's own investment procedures indicates that the
program has considerable short run stability (Appendix A) and that a sub-
stantial portion of each year's investment expenditures on fixed plant
(between 60% and 70%) represents outlays on items started previously and
another considerable part consists of minor items not separately analyzed.
Altogether each year's program is made up of over 2,000 separate items over
Ps 500,000 in various stages of completion, including over 200 items aggre-
gating about 10% of the total investment program and representing a multi-
tude of minor works, each of which cost less than Rs 500,000 and are there-
fore within the zonal manager's discretion. From this, it results that
much of each year's investments has a very high return merely because it
goes to complete previously stnk outlays and that investment analysis
should concentrate on the new investments and the process by which they
come to be included in the program.
Investment projects for fixed installations are formulated by the
zonal railway administrations arid, if they cost more than Rs 500,000, are
submitted with various degrees of supporting documentation for approval by
the IR Board (and, if the project costs more than Rs 2 million, by the
Minister). Each zone makes about 50-60 proposals annually. Projects are
designed primarily by reference to IR's administrative departments and all
investments intended to serve a particular traffic are not necessarily
grouped together. (Nor does the analysis include an assessment of the
effect of an investment on the rest of IR's system.) For certain major
categories of work, the IR Board does lay down general guidelines to assist
the zones in project formulation.
Projects are analyzed in accordance with whether they are financed
predominantly from Capital, from the IRenewal Reserve Fund or from one of
several other sources of cash, and different criteria of acceptability
apply in each case. The depreciation costs in these exercises are reckoned
not by deducting a proportion of the capital value of the assets in use
each year but by deducting an amount which, if invested until the time of
exhaustion of the asset, would equal its original cost.
Projects are grouped by the IR Board into major headings for
purposes of India's Five Year plans. They are also divided into new line
works or iriprovements to existing open lines. Parliamentary approval is
obtained for all investments after presentation in the foregoing detail.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
IR has instituted discounted cash flow analysis for most projects
valued at Rs 2 million or more and has required, in the case of traffic
related works of this size, that a market survey he prepared and in some
cases (such as marshalling yards) that a work study be made to assure that
the investment cannot be made abortive by changes in operating practice.
Finally, a project may also be studied by IR's own Economic Unit which will
apply a discounted cash flow technique with economic prices.
This system of investment analysis is extremely complex; it re-
quires a great amount of analytical work, frequently with conflicting
criteria; it uses a wide variety of units for investment analysis and
thereby increases the likelihood for incompatible results. Accordingly,
during negotiations, the Government agreed that, as trained staff becomes
available, discounted cash flow analysis will supplant the other investment
criteria now in force within IR.
Selected Subprojects
Appendix B summarizes all new works begun in IR's current fiscal
year and valued at Rs 2 million or more each. A selection of five of these
projects is reviewed in detail below. Internal rates of return are avail-
able for four projects and range from 6% to 20%. The review indicated
that certain improvements could be made in the techniques of analysis and,
during negotiations, the Government agreed that the methiodology for ap-
praisal of investment projects will continue to be progressively improved
and to cover all associated investments necessary to enable the objectives
of suclh projects to be achieved.
1. ELECTRIFICATION OF TUNDLA-DELHI SECTION
This project costing Rs 220 million (including Rs 47 million for
electric locomotives) will electrify the double-line Tundla-Delhi (204 km)
and will complete electrification of the Calcutta-Delhi trunk route (1,440 km).
As agreed in IDA Credit 162-IN, the IR Economic Unit has made a detailed
economic study of this project (published in June 1970). Traffic forecasts
have been made from past trends with upward adjustments (mainly in the case
of coal) due to the expected building of thermal plants. Freight traffic
is expected to increase at an annual rate of (i) 4% for the first 10 years
and 3% for the second 10 years on the Section Delhi-Ghaziabad (20 km); and
(ii) 5% for the first 10 years and 4% for the second 10 years on the Section
Ghaziabad-Tundla (184 km). Passenger traffic is expected to increase at
an annual rate of 5% for the next 15 years. Beyond these periods, all
traffic has been assumed to remain constant.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
Three alternative modes of traction have been considered: mixed
diesel/steam (i.e., diesel for all through goods trains and two passenger
trains and steam for all the rest), all diesel and all electric (in both
the latter cases IR work trains would remain steam powered). Since each
of them provides sufficient capacity for the requirements of projected
traffic, the project aims at saving costs (standardization of mode of
traction on the whole trunk route Calcutta-Delhi, use of cheapest mode of
traction).
A comparison is made of the net present value of traction costs
under each alternative and it shows that electrification is the cheapest.
However, this result applies only if certain trains to the northwest are
rerouted from a line parallel to Delhi on to the electrified route. The
rerouting will, of course, have other effects on the system which remain to
be fully evaluated.
The analysis is sensitive to the growth of traffic, to economic
prices of diesel fuel and coal power and to the rate of interest. Traffic
growth at the rate indicated is probable since Delhi is a fast growing
metropolitan population center. The cost of fuel is crucial in the compari-
son because, on the one hand, India imports two-thirds of its petroleum
requirements, and diesel fuel therefore requires foreign exchange contin-
uously and, on the other hand, India taxes this fuel at very high rates
(about 330%). Moreover, coal for the electrification comes in part from
thermal plants in the vicinity of Delhi which obtain their fuel in Eastern
or East Central India and therefore benefit from the low cost railway coal
rates. The Government is now making a general review of its energy policy
and is consulting the Bank/IDA on problems arising in connection with it.
The question of the appropriate economic price of fuel is best deferred
until the results of this inquiry are available.
The rate of interest is very important due to the heavy initial
investments which electrification requires. Moreover, these investments
have a significant import content, which raises questions as to the appropri-
ate price for the imported part of the capital expenditure. Finally, an
assumption must be made of whether, in the long run, the locomotives under
the steam alternative will be newly acquired or simply diverted from other
parts of the system which are changing means of traction. Considering the
decided advantage of diesel over steam discussed below, and the relatively
young age of many IR steam locomotives, it seems likely that replacement of
steam locomotives will go on apace and will yield a continuous stream of
usable surplus steam locomotives for some time to come. The economic cost
of steam engines for additional capacity on this line would therefore be
low.
The internal rate of return on the change from the existing system
of diesel/steam traction to complete electric traction is 6% according to
IR's economic cost data which deducted only one-half of the taxes on diesel
fuel and which included as a benefit the depreciated book value of released



ANNEX 15
Page 4
steam locomotives. The rate of return is reduced to 3% if no value is
allowed for these locomotives, demonstrating the significance of a proper
assessment of this aspect of the problem. Both rates would be higher if
the detention time for engines were taken into account incident to switch-
ing from electric to other traction at Tundla, which would be avoided for
trains terminating in Delhi with complete electrification to that city.
While the rates appear to be on the low side, no final assessment is
possible until a better judgment can be made on the price of fuel and on the
concentration of traffics to electrified routes as a result of the corporate
plan.
This project will be executed by a construction unit of IR
specialized in electrification works, consisting of about 30 officers and
900 other staff. IR has three other units of this type at work on other
electrification projects in its system. Installation of the overhead
equipment is undertaken by Indian manufacturers of the equipment.
2.  TRACK DUBLING OF TIRUPPATTUR-DASAMPATTI SECTION
This project, beginning just outside Jolarpettai extending for
a route length of 33 km, is one of a series of scattered doubling projects
on the Madras-Cochin line (Southern Railway); the doubling of three others
is to be begun in this year's program covering another 60 km. IR's project
analysis lumps all these subsections together and includes another 87 km of
doubling on this route, already begun or to be built in the future.
While detailed traffic forecasts and line capacity requirements
have been estimated for each subsection for FY 1973/74, the financial
analysis does not treat them separately. Benefits consist of earnings
from traffic which would have been turned away except for the doubling and
avoiding the detention of rolling stock. Discounted cash flow technique
was not applied by IR in this case because the first of the subsections
was started before this technique had come into use. A very rough calcu-
lation of the economic internal rate of return for the subsections as a
group was attempted on the following assumptions:
Construction costs spread over 4 years:          Rs 156 million
Additional annual net ton-km over subsections:   300    "    5th year
400    "    6th year
500    "    7th-llth year
600    "    12th-16th year
700    "    16th-2Oth year
Saving to economy by shipping one net ton-km by rail instead of road;
Rs .09.  Saving by avoiding detention to stock; Rs 1.6 m/year.  This
configuration of costs and benefits yields an interrnl rate of return
of 20%; the return depends crucially on trafJi.r growth.



ANNEX 15
Page 5
3. PROVISION OF ROUTE RELAY INTERtLOCKING AT ASANSOL
This project, costing Rs 10.7 million, is intended to expedite
the entry of locomotives from a shed onto the main lines at Asansol. Each
locomotive movement requires the setting of a series of switches and signals
which must be locked in succession to assure safety. These procedures are
time consuming when performed manually, as at present, and locomotives and
trains on the main line must lie idle until they are completed. Additional
application of manpower would not produce faster operations because manual
procedures cannot be accelerated without infringing upon safety require-
ments. Accordingly, IR proposes installing a route relay interlocking sig-
nalling and switching system at Asansol. Although most of IR's signalling
works are carried out by IR's own forces, large projects like this one are
given out on tender with IR assuming only some responsibility for instal-
lation. While some labor will be displaced, two-thirds of the former staff
costs will go to workers who are to maintain and operate the mechanical
signalling equipment. The labor savings represent less than 10% of all
savings and the project is primarily justified by the savings it produces in
IR's capital equipment. Annual savings estimated at Rs 1.45 million yield
an internal rate of return of 11%.
4. MUGHALSARAI - REMODELLING AND MECHANIZATION OF DOWN YARD
This project, costing Rs 26.4 million, will remodel and mechanize
the down (i.e., direction Delhi to Calcutta) yard at Mughalsarai. Mughalsarai
is IR's biggest yard, handling between 6,000 and 6,400 cars daily; they arrive
and are dispatched in about 100 incoming and 100 outgoing trains per day.
Four trunk routes, two from the Northern Railway and two from the Eastern
Railway, converge on the yard which connects the mineral and industrial
areas of eastern India, steel plants and the Calcutta port with the northern
and western parts of the country. The up yard is the busier one and has
already been mechanized.
Under the existing system in the down yard, as wagons roll from the
hump, switches are thrown manually and skid porters do all the breaking of
wagons by throwing skid pads under the moving wheels. A typical train
passes through the manual yard in 20-25 minutes, whereas the same train will
clear the hump in half the time if the yard has mechanical switches and
automatic wagon retarders. Even in the mechanical yard, some skid porters
are used to do the fine adjustment of wagon speeds. As a result, damage
to wagons and cargo is substantially lower for mechanized operations (no
quantification of this factor was available). Accelerated handling of stock
will not only reduce detention of wagons but increase the capacity of the



ANNEX 15
Page 6
down yard which is already operating with very little slack. In addition,
mechanization of the down yard should greatly reduce waiting time of trains
outside the yard. At present, trains form queues as they arrive in bunches
during busy hours and it takes some time to clear these queues. In 1968,
2,240 trains were held up outside the down yard with an average waiting
time of 74 minutes each.
IR was still completing its study of this investment during
appraisal and did not have a detailed exposition of its rate of return
calculation. The principal saving from the investment is attributable to
better utilization of IR's equipment and can be illustrated very roughly
as follows:
Reduced detention time outside yard
2,200 trains x 1.25 hours or                      2,750 train hours
Reduced detention time of rolling stock in yard
3,000 wagons x .20 hours x 360 or               180,000 wagon hours
Cost per train waiting hour                       Rs      150
Cost per wagon year (10% of cost)                 Rs   1,500
Reduced detention of trains outside yard          Rs 412,500
Reduced detention of wagons in yard               Rs  45,000
Since the cost of this project is Rs 26.4 million, it cannot be
justified on cost savings alone and must be based on traffic which IR would
have to refuse if the yard were not improved. The additional cost to the
economy of moving this traffic by truck is assumed to be about Rs .09 per
ton-km. If a 10% first year return were to be achieved, the added economic
cost of moving the refused traffic by road would have to be on the order of
Rs 2.18 million or the equivalent 25.2 million net ton-km; if an average
iead of 500 km is assumed, the refused traffic would have to amount to only
one quarter of a million tons to satisfy the criterion. This amount of
growth is quite probable considering all the traffics passing through the
yard.
The more difficult question is whether the proposed investment is
the only way to eliminate the apparent bottleneck and the only means of
avoiding refusal of traffic. It has not been possible to review in detail
whether operating changes, greater use of through trains and diversion
around the yard, less costly remodelling of the yard, etc., could solve the
capacity problem.



ANNEX 15
Page 7
5.  KAZIPET - PROVISION OF DIESEL LOCOMOTIVE STIED
This project, costing Rs. 15.5 million, covers the setting up of
a diesel locomotive shed at Kazipet on the South Central Railway to
hold 60 diesel locomotives initially, and with scope for expansion to hold
150 locomotives. It is based on existing and projected service requirements
for diesel locomotives caused by increased dieselization of goods and
passenger trains on the main Delhi-'fadras line; it will permit quicker
"running repairs" for this main line traffic and will also provide flexi-
bility for operations in the nearby Singrauli coal fields area.
If the Kazipet facility is not built, diesels which were intended
to use it would have to go to other sheds over 400 km away and presently
servicing locomotives from Kazipet's area of influence. The choice is,
therefore, either to expand those other sheds or to build a new one, and
in this analysis the benefits of larger scale must be weighed against the
benefits of close location to the locomotives' area of operations. The
Kazipet shed is based on planned increases in thie use of diesel locomotives
in that part of IR's system; the site was selected by the zonal railway and
concurred in by a committee of senior railway board officials; the shed will
use the standard design developed by RDSO.
Data were not available to quantify the appropriateness of size
and location of this facility and I? is being asked as part of its corporate
planning to develop techniques for this type of analysis.  However, in terms
of the pattern of operation of the minimization of empty rumnings of
locomotives to repair sheds and at availability of suitable labor, the
choice of Kazipet, although based on judgment rather than a quantified
analysis, is sensible.
Zosial Distril)ution of Investments
Appendix C shows the distribution of investment (e-cluding rolling
stock) by zonal railways investment. The investment per traffic unit and
track-km for 1971/72 appears to be quite even among the five major zonal
railways (Central, Eastern, Northern, South Eastern and Western) while
relatively more investments are going to Southern and South Central Pailways
(nainly because of doubling schemes) and relatively less to 'North Eastern
Railways. There is evidence, therefore, that most investments are made in
accordance with traffic requirements.



ANNEX 15
Page 8
Major Subprograms
The two most irmportant subprograms are rolling stock and track
renewal, representing about 40% and 16% of the total, respectively. Rolling
stock is divided about equally between locomotive, coach and wagon purchases,
while track renewal consists of complete renewals and renewals of track and
sleepers only.
Rolling stock is acquired by IR either to increase capacity or to
lower costs. The dieselization program has until recently been based on
capacity considerations; that is, the larger and heavier diesel trains
occupied fewer train paths for the same volume of traffic and therefore
substituted for doubling or other line capacity works. The cost saving
aspects are, however, by far the most significant in the comparison of
diesel with steam traction and greatly overshadow the savings from de-
laying a major line investment with the early introduction of diesels. Two
factors make diesel locomotives decisively cheaper than steam: the costs
of labor and fuel. IHowever, even if it is assumed that much of the labor
presently working in IR's steam operations will continue on IR's payroll
after the introduction of diesels, fuel costs favor the petroleum based
engine if allowance is made for the heavy tax element in the price of
diesel oil and for the fact that railway grade coal fuel is becoming
scarcer in India and would in any event be shipped by IR over some distance
at an accounting price equivalent to the cross subsidized coal rate. The
internal rate of return on cost saving investments in diesels has been
estimated to cover a range of from 20 to 35%, depending on whether the
gauge is BG or M1G and depending on which shadow prices are applied.
Sufficient data were not available to assess quantitatively the
impact of the various renewal expenditures; nor was it possible to develop
reliable information on possible cost savings or improved performance due
to improved track, reduction in rolling stock repair and overhaul, etc.
Tracks are renewed according to the number of ton-kmi having passed over
them and also according to the tracks' actual condition. Wagons are said
to be over-age at 40 years and coaches at 30; the significance of this
criterion is that shop managers may scrap over-age rolling stock on t.-
own initiative, but under-age equipment can be retired only with the ex! ess
consent of the IT Board. No economic analyses have been made by Iv to
optimize the time and occasion of renewal expenditures; IR recognizes the
importance of this information even though in the next few years the scope
for renewal of wagons and coaches will be limited due to relatively low age
of the fleets.  TRl also recognizes that decisions on standarcs of track
renawal and of rollin'Y ,tock replacement should be subjectc>" to cost
henefit studies and it would, in preparing the Corporate Plan, investiLate
Tne;ins of adapting thr-3e techniques.



ANNEX 15
Page 9
Overall Evaluation
IR investments have been disaggregated in order to analyze and
identify optimal solutions at various levels. In a complex operation such
as IR where there is a close mutual interdependence of investments,
systems effects of a particular investment may be of great importance and
thus cause rates of return to change in either direction. Care must also
be exercised that in the total analysis the very high returns on some in-
vestments do not mask poor projects wllich could be dropped without affecting
the overall economic performance of the enterprise.
For purposes of the total evaluation, about 6% of total investment
items (e.g., staff quarters) are excluded on the ground that they are not
directly related to the production of IR transport services and are more
properly regarded as items of expense. The evaluation also excludes the
investments attributable to suburban services, about 9% of total IR invest-
ments, on the ground that these services must be analyzed in relation to
the economic criteria applicable to those urban complexes. The remaining
85% thus represents the investment package to be analyzed; at the present
rate of investment in IR this will be about Rs 2,125 million per annum. If
the investment is to yield a first year return of at least 10%, the net
economic benefits should be about Rs 213 million per annum. These could
be made up either of savings in transport costs - because certain traffic
that would have moved by railway was not diverted to other higher cost
modes - or through reduced costs in the supply of the same IR transport
services.
Goods traffic has been projected to increase from roughly 111
billion net ton-km in 1969/70 to 142 billion in 1975/76. Under the extreme
assumption that the additional traffic, 31 billion net ton-kI, would be
diverted to road without the project's investments, and the assumption that
the economic costs of a ton-km by road are 9 paise more than by rail, the
annual savings to the economy fron non-diversion of the 31 billion net
ton-km would be over Rs 3.4 billion. Thus on a pure, minimum cost basis
the railway is a more economic solution. Traffic may not rise as rapidly
as forecast, however, and even without the investments in rail, some part
of the traffic which is 'captive' to the railway would not be diverted.
If traffic grew by only one-half of that expected anid only 13% of this was
diverted to road, the savings made possible by the project would be suffici-
ent to show a return in excess of 10%.
Only a part of IR's investments, however, are to increase its
capacity; others lower the costs of existing operations and provide im-
proved quality of service or, at least, will prevent its deterioration.
If it is assumed that one-third of the investmaents are intended to improve
or maintain the present cost and quality of service factors, the expected
benefits produced should be about Rs 71 million per annum. A 10% increase
in the average transit time of IR freight would, it is estimated, cost the
economy (in terms of more tied up capital) about Rs 20 million per annum.



ANNEX 15
Page 10
Increased waiting tir.e for wagons would undoubtedly force some users to
divert to trucking. Diversion of less than a billion ton-km per annura of
rail traffic to trucking, at a higher cost of 9 paise per ton km, would be
sufficient to show economic costs in excess of Rs 71 million per annum.
The annual investments in diesel locomotives amount to about Rs 160 million,
and with the rate of return of 25%', would contribute Rs 40 million and by
itself justify more than half of the total of the assumed cost saving
investments.
An adequate first year rate of return (10%) on IR's total invest-
ment program is clearly possible and achievable in a variety of ways.
Whether, and how, it could be achieved and the extent to which India's
economy will ultimately benefit from the investment program, depends very
much on a proper formulation and the attainment of IR's performance goals.
The purpose of the corporate plan is to prepare a detailed and consistent
set of objectives. Until these are available, IR will concentrate attention
on three issues: cost saving investments; improved costing procedures and
practices; and preparing the corporate plan.
.ovember l9?7



INDIAN RAILWAYS
Actual Investments 1961/62-1968/69
(Rs Million)
Items                 1961-62       1962-63      1963-64       1964-65       1965-66       1966-67      1967-68       1968-69
Rolling Stock          842.4 *      1,090.3 *    1,024.6 *     1,191.5 *    1,271.1         1,021        1,132         1,111
Workshop & Sheds        46.0 *         70.3 *      123.9 *       121.0 *       141.8           64            42           52
Machinery & Plant       13.6           18.9         20.0          33.8          38.1           27           33            50
Track Renewals (Net)   328,0          461.3        473.7         469.2         339.7          286          313           382
Bridge Works            57.5           52.6          45.3         57.7          58.0           74            49            49
Line Capacity Works    427.2          585.5        711.1         753.8         735.4         543           391           376
Signalling & Safety     51.2           47.7         80.2          97.2         108.9          107          117           109
Electrification         84.5           93.2        167.4         209.1         248.9          121          114           155
Other Electrical Works   6.1            8.6          7.8           9,0          15.9           14            18           18
New Lines              314.6          374.8        493.7         523.1         410.3         245           169           161
Staff Welfare
and         )      111.2          119.2        129.3         133.9         108.4          114           76            73
Staff Quarters  )
Userst Amenities        26.6           24.7         23.7          28.4          33.8           37            31           40
Other Specified Works   33.2           46.9         72.0          57.2          41.4           85            27           36
Road Services           18.6            9.9          6.4          18.3          32.1           18           13            18
Total           2,360.7        3,003.9      3,379.1       3,703.2       3,583.8        2,756         2,525         2,630
* Excluding those provided under electrification.



APPNDIX B TO ANNEX 1i
INDIAN RAILWAYS
1971-72 Program
New Works Costing Over Rs 2 Million
(Rs Million)
Number of        Outlay        Anticipated
New Works        1971-72           Cost
Workshops and Sheds                 7              2.5              7.0
Bridge Works                        3              0.5              34.8
Line Capacity Works:
Doublings                       3            32.0             147.3
Yards                           3              2.4              32.2
Others                          3              7.9              58.5
Signalling and Safety Works         9              5.6              38.8
Blectrification                     1              2.0             226.2
New Lines                           1              4.0              20.0
Total                          30             79              3W7



INDIAN RAILWAYS
Investment by Zonal Railways
(Excluding Rolling Stock)
Average Annual         Proposed           Propos ed
Average Annual  Proposed          1968/70              1971/72           197V1/72
1969/70        1969/70   1/   1968/70       1971/72          Investment   2/     Investment   2/   Investment
Zonal Railways       Track-Km    Traffic Units    Investment    Investment    Per Traffic Unit    Per Traffic Unit    Per Track-Km
(Km)         (Million)     (Rs Million)  (Rs Million)         (Paise)             (Paise)       (Rs Thousands)
Central              11,818         37,198         209.1          316.5              0.56                0.85              26.8
Eastern              10,074         34,818         159.2          222.0              0.46                0.64              22.0
Northern             16,032         38,458          141.9          248.2             0.37                o.64              15.5
North Eastern         7,560         13,664          48.6            54.8             0.36                0.40               7.2
Northeast Frontier    5,523          7,376          49.4            64.8             o.67                0.88              11.7
Southern             10,830         17,958         149.2           216.3             0.83                1.20              20.0
South Central         8,670         18,563         167.1           211.0             0.90                1.13              24.3
South Eastern        12,916         33,854         212.8           228.2             0.63                0.67              17.7
Western              15,104         39,729         103.3           297.3             0.26                0.75              19.7
All Railways      98,527        241,618       1,240.6         1,859.1             0.51                0.77              18.9
1/ Defined as sum of carried traffic units: pass-km plus net ton-km (1 pass-Km being assumed equivalent to 1 net ton-Km)
2/ Refers to actual traffic carried in 1969/70.
0
U






f 
U. S.S. R.
N.   S'. S. RINDIAN RAILWAYS
TRUNK ROUTES AND MAIN ROUTES WITH
HIGH DENSITY OF FREIGHT TRAFFIC
KABUL     ......... ~          -A- APPRC XNATE  /(1969-70)
+ OKABUL  /                  3                  :  -SuMAE?(I  97 
CEASE FIRE LINE  J
Ii                              0                      390~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~90 20 m1es.
t   1                <                    ?                           loo 2~~~~~~-.00 000 30ie
_S    '   W  E  S  T   (-               0  100,   200300 43 0  5001KIl.-ees
~-'"W E S T 
JULLUNDUR
PA   K  I ST   A  N          .BHATINDA            HRANPUR                    T       I    B       E     T
ZIABAD l   MORAADAD      \
t (                           \.                                           0     > ~KATHMANDU   -,t j/BHUTAN(                      (
AJMER ANGAPU                                    ORAKHPUR'-R ._. _     A U HA
GAUH AT I
\   MARWAB  MADHOPLY                 xM\bV           -5>             SIL10URltM 44 _, LIPUR DUAR
\  .AHMADABAD  l \    S          P~~BHOAL               BAURDAN               HOR       ' 
KOT0DHRA   JHARS;                       KHARSUGUDA 
KOIUL     AS ROAD
BOtBA DiAUD  BLHRSHA                  OBBL\ Say  o af b engal 
\INOTGIA   VIZIANAGARAM
-A                             T WADI(                                      I KAZIPET                   R
D   X                   \               AH                                                                        Alk/>AA  Aj
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
L                                                                                         > tG DUR   -.    --  Broad Gouge "Trunk Routes"
(55   \             ~~~~~RENIGUNTA   JMMIOIPUNDI                Moir RrOEeOs wth Denr ty oer 10000~ Net Ton-  m/Rott  Krn/Do
\ ~~~~~~~MDRASPU K                         AZ      PE UnderSined Cities Indicate thes Location  ANDAMAN
PUR              TITLGAHPORT BLAIR
KALYA~ ~~~~8KfllKD
I N DI/A N   U                                        zAHRO C EA N
ICO LOMBDOJ
JULY 1971                                                                                                      -IBRO 5509






A 5 TB RM
E  N~~~~~~~
CE.YLON.: :  S  .E  E    S  T E R=N
ru9;I^-ii#,:: ' :r X to@i\L *~~~~~~ A                                                          Y   q     . F     8   if     T G   A    Z
g~~ ~ ~     ~~~~                                                                             INDIA_hsSo   t gr )y _
07  XJ  S/ dohuD (>    <SfRAILWAYS
A RP A S I A  NZ       S E A                       'J Tl  (H                                                                       ..............
Mog   X'vt ZZl                           R       Sfnnr  5  OV
A.            E     o      eS    0    D 20M
S h .     <    ;  4 ~ ON



