CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 280 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Eleventh Railway P?roject)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 24, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 280 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Eleventh Railway Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 24, 1972


﻿5
procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, as revised in May 197 1,
and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in such Schedule 3.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1974 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1() per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 15 and
November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing
May 15, 1982 and ending November 15, 2021, each installment to and including
the installment payable on November 15, 1991 to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of I'r) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal. amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Sectioi 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct the
operations of the Railways with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound engineering, financial and administrative practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of. the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
IOE


﻿6
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules, for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Railways and any relevant records and documents, and (iii) shall
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall maintain passenger fares and freight rates, and shall take all other
action as may be necessary or appropriate, so as to provide to the Railways revenue
sufficient to enable the Railways, commencing in the fiscal year 1971/72, to meet
for each fiscal year, out of internally generated resources, all operating expenses
and dividend payments on capital-at-charge.
(b)   For the purpose of this Section:
(i)         The term    "operating expenses" means all direct costs of
operation of the Railways, including adequate maintenance
expenses and adequate appropriation for the Depreciation
Reserve Fund and the Pension Fund of the Railways; and


﻿7
(ii)        The term  "capital-at-charge" means the capital provided by the
Borrower to the Railways and appearing in the Railways
accounts as interest-bearing permanent capital.
(c)   The adequate appropriation for the Depreciation Reserve Fund of the
Railways mentioned in subparagraph (i) of paragraph (b) of this Section 4.02 shall
be not less than Rs 1.050 million, 1.100 million, 1.1fO million, 1.200 million
and 1.250 million for the fiscal years 1971/72 to 1975/76 respectively.
(d)   The foregoing provisions of this Section supersede the agreements
between the Borrower and the Association set forth in Section 4.05 of the
Development Credit Agreement between them dated September 24, 1969.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall prepare and keep up to date a corporate
plan covering all aspects of the Railways' business and submit to the Association
not later than December 31, 1973 for review and comment, an initial version of
the corporate plan which shall cover the period April 1, 1974 to March 31, 1989,
shall include provision for the matters specified in SchedCule 4 to this Agreement
and shall take into account any plans of the Borrower in other modes of
transportation.
(b)   Pending submission to the Association of the corporate plan pursuant
to paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall submit to the Association,
for review and comment, six-monthly progress reports on such planning.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) the methodology for
appraisal of investment projects for the Railways will continue to be progressively
improved and to cover all associated investments necessary to enable the objectives
of such projects to be achieved, and (b) criteria now used for such appraisals
continue to be progressively replaced by discounted cash flow criteria, as trained
staff become available.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit


﻿8
Agreement, the administration, operations, financial condition, resources and
expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations, financial condition, resources and expenditures, in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or thw performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development C-edit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of the Railways and any relevant records
and documents and to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿9
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges oi, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date March 29, 1972 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary or Joint Secretary to the
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance or a Director of the Department
of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the
Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India


﻿10
Cable address:
Ecofairs
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿11
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of imported items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the Credit
to each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                    Dollar Equivalent)
I.         Components and materials required
for the manufacture of electric
locomotives, diesel locomotives,
electric multiple units, coaches
and wagons                                      33,000,000
II.        Equipment and materials for line
capacity works, electrical works,
etc.                                             3,000,000
III.       Rails                                            5,000,000
IV.        Equipment for signalling and tele-
communication schemes                            3,000,000
V.         Equipment and materials for elec-
trification schemes                              4,000,000
VI.        Plant and machinery                              3,500,000
VII.       Other railway equipment and
material- technical services
approved by the Association                      6,500,000
VIII.      Items procured under license or for
standardization, consisting of:
(a)   Diesel locomotive components includ-
ing rectifiers and control equipment,


﻿12
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                     Dollar Equivalent)
crank shafts, cylinder head casting,
turbo-chargers, compressors, fuel
booster pumps, pistons
(b)   Electric locomotive components, includ-
ing air-blast circuit breakers, tap-
changers, traction motor components,
switchgear, transformers, rectifiers,
gears, pinions and brake equipment
(c)   Electric multiple unit components,
mainly traction and brake equipment
17,000,000
TOTAL         75,000,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made on account of expenditures incurred prior to such date
but after August 31, 1971 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $5,500,000; or
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of the expenditures


﻿13
under any Category shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to
such Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by the
Association, at the request of the Borrower, to any other Category, except Category
VIII, to the extent required by an increase in the estimate of the expenditures
under such other Category.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the investment scheduled to be made by the Railways for
the period from April 1, 1971 to March 31, 1974, estimated at approximately
$1.084 million equivalent.
The Project includes the acquisition of rolling stock, other railway materials
and equipment and technical services, which will enable the putting into service
during the Project period of about 700 locomotives, 570 electric multiple units,
30 railcars, 4,000 other passenger cars and 21,000 wagons (in terms of
four-wheelers), including about 17,000 broad-gauge wagons, as well as the provision
of track renewals and bridge works, line capacity works and signalling,
electrification, new lines, special stores, workshops, machinery, plant and staff and
passenger amenities.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1974.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to contracts relating to items in Categories I to VII of Schedule
1 to this Development Credit Agreement any part of which is to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the following procedures shall apply:
(A)   with respect to contracts with a foreign currency component of
$50,000 equivalent or less, the Borrower shall use procurement
arrangements in accordance with its usual business practices;
(B)   with respect to contracts with a foreign currency component iii excess
of $50,000 equivalent, procedures set forth in the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by
the Bank in August 1969, as revised in May 1971, shall apply, subject
to the following:
(i)         with  respect to   contracts with   a foreign currency
component    in  excess of $200,000     equivalent, the
Borrower shall submit to the Association two copies of
the signed contract, and any other material relevant
thereto as the Association shall request, promptly after
the execution of any such contract and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract-
(ii)        with  respect to   contracts with   a foreign  currency
component in excess of $1,000,000 equivalent:
(a)   before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of
the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other   bidding   documents,   together  with   a
description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedure
as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿16
(b)   After bids have been received and analyzed, the bid
analysis and recommendations for award shall be
submitted by the Borrower to the Association for
review and approval prior to the award or the
issuance of a letter of intent. If it is recommended
to award the contract to other than the bidder
offering the lowest price, the reason therefor shall
be stated. No award shall be made without the prior
approval of the Association unless the contract is
awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder. In the latter
case, the Borrower shall nevertheless submit to the
Association for information the analysis of the bids
and copies of the executed contract.
2.    With respect to contracts relating to items in Category VIII of Schedule
1 to this Development Credit Agreement any part of which is to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the Borrower may place such contracts through
negotiation provided that:
(A)   the terms and conditions of negotiated contracts conform to the
Borrower's standard form of contract;
(B)   the Association's approval of such standard form of contract (and any
modification thereof) shall have been obtained; and
(C)   the total foreign currency component of all the items listed in such
Category VIII shall not exceed an amount of $17,000,000 equivalent.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 4
Areas for Study in Corporate Planning
1.    Estimates of total traffic in main commodities and its distributin between
rail, road and other modes.
2.    Allocation of traffic to specific rail routes, as indication of:
(a)   required capacity increases;
(b)   opportunity to reduce capacity by line rationalization or closure.
3.    Determination of optimum operating pattern, e.g.:
(a)   increase in length, weight and speed of trains;
(b)   unit train or container operation.
4.    Determination of number, location and equipment of freight terminals to
be used, taking into account road distribution patterns.
5.    Rationalization of marshalling yard systems based on analysis of optimum
train pathing.
6.    Elimination of redundant freight terminals and yards and associated trackage.
7.    Determination of traction required for route system and operating pattern;
introduction of electric and diesel traction and elimination of steam.
8.    Replacement of wagon fleet with wagons of design suitable for future
operational requirements, incorporating higher speeds and improved load transfer
systems. Consideration to be given to air braking systems and automatic couplings.
9.    Replacement of coaching stock. Design to accord with commercial and
operational requirements for inter-city and long-distance traffic; local and suburban
services.
10.  Track structure required for planned speeds, axle loads and traffic density,
with minimum maintenance cost; introduction of mechanized maintenance.
11.   Resignalling to increase line capacity and minimize delays.


﻿18
12.  Workshop plan to provide for economic maintenance of traction and rolling
stock and for building of new equipment. This may require expansion of some
workshops and concentration on a smaller number.
13.  Manpower plan to provide for training, recruitment and resettlement of
redundant staff.
14.  Outline financial estimates of annual revenue and costs and of capital
investment required after determination of orders of priority.


