The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6115-NIR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPTPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 28, 1986
Western Africa Projects Department
Education Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authb.rization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0 = CFAF 345
CFAF 1 million - US$2,899
MEASURES
1 m       1.09 yd.
1 M2    n  10.76 sq. ft.
1 km2    8  0.38 gq. mi.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BIES      -    Bureau of School Infrastructures and Equipment (Bureau des
Infrastructures et de l'Equipement Scolaires)
DAF       -    Directorate of Financial Affairs (Direction des Affaires
Financières)
DEP       -    Directorate of Planning and Programming (Direction des
Etudes et de la Programmation)
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
INDRAP  . -    National Institute for Pedagogical Documentation, Research
and Promotion (Institut National de documentation, de
recherche et d'animation pédagogiques)
KfW       -    Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau
LCB       -    Local Competitive Bidding
MENESR    -    Ministry of National Education, Higher Education and
Research (Ministère de l'Education nationale, de
l'enseignement supérieur et de la recherche)
PCU       -    Project Coordination Unit
FISCAL YEAR                   SCHOOL YEAR
October 1 - September 30            October - June



FOR OmCIAL U   ONLY
REPUBLIC OP NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN TUE PROJECT FILE ..........iii
CREDIT AND PROJEGT SUNMMAY ......v
CREINTRODUCTOT ..........................  ...........                   v
Il. THE EDUCATION SECTOR ................ .....                           1
A.  Educational Structure .......   ....                              1
B. Issues in Primary Education Development                            1
1. Access and Equity .........e......  t ...1
2. Financial Constraints ............*...........                 .. 2
3. Quality of Primary Education                                   3
4. Planning and Nanagement .4       ...... .....                  4
C. The Government's Sector Adjustment Strategy                        4
D. The Bank Group's Role 5......*............                         5
III. THE PROJECT ............................*.........****.*              5
A. Project Objectives and Description                                 5
1. Reduction in Unit Recurrent Costs and
Improvement in Quality and Relevance of
Primary Education ..... **** .................                 6
2. Reduction in Unit Capital Costs and Improvement
in Accesa to Primary Education                                 8
3. More Cost-Effective Resources Utilization                      9
B. Project Cost and Financing Plan ...........1.....et.              il
C. Project Preparation and Execntiou ......ll..........
1. Present Status of Preparation ................... et.
2. Implementation ..................... ...... .......           12
3. Procurement ........................ ....... OCCt             13
4. Disbursement  .........C**.             . ............... 15
5. Special Account          ....            ..... ..             15
6. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting ..............             16
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .............   ........                  16
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED ANM RECOMMENDATIONS ................              17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that %isit,.d
Niger :.n November/December 1985. The mission members vere Giuseppe Pens isi
(mission leader; economist), Pierre Bussat (architect, consultant), ....Ler
Fredriksen (econom'st), and Christopher Shaw (educator).  This report vas
drafted by the mission members and completed by Mr. Fredriksen. Mmes. Ann
Joseph, Johanne Angers and Joan Santini assisted in proce0sing the report.
This document hua a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performae
of their offlcia duties. Its contents may not othevwise be disclosed without W«ord Iank aut*.rimaton.



- ii 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
1  Basic Data Sheet
2-1  Structure of the Education System
2-2  Statistical Profile of the Education System
2-3  Comparative Education Indicators
2-4 Returns to Primary Education in Niger
2-5  Financial Impllcations of Educational Policies
2-6  Analysis of Teacher Demand and Supply
2-7  Teacher Salery Scales
2-8  Organizational Chart of Ministry of Education
2-9 The Goverument'. Education Strategy
3-1  Restructuring of the P'imary Teaching Force
3-2 Experimentation with Djuble-Shift Teaching
3-3  Textbook Development Program
3-4  Sumary of Construction, Rehabilitation and Maintenance
3-5  Sumuary of Support to Strengthen Human and Financial Resource
Management
3-6  Suumary of Support to Strengthen Educational Planning
3-7  Project Co0t and Financial Plan
3-8  Summary of Furniture
3-9 Summary of Xquipment
3-10 Sulmary of Recurrent Expenditures and Cost Savings Generated by the
Project
3-11 Project Management
3-12 Implementation Schedule
3-13 Summary of Specialist Services
3-14 Sunmuary of Local and Foreign Training
3-15 Diabursement Profile
3-16 Summary of Goverument's Contribution
4   Economic Analysis of the Project
NAP: IBRD 16779R



- {ii -
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOCUHENTS AVAILABLE IU TRI PROJECT FIL!
Ref. No.                            Documents                   Document Code
1.        "Annuaire des statistiques scolaires", 198C81,    228.767
Ministère de l'education nationale, Niamey
2.        Programme Interimaire de Consolidation, Secteur    129.575(B)
Enseignement, Propositions Départementales, MEN,
April 1982
3.        'L'Enseignement", MEN, April 1983                    129.575(C)
4.        "Etude sur les besoins en formation au Niger",       127.526(C 1+2)
SGI, September 1981
5.        Mission de Préparation:
Rapport                                              129.786(A)
Documents de travail (3 vols.)                       129.786(B1-3)
Rapport de Carmelle Denning sur les livres           129.786(C)
scolaires, Harch 21-31, 1984
Synopsis of (C) (with letter dated April 13, 1984) 129.786(D)
6.        "Niger-Analyses et développement de l'éducation", 228.768
Unesco, Mai 1978
7.        Programme d'investissement, 1986-88, MEN, 1985       223.127
8.        Estimation des Frais de Scolarité d'un Ecolier       223.128
9.        Recommandations issues de la conférence-débat sur  223.129
l'Ecole nigerienne, 1982
10.       Arreté no. 043/MF portant régime fiscale des aide  223.130
extérieures, 1/25/85
11.       "Budget du Ministêre de l'éducation nationale,"    228.769(1+2)
Ministère des finances, 1985-86
12.       "Synthèse des repporta de fin d'année 1982-83,       228.770
1983-84, 1984-85," Direction de l'enseignement du
premier degré, Ninistère de l'éducation nationale
13.       The Pragma Corporation, "Synthète du rapport sur   228.771
l'éval'ietton du secteur de l'enseignement au
Niger' April 6, 1984



- iv -
14.       "Proposition de Renforcement de la Direction de la  228.772
Planification de l'Education et des Constructions
Scolaires", Pr4paratlon du Projet Education II,
Volet A, MENESR, Niamey, November 1985
15.       "Projet IDA - Education II - Composante Carte       228.774
Scolaire," CEGIR - NENESR, Niamey, November 1985
16.       "Préparation du programme d'ajustement              228.775
structurel," compte rendu de la réunion du
28/05/85: Education Ministère du Plan, Niger,
May 29, 1985
17.       Saadou Galadima and Garba Adizo:  "Financement de  Ed (02) BR
l'Education au Niger: Secteur Enseignement
Primaire," World Bank, Washington, August 1985
18.       "Préparation du 2ème Projet Education:  Etudes      228.773(1+2)
Architecturales" (lère et 2ème Partie), Working
Paper No. 2, MENESR, Niamey. November 19e5
19.       "Projet IDA - Education II - Composante Manuels    228.801
Scolaires", CEGIR - MENESR, November 1985



-v-
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republie of Niger
Beneficiary:        Ministry of National Education, Higher Education and
Research (MENESR)
IDA Credit
Amount:             SDR 15.3 million (US$18.4 million equivalent)
Terme:              Standard
Project
Description:        The project supports the strategy folaied by the
Government, within the framework of its structural
adjustment program, to develop primary education through
more efficient and effective utilization of education
resources by:
1.   Reduction in Unit Recurrent Coste and Improvements
in Quality and Relevance of Primary Education by:
(a) limiting the recruitment of "instituteurs"
and thereby the growth in average teacherst
salaries through (i) provision of in-service
training to improve the qualifications of
existing teachers and (ii) improvement of the
quality of pre-service training of
"instituteurs-adjoints";
(b) promoting a more efficient use of existing
teachers through extending the use of
multi-grade teaching in rural areas and
introducing the use of double-shift teaching
in urban areas; and
(c) improving the efficiency of the learning
process through a strengthening of the
national capacity to develop and adapt
low-cost textt-oks and teacher guides, and to
procure and d.stribute them.
2.   Reduction in Unit Capital Cost  anud Improvement Sn
Accesa to Primary Education by:
(a) developing designs and construction
techniques for low-cost primary school
buildings and constructing 750 classrooms
using these designs and techniques;



- vi -
(b) rehabilitating 3,000 existing clasatoome; and
(c)  promoting the development of a community-
based school maintenance system.
3. Promotion of More Coat-Effective Use of Education
Resources by:
(a) strengthening the Ministry of Educatlon's
(MENESR) capacity to manage and control use
of human, physical and f mancial resources at
central and local levels;
(b) reinforcing the planning and monitoring
capabilities of the Directorate of Planning
and Prograiming (DEP) vithin the NENESR; and
(c) establishing a capacity vithin MENESR to
prepare and implement education projecta.



- vii -
Sutary of Project Cost Bstimate
(net of taxes and duties)
Local Foreign Total
(US$ million)
1. Reduction of Unit Recurrent Costs and Quality
Improvement
(a)  Teacher training                             2.3       0.1     2.3
(b) Multi-grade and double-shift teaching         0.1       0.2     0.2
(c) Textbook development, adaptation,
production                                   0.6       2.6     3.2
Sub-total                               3.0       2.8     5.7
2. Reduction of Unit Capital Costs and
Improvement in Access
(a)  Construction of 750 clasaroons               3.1       1.8     4.9
<b) Rehabilitation of 3,000 classrooms            0.8       1.3     2.1
(c)  Establishment of maintenance program         0.0       0.1     0.2
Sub-total                               3.9       3.2     7.1
3. Promotion of More Cost-Effective Use of
Education Resources
(a)  Strengtheuing of Resource Xanagement         0.3       1.7     2.0
<b) Reinforcement of Planning                     0.6       2.3     2.9
(c)  Establishment of Implementation Capacity    0.3        1.3     1.5
Sub-total                               1.2       5.2     6.4
Total Base Coste                                      8.0       11.2    19.2
Physical Contingencies                                0.5       0.6      1.1
Price Contingencies                                   2.6       3.3      5.9
Sub-total                               3.1       3.9     7.0
Total Project Costs                                  11.1       15.1   26.2
Financtia Plan:
IDA                                              7.5      10.9    18.4'
Norway                                           1.1       3.6     4.7
Federal Republic of Ge:iany (through KfW)        1.1       0.6     1.7
Government                                       1.4        -      1.4
Total                                           11.1      15.1    26.2
No: Totals may not add up due to roundings.



- viii -
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
- - -..- ----US$ miillion…-^--- - --------
Annual         0.3    0.6    1.2    1.7    2.0    2.9    5.1    3.6    0.8
Cumulative     0.5    1.1    2.3    4.0    6.0    8.9   14.0   17.6  18.4
Economic Rate of
Return:           Not applicable.
Project Benefits
and Risks:        The project vould in.rease primary school enrollments by
about 34,000 pupils (an incremental annual growth of
about 2% between 1987 and 1992), and improve quality of
education for nost primery students through provision of
boetter trained teachers, improvgd availability, relevance
and quality of textbooks and improved school buildings.
The project would also promote more cost-effective use of
education resources, increased participation by local
communities in primary school construction and
maintenance, and development of policy formulation and
institution building as a base for longer-ternm sectoral
development.  Together tnese measures would arrest the
decline in the primary school enrollment ratio and lay
the foundatlons for future growth. The main risks arise
from (a) the Ministry of Education's lack of experience
in Implementing Bank projects and its inadequate
technical capacity in executing a large program of
low-cost construction, and (b) pressure to recruit more
costly teachers ("instituteurs") rather than to improve
the quality of education through more cost-effective
meaaures. To minimize the former risk, the project would
equip the Ministry vitk a Project Coordination Unit and
vith a Bureau that will plan and monitor implementation
of the school construction and rehabilitation program.
To address the latter risk, the project would improve the
quality of existing teachers, strengthen in-service
teacher training for "instituteurs-adjoints," and provide
for the development, procurement and distribution of
textbooks and teacher guides. Furthermore, at
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that its
recruitment and promotion policies vili reflect the need
to limit future increases in average teacher salaries.
WAPD
October 1986



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPIIENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       The Goverument of Niger has requested IDA assistance tn financing
a project to reduce unit CostS and improve quality as vell as managerial
capability within the education sector. Total project costs are estimated
at US$26.2 million equivalent (net of taxes and duties), with a foreign
exchange component of US$15.1 million. The Government would contribute
US$1.4 million, the Federal Republie of Germany and Norway would cofinance
-vith, respectively, US$1.7 snd 4.7 million equivalent; and the remainder,
US$18.4 million, would be fiuanced by IDA.
1.2       The project would be IDA's second contribution to education ln
Niger, and the first in support of primary schoollng. The project supports
Niger's structural adjustment program by improving public resources manage-
ment in the education sector. The specific measures proposed in education
vere developed through a sector policy dialogue conducted with the Nigerien
authorities during the past two years. The Basic Data Sheet is in Annex 1.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A.   Educational Structure
2.1       A six-year primary cycle is followed by four years of lower and
three years of upper secondary schooling, and by higher education et the
University of Niamey, the National School of Administration or abroad.
Teacher training is provided at the upper secondary level and at the
University of Niamey. Koranic achools are found in most villages. Agri-
cultural and vocational training are available in several small centers.
About 90% of public expenditures on education are channelled through the
Ministry of National Education, Righer Education and Research. Other
Ministries are responsible for their ovn training programs. Annex 2-1
shows the structure of the education system.
B.   Issues in Primary Education Development
1. Access and Equity
2.2       At 14%, Niger's adult literacy rate is one of the lowest in the
vorld. Its gross primary enrollment ratio of 25%, one of the lowest ln
Africa, is dovn from 27% in 1980.  Access to prlmary education differs
markedly by sex snd by district. Girls account for 36% of primary enroll-
mente and the enrollment ratio for the 39 districts ranges from 7 to 65%.
Enrollment growth in urban areas ls severely constrained by limite<. educa-
tion capacity as wituessed by overcrowded classes (generally more than 55
pupils per class) and restrictions on new admission at the start of each



-2
school year.  Increased rural to urban migration resulting from the recent
drought has caused further overcrowding of urban claserooms and smaller
classes in many rural school8.  Enrolluent growth in rural areas is con-
stra'ned by a combination of demand and supply factors. Low population
density makes supply of education costly (clase 8ize iS generally below 35)
and necessitates large catchment areas for each school which, in turn, has
a negative effect on demand. Decllne in rural incomes, and low perceived
private benefits resulting from poor o.portunities for admission to the
next level of education and for entry to vage employment, are further
causes for the slackening in demand for rural primary education observed in
recent years. If allowed to continue, this virtual stagnation at v low
level of human resources development would have serious detrimental effects
on the country's long-term economic growth prospects. Research evidence
from other developing nations points to a poverful beneficial impact of
schooling on factors such as agricultural productivity, physical health,
nutrition and fertility as well as on certain sets of social, political and
personal values which promote development. Improvements in all these areas
are necessary to attain sustained economic gro-4th in Niger. Annex 2-2
gives statistics on enrollment, teachers and finance in Niger. Annex 2-3
provides comparative education indicators for other countries, and
Annex 2-4 presents an analysis of returns to primary education in Niger.
2.   Financial Constraints
2.3       Rigid budget ceilings.  Despite Niger's low enrollment ratios,
the share of the goverument budget devoted to education (21%) is above
average for Sub-Saharan Africa. Simulations of the effecte of alternative
policies regarding the allocation of the severely constrained resources
both vithin the sector and between education and other sectors show that
prospects for even modest improvement in access to primary education depend
largely on the extent to which education resources can be used more effec-
tively. If present policies remain unchanged, the primary school enroll-
ment ratio vould decline (from 25% in 1985 to 14% in year 2000) even under
the optimistic assumption of a 2% real annual growth in the education
budget (Annex 2-5).
2.4       High unit recurrent costs.  At about US$77 per student, Niger's
recurrent unit costs in prirary education exceed the already high average
for Western Africa. Teacher salaries account for 84% of the primary educa-
tion recurrent budget. The vage bill required to sustain a given enrollment
depend3 on (a) the number of pupils per teacher; and (b) the average salary
per teacher.  The pupil/teacher ratio in primary schools has declined from
41 in 1980 to 36 in 1984; a gradual rise to 45 pupils per teacher would
permit an increase in enrollment oy 25% vithout augmenting the number of
teachers. This would require larger class size and increased use of multi-
grade teaching in rural areas as vell as more effective use of teachers and
classrooms in urban areas through double-shift teaching.
2.5       Current practices for recruiting and promoting teachers result in
a strong upvard pressure on average teacher salaries. Niger has three main
categories of trained primary school teachers: "instituteurs" (I),
"instituteurs-adjoints" (IA), and "moniteurs".- The third category is nov
being phased out and training is provided only for the I and IA grades.
Three policy variables govern the development of average teacher salaries:



-3-
(a) the distribution of new recruitment among the three categories, because
the starting salaries of the I and IA categories are 2.27 and 1.50 tlmes
that of the "moniteurs"; (b) the range of the three salary scales, because
the maximum salary for each category le about twice the starting salary;
and (c) the pace of movement upward through the scales because each scale
has ten steps and a teacher is promoted automatically every two years and
may also be upgraded from one category to another. Annex 2-6 describes
Niger's teacher traini.:g system and shows that the present capacity of this
system fs likely to be sufficient to meet tie demand for primary achool
teachers until the early 1990s. Annex 2-7 compares starting salaries and
range în salary scales for different categories of teachers in eight West
African count ries.
2.6       HiSh capital costs.  In 1984, the cost of a primary school class-
room made from cement blocks and tin roof was about US$1O,000.  This is
about five times the coste of einploying "banco" which la the most commonly
used local building material (a mixture of clay, straw and earth). The
share of all claserooms constructed from local materials declined from 47%
in 1975 to 27% ln 1985. To reverse this trend, it is necessary to develop
improved building designs and techniques based largely on locally available
materials. lu addition to reducing construction coasts, a greater reliance
on local materials would help establish a pattern whereby school construc-
tion and maintenance would largely be the responsibility of each village.
2.7       High student subsidies.  Student subsidies account for 31% of the
budget for secoaiary education, 60% of that for higher education, and 20Z
of the total public education budget (Annex 2-2). Considering the bleak
prospects for gainful employment for graduates and the fact that many of
those who benefit from subsidies belong to the better-off social groupe, a
gradual reduction in the scholarship budget would seem justified from an
economic as vell as from an equity point of view.  Furthermore, over time
this would facilitate a gradual increase in the share of the education
budget devoted to primary education (40% in 1986).
3.   Quality of Primary Education
2.8       The MENESR considers the quality of the primary education
teaching force inadequate. Although the quality ne doubt is low, 84% of
Niger's prîmary school teachers have at least two years of teacher tralning
followlng completion of lower secondary education. Therefore, to minimize
training and salary costs, the quality of the teaching force should be
improved through a more rigorous selection of entrante to teacher training
programs and through a strengthening of the quality of these programs
rather than through an extension of the length of the training.  The
quality of instruction is also adversely affected by an acute shortage of
textbooks and teachers' guides. Even when pedagogical materials are
available ln limited numbers, they are outdated, the language and approach
to learning used are outmoded and the content is not adapted to Nigerien
culture and custome since these materials have been developed abroad for
the West African region in general and not specifically for Niger.  Other
physical facilities such as school buildings are in great need of repair.
internal efficiency of primary schools is low -- 14% of all pupils are
repeaters and only 20% of those who sat for the primary school leavlng
exmÎination ïn 1985 passed.  Thus, action to improve resource utilization
should be accompanied by measures in support of quality and relevance.



-4-
4.   Planning and Manaement
2.9       The Ministry of National Education, Higher Education and Research
(MENESR) emplays more than half of Nigerls permanent civil servants and
manages about 21% of the Government's recurrent budget. The Ministryts
ability to use these resources cost-effectively is hampered by its veak
capacity for planning, personnel management, and budgeting and cost
control. In late 1985 the Goverument established a potentially more
efficient administrative structure by (a) merging the Ministry of Higher
Education and Research with that of National Education. to form the MENESR,
and (b) creating eight new inspectorates in rural areas. The former
decision facîlitates a more efficient use of personnel -- MENESR has 10
directorates as compared to 13 in the former two Ministries -- and a better
coordination of education policies. The latter decentralizes existing
inspectorate staff, thus allowing a better support to and control of rural
primary schools. However, for these organizational changes to improve
resource utilization, the MENESR needs to revise its planning, budgeting
and management procedures and the inspectorate staff must be provided with
office space and essential equipment. Annex 2-8 gives the organizational
charts of the two former Ministries and of the MENESR.
C.   The Government's Sector Adjustment Strategy
2.10      The Government has launched a structural adjustment program aimed
at increasing the efficiency of resource use and strengthening the
country's resource base, as vell as improving the balance of payments and
public finance position. This program includes an education strategy which
has the twin objectives of preventing the Government's tight financial con-
straints from causing further decline in the already low enrollment ratio
in primary education, while laying the foundations for medium- to long-term
education developments in line with expected resource availability and
labor market conditione. To implement this education strategy the Govern-
ment has initiated several measures designed to: (a) reduce unit recurrent
costs (through containment of the increase in teacher salaries and allow-
ances, and through more efficient use of available resources); (b) reduce
unit capital costs (through development of low-cost school construction and
maintenance); and (c) recover cost& (through reduction in scholarships in
higher education, introduction of charges for school supplies, expansion of
fee-charging private schools and increased financial contribution by local
communities to primary school construction). Following the decline in the
succesa rate at the primary school leaving examination in 1985 (para 2.8),
the Goverument also established (in October 1985) a Commission to review
the training and status of primary school teachers. The Commission's
Report (issued in Mardh 1986) reconmmends several measures aimed at
improving the quality and working conditions of teachers. The Government
has not yet considered the Commission's recommendations.
2.11      In sum, the Government's strategy calls for adjustment from a
small, costly and essentially elitist education sector for the few to a
more equitable, relevant and efficient system vith an expanding primary
education base and a development of secondary and higher education in line
vith expected resource availability and labor market conditions. Implemen-
tation of this strategy needs necessarily to be phased over several years
and muet be concurrent with a strengthening of the managerial capacity of



MENESR. Furthermore, its financial implications require careful moni-
toring. Although not yet fully articulated ln ail its aspects, the
strategy responds to development needs and deserves support as an integral
part of the country?s broader structural adjustment program. The proposed
project would assist the Government in its implementation.
D.   The Bank Group's Role
2.12      Niger had received 29 IDA credits totalling US$344.7 million as
of September 30, 1986. In February 1986 the country received a Structural
Adjustment Credit of US$60 million including $20 million from IDA. Only
one of previous credits has been in the education sector -- an agricultural
education project (Cr. 1151-NIR of May 1981 for US$21.5 million). Project
implementation has not faced serious problems. However, the project ls
essentially one of civil works carried out by foreigu contractors (67% of
total project costs). During the last two years a concerted effort has
been made to promote a dialogue on education policy and to improve the Bank
Group understanding of the sector as well as the Government's appreciation
of the Bank Group's criteria for education financing. Within the context
of the overall structural adjustment program, the formulation of the
Government's adjustment strategy for the education sector has been promoted
through this effort. Recognizing that a broader educational base i8 an
essential condition for sustained economic development in Niger, the Bank
Group supports the high priority given in the Governmentts strategy to
primary education. Given the issues outlined above, support for expansion
of primary education would be provided directly, through assistance in
facilities, teacher training and textbook production, and indirectly,
through support for policies designed to reduce unit costs and to reallo-
cate education resources in favor of primary educatlon, as vell as to
encourage the efforts of local communities.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Objectives and Description
3.1       The project would support the education strategy formulated by
the Government (paras 2.10-2.11) vithin the framework of its structural
adjustment program. The implementation of this strategy is expected to
result in a more equitable, relevant and efficient educational system where
priority is given to the expansion of primary education and where secondary
and higher education vill develop in line with expected resource avail-
abillty and labor market conditions. Te ensure the implementation of the
education features of the adjustment program, during negotiations IDA and
the Goverument discussed and agreed on the general composition of a three-
year education investment program and its recurrent cost implications. At
negotiations the Goverument gave assurances that it vill (a) discuss with
IDA annually each fiscal year's recurrent budget for education as vell as
discuss and agree with IDA annually on the composition of the investment
budget for the coming three years; (b) recruit and promote teachers in a
manner guaranteeing that the percentage of "instituteurs" teaching in
prlmary ochools does not exceed 14% of total teaching staff in such schools
throughout the execution of the project; and (c) reduce the nominal
scholarshlp budget for higher education by at least 3.7% per year from



-6-
FY 1988 thro,ugh FY 1991, and not grant other subsidies for non-academic
servicts to students to compensate for this reduction. In order te monitor
progress on the above policy issues and on project implementation, the
Government alseo gave assurances that it will, not later than June 30 each
year, starting ln 1987, organize an annual project and education sector
review meeting with IDA.
3.2       In addition to supporting the government's structural adjustment
program generally, the nroject i8 speciflcally desîgned to: (a) reduce
unit recurrent coats in primary education while improving quality and rele-
vance; (b) reduce unit capital costs and improve access to primary educa-
tion; and (c) promote a more cost-effective use of education resources.
These three major project components are discussed below.
1.   Reduction in Recurrent Unit Costs and Improvements in Quality and
Relevance of Primary Education
3.3       To reduce recurrent unit costs without imrairing educational
quality, the project would:  (a) assist in restrtcturing the primary
teachlng force; (b) promote the use of multigrade teaching and double-shift
schooling; and (c) enhance the national capacity to develop, adapt, procure
and distribute appropriate low-cost textbooks and teachers' guides.
3.4       Restructuring the teaching force.  To contain future increases in
average teachers' salaries, the project would limit the need for recruiting
high-cost "instituteurs" by improving the quality of existing teachers and
of the pre-service training of "instituteurs-adjoints" (para 2.5). The
quality of existing staff would be enhanced through in-service training to
upgrade the qualifications of 420 formally untrained but experienced
teachers, and through refresher courses for about 1,800 semi-qualified or
qualified teachers and 1,250 primary school directors. The quality of pre-
service training would be improved through specialist workshops for the
staff of the teacher training colleges. The contents of the in-service and
pre-service training would include topics relating to other aspects of the
project such as the use of textbooks, multigrade teaching techniques,
school maintenance, management and timetabling. The project would provide:
(a) specialist services for developing and conducting the above courses and
workshops; and (b) about 800 staffyears of local training. At the annual
project and sector review meeting (para 3.1), the Government will discuss
wvth IDA and agree on the annual program for ln-service training. Details
of the activities to restructure the teaching force are given in Annex 3-1.
3.5       Double-shift and multi-grade teaching techniques.  To achieve
more intensive resource utilization, the project vould extend the use oe
multi-grade teaching in rural areas and introduce the use of double-shift
schooling in urban areas (para 2.4). To this end the project would improve
the training of teachers in multi-grade techniques and experiment vith
different methods of double-shift schooling in about 40 urban classes to
help develop suitable policies for extending the use of this method.
Details of the trainlng and experimentation are given in Annex 3-2.
3.6       The project vould finance:  (a) specialist services to design,
manage, evaluate and carry out the'experimentation with double-shift
teaching; and (b) in-service training for the teachers of the experimental



-7-
schools. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it vill:
(1) not later than September 30, 1987, discuss and agree vith IDA on the
detailed program for the experiment with double-shift teaching; (ii) start
the experiment not later than October 31, 1988; (iii) review with IDA the
ongoing results of the program not later than September 30 of each year,
and take into consideration IDA's comments; and (iv) diseuss the final
results of the experiment and their policy implications vith IDA prior to
September 30, 1991, and agree on subsequent actions.
3.7       Provision of textbooks and teachers' guides.  To further ensure
(in addition to improved tratning of teachers) that the cost reduction
measures outlined above do not impair educational quality, the project
vould: (a> establish a national capability to develop new textbooks and
teachers' guides where no suitable materials exist, and to adapt such
suitable imported materials whose adaptation rights may be acquired; and
(b) strengthen the capabilities to procure, store and distribute training
materials. To this end, a publications unit, an author training and
advisor5 -crç1ce, and an educational evaluation unit would be established
vithin the National Institute for Pedagogical Documentation, Research and
Promotion (INDRAP). The Institute's existing printshop vould be renovated,
the procedures for textbook procurement would be improved, and the storage
and distribution facilities at the central and the inspectorate level would
be renovated and equipped.
3.8       Textbooks are to be loaned free of charge, one for every two
pupils, and would last three years.  A limited cost recovery scheme for the
related provision of consumable materials and supplies has been introduced
by the Government. Under the project, the budgetary and equity impact of
these measures vould be evaluated to help the Government develop a suitable
cost recovery policy for textbooks. Textbook related training vould be
provided through pre- and in-service training (para 3.4). The project
vould provide for the development of 44 titles in five subject areas by a
national education publishing unit, and the printing of about one million
textbooks and teachers' guides in French, science, mathematics, geography
and history. The responsibility for curriculum development and the defi-
nition of the contents of pedagogical material is vith INDRAP. An informal
National Textbook Committee of the Ministry of Education - on which INDRAP
is represented -- approves both teachers' guides and pupils' texts. INDRAP
has developed revised materials in mathematics and geography as vell as
experimental texts in five local languages. The majority of the 44 titles
scheduled for production vill be originated by national author teams.
Annex 3-3 provides the list of titles by subject, grade level and source as
vell as the schedule for textbook preparation, adaption, development,
procurement and distribution.
3.9       The project vould finance:  (a) civil vorks to extend and impro"e
the existing INDRAP premises, to improve the Directorate of Financial
Affaire' varehouses and to extend or improve the inspectorate storerooms
(b) furniture, equipment and one vehicle; (c) the acquisition of adaptation
rights or the cost of co-publishing arrangements, (d) specialist services
and training for the development of the selected titles; (e) the printing
costs of the textbooks and teachers' guides; and (f) operating co0ts (book
distribution). At the annual project and sector review meeting (para 3.1),
the Governuent vill discuses vith IDA and agree on the number of textbook



-.8 -
and teachers' guides to be developed as originals by national authors and
the number to be adapted or co-published from suitable imported materials.
During negotiations the Goverument gave assurances that it will
(1) establish ana maintaln a publication unit, a training service for
authors of educational publications, and an evaluation service at INDRAP by
December 31, 1987; and (ii) prior to carrying out any new project fortthe
extension of INDRAP's printing capacity, submit to IDA for comments and
exchange of vieve an economic and financial study of such project.
2.  Reduction in Unit Capital Costa and Improvement in Accesa to
Primary Education
3.10      To reduce unit capital costs and improve access to primary edu-
cation the project would: (a) develop designs and construction techniques
for low-cost primary school buildings relying largely on local materials
and labor, and implement a construction program to build 750 classrooms
based on these designs and techniques; (b) rehabilitate 3,000 existing
classrooms badly needing repairs; and (c) promote the development of a
community-based school maintenance system.
3.11      Low-cost construction program.  A prototype of a low-cost clase-
room has been developed using local materials (ie. bricks made mainly from
locally available laterite stabilized with 5% cement, compressed by hand-
operated presses). The roofing is based on a vault structure which elimi-
nates the need for timber, and reduces the need for imported metal for
doors and windows. This design - which has already been tried out in
Senegal - is expected to allow for a 25-year economic life with limited
maintenance.
3.12      The construction program would be under the responsibility of the
NENESR Bureau of School Infrastructures and Equipment which vould be
atrengthened under the proposed project (para 3.21). Of the 750 classrooms
to be financed, about 500 would be built by the "travaux communautaires" (a
force account organization under the Office of the President of the
Republic), and about 250 by the "ateliers scolaires" (the workshops of the
inspectorates). Self-help schemes and negotiating contracts with samall
local contractors vould be extensively used in both cases. The "ateliers
scolaires" vould also produce simple furniture for the new and rehabi-
litated classrooms. Prior to the launching of the construction program,
one or more prototype classrooms will be constructed in order to train the
masons of, respectively, the "travaux communautaires" and the "ateliers
scolaires" as vell as the building technicians of the Ministry of Public
Works, placed at the district level, in the use of this new construction
technique.
3.13      The cost per classroom is estimated at about US$5,400 which is
about 55% of that of classrooms made from cement blocks and tin roof
(para 2.6). It is expected that - through developing a replicable low-
cost school design and the skills at the community lev-l required for
construction based on this design -- the project will help speed up the
current trend whereby the main responsibility for primary school construc-
tion is transferred from the Government to local com-munities. Annex 3-4
gives a summary description of the construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance program.



-9-
3.14      The project vould finance:  (a) construction of 750 new primary
school claserooms; (b) production of furniture for these classrooms by the
"ateliers-scolaires"; and (c) local training for masons and building tech~-
nicians. Prior teo negotiations the Goverument (i) bullt and assessed the
prototype of the new construction design, and (il) presented a program for
mason training and for the first year of construction. At the annual
project and sector review meeting (para 3.1), the Government vill discuss
with IDA and agree on the annual construction program, including site
selection. Annual agreement on this program as vell as on the composition
of the education investment program for the coming three years (para 3.1)
vould be a condition for disbursement for classroom construction.
3.15      Primary school rehabilitation.  A recent Government survey showed
that of the some 6,500 primary classrooms in Niger, over 50% need repair.
and that school furniture often is lacking or in poor condition. The
project would rehabilitate about 3,000 classrooms, and repair and/or
replace furniture in these schools. The renovation program would be the
responsibility of the MENESR Bureau of School Infrastructures and Equipment
and vould be carried out by the "travaux communautaires". The project
would finance: (a) material, labor and transport costs for the renovation
of the 3,000 classrooms; and (b) repairs or replacement of the furniture of
these classrooms.  Prior to negotiations the Government presented a rehabi-
litation program for the first year. At the annual project and sector
review meeting (para 3.1), the Government would discuse with IDA ant agree
on the annual rehabilitation program.
3.16      Schonl maintenance system.  The project vould promote the
development of a community-based maintenance system which vould assist
school users in repairing minor damage to furniture and buildings which, If
left unattended, coald require costly repair, and improve the capability of
the "ateliers scolaires" to make any major repairs (para 3.19). To promote.
maintenance by achool users, the project vould finance:  (a) the prepa-
ration of a manual for teachers and achool directors describing the ways
and means of identifying and repairing common minor damages and giving
instructions for reporting major damages to the "ateliers scolaires";
(b) training of teachers in maintenance procedures (para 3.4); and (c) the
provision of maintenance tool kits for schools. During negotiations the
Government gave assurances that school maintenance procedures and manuals
vill be prepared, discussed with IDA and introduced not later than
September 30, 1988, and that maintenance subsequently vill be adequately
supervised by the inspectorates.
3.   Promotion of More Cost-Effective Resource Utilization
3.17      To promote more cost-effective resource utilization the project
vould strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Education (MENESR) to
(a) manage and control the resources at its disposal; (b) plan and monitor
education development; and (c) coordinate the implementation of IDA-
financed education projects.
3.18      Strengthening of human and financial resource management.  The
project vould support the reorganization of mENER (para 2.9) and lmprove
its capacity to manage and control resource utilization in the education
sector. To this end, the project vould, through provision of specialist



- 10 -
services, training and equipment, assist the Government to review and
improve budgeting and administrative procedures, and computerize the
records of the Directorates ln the Ministry responsible for: (a) personnel
management; (b) budget preparation and control; (c) scholarship allocation
and monitoring; and (d) administration of examinations and school guidance.
In addition, the project would train the staff of the inspectorates and
provide them vith essential facilities ln order to strengthen their
capacity to (i) control resource use at the departmental and schoo3 level;
(iL) support teachers and monitor the quality of instruction; and
(iii) execute and supervise primary school construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance. Anaex 3-5 describes the organizational setup of the inspec-
torates and how the support provided by the project vould improve their
performance.
3.19      The project vould finance:  (a) construction of facilities for 16
inspectorates (eight are currently in rented offices and eight are newly
created and vithout facilities) including workshops for seven "ateliers
scolaires"; (b) furniture and equipment for the 16 inspectorates and work-
shop tools for the seven new "ateliers scolaires"; (c) micro-computers for
the Ministry; (d) specialist services in the field of personnel and finance
management and for computerization of records; and (e) training in use of
micro-computers.
3.20      Strengthening of educational planning.  To enhance the MENESR's
capability to plan and monitor education developuent, as vell as to develop
and implement cost-effectiveness measures, the project would, through
provision of specialist services, training and equipment, strengthen the
capacity of the Directorate of Educational Planning (DEP) to: (a) compile,
analyze and publish education statistice; (b) develop and monitor the
implementation of policies promoting more cost effective resource use;
(c) establish 6nd maintain a country-wide school map; and (d) plan snd
supervise school construction and maintenance.
3.21      The project would finance:  (a) civil vorks to renovate an unused
former secondary school dormitory to serve as offices for the DEP's Bureau
of School Infrastructures and Equipment (BIES); (b) furniture, equipment
and two vehicles for that Unit; (c) specialist services in educational
planning including funds for preparation of future education projects;
(d) training in educational planning, statistics and school mapping; and
(e) operating costs for the BIES. Prior to negotiations the Government
(i> issued a decree defining the responsibilities and functions of the
BIES; and (ii) confirmed that the BIES has been strengthened by the
appointment of an architect and three building supervisors snd the purchase
of one vehicle. At the-annual project and sector review meeting
(para 3.1), che Government vill discuss with IDA and agree on the work
program of DEP. Further details on DEP's organizational setup, work
program and project support are given in Annex 3-6.
3.22      Establishment of a prolect coordination unit.  This vould be the
first IDA-financed project to be implemented by MENESR.  To amplify the
institution-building effects of the project, its various components would
be implemented by the concerned MENESR Directorates.  To ensure overall
coordination of project activities and to serve as liaison between the
Governuent and IDA, a Projecet Coordination Unit (PCU) vould be established



a il -
directly under the Ministry's Secretary General.  The Unit would:
(a) assist in the preparation of annual work programa and budgets;
(b) oversee and assist ln the procurement of goods and specialist services
and in the implementatîon of the fellowship program; (c) process credit
withdraval applications and maintain project accounts; and (d) consolidate
project progress reports. The Unit would be headed by a Nigerien director
who vould be asslsted by a specialist in project management and au accoun-
tant as vell as by support staff.
3.23      The project vould finance:  (a) civil vorks to renovate an unused
former secondary school dormitory to serve as offices for the Unit;
(b) furniture, equipment and two vehicles; (c) specîalist services for
project management and audit; and (d) operating cost. Prior to negoti-
ations the Goverument (1) issued a decree establishing the PCU and
appointing the project director; and (ii) confirmed that procedures for
recruituent of the project management specialist and of supportiug staff
have been initiated.
B.   Project Cost and Financing Plan
3.24      The total project cost over the seven years of implementation la
estimated at US$26.2 million equivalent (net of taxes and duties) vith a
foreign exchange component of US$15.1 million or 58%. Base cost estimates
are at December 1985 prices.  The project would b3 financed by IDA (US$18.4
million equivalent or 70% of total cost), a grant from Norway (the equiva-
lent of US$4.7 million or 18%), a grant from the Federal Republic of
Germany (US$1.7 million or 7X), and budgetary allocations from the Govern-
ment (US$1.5 million or 5%).  The grant from the Federal Republic of
Germany vould finance a part of the primary school construction program.
The Norvegian grant vould finance procurement of te~-books and rehabili-
*tation of primary schools including school furniture. The Goverument vould
finance local construction material (laterite and sand) and operating
coste. The major assumptions in arriving at the cost estimates, as vell as
the detailed project costs by component and cost category and the way these
vould be financed are given in Annex 3-7. Details on furniture and equip-
ment are given in Annexes 3-8 and 3-9.
3.25      The savings resulting from the measures included ln the project
are likely to exceed the incremental recurrent costs that the project
generatea in any fiscal year during project implementation. For the firet
year after project completion (1994), the annual cost of operating the 750
classrooms eonstructed and the textbook program developed are estimated at
CFAF 745 million in constant 1985 prices, equivalent to about 4% of the
MENESR's FY 1986 recurrent budget. Of these costs, 80% constitute teacher
salaries.  In 1994, the savings resulting from the project are likely to be
at least 2.6 times the incremental recurrent costs generated (Annex 3-10).
C.   Project Preparation and Execution
1.   Present Statue of Preparation
3.26      Each project component i  supported by an annex and the textbook
(paras 3.7-3.9) and construction components (paras 3.10-3.16) al8s  are
supported by Working Papers.  Designs for the civil works included in the



- 12 -
project have been developed, and the building of the prototype (para 3.11)
vas completed in Auguet 1986. Suitable sites have been identified for the
textbook development, educational planning esd management components.  Site
selection for the annual classroom construction program vill be revieved by
IDA each year (para 3.14). The Government has strengthened the Bureau of
School Infrastructures and Equipuent (para 3.21), and has issued a decree
establishing the Project Coordination Unit and appointing its director.
Prior to negotiations, the Goverament took the measures lîsted in
paras 3.14, 3.15, 3.21 and 3.23. At negotiations, the Csvernment gave the
assurances listed in para 3.1.
2.   Implementation
3.27      Implementation responsibility.  Implementation features of each
project component are further described ln Annexes 3-1 through 3-6.  The
operational responsibility for project implementation would be given to the
relevant MENESR Directorates. The Project Coordination Unit (para 3.22)
vould serve as liaison vith IDA and vould support the Directorates ln the
areas of procurement, financial administration, documentation, monitoring
snd reportiug. The project management is described in Annex 3-11.
3.28      Implementation schedule.  Based on the capacity of the MENESR,
the "travaux communautaires"  ud the "ateliers scolaires" as vell as the
measures taken to expand it, the execution of the project can be realis-
tically scheduled over a five-year period from credit effectiveness, with
allowance for one more year for the closing of the accounts. Hovever,
experience with previous IDA-financed projects in Niger suggests a longer
implementation period. Therefore, implementation of the project has been
prudently planned over a seveu-year period and disbursement over eight
years. This corresponds to the Regional profile for the education sector.
Annex 3-12 gives the implementation schedule.
3.29      Specialist services and fellowships.  The project vould provide a
total of 178 years of specialist services (of vhich 84% by local staff) and
a total of 884 years of training (of vhich 97% by local training and in-
country fellowships). During negotiations, terms of reference for the
specialist po8ts vere agreed upon with the Govetnument and assurances
obtained that Government will require the staff trained abroad under the
project to remain ln their assignment for a period of three years following
completion of training. Details regarding specialist services and fellow-
ships are in Annexes 3-13 and 3-14.



- 13 -
3.   Procurement
3.30        The folloving procurement arrangements vould apply:
Amounts end oethode of Procurement
(US$ million)
Procurement Method       Total
Cost Items                                  ICB         LCB      Other       N/A         Costs
A. Civil Works ai
1. School constru'.tion (except
laterîte and ',and)
- Part I                            -          1.1 b!      0.6  ct     -          1.7
(1.1)       (0.6) -                (1.7)
- PartIJ                            -           -          1.7  dl     -          1.7
(1.7) -                (1.7)
- Part II                            -          -          1.4  e/     -          1.4
2. Laterite and sand for Parts I,        -          -           -         1.2  f/      1.2
lI and III                                                           (_) --)
3. School rehabilitation                                       1.4  di/   -           1.4
4. Civil vorks other than achool         -         1.7          -           -          1.7
construction/rehabilitation hi                (1.7)                               (1.7)
B. Furniture
1. For rehabilitated schools                       1.5 a/       -           -          l.5
2. All other furniture                   -         1.4         0.3  et     -           1.7
(1.4)       ( - )                  (1.4)
C. E w iDment
1.General and vehicles                  1.2        0.4          -          -           1.6
(1.2)      (0.4)                               (1.6)
2. Textbooks                            1.5  i/   0.3 i!        -          -           1.8
(-)        (< )( 
D. Training                                 -          -          3.9          -          3.9
;3.9)                  (3.9)
B. Specialist Services                      -          -          5.0          -          5.0
(5.0)                  (5.0)
F. Operating Costs                          -          -           -          1.6         1.6
(1.4)       <1.4)
Total (including ccntingencies)                                          -M7          i64 
(1.2)      (4.6)       ll.2       (1.4)       (18.4)
Note: Figures in parentheses shofv the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit.
a7 The construction of claseroams is divided into the following three parts:
Part I   - Classrooms to be constructed by the "ateliers scolaires" and financed by IDA
texcept for laterite and smnd).
Part II  - Classrooms to be constructed by the "travaux cosmunautaires" and financed
by IDA (except fwr laterite and sand).
Part III - Classroons to be constructed by the "travaux communautaires" and financed
by the Federal Republie of Geresny (except for laterite and sand).
b/  Construction material except for laterlte end sand.
c/ Labor services hired through ouBll labor service contracta.
W| Procured through force account contracte vith "travaux comunmautaires".
e/ Procured under KfW (Kreditanatalt fur Wiederaufbau of the Pederal Republic of Germany)
procedures.
fi Laterite and sand provided by the Government.
S/ Financed by Norway and procured under IDA procedures'.
fi  Contracte for constructing inspectorate offices snd lodging, extending INDRAP's
building, fmproving central varehouse and local storehouses for books, and for
rehabilitating offices for Bureau of School Infrastructures snd Equipment and for
Project Coordination Unit.



- 14 _
3.31      Because of their relatively small size and the vide dispersion of
classroom construction and rehabilitation, civil vorks contracts totaling
US$9.1 million vould not be likely to attract foreigu firme and would be
carried out on force account or through negotiated contracte with local
artisans (para 3.12) according to procedures acceptable to IDA, or through
contracte avarded following local competitive bidding (LCB) for work
described ln paras 3.9, 3.19, 3.21 and 3.23. Equipment and printing of
textbooks (total value at US$2.7 million) would be grouped to tlie extent
practicable to facilitate competition in bidding; packages of US$50.000
equivalent or more would be awarded after international competitive bidding
(ICB) according to procedures acceptable to IDA. Goods manufactured
local y vould be given a preferential margin of 152 or the applicable
customs duty, whichever î8 less. Procurement packages (announcements,
bidding documents and propos9d avards) exceeding US$50,000 equivalent would
be subject to IDA's review prior to awurd. For contracte valued at between
US$15,000 and US$50,000 equivalent, tvo conformed copies of each contract
vould be subject to post-review by IDA before vithdrawal of funde from the
Credit Account. Contracte valued at less than US$15,000 equivalent vould
be held by the Borrover for review by IDA uuperviîsion missions and for
audit. Specialist services and fellowships would be procured in accordance
vith IDA guidelines. Construction of primary school classrooms for about
US$1.7 million (including school furniture for about US$0.3 million) to be
financed by the Federal Republlc of Germany, vould follow procedures
acceptable to the Republic which are economical and efficient. During
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will apply the
procurement procedures and arrangements outlined above.



- 15 -
4.   Disbursement
3.32      Disbursemer,ts by category are as follows:
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
(US$ million)
Proposed IDA    % of Expenditures
çatezorm of Expendittires            Allocation    to be Financed by IDA
1. School construction (except for laterite and
sand) ai
- Part I                                        1.3                100
- Part Il                                       1.3                1Ô0
2. Civil works other than achool
construction/rehabilitation                      1.6                100
3. Furniture (except for rehabilitated schools)    1.2                100
4. Vehicles and equipment (except for textbooks)   1.2                 100
5. Training                                        3.0                100
6. Specialist services                             4.0                 100
7. Operating costs                                 1.1                 90
8. Unallocated                                     3.7
Total                          18.4
a/  The activities included in, respectively, Parts I and Il of the project are explained in
para 3.30.
Annex 3-15 shows the disbursement profile. Annex 3-16 provides a summary
of Government contributions to the project.
5.   Special Account
3.33      To facilitate disbursement,  US$400,000 vould be advanced from
the proposed IDA credit and deposited in a Special Account held in a local
bank and operated by the Project Director. The Special Account would cover
about three months of expenditures. Replenishment applications to IDA
would be grouped into packages of at least US$50,00Q equivalent and be
fully documented, except for expenses related to in-country training, fees,
incremental operating costs, and contracts valued at less than US$25,000
equlvalent. These expenses vould be relabursed against certifled state-
ments of expenditures, for which documentation would be retained for review
by IDA supervision missions and project auditors. Reinbursement applica-
tions woule also include a etatement of account movements since the last
application, vith the balance certified by the bank holding the account,



- 16 -
aend a reconciliation showing that the balance represents the original
amount le8s payments avaiting reimbursement or amall working advances.
Should any disbursements made subsequently be disallowed by IDA, the
Government would redepoait the corresponding amount.
6.   Accounting, Auditin& and Reporting
3.34      The Project Director vould establish and maintain accounts for
each project component. Late submission of audit reports has been experi-
enced in the First Education Project (Cr. 1151-NIP) in recent years.  To
ensure punctuallty, the proposed project provides for specialist services
to audit project accounts. During negotiations, the Government gave
aseurances that: (a) all project accounts wlll be audited annually and all
diebursement against statements of expenditures vill be audited semi-
annually by an independent auditor, acceptable to IDA, and that the audit
reports will be sent to IDA for review vithin six months of the end of the
Government's fiscal year, starting in 1987; (b) the Project Director vill
submit to IDA semi-annual progress reports starting by the period ending
December 31, 1987; and (c) vithin six months of the project closing date a
final reèort on project achievements vill be prepared and submitted to IDA.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.1       Benefits.  The construction of 750 classrooms would permit an
enrollment increase of about 34,000 pupils by 1992 (an increase of about
13% as compared to 1985 enrollments). Moreover, rehabilitation of 3,000
classrooms, restructuring of the teaching force, reduction in construction
cocts, increased participation by local communities in construction and
maintenance, reduction in the volume of scholarships, and improved resource
management ln the education sector are expected to result in considerable
fiscal savings and, thus, in a substantial increase in access to primary
education (para 3.25 and Annex 3-10). In addition, the institution build-
ing supported by the project is expected to provide the basis for a more
carefully planned long-term education development in line with the needs of
the economy and the budgetary resources of the Government. Finally, Most
of the about 251,400 pupils àlready enrolled in public primary school,
vould benefit directly from the project through better trained teachers,
laproved availability, relevance and quality of textbooks and improved
school buildings. Anzex 4 presents an economic analysis of project
benefits.
4.2       Risks.  The project has two main risks.  Firstly, the Ministry of
Education has no experience in implementing IDAlinanced projects, and
inadequate tecluical expertise in low-cost classroom construction.  To
address this problem, the project would equip the Ministry with a Project
Coordination Unit to monitor overal. project implementation, and vith a
Bureau of School Infrastructures and Equipment to implement the construc-
tion and rehabilitation program. Secondly, there is some pressure from
vithin the educational establishrmnt to recruit more costly teachers
("instituteurs") rather than to improve the quality of education through
more cos,-effective measures   It i  expected that-the Government's commit-
ment vitlhin the context of its structural adjustment program to limit the
grouth in recurrent expenditures, vill result in a teacher training and



- 17 -
recruituent policy that will contain the growth ln average-teacher
salaries.  To facilitate the implementation of such a policy the project
would provide in-service training for existing teachers, improve the pre-
service trainlng of "instituteurs-adjoints", and strengthen the EXuistry's
capacity to develvp, procure and distribute textbooks and teachers' guides.
Furthermore, at negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will
recruit and promote teachers in a manner guaranteeing that the percentage
of "instituteurs" teachaing in primary achools does not exceed 14% of total
teachlng staff in such schools throughout the execution of the project. In
the achool year 1985-86, "instituteurs" accounted for 14.6% of the primary
school teaching force.
V. AGREENENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1       Prior to negotiations, the Government:  (a) provided IDA with a
revlew of the experience vith the prototype classroom, a program for
masons' training and for the first year of classroom construction and reha-
bilitation (para 3.14 and 3.15); (b) issued a decree defining the responsi-
bilitles and functions of the BIES and confirmed that the BIES has been
strengthened by the appointment of an architect and three building super-
visors and the purchase of one vehicle (para 3.21); and (c) issued a decree
establishing the Prcject Coordination Unit and appointing the Project
Director, sad confirmed that it had initiated procedures for recruitment of
the project management specialist and of supporting staff (para 3.23).
5.2       During negotiations IDA and the Government discussed and agreed
on the general composition of a three-year education investment program sad
its recurrent cost implications (para 3.1).
5.3       Durinu  negotiations the Government gave assurances that it vill:
(a) not later than June 30 each year, starting in 1987, organize an
annual project and sector review meeting vith IDA (para 3.1);
(b) discuss wvih IDA annually each fiscal year's recurrent budget for
education as vell as discues and agree annually on the compo-
sition of the investment budget for the coming three years
(para 3.1);
(c) recruit and promote teachers in a manner guaranteeing that the
percentage of "instituteurs" teaching in primary schools doos not
exceed 14Z of total teaching staff ln such achools throughout the
execution of the project (para 3.1);
(d) reduce the nominal scholarship budget for higher education by at
least 3.7% per year from FY 1988 through FY 1991, and will not
grant other subsidies for non-academic services to studentge to
compensate for this reduction (para 3.1);
(e) not later than September 30, 1987, discuse and agree with IDA on
the detailed program chosen for the experiment vith double-shift
teaching; start the experiment not later than October 31, 1988;



- 18 -
review with IDA the ongoing results of the program not later than
September 30 each year and take into consideration IDA's com-
menta; and discuse the f-inal results of the experiment and their
policy implications with IDA prior to September 30, 1991 and
agree on subsequent actions (para 3.6);
(f) establish and maintain a publication unit, a training service for
authors of educational publications, and an evaluation service at
INDRAP by December 31, 1987 (para 3.9);
(g) prior to carrying out any new project for the extension of
INDVAP's printing capacity, submit to IDA for commente and
exchange of views an economic and financial study of such project
(para 3.09);
(h) prepare school maintenance proceduree and manuals, discu88 them
vlth IDA and introduce them not later than September 30, 1988 ant
cause the inspectorates to provice adequate maintenance super-
vision thereafter (para 3.16);
(i) require the staff trained abroad under the project to remain in
their assignuent for a peri.d of three years after completion of
training (para 3.29);
(j) apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined in
paras 3.30 and 3.31;
(k) cause the project accounts to be audited annually and disburse-
ment against statements of expenditures to be audited semi-
annually by an independent auditor, acceptable to IDA, and
forward the audit reports to IDA for review vithin six months of
the end of the Governient's fiscal year, starting in 1987;
(para 3.34); and
(1) submit to IDA semi-annual project reports starting by the period
ending December 31, 1987, and, vithin six months of the project
closing date, a final report summarizing the project achievements
(para 3.34).
5.4       A condition of credit effectivenesa would be that conditions for
effectiveness of the cofinancing by the Federal Republic of Germany has
been fulfilled.
5.5       A condition of disbursement against the primary achool ccr;truc-
tion program would be agreement each year between IDA and the Government on
the annual program for classroom construction as well as on the composition
of the education investment program for the coming three years (para 3.14).
5.6       Subject to the conditions set fortft il paras 5.1 to 5.4 above,
the project is suitable as a basis for an IDA credit of US$18.4 million
equivalent on standard terms.



-19-                ~~~~ANNEX 
REPUBLIC 0F NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMEN PROJECT
BASIC DATA
General
GNP per capita                  US$190 (1984)
Land area                       1,267,000 km2
Population                      6.4 (1985)
of which urban                 14%
Population density              5.1 per km 2
Population growth rate          3.2% (1973-1982)
Crude birth rate                52.0 per thousand (1982)
Crude death rate                19.7 per thousand (1982)
Infant mortality rate           132 per thousand (1982)
Lif e expectancy at birth       45 (1982)
School Enrollment      Enrollment   % in Private                 Pupil/Teacher
(1984-1985) a/         Ratio(Z         Schools      Z Female        Ratio
Primary eduation          25               2%           36             36
Secondary education        5.8            10%           31             28
Higher education           0.5              0%          22              8
Education expenditures (FY86) ai
Public recurrent expenditures on education as % of total Covernment
recurrent budget: 21.0%
Distribution of public recurrent expenditures by level of education:
Primary education          40%
Secondary educatlon        25%
Higher education           20%
Central administration    11%
Other                       4%
100%
Public recurrent expenditures per student (1984) bf
US$
Primary education             77
Secondary educatlon         267
Higher education          2,120
a/   More details are provided in Annex 2-2.
b/Cost estimates include expenditures on central administration.
WAPED
March 1986



NII
PMARY EDUWM DEEOPMENT CUOJICT/
PROJET D DEV!LOPPEME DE L'TSEIGNEM  PRIMNIRE
STRUCIURE Of ViE EDUCATION SYSE/
STRUCIU DU StSIEME DE LIEDUCAnON
1  2        4 678 9   101t12 13                                                         14 15 1617  IG  19 20
2  I   2         t .              t       a                n   a    nfi     i   i   t   i                 F       i  
PIeca&    r-co    li ,                         ~          êe         Sbeoeidce   fiCvle/                    HI      : catwn
'Secoetdaire 1oec XIe * I   ',
~ ttf,Tee
CECA  Cents foras Iitsocy TtolnlnoJCsit de    atiAon2A 1Co       or d.
_ . _ r-u12 b_dN.O ^Or-
CW A Cdu 6& nsa Vt«ùe                                             O4/Cachtm bFfnb  WCce  ers c   dU.eGO& dPO@U td  AI
MMéti. dEoj cfedtéCM                                          Oi    Naloral ocwx  f A&rlnWtrot&roelEce Nationale CttorA* ttobn
aINP   Natoral Tmd*t CS¶lstar Poda/lico«me»xejncata,Cstte             et%&   NatOnal SOhoa ci Ptditc I9QleOilEc  NetWC de Sané PiMaue
Nationa d'tustuton d1e9ee id Téiéoevnn,m,,catns                ESA  Etoaof OAWkIuftIWBE=O  %Çôédeen crAWxnawe
taE   tcha  foe Lte.tadr %exucton/6fMcniCoà a Cd lEeoag.              MP alO D&400pww nubrd*lo efetlate/tiMtiuftail cmDMOévIEPe
w a*- Sr320U



-21                                 AUNE 2-2
-         Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIRY EDUCATION DEVELgPVN  PROJECI
Statistical Profile of the Education System
This annex provides the folloving statistical information on the development of
education in Niger:
Table 1 - Enrollment and Enrollment Ratios by Level of Education;
Table 2 - Primary School Teachers by Qualifications;
Table 3 - Public Recurrent Expenditures by Level of Education;
Table 4 - Breakdown of Public Recurrent Expenditures on Righer Education;
Table 5 - Public Recurrent Expenditures by Level of Education and Purpose, FY1985;
Table 6 - Investment by Level of Education, All Sources of Finance;
Table 7 - Investment by Level of Education Financed by the National Investment Fund (FNI).
Table 1 - Enrollment and Enrollment Ratios by Level of Education 1/
Primary Education   Secondary Education   HiRher Education          Enrollment Ratios (M)
School                 %                     S                   %      Primary   Secondary   Higher
Year   Enrollment  Female  Enrollment   Female  Enrollment Female   Education  Education  Education
(1)       (2)        (3)       (4)        (5)       (6)       (7)        (8)         (9)
1975/76   142,182      35      14,462        28       541        10       20         2.2        0.1
1980181   228,85,      35      38,861        29     1,435        20       27        4.7         0.3
1982/83   243,268      35      44,519        30     2,118        16       26         5.2        0.5
1984/85   251,400      36      52,802        31     2,850        22       25         5.8        0.5
i/  Data for primary education do not include enrollment in public and private u<dersas schools
(a total of 11,298 pupils at the end of school year 1984/85).
Sourr'   Enrollment data supplied by the Ministry of Education.  Enrollment ratios are
calculated on the basis of population estimates prepared by the World Bank. Population
estimates used by the Ministry of Education give primary achool enrollment ratios uhich are
about 5 percentage points loeer than those shown in column (7).



-22-                                 ANEX 2-2
Page 2 of 4
Table 2 - Pr>mary School Teachers by Qulification 1/
School     Instituteurs     Instituteurs-AdJoints    Moniteurs   Moniteurs Aux.           Total
Year       No.       î         No.            %       No.    %       No.      %        No.      %
1975176     277       8       1,535           44       197    6     1,441     42      3,450    100
1980181     522       9       3,487           63       418    8     1,074      20     5,501    100
1982/83     683      12       3,919           68       446    8       712     12      5,760    100
1984185     900      13       4,951           71       590    9       497       7     6,938    100
I/  Data do not include teachers in public and private uddersas schools (about 370 in 1984/85).
Source:  Data supplied by the Ministry of Education.                             .
Table 3 - Public Recurrent Expenditures by Level of Education FY1981-1986
1981          1982          1983           1984         1985          1986
Million      million       Million        Million       Millîon      Million
FCFA    %    FCFA     %    FCFA     %    FCFA      %    FCFA    %    FCFA     %
Prluary Education     4,761  33    5,208   34    6,171   36    6,692   37    7,299  39    7,396   40
Secondary Education   4,354  31    4,710   31    5,279   31   4,995   28   4,710  25    4,600   25
Eigher Education      3,179  22    3,252   21    3,637   21    3,660   21    3,941  21    3,755   20
Administration        1,314   9    1,475   10    1,656   10    1,756   10    1,863  10    1,950   iL
Other 1/                623  4        554    4      554    3      675    4       787  4       787    4
Total             14,231  99   15,199  100   17,297  101   17,778  100   18,600  99   18,488  100
% of Govermnent
recurrent budget        17.3          19.2           21.3          22.2         21.6           21.0
lf   Includes transfers to private schools, INDRAP and the Agricultural Research Institute.
Table 4 - Breakdown of Public Recurrent Expeuditures on 8igher Education FY1981-1986
1981          1982          1983          1984          1985          1986
Million       Million       Million        million       Million      Million
FCFA     %    PCFA     %    FCFA     %    FCFA      %    FCFA    %    FCFA     %
University          1,000   32    1,000   31    1,000   28    1,000   27    1,200  30    1,200   32
ENA                   270    8      27Q    8       270    7      270    7      270  7        270    7
Administration l/      57    2       65    2        67    2       90    3      121   3        85    2
Student Subsidies   1.852   58    1.917   59    2.300   63    2.300   63    2,350  60    2.200   59
Total            3,179  100    3,252  100    3,637  100    3,660  100    3,941 100    3,755  100
1/ Central administration in the Ministry of Righer Education and Research



-23-                                  ANEX 2-2.
Pae 3 of 4
Table 5 - Public Recurrent 8xpenditures on Education
bv Level of Education and Purpose -,FY1985
Prina  Education                                      (million FCFA)             (%M           ()
Teachers' Salaries                                        6,114                83.8
Material including school meals                             745                10.2
Administration                                              440                 6.0
Sub-Total                                             7,299              100.0           39.3
Secondary Education
Teachers' Salaries                                        1,902                40.4
Material                                                    485                .0.3
Administration                                              451                 9.6
Student Subsidies                                         1,445                30.7
Transfers to CFTR, EMAIR, ECE, INJS and IPDR*               427                 9.0
Sub-Total                                             4,710              100.0           25.3
Central Administration
Salaries                                                  1,286                69.0
Material and utilities                                      264                14.2
Transport                                                   313                16.8
Sub-Total                                             1,863              100.0           10.0
Hiaher Education
Allocation to the University                              1,200                30.4
Allocation to ENA                                           270                 6.9
Administration                                              121                 3.1
Student Subaidies                                         2.350                59.6
Sub-Total                                             3,941              100.0           21.2
Other Subsidies and Transfers                                787                               4.2
Total Recurrent Expenditures                         18.600                             100.0
*See Annex 2-1 for meaning of abbreviations.



-24-                                 AIOEX 2-2
Page 4 of 4
Table 6 - Investeent by Level of Educatioii. All Sources of Finances. FY1979-1985
1979          1980          1981           1982         1983          1984           1985
Level of Million       Million       Million        million       Million       Million       Million
Education   FCFA   %    FCFA    %    FCFA        %    FCFA     %    FCFA    %    FCFA      %    FCVA     %
Priuary    1,656  28    1,685   15    1,946   18        787    6       -   -       440    8       600   24
Secondary   3,885  66    7,658   67    5,885   53    4,933   37                     ... .   6,400   56
Hhuer         349   6    2,103   18    3,259   29   7?525   57   -           ... ..   ... .       500   20
Total     5,890 100   U1,356  100   11,090  100   13,245  100    6,800 100    5,800  100    2,5ao  100
Source: Prepared by the mission.
Table 7 - Investment by Level of Edrcation Financed by the
National Investment Fund (FNl) FY1979-1985
1979          1980          1981          1982          1983          1984           1985
Level of       million      Million        Million       Million       Million       Million       Million
Education        FCFA    %    FCFA     %    FCFA      %    FCFA     %    FCFA    %    FCFA      %    FCFA     %
Prltary          1,395  43    3,229   42    1,392   18       500   21        -   -       440   73      600  100
Secondary        1,814  55    3,153   41    5,514   42    1,008   42       771 100       160   27       -
Hiaber              71   2    1,374   17       667   37      885   37        -   -        -    -        -
Total          3,280 100    7,758  100    7,573  100    2,393  100       771 100       600  100      600  100
% of Total Y
fu anced by PfNI     56%          68%            68%           18%          11%            10%           24%
1/ Refera to total education investment as given in the botton row of Table 6 above.
Source: Prepared by mission.
Ma1U
March 1986



8KPOEIC or 1FICRA
oeMYItADA?IYU 801!CATION 18816610883
Octob.r 26. 1986
coveaumm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
G80 PifR4  788095?T    88XP401 SRRS - 1.318880  011868  P816*                            081868    PRINAR        8813t FR"    SRE11061   SECONDA" IY 508
BASE  POP.  CAPOTA  P8RC910? CEP TOUI, CENTRAL ALLOC&IRD TOs RATE                1881.1. SOMOOL        SIUDRWM  802C61108  P8I8AR? 1`0  REVU1.1.   SrnMNTfSr  LNLL.
YEU I HLLS. <0IS$)  1890310 TrO  009881811<           08   SEC  iII    (E>       RATiO   CYCLE         PUA        -A% PUR<NT 8R001388        RATIO       PUR         RATIO
(1979>  (1979>    BOOCATION  EXPENDIII?5RI            (E>         (1976) -(E>           (8>      TSAoeR  CR1166?1A            (Z)        (Z>       1884318       (XI3
8811.021  01'8U1IES
AUSTRUI A            811    14.6b  8,870        6.la         14.6                                        MIL- -  03  100       21         -99                         73         13       20.q0
64141>               ai    23.7b  e,6506        7,78         14,38!       30"! 34"? 2338      996      106'       100          21         19.9'?        100          92'        14       22.60'
0881611  P.L         79    61.2  12,200         4.6           9,98        -    -    -         996        698      100'         -          -             1 (Ma         944       -         12.140
IISIENRLAN           7*,    14.0  10,490        7.9    -       . 1        20   33   25        996,      96         93        -la          1%.3           q9           83        * 3    -12.401
8E  ZEAUNI>          80      3,2b  6.0816       3s.W         13.4         37   l1   28        99b      10         fo0          24        11.6           100          sa         Es       25.1l0"
85808                79      8.3  12,250        9.0          18.2         31   la   10        996       991       100          tee        it.9          10           i91        10'!     36.5087
cwmeur               83      î.o6  -9 20b,    6.0            22.0         41   34   22        40        100        77          32         10.n,          40           20        21         1.Ra
SURUIII              s1      4.2       ils      2.861<       19.0         43   28   27        à5        29'        32          37        20.2           *i±            le       17         1.00
0039808              84      0.4b      345      3.4V         28.n         69   29   22        49         76        40)         39         --             45           36        28        0.60
0118001              84      0.4      480       3.0          11.9         73   26    ...      l0        42         64          40        67.0            40           10        19         0.60
me11100A            et    32.46        140b     2.90         11.1         45   25   20        53        62         30'         63        19.3           93'          14         44        0.45
RESA                 82     17.4b    420b       5.w          20.16        65   16   il        446      113         58          16         16.4           35           18        26         --
LUSMOII              82      j.46     4356      5.5          16.9         la   32   26        536      116'        41          48         9.6            46          21         21         1.30
l(DàASC0406          77      8.5       330      4.09         24.0         53   28   19        50        q46î       33          556        4.0            38           14        23         1.1116!
881.86               8i      6..",    3306      3.5          1 1.4        58i  14   25        236       62         23          65          s.ft          12            4.       Il        0.40
NADITIOS             83      1.06  1.~1706      4.3          14.0         46   36      7      4Q6       93         72          23        13.0           son           50        22         1.00
85812                83       5 g6     _706     3.6          27.4         71   16   1 3       376       65         la          40         16.0            q                     16        0.60
$8YOIELUS            79      f.6    1.770       5.9          22.4'        34'  33'  lOÉ        -         -                     23                                     -         -     
801410               et      4.5      280       1.5          10.3         5ob  446   66       506       226        806         296         9.0b         806           126       23         1.00
8110*1               go     19.26      3806b    3.0          -            66  39    ...    32           51"x       68          314         1.4          44           16         16        ..
$WAZI LAND           8 3     0.7b    94fl6      3.806        20.4         SI1   34   1 5      43        93         50          13        11.            98           29         18         3.no
T682111        80      18.5      260       5.9          17.         42    10   16        79b       946        87         4          1.0963                                 20'       0.30t
t081<1>              80     12.66      3006     -            16.1"        736  376  206    48            54't      61          14        -               17            5        23        0.6ft
2418                 et    29,86,    210b       7.7          26.4         -    -.   10        346       76         25          30        21.0           40            18        28         2.00
84111                80      5 76     5466      4.3          111           8   23   22        446       95         80          68        12.9            19           16        22         1.50
21146158             81                                         Il6 06  .   95 62 3            4        90         55          39        20.0           83            15        23         05
88811                79      3,46.    3206      6.3          33 1.0       4 3   2 1    5     11b        42         30          46        14.0           30           Il         6 3        1.007
808818               83      6.5      2106      2.1"v        21.7         43   29   28        9         1 6        25          57        24.3           16            3         24        0.03
CAMMt01              44     10.0      8106      3.1p0        -            33   18   28       20         89         456         50        -              -            23         26        2.70
C.A.8.               79   2.2   280   3.88!    20.6'!Y . -  -   -                                    -        -                65'!   -                  -           -          -         0.70'!
C0L*D                76      4,4       120      2.4bV7       21.76,        -                 15         257         -          77                                      387lx    21        0.207
00111                78   1.5   670   9.08V!    27.7'!    -   -   -   -                                       -                5667    -                 30          -          4367   4.00'!
CAM02                77      0.6   3.420        3.7b7         8.67                 -   -           -          -                446tY     -               -           -          1963'      2.80'!
64101                71      0.6       220      53.Um         4,5         46   25'   6'   lob            4067      90'         27b?      64.7'           40           12687     1 7        -
08686                76     11.3      400       4.0!         îS.56        -----   -          -           y7168     -           2 7b7     -              -            56687      2 1       -
00188                29      5.3       2900     4.6'!        -            23'  28'  280   20             14        36          58        20.n'0          as           16        29         7.00'
iTou  U 04           83      9,36      720      7.3          42.8         si   40    9       35'!       72         79          37        29a.0          69           22"2       30         1.86
1.11181              60      1.9      520       4.6          19.6         43   23   24       30         52         32          35        20.0           76           22         20        2.90
NA41                 81      7.06      190      4.2'         21.7*1       38   21   il       10          20        80          64         15.7          66             I        Il         0.90'?
NIIIRITAJ<A          78      1.66      3206     5.5          16.9         33   63   25       126         32        60          44        52.0            30           9         25        0.37
NIGER                86      5.2       300      2.8          21.0         40   25   20       14         25         20          36        41.0            37           6         28        0.50
R1018A               83    93.6b       7606     7.41         16.0         -     -     15    36          93         70          36        191.            47          23         10        2.00
8888641              86      6.4      380       5,116        24.0         446   35   lq6   28           52         59          46        26.0            l9'         16'        26        2.20'
81888  LEM11         77      3.4      250       6.06         16.06         -           -     156        271'       -           35        25.06          84           15'        22        0.606b!
Tm10                 78      2.4      400       6.s4v        26,5q        30'  26'  21'   18            74         40          546!      38.0            52          32687      446        1,60b7
1.6111 81<8816  4111 1    CA!!8841
UMM"118              lu    37.3   2.210         2.7          10.9         43'  31&  I6'   936           89         52          17        -              87           31          8       23.00
8811116              79      0.2   2,770        5.7          19.1         36   36   il    836           ell        97          24        -              97           75         19       -
8811861>0            Ys      0.3   2,680        8.50r        22.1'        43'  31'  16'   996          1007        99'         27!       19.9'          99*          78!        307       -
801171k              80      5.4      550       4.1&7        30.5'        -     -     -      63         76!        -           20!       -              --           157        -        12.607
BREAIL               79    116.5    1.770       3.8           6.2         51    -    14    76           73'!       -           2338       4.5           61'          1S'!       16'?     12.62b
0<31.8               76     10.9    1890        3,3b7        13,06           -        -      -         119687y    -            346!              -                   55617      206!     11.906!
001.1182             80     26.76  1.:1806      3.3          25.0         35   20   20    816           78         36          32         6.6           -            47         20       10.02'?
0367816              11à  0  2.26  1.810b    8.4             31.1         40   27   33    90            93         77          n3          5.5          77           40         27       16.00
cm1                  78      9.8      -         8.0          11.0         -     -     -     96         112687      g8          186!y                    98           7 168y     1 5      19.026y
11118c45 RMF.    80          5.3   1,030        2.9          13.0         39   21   22    4456          80         s1          59          3.2          94           30         33       18.00
R11001101            80      g4b4  1,110        6.00         36.7         45   31   16    81           l0s         -           36        1 Z.6          86           47         16       29.00
EL 86191>0           77      4.4      680       3,46!        23,3by       66    8   27    62            42687      32          19        -              41           26687      376!      7,9067
00AT(4h6             78      6.8    1,010       1.7'!,       12.66           -        -qx - 69287b~y                                     -              69           108        1967i b'  5,50!
MAU1<                76      0.8      630       8.167        13.86!       ---                           99687      -           326!      -              -            59687                5,3006?
"Iin                 go      5.06     330        54W          7 987       65    9    6        ib        50         30          41        19.0           62'           6'        27        o.8o
ROUE8S               78      3.4      520       3,3lb7       14.36!y      62'  15'  198   60            89687      30'         4167      12.8'          68'          2 1"'      1 9       8.007
2*11610              g0      2.1    1.110       6.5          13.7         l7   43   20    90            98         98          40          2.3          95           s1         23        8.00
ImOD           0~0    65.5    1 .880      4.7           17.08       4,6   39   1 5     92          98         53         44          9.5           66           56         17       10.50
nrRICROA             78      2.6b    6106       3.06v        14.06              -     -     906         4568       24          l76       -              -            2668       396 
0*568                78      [,4b  1,5506   ~5. 6vy          21.46!       42'  13'  1 3      82b        9567                   3567      11.6           58'          3067       376!    20.40by
0Am A6T              79      5.0    1,140       2.4"         14.2         42   1 7   20    84           83         33          28         3.1r          76           22         1 2       0.70
PMW                  80     16.6    1,000       3.6          14.3         5 3   1 5   1 9    80         853        5e4         39         9.            89
588D188  6 508.   77         1.1   3,910        4,4bY         8,8b?       44    32   20    95           98                     30        101,?          69             2
po14T                74   3.9  2,500   2.5                    9,46    -   -   -    98.    103b8                                246    -                 -            6668
YauIR18R             78     14.4   5,440        5.I!         18.96         -   -     -       82        îo96'                   38                -                   5868       '7



eMt  _069
*.Os.3 S   *wu.3  _ 3.   n3v   5339  UT 5pqs. 59£5335083.9
*T° £eS33  *»385018 50 3U° _93 -~  389919 533 1~Se,3~  *mgt  ichIt u                  5-tU1tt *t Ph l 1   o Sè    apwS.-$s  -.0.1)  Mp
"q «o ts ws WT:X eZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~02   e  WSJWM detf   S ci s    »%O ra ee IS! -te»tà                                   «    e  *Ttp4 S T
'$9493  eq 453449 893 Bs    1-STT t0335338  5.t3119  .tP3T 36    le 50 r    8  *q9  ut' pe 39  t05e Os 30p5   2j   1   '4 *Iaf) .53   
*110-lsu  PM  astip  4q colle=    fl Pe»»    1Ji»»3bae   O  T-"Sd    Tte °$ 8»," (S Pm *  '&CQ   osa ) .|»Spudg  nS*isqua.   (
*4150Wom-    tenoi -q un,TTvfflll.  te xS$St°*          P
3fl954-.J535l3 Pss gzl% et 1 P        I 5030453 383535055453         * dom Dl pa;;oul 53   3       3; <5 S   o *Dis.>  ..333533q (O   .35) XT333 £51951   (<)
PIL30    £3  351a9 113"3 '        »    la uotodde To*s I3 e» e5e          t     st.fo s Pm Tueur   853 »vu         I e"        <z *»Po wnl" & hT            («)
,tM_loe    vu t-a0a qteq  »DeM  PMSD"P   tW    S                    M   un UTCSt P.  p        .00"MM    CI)
iVunai  P   d"  *I plane               soitSrSiSuné tSfpets§l Je O     q3 in  3*»  lmn»»do ni 1*  e»peo    vql gO    *              t      f   ,} p 
etipzupeee QQ "M offl  O&VII "»Jis   'Wi            .         os wS *  t_3     a" DtPW3     P Us°     IITI   *D115    oui 0 sl te 50315   S? *nTOâffl     <tt )f p
êêM  rps &qs 0is  pl*"  *l            wil_z4qsl  poqe*»oz     oq  tun *ei#â                   _»u.»~    Impa weV"  é              t 04t  ee 14&à«    -ltIlC  1_
;Pls'T141956.304  ST31'3»P8 OMMt0  89    3p  19  50 33 110931 '535 aou333VOIMM3 wu P3M                        ig  %-l so £015al0.3o3   .   s.f
*31p3s50533  poo«s enq 5eSr 8335533  P010396.335 5353 30 £0310435. 55038 035 35503 093 3a330   33Oe    t            58 _S53 51 5 por           £ 5v lm  53t35 t  13"0 3OM    *
'190093351 51353553305 550596~~*"e vs9  3095  985.0. 3 e  10551  3.35  5513198  qol 9333    01 314 ISOS
150S . d
scsuM  0       - a               o0n  asell Som    4
saolsms ROY-lm 100108I,                         Ulm  321*1 au  - i                                              to1s  u-M.1 $aux=             s
kW4 SllXtR         tdrm                            MZ   t30         à                       Ju                             us    A           4
nso amuomUV" an 5080  *               AZ         a        MMsui   rAno    - a                                          zigauyiO&ao au4lm   --
alli(lm I    I    doSU aIs a     a a       isnssuam        81 OZ          MM                                         z        au1      Rom
I-t       Zr       9t         S9           tl       SE         Io       Ce       tC     61v9l       C      91           VO                                   :PII3S91
gIL       L        tZ         £t            il       Il        tr       Zt       a      t   01 Ol1         l            6St I                      01301AO  VP31S
6'9       et       li         Z9           91       9s         66       9t                    ettC9 Vl  SVOtO                                                  :159
O'S       S'S      S-91       S-iZ         9VS       ri        S'ZZ     0'61      ol'8    SO * .£  VS Z    l            <.1                       sO5wT*m *I1335
0'1       61       PI         DP           6         et        St       09       St     ci  IZ      t     0'11          O't                         3.
LIE       ZZ       9Z         S9            il       et        99       ce       <S      61    et    P    1'91          VO'                       LUPI5
0-1i      92       L0         Io           oz        O         Os       sa       Io      ZZ  9M   1s    VlIt            9" VSddi 9011
(0'6Z     tel      < (<      (001         <OV9       (IL        (66     (U11     (66    [tt  59  (96  «-ff             <001
-S0O0)     -9)      -1)       -o0)        ^9 1)      -LI>       -        -1 Z -    S1 ) -3>    -S) -B)  -tZ)  -t)       -gVI                                   #
SV      BB       i6         S             <9       66        s9       Z6       Il      t9  69   0£       56 U9 S                    _              as. 9      _
OS'Z       OZ       £I         9g         .ZZ         sr        91       Te       tg   te   sti  Ct9         4*6         9'£             qO'Z    ZS  9 <   1'04 131
01-1       OZ       t          l          O- 09       i        etl       Lt       qlZ     I    £    t6       0Z1         IS4C    Ott    S-9    0o           *SV  &RIU
0-S        Il       9t         CS         0'9        TI         L        Oit    qSt       n<  Z1   OS        Z9S1        C-t    OtZ-   -'t£    Ce               &in"
oe 9       Uo      sOt         Os         altI       q6S        OS       ou1i    qt9     Sl  SC    ri        0'61       dOV       Otl-l  t-9      6£            ns10
09-Z1     q2      £QI*         S9           -         SC        OV     128        in      9t  5S   6t        VOC         dt-t    OtLII   99       si 91    
£qotI-tz    -       s£q9        -                      q6Z       - -S              -       -         -        I91          l'tO 1  OZ6't  O-zt   9d                9ttdS
109-01      qZZ     uW           86                    VS                     -  xt           Z        -        q941 B 69   - 6    -   l    lZr9   et            1V041tV
'et,$      'Il      a"         un          rn9       031         4t                9£      Il   Si   OS       t'te         9'       9'Z  <9'6    6£             10 I 0
..--     lit      il 91                   -         St        59     sxi      4<0     -      -  -         s'il       _S'Z    qOU'S  *60         te              dm33
;0V9        et      spi        -           liI        Sc        6       oiS       Ct    61  C£   Mt         6*< Zt        0 9    09    q9-Iz   g9 oO00
AOS-ZZ   -    a"                -            -          61    -    o96   -   ---    ,9VSt                                           -  -cZ  6t                   M~
06O9       a        1                      1ts        zS   IS         Z 6l  ZSqt          et   t    61       rol        36n1P  4<z0   qZ-Z   IS                 8Rra"
olit       PI       1          8 n     9z                       *6 6   S 6        96          - _v_SII aC-P9  oS9   nVi                           te           <918 er
£.0V6       .6Z     1s0                       -- S z             -        £Do              -         - -  a s -s          »tV       O1<lt   #Izl    6£              041
£m069       0tt    se"          -            -         5Z        -       zulO        OS    -    -    -        u1'0       îsVÇ       -       V-9t   6£                mi
£qorit    £qlz    3q6           -                      oz-  *    -       &qI6       _       t   9t  Zt        <eOl        d2-Z      O0tgl'  C-S     gi               X
0091       et1     3<0        598        es          .<        n0       u6         90      0st *11    c 6 t         t           vOS n  * s        t s d9 £CE 1S1 
1019        et      16<        .1<         4£Z *SS               60-      aut       SE    *IZ  *9Z  *OC       C-tl       2c e< OL£    £,SI   6£                 1n1m
îQOVt     £qZ                   Vi                    <£5        69  -<1<          <1      sr  St   £l        VS          V1      W         '"     4*       8   1is550
ou,&       Si       IZ         9S          6'         O         It        OS      tZ      *t  0D     t M       -Z         V t    queS    ql-ZS    te           0S 5l4d
&D0,£       <z       1z        -            -          tg                 0£       61                           -    -     lI       It qDs ZS                     lin
£Vu,#                Xe?        -             -         Ig                ab£        9<           _  - _'              6  S        ' 01O    9V619   Li             la0
-l    o-         -          -            -         -          -        <1       Ct-i                        091        9't      OS                            gr Os
9   1<CZ            PI       9-             S    C     S       -        a9       qu      Oz     t £1  IS d101           41ar     06      q(z96    6£        "Un="
0S-2       Si       e0         0o          sD 1       zz        41       fi        91     etl  Ot t  5       VOq-l        VS    98    <  O  qtO    9 ZS      91  es
oeVs       ze       ss         96          S-S        IS        te       t6       te      91  Ot   ôt        rO9         2-Z    0az3-'0           ut W        t S1
OO'lt      9S       Et         68          I          I         Se       va      qt   -        9 9S    9     01 Sl         'lt   q069    qC-St   6£        saudt¶nXd
009 -      £î    .351 el                   D'il      O1l       vit       09       _       zz  OI   C           U a       91s    ozv       O       S9        *0-i 0ad
oO'0    n <         ri          69       <av1         9Z        £6      R6        99i    bel zig  4<         11£91        1'9   qOL91  «SI  n      S1go       v9 1m9
DS-It      St       tu         86         0'61        <0        R6       64       96      lt   9i            I S        ,V'L   q<O9C1  qC-6t   tS                081
o-t        9<t      a<          0£         Ulis        t        19       96       qtt    9    '    0£        V.6          1       0<5 ezs   51 O I 10         *1_3I
W-t        Zl       SC         S9          0'9        Sz        Z9       It      q%£      t!      et 9s       lt'    qOlt   qO'SZO-t
<6>       <9>      <t)       <9ce<c)                   0t)         >t)        ci) _   O
8803V:  40)                                   *XWY    %U12)          tg)   (1 9t&1)      (2)         mua           UI        (6i6l) C46li)
Ou"         lut> 0 I  <oZ)                     SV      ad      13       ou"       (a3 ) 1    la 0Duad          11  11Ca      m    (Ut) «£19 ma
Imol      U    40i19ne0s 6o    918    8 un 9 1 6    1913 1       Um m    UM M      <      ID        1      M    M      S S    n o      amd   8s t    8
t                 9038888Sm4  3100 1110    ~ ~~   1898 019unez                           1581o   1019003 3
139011 18DR86 URS908    3384 110           810011      11d  U1913 409011 8111111   901rn                  18     Sf    t l d 41
e,M M  l  nu  u   _  u  w
FZ <mWW                                                              ut -



-27 -                      ANNX 2-4
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RETURN TO PRINARY EDUCATION Is NIGER
}.        The ObJectives of the Analysis.  No study of the impact of
education on factors such as labor productivity, fertility rates sad health
is available for Niger. Neither i8 there comprehensive research on the
cost and benefits of education.
2.        A simplified cost-benefit analysis, hovever, vas cerried out în
1984 by the University of Dijon vith the objective of examining the optimal
distribution of resources vithin the education sector by estimatiug private
and social returus to different levels of education. This analysis
estimated vage and productivity differentials on the basis of the civil
service salary scale and preliminary data on agricultural incomes.
Alternative estimates are carried out based on alternative assumptions
concerning repetition and completion rates. The principal findings are
that the social return on primary education varies betveen 30% and 15%
(depending on assumptions concerning repetition rates) while returus on
lover secondary, upper secondary and higher education are respectively 6%,
13% and 62.
3.        The Bank staff has reviewed and extended the cost-benefit
analysis carried out by the University of Dijon vith the folloving
objectives: (a) to explain sluggish demand for education in rural areas;
and (b) to test the sensitivity of returns teo costs. In revieving and
extending the University of Dijon analysis, the Bank staff has updated the
baseline information, particularly as concerns rural income on the basis of
a recent household survey and fine-tuned certain technical assumptions on
the basis of more detailed data on the regulations governing civil service
employment.
4.        The Bank Staff Analysis.  Benefit streams have been estimated on
the basis of life-time earuing differentials on the folloving "core"
assumptions:  (a) a 30-year vork life starting at the age of 13 in
agriculture and at age 18 in the civil service; (b) earnings for primary
education leavers vith certification equivalent to those required for
employment at the lowest levels (janitors, messengers) of civil service
(used as a proxy for vage employment as no other reliable data are
available); (c) foregone earnings in agriculture equivalent to estimated
annual income in rain-fed farming from age 24 onvards (half from age 13 to
age 24). These assumptions are conservative in that generally Nigeriens at
the lovest level of public service employment (or equivalent) continue to
vork in, and derive an income from, rain-fed farming albeit reducing their
labor iuput and, tlus, their owm agriculture revenue.  In addition, the
assumptions take no account of primary education impact on less
quantifiable variables (i..., fertility rates, health); these variables are
particularly important in rural areas. Several estimates of the benefit
streams vere carried out on the basis of the "core" assumptions to take



- 28 -                        ANNEX 2-4
Page 2 of 3
account of the probabilities that those sltting for the exaaminatlons have
of (a) obtaining the certificate and (b) finding vage employment.  The
extremes range from urban achool leaver vith certificate and job from age
18 to rural school leaver with only 35% probability of obtaining a
certiflcate and, once certified, ouly 50% probabillty of findlng a job in
vage employment. For achool leavers who do not obtain a job in vage
employment (vith or vithout certificate), life-time earnings vere based on
those in rain-fed agriculture.
5.     - Private cost streams have been estimated equal to parents'
payments for school supplies plus foregone earnings assumed to be half the
annual inccoe in ralnfed farming.  This opportunity cost has been applied
from age il until completion of primary education. It does overstate
foregone earnings because of videspresd underemploymentlin both rural and
urban areas and because youngsters are usually employed vithin the family
farming activities for menial tasks. Ira addition, nov allovance has been
made for on-the-job trainîng costs. The overestimation captures some of
the inefficîencles of the primary education sector. Following standard
practices, the computation of social returns vas made adding public
expenditures to private costs.
6.        The "core" estimates of private and social costs have been
modified to take account of repetition, one of the eost elements most
amenable to quantification. Estimates have been made of private and social
costs concerning primary school pupils with up to four repetitions and vith
age of leaving schools ranging from 13 to 17. No allovance has been made
for distributional objectives even though primary achool leavers who do not
continue their education usually belong to the lover income groups.
7.        In brief, the analysis tends to underestimate benefits and
overestimate coste. Therefore, returns are to be considered minimum
estimates. lu addition, in assessing them, account has to be taken of
that, although no comprehensive estimates of the social discount rate of
Niger has been carried out, social returns on public investments in the
country are considered to be comparatively low.
8.        The Results and Their Interpretations.  Over 20 rate of returna
have been estimated. The outcome of some of the computations is summarized
below:



- 29-                       ANNEX 2-4
Page 3 of 3
No               One               Two              Four
Returne      Repetition        Reeet4tion        Repetitions       Repetitions
A   B  C         A   B  c          A   B C            A  B C
Social       16%  9% 5%        15%  8% 4%        14%  7% 3%         13% 5% 2%
Private      24% 14% 9%        22% 13% 8%        21% 11% 7%         19% 8% 5%
A - On assumption of 100% probability of both certification and wage
employaent.
B - On assumption of 35% probability of certification and 100% probability
of vage employment.
C - On assumption of 35% probability of certification and 50% probability
of vage employaent.
9.        Firstly, these estimates show that primary education may produce
satisfactory private and social returna; for those who complete the course
and get a job in vage employment, these returns are comparatively high even
in the extreme case of four repetitions.
10.       Secondly, the results indicate that returns to primary education
are sensitive to the quality of education as reflected by the probability
of successfully completing the primary cycle. However, improvement at the
primary achool leaving examination would not necessarily produce higher
social and private returns since the tight labor market situation may cause
the average probability of getting vage employment to decrease.
1I.       Thirdly, and most significant, the analysis suggests a wide
disparity between private and social returns. As both the success rate at
examinations and the probability for obtaining vage employment are much
lover in rural than in urban schools, the estimates under column C above
may be takenW a proxy for returns in some rural areas while those under
column A are more likely to reflect the situation in urban schools. Thus,
in the former, private returns may be as low as 5% whilst in the latter
they may reach 24%. The social returns in u:.`'an areas are high (16%). The
social return estimates for rural areas should be discarded because the
methodology used in the analysis does not take account of primary
education's impact on less quantifiable variables such as increases in
agricultural productivity and in acceptance of improved farming practices
and the differentials in rural incomes.
WAPED
March 1986



-30-                      ANN 2-5
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC 0F NIGER
PRIMARI EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS OF EDUCATIONAL POLICIES
1.        Background.  To further the education sector dialogue between
Niger and the Bank Group, IDA organized lu November 1984 a seminar in
Niamey to review, together vith Goverument officials, alternative policies
designed to accelerate the development of primary education. The
discussions vere supported by findings derived from an education simulation
model used to study the effects en primary school enrollment of alternative
policies regarding (a) resource allocation both vithin the sector and
between education and other sectors; and (b) unit costs lu primary
education. The discussions continued during IDA missions to Niamey in
February, June and September 1985, and, especially, during a three week
visit to Washington in August 1985 by three high-level officials from the
Ministry of National Education. lu the course of this visit, new and more
comprehensive simulations vere prepared by the Nigerien officials assisted
by IDA staff. These analyses and exchanges of views between IDA and the
Goverument constituted an Important input into the formulation of the
Goverument's Education Strategy (Annex 2-9) and served, in turn, as
background material for the preparation of the proposed second education
project as vell as for the element of the Structural Adjustment Credit
dealing with the education sector.
2.        Assumptions Behind Simulations.  The simulation model used allous
the analysis of the effect on primary school enrollments of changes in the
folloving parameters:
(a) annual rate of growth in the Goverument's recurrent budget (GB);
(b) share of GB devoted to education (EB);
(c) annual rate of growth of the secondary education budget except
for scholarships (BUD1);
(d) annual rate of growth of the scholarship budget for secondary
education (BUD2);
(e) annual rate of growth of the higher education budget except for
scholarships (BUD3);
(f) annual rate of growth of the scholarship budget for higher
eduication (BUD4);
(g) annual rate of growth of transfers to education institutions
(BUD5);
(h) annual rate of growth of the central administration budget(BUD6);



-31-                        ANNEX 2-5
Page 2 of 4
(W) number of hours of instruction per veek recetved by students
(stu-ent contact hours-SCT);
(i) nfmber of pupils per class;
MI number of hours per week taught by teachers (teaching load--TL>;
(1)  percentage of new teschere entering the primary teaching force at
the grade "instituteur" (I);
(m)  percentage of nev teachers entering the primary teaching force at
the grade 'instituteur adjoint" (IA).
3.        Parameters (a) and (b) goveru the share of the country's
resources devoted to public recurrent expenditures on education, (c)-(h)
govern the allocation of educatinn resources between levels of education
whereas parameters (i)-(m) determîne unit costs in primary education.
Schematically, the model vorks in the following way.  For given initial
values and future annueal growth rates of GB, EB and BUD1 to BUD6, the model
computes as a residual the amount of resources available for primary
education. Next, for given values of paramcters (i)-(m> the model
calculates unit salary cost per pupil in primary education, taking duely
account of the distribution of the teaching force by qualification and by
step in the salary scale for each qualification category. Adding to this
unit salary cost the unit costs for material and administration gives the
total recurrent unit cost for primary education. Division of the total
recurrent budget for primary education on the unit cost thus derived gives
the total number of primary school students that can be accommodated for a
given budget and unit cost.  The model also gives other outputs such as new
entrants to the primary cycle, primary enrollment ratio, teacher
requirement and construction costs.
4.        Lessons.  To study the scope for expanding primary school
enrollment through more effective and efficient use of existing education
resources, a number of simulations vere carried out. The results of eight
of these computations are summarized in Table 1, each highlighting the
effects of diZterent policy packages. The base year for the simulation is
the school-year 1984185, and all eassumptions regarding growth rates in
budgets are in real terms.
5.        Simulation I shows that, if the policies governing intrasectoral
resource allocation and unit costs vere to remain unchanged, even under a
2% annual growth in Niger's education budget, the primary enrollment ratio
vould decline from about 25% in 1984 to 142 in year 2000. A freeze at the
1984 level of the budgets for all other education subsectors, and
allocation of the total 2% annual increase in the overall education budget
to primary education, vould permit increasing enrollments from 251,400 to
376,400, but this vould not suffice to prevent a decrease in the enrollment
ratio (from 252 to 21.4X, confer SDI II).  The remaining simulations show
that, apart from incr.asing the share of government budget devoted to
education (SDI JII), the only vay teo prevent a decrease in the enrollment
ratio is to reduce unit costs, either through reduction in the present
practice of automatic promotion every tvo years (SIM V) or through some



-32 -                       ANNEX 2-5
Page 3 of 4
form of double-shift teaching (SIN VI-VIII), or through a combination of
the two.
6.        Finally, the estimated reduction in unit cost obtalned from
limiting the recruitment of new teachers to "instituteurs-adjoints"
(compare SIM III and SIMI IV) is derived by comparing the present situation
where 13% of primary achool teachers are "instituteurs" vith a situation
where all new teachers are recruited as "instituteurs-adjoints".  However,
the share of "instituteurs" in the teaching force has increased sharply in
recent years (Table 2 of Annex 2-2). This means that, if not contained,
this trend Would lead to a share of "instituteurs" in new recruitment
considerably higher than 13% and, consequently, to a considerably stronger
upward pressure on average teacher salaries than suggested by these two
simulations.



- 33                               ANNEX 2-5
Page 4 of 4
Table 1 - _mmnary of Assumptions and Results of Simulation Exercises
Results for Year 2000
Primary       Unit
Budget        Costa                    Enrollment
Assumptions Bebind Simulations               (Million FCFA) ('000 FCFA) Enrollment        Ratio <S)
(1)          (2)          (3)            (4)
Base Year Values (1984/85)  l                      7,299        28.7        251.400            25.4
SIM I:  GB and BUD 1 to 6 all grow by 2%.
All other parameters fronen as in 1984/85         10,020        41.0         243,000           14.0
SIM II: As SIN I but freezing BUD 1
through BUD 6                                     14,200        37.7        376,400            21.4
5DK III: As SIM Il but proportion of GB
devoted to education growv linearly from
21.6% in 1984185 to 24.0% in year 2000            17,050        36.5        467,400            26.4
SIM IV: As SIM III but all new teachers
are recruited as IA                               17,050        35.7        477,600            27.0
SIM V: As SIM IV but freeze teacher
promotions for six years, then 1% salary
increase per year                                 17,050        27.2        626,800            35.4
SIM VI: SIM I but introduction of double
shifts in all primary schools through
reduction of veekly SCT from 30 to 18 and
increasing weekly TL from 30 to 36                10,020        22.7        445,800            ^5.2
SIM VII:  SIM VI but freezing BUD 1 through
BUD 6                                             14,200        20.2        703,000            39.7
SIM VIII: SIM VII but introduction of
double shifts in only the three firet
grades of urban schools                           14,200        30.1        471,800            26.7
1/ Explanations of the abbreviations are given in the text.
WED
March 1986



_ 34 -                     ANNEX 2-6
Page i of 4
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANALYSIS OF THE SUPPLY OF AND DEMAND FOR PRIMARY SCUOOL TEACHERS
1.        Description of Niger's Teacher Training Programs.  Niger trains
its primary school teachers in two types of teacher training programs --
short-cycle programs and long-cycle programs -- both of vhich require
completed junior secondary education as minimum entry requirement. The
short-cycle program last8 for two years, and graduates recelve the
Certificat de fin d'études normales pour instituteurs-adtoints (CFEN-IA),
which gives them the rank of instituteur-adjoint (associated teacher) and
qualifies them to teach in primary schools.  The long-cycle program laste
for four years, and graduates receive the Dipl8me de fin d'études normales
(DFER) whîch gives them the rank of instituteur. Whereas the DFEN
qualifies for primary achool teaching, a substantial number of those
holding this diploma are presently employed in teaching or administrative
posts in junior secondary education. l/ The firet three years of the
long-cycle program have the same curriculum as the lycées, and all students
take the baccalauréat exam.  Those with the best results graduate luto the
School of Pedagogy at the University of Niamey while the others continue
for a fourth year devoted to pedagogical subjects.
2.        Capacity of Teacher Training Colleges.  Short-cycle programs are
provided in three teacher training colleges (located in Dosso, Maradi and
Tahoua) while long-cycle programs are provided in two colleges (Zinder for
boys and Tillabery for girls). To reflect the slowdown in the primary
school enrollment growth in recent years and the resultlng slackEning in
the demand for teachers, the lntake of new students has been reduced and
the five teacher training colleges are currently running below their
maximal enrollment capaclty. One of the three short-cycle achools (Maradi)
is used for i-service training only. It has been estimated 2/ that the
three short-cycle schools could produce a total of at least 540 graduates
per year while the two long-cycle achools are equipped to produce at least
200 more. The output could be increased through improvement of the schools
internal efficiency. For example, with a class size of 40, the maximum
output from the three short-cycle schools (assuming no repetition and
dropout and using all the 40 available classrooms) is 800 graduates.
Il   In the achool year 1984/85, the Ministry of Education had 1,871
instituteurs on its payroll of whîch 900 (48%) vere teaching ln
primary achools.
2/   These estimates are taken from a study conducted by the Ministry of
Plaoning/European Economlc Communlty and are quoted in "Niger -
Education Sector Assessment Report," prepared by the Pragms
Corporation for USAIDÂ April 1984, p. 6-5.



~ 35          ~            ANNE  2-6
Page 2 of 4
Table 1 - Number of Claseroome and Enrollment by Grade
it Teacher Trainin8 Colleges, 1985186
No. of              Eurollment by Grade 1/           Total
Classrooms 2/         1        2       3      4      Enrollment
Tillabery           12              84       79      52     73          288
Zinder              23             282      241      85     59          667
Dosso               15             225      175      NA     NA          400
Maradi 31           15              NA       NA      NA     NA          213
Tahoua              10              76       74      NA     NA          150
I/   NA - Not applicable.
2/   Indicates physical capacity; not ail classrooms are currently in use.
31   This achool is currently used for in-service training only.
3.        Demand for Primary School Teachers.  Table 2 throws light on the
magnitude of the demand for primary school teachers in Niger until 1991.
The table presents six different calculations representing the need for new
teachers under different hypotheses concerning (a) enrollment growth and
(b) changes in pupil-teacher ratio. The first three rows show the need for
nev recruitment assuming that the pupil-teacher ratio remains constant at
the 1984 level (36.2) throughout the period 1986-1991 while the three last
rows assume that the ratio incroases to 36.5 in 1985, 37.0 in 1986, 38.0 in
1987, 39.0 in 1988 and 40.0 in 1989, 1990 and 1991. The three different
levels of enrollment growth illustrate, respectively, the implications of:
(a)  continuing the average annual enrollment growth of 2.4% observed
during the period 1980-1984;
(b)  achieving an average annual rate of enrollment growth during the
period 1986-1991 equal to that of the population of school age
(4.02), which would permit to maintain unchanged the 1984
enrollment ratio of 25S;
(c)  achieving an average annual rate of enrollment growth of 8S
during the period 1986-1991, which would permit to increase the
enrollment ratio from 25% in 1984 to 33% in 1991.



-36 -                    ANNAEX 2-6
Page 3 of 4
Table 2 - Demand for New Primary School Teachers 1985-1991 a/
Annual
Enrollment     Pupil-Teacher                New teachers required tu:
Growth           Ratio          1986   1987   1988   1989    1990    1991
2.4%      Constant              312    320    327    335      343      352
4.0%      (36.2)                432    450    468    487       506     527
8.0%                            750    809    874    944   1,020   1,101
2.4%      Increase              213    121    126    130       312     319
4.0%      gridually to 40.0    239    240    248    257        459     477
8.0%      in 1988               635    567    603    640       924     997
a/   See explanation in text.
All calculations include an annual vastage rate of 2%. This comparatively
low level of vastage vas chosen because of the young age-structure of the
teaching force (the annual retirement rate would be below 1% for the period
considered) and the fact that the possibilities for alternative vage
employuent tor teachers are likely to be very limited in the foreseeable
future.
4.        Balance between demand and supply.  lI addition to meeting the
demand for nev teachers as indicated in Table 2, the teacher training
facilities have to Cater for the im-service training program financed under
the project. As shown in Annex 3-1 this program vould require 250 places
for each of the three school years 1986/87-1988/89 and 350 places for each
of the two achool years 1989/90 and 1990/91. This would roughly correspond
to the capacity of the short-cycle college at Maradi which is currently
used for in-service training only. Bearing this in mind, a comparison
between the capacity of existing teacher training facilities and the demand
for new primary school teachers shows that:
(a)  If the low enrollment growth experienced between 1980 and 1984
were to continue, the present capacity of the three short-cycle
achools would be more than sufficient to meet the need for both
initial and in-service teacher training. This conclusion would
also hold if enrollment vere to grov at an annual rate of 4%
although the pupil-teacher ratio in primary education may need to
be increased slightly above the. 1984 level towards the end of the
period; and
(b)  If the annual enrollment growth vere to be as high as 8%, steps
vould need to be taken to increase the pupil-teacher ratio in
order for present teacher training capacity to suffice both for
pre-service and in-service training needs. Such an increase
ratio could be achieved through the activities foreseen in the
project to promote more extensive use of multi-grade teaching and
to lntroduce double-shift schooling.



37 -                     ANNE  2-6
Page 4 of 4
5.        In conclusion, the present capacity of Niger's facilities for
training primary achool teachers îs likely to be sufficient to meet the
country's need for such teachers during the next five years.
WAPED
March 1986



-38-                             ANNE 2-7
REPUBELIC O? NIGER
PRIMY E,,,ON DEVEKOPE   PRJECT
RANGE IN SAIAR  SCALE FOR PRIHAIY SCROOL TEAUERS FOR
SELECTU> lEST AFRICAN COUNTRIES ARODU» 1982-83
S of Total           8alary Range b/
Teacbing        Lowest       Highest
Country                Catemory of Teachers            Force ae         Step         Step
Moniteur                                  1            1.0          1.8
Burkina           Instituteur                               0            1.3           2.2
Instituteur Adjoint                      63            1.6          3.1
Instituteur                              36            1.7          3.5
Cameroon          Instituteur Adjoint                     ...            1.0           1.6
Instituteur                             ...            1.4          2.6
Instituteur Principal                   ...            1.5          3.1
Moniteur                                  2            1,0          1.9
Guinea            Instituteur Adjoint                      51            1.3           2.3
Instituteurs                             47            1.9          3.5
Ivory Coast       moniteur                                ...            1.0          1.9
instituteur                             ...            1.8          3.8
Moniteur                                 16            1.0          2.1
Niger             Instituteur Adjoint                      70            1.5           2.7
instituteur                              14            2.3          4.7
Moniteur                                  3            1.0          1.3
Senegal           Instituteur Adjoint                      36            1.1          1.6
Instituteur                              61            1.4          2.3
Teacher Elementary Certificate          ...            1.0          2.0
Sierra Leone      Teacher Certificate                     .,.            1.3          4.0
Hieher Teacher Cettificate              ...            1.9          4.7
Moniteur                                 34            1.0          2.5
Togo              Instituteur Adjoint                      52            2.0           3.9
Instituteur                              il            2.8          6.5
al Figures for each country may not add up to 100% as categories shows may exclude somæ
teachers.
bI For each country the salaries are expressed as a multiple of lowest step of the salary
scale for the least trained category of teachers.
Sources Various national and World Bank documents.
Harch 1986



000
(NW
I         <çao                   weu#i")e
fflR  O0O.U% B-pO-4 
P_VP_  
~P~j eopeg        uPunAsPvM
cuogmuro=mio.4j
90*4mpeW IO0fl.                      -P
-mN
jacof             oonm   0P9
%%mocqS
I»k
I a56ont L sP tom
v r ~~~~~~~~~~»fl
rim        .E m rr       mm JO        Iwfl         d    mT       M
I  W d    I   I  Fewm



- 40 -                                                    ANNEX 2-8
Page 2 of 2
NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCABION DEOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZAIIONL CIARI OF THE MINISTR OF NA110NAL EDUCATION,
HIGHER EDUCATION AND RESEARCH
for UNESCO
{  É        J         q       ~~~~~~~~<rNan,ey
[-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SolaIr Ene|
Ae91
Sll decmta mac                                                 -I
Dfrectoeate of                    Dilectorateot                  Dirfcctate o                 O     OIE  f
Rfeschool a                       panning &                                                   Llcort    teracy a
P_.moe E_ c_k&n                                                  Arrogc Ed ucmtiong  _   _    Adult Education
D.Tectorate cf                             o                     Diectatef
Seconcl,y&                       RWe&ercht Of                   Finactoale Ofow
Technical Educotion                   Reoc                       iracoAfis
Deor.. .o.f                      Diectoote of                   Ddctorate of
DdLetaS d                    Exarinalon &                  Adrninishlathe là
_ Ighêr -ducatian    _Sohoo __                  _entotion          Legal Affairs
Pegaol hfoctores ot Loemof axrmn
(Pdmcfy, Arxalc a Secon& aiy>
Local llspectofates at Lev of Aonauement
WWlId 8ank-3&379-3



-41 -                      ANEX 2-9
-Page 1 of S
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
TRE GOVERNNENT'S EDUCATION POLICY
-1.       As part of the structural adjustment program being assi8ted under
Credit 1660-NIR, the-Government has developed an education strategy
directed at the principal issues of the sector. The strategy has the twin
objective of preventing that the tight financial constraint would cause a
further decline in the veak primary education base, vhile at the same time
laying the foundations for medium- to long-term developments in line vith
expected resources availability and estimated needs for trained manpower.
2.        The main elements of the strategy vere formulated in the suumer
of 1985 by an Interministerial Committee for Structural Reform, chaired by
the Ministry of Planning, and outlined in a Letter of Development Policy
(LDP) discussed w'th IDA ln connection with Credit No. 1660-NIR; the
relevant sections aze reproduced in the attachment. These elements have
been further clarified at the beginning of the 1985-86 school year when the
Government initiated measures of major importance for positive adjustment
and reform in the education sector. The core of the strategy is the
reduction of co0tS throughout the sector and the redeployment of resources
ln order to reverse the recent decline in the primary education enrollment
rates. To contain the increase in salary costs, the Goverument has agreed
to give priority to the training and recruitment of "instituteurs-adjoints'
instead of the more costly "instituteurs" and to improve the quality of the
teaching force through in-service training of "moniteurs" and "moniteurs
auxiliares". As a firet measure to rationalize and improve planning and
management of the sector, in September 1985, the Government unified
administrative responsibility for education under one single Ministry and
introduced cost recovery measures such as charges for school supplies and
increased tuition fees for private schools.
3.        More significant than these steps are the far reaching reforme
expected to stem from the work of a high-level Education Commission
established ln August 1985 by the Head of the State to review the training,
statue and vorking conditions of teachers. The Commission, chaired by the
President of the National Development Council is made up of representatives
of the education sector, trade unions, opinion makers and rural development
leaders. Bank Group staff has had technical discussions with the
Commlssion. Preliminary indications are that the Commission"s report, due
in the Spring of 1986, vill recommend major revisions in teacher training
and recruitment policies to increase relevance to local conditions and
allow for a gradually lncreasing rate of primary education expansion with
full cognizance of the financial constraint.
4.        In parallel with these policy changes, the Goverument is tackling
the issues concerning the physical facilities at the disposal of primary
education: vith the assistance of consultants financed under
Credit 1151-NIR, it has carried out a survey and formulated a carefully



-42-                        AIO    2-9
Page 2 of 5
de8igned program of low cost construction, rehobilitation sad improved
maintenance.
5.        To provide for the expansion and Improvement of primary
education, cost reductions are being made ln secondery and higper
education.  At the start of the 1985-86 school year, fellowehips vere
reduced by about 15X in real teres as compared vith their level in 1984-85;
in addition, their administration is expected to be improved to ensure that
assistance vill be directed essentially to the needy and able students
baing trained ln aroas required by Niger developuent. Cost reductions are
also expected on the construction aide through the phased implementation of
a acheme to restructure lover secondary education vith African Development
Fund assistance; the implementation of this scheme snd of other investments
planned for secondary and higher education is belng scrutinized ln detail
to fit the resources constraint.
6.        In sum, the Government9s policy and strategy call for positive
adjustment from a amall, costly and essentially elitist education sector
for the few to a more equitable, relevant and efficient system vith an
expanding primary education base and more economical secondary and higher
educatlon to meet clearly identified maupover requirements. Implementation
of this positive adjustment policy needs necessarily to be phased over
several years in line vith strengtheued managerlal and administrative
capability as vell as vith improved resources availability. Although not
yet fully articulated in all their aspects, the Government's policy and
strategy are respo»sive to development needs and deserve support as an
integral part of the broader structural adjustment program.



-43-                         ANU   2-9
Pae 3of 5
Attachment
Excerpts from the Latter of Develoiment Police
(Annex IV, Attacbment 3, to Credit 1660-t4IR>
EDUCATION
13.               In the education sector, Niger is confronted vith a
double iibalance between (i) the current development trends of the sector
and the long-ternm training needs of the country on the one hand, and
(iI) the obiectives of the education system and the economic and financial
realities of the country on the other. This double imbalance has, over
time, been aggravated by the higb unit cost8 of training at all levels and
by an lnefficient allocation of available resources. Notvithatanding the
significant share of the government budget allocated to education (21%),
Niger"s priinry enrollment ratio (25>) 18 one of the veakest ln Africa.
Horeover, although the post-primary enrollment ratio remains poor, the
modern sector of the economy vill not be able to absorb all the graduates.
Concurrent vith the groving unemployment among these graduates, Niger
continues to cope vith a serious shortage of certain categories of mlddle
and higher level technicians.
14.       Conscieus of these lmbalances and of the degradation in the
educational system provoked by the economic and financial criise- the
Goverument has decided to substantially adjust sectoral objectives and
resource allocation.
15.       Absolute priority vill be given to stemuing the decrease in the
enrollment ratio of primary education and, subsequently, to its progressive
increase.  To that effect, the Covernument has decided to postpone its plans
for extending the primary education cycle, to undertake a thorough reform
to improve the effectivenesas of the taeahing staff, to give priority to
training associate teachers, and to adapt the training programs to the
realities of the country.  The Governaent has also decided teo encou:age the
creation ;f primary schools in the private sector and to expand the primary
education capacity througb a lov-cost school construction program, making
better use of local reinturced construction material.  A more rational
utilization of existing infrastructure in the rural areas as vell as the
physical rehabilitation of certain schools vill alseo allow an increase ln
the number of students.
16.       The refoeusing of priorities on primary education vill be
combined vith a deliberate slov-dovn on the expansion of secondary and
higher education. As much as possible, aU  future expansion of secondary
education should be concentrated on the lover leval and pursued through the
decentralized construction of schools, vhich vould reduce drop-out rates,
construction costs and, particularly, unit operating costs, due to fever
needed scholarships.  The qualitative improvement of the teaching staff
vill be pursued through a reform of the teacher training college, vhich is
being prepared, and through retraining of certain teachers.
17.       Access to higher education vill be based strictly on individual
qualifications as vell as on the needs of the economy and tie
admiuistration.



44                        AmEX 2-9
Page 4 of 5
Attachment
18.       The economic development of Niger vill depend to a large extent
on the availability of technicians and specialized labor.  Nevertheless,
taking into account the high co0t8 of training, the Government vill
carefully assesa the needs of the country before establishing any new
technical and higher level training.
19.       In view of its f nancial constraints, the Government vould not be
able to aliocate a larger share of its resources to the education sector,
especially as far as operation and maintenance are concerned. Assuming
that official development assistance vill finance most of the iuvestments,
operation and maintenance of the system vill have to be financed largely by
the Government and the beneficiaries. The qualitative and quaatitative
improvement of primary education vill, therefore, only be possible to the
extent to which the Government - through a coibination of more efficient
utilization and reallocation of existing resources vithln the sector - is
able to free itself from the constraints of a rigid budgetary ceiling and
rapidly increasing cost8. The folloving measures, vhich aim to realize
savings and to transfer a larger share of operation snd maintenance costs
to the beneficiaries, vill be introduced:
(a)  Construction of primary schools vith local reinforced materiala
and adapted to local conditions, starting ln school year 1985/86
(costs of a classroom vill be reduced from 4.3 million to 2.5
million CFAF).
(b) Construction of small secondary schools, starting in 1985/86.
The unit costs for a school (four classrooms, one administrative
building, a laboratory, and housing for four teachers) vill be
reduced from 280 million to 107 million CFAF.  Moreover, for most
of the students scholarships vill no longer be needed (36,000
CFAF per student per year).
(c)  Participation of the b#neficiaries in the construction and
maintenance of classes (underway).
(d) Gradual restructuring of the teacher staff ln primary education,
emphasizing the training of associate teachers
("instituteurs-adjoints"), vill start in 1985/86 (savings per new
teacher: 261,000 CFAF per year).
(e) Retire from service those teachers recognized as unfit for the
profession (underway).
(f)  Eliminate teaching allovances for administrative staff
(anticipated savings: 72 million CFAF In 1986).
(g) In urban centers, transfer to the parents the cost of school
supplies beginning in 1986/87 (anticipated savings: 64 million
CFAF p.a.).
(h)  A commission has been created to sttdy and revise the scholarship
system, including the amount and conditions of scholarships.
Stipende are no longer being paid during vacations to those
students who have not successfully completed the annual exams.



-45 -                         ANNEX 2-9
Page S --of S
Attachment
Together vith other ;aeasures to limit the acholarahips of
unsucceseful students, savings of about 168 million CFAF have
already been realized tn 1984/85.
(î) Promote private education and strengthen control over private
institutions to ensure the quality cf education.
WAPED
March 1986



-46 -                         AXNEX 3-1
Page l of 7
REPUBLIC OF SIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
RESTRUCTURING 0F TUE PRDARY TEACHING FORCE
1.        Background.  Although as many as 84% of Niger's primary achool
teachers are qualified by Government standards, the NESR considers the
quality of the teaching force inadequate. The current attempte to improve
the quallty of thae teaching force through recruitment of high-cost "'Isti-
tuteurs" results i'n a strong upward pressure on average teacher salaries.
Vithout some attempt to restructure the primary teaching force through
changes ln both the recr«itment entry level and the progression and promo-
tion of primary teachers from level to level, the effect on the salary bill
vill be more and more pressing vhlle no real improvements in the effective-
ness of teachers vill have taken place. There is therefore an urgent need
to restructure the primary teaching force.
2.        Objectives. The project aime to support the Government's efforts
ta restructure the primary level teaching force and hence to contain future
Increases in average teacher salaries by limiting the need for high-cost
"instituteurs" through improving the quality of existing teachers and the
pre-service training of qualified but less expensive teachers. Inter-
mediate objectives are to:
<a)  Re-examine and redefine the role and profile of the primary
teacher;
<b)  In the light of the results of (a), to review and revise the
pre-service teacher training system;
(c) To improve the quality of serving teachers through an expanded
in-service teacher training program;
(d) Tighten and improve the upgrading and promotion requirements for
teachers;
(e) Improve the quality of primary achool inspection, control and
pedagogical support &iven by the Inspectorates; and
(f) Develop a capacity for sound management practice at the level of
the 1chools.
3.        Required outcomes.  The required outcome of thls project element
vould be (a) the definition of a new profile and role for primary teachers,
and (b) a restructuring of the composition of the teaching force vhich
vould place lese emphasls on the importance of the "instituteursg, elimi-
nate underqualified "Moniteurs auxiliaires" primary teachers, while at the
sme  time substantially lmproving the quality of currently serving
teachers. The revised teacher training system and restructured teaching
force vill help limit future increases lu average unit costs of primary



-47                          M      ANEX3-1
Page 2 of 7
education by changing the relative importance of instituteurs in the
teaching force and by sloving the overall rate of promotion to this grade.
4.        Strategy.  The project vill support several specialist vorkshops
to upgrade the qualification of key education personnel involved in the
planning and management of priaary teacher training. lu addition, the
sub-component includes specialise seminars for the pedagogical staff of the
inspectorates, the completion of the ongoing upgrading in-service courses
for the unlerqualified but experienced teachers (moniteurs auxiliaires),
and the introduction of a regular In-service refresher course for currently
serving teachers. Details of project activities relating to specialist
workshops and seminars for revision of the pre-service teacher training
system and the definitifn of the nev primary teachers profile are given in
Table 1, while full detalls of the regular in-service upgrading and
training of teachers and school directors are given in Table 2.
5.        Coordination and vanagement.  The coordination and management of
the restru-turing of the primary teaching force includes: supervision and
control of the speciallt seminars and %ortshops on the revision of the
teacher training system and the pre-service teacher training curriculum;
the running of in-service training courses for the inspectorates, the
upgrading of underqualified teachers and the regular in-service retraining
of both teachers and achool directors. These activities vill be coordi-
nated and managed by the Directorate of Primary Education of the Ministry
of Education vhich already has administrative responsibility for the
training of teachers and the primary achool inspectorates. A national task
force to coordinate the above activities and to undertake, vith the help of
short-term international consultants, the revision of the curriculum of the
pre-service teacher training curriculum vill be set up. Key personnel from
the Ministry of Education, Directorate of Primary Education, the five
Primary Teachers Colleges and INDRAP vlll assist in the management of the
teacher training activities and the revision of the certification and
examination program for prlmary teachers.
6.        Costs.  Tables 3 and 4 give suimary information on quantities and
base costs of, respectively, the teacher restructuring and the pre-service
training activities. The cost calculations are based on the following
assumptions:



- 48 -                         ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 7
A.   Detailed itel costs
Item                        Description                  Units              Cost in FCFA
I. Honorartin         Payment made to staff        Man days               4,000 per person
for the preparation,                               per day
management or teaching
of one of the in-service
activities. (Payment in
addition to regular
Goverament salary.)
2. Documentation      Cost of producing            Set/person
instructional materials     a) Course less         2,000 per person
and documentation for          than 50 days         per course
one of the in-service          duration
activities.  (Materials     b) Course greater       4,000 per person
costs only.)                   than 50 days         per course
duration
3. Transportation     Cost of travel to and        Return journey         14,000 per person
from the location of one                           per course
n-service training
activity. (One 3ourney
only.)
4. Per die.           Accommodation/living         Man days
costs during attendance     a) course less          7,000 per person
at an in-service               than 50 days         per day
training activity.             duration
b) Course greater      1,800 per person
than 50 days        per day
duration
S. Primie/stlpend     Supplementary payment to     Man months             20,000 per man
national staff,                                    month
equivalent to the
current monthly research
grant stipend which is
paid to research staff.
B.   Unit Costa
Using the above detailed item costs, an average cost per man/day has been
caleu'ated for both staff and participants.  Differences between the
different courses are due to the number of staff lnvolved, the duration,
the location of the activity, and the inclusion of full staffing costs.
Further information on specialiste services are given in Annex 3-13.



REPtBLIC OF NIGER
PRlIMiRY EDUCATION DEVELOPhENT PROJECT
TABLE I - RESTRUCTURING OF THE PRhIARY TEACRING FORCE - SPECIALIST WORltShOPS aND SEMINARS
Title of Course             Specialist vorkshop for tbe professional   Semainar for the education staff ln a11   Speciàlisat vovkshop to revis. the pre-          Task force for the revision ef the
staff of the Els on tescier traiuing.       primary school tnspectorates.              service primcry teacher training syste.        pro-service trachet curriculi.z
Objectives of Course
1. main                  Re-examine sud redefine the profile and    Teacher management asd school                Revision of the teacher trainin4 systé.       Prapasîtion of a revised teacher
role of the primary teacher.                mansgement.                                                                               training curriculum.
2. Sb--objectives         Re-examJnation of tha teacher trtintDS      Redefinition of the profile of the         Revision of the contente sud level of          Ravsion of thi  exMistnation syllabi
system.                                     priuary teacher.                           exastmitions for toucher certification.        for tescher certificstion and
eisifltnatiau.
3. Required ontcoets      Redefine prtmary tetcher profile.           Irproved inspection, msnagement sud        Detsiled proposisl for revision In the,        Rerieed toacher treiniSa curriculum.
Proposals for ths révision of the           support of teachers at the                 pre-service teecher training syutem and        Revised teacier certificstion and
teacher trainias system.                    inspectorate level.                       sinprovement in the certification               exsmination systen.
progras..
Preparatiton, Nnagemsnt   Preparation:  Two Hinistry ef Education    Prepsration:  wo llinistry of                 Preparation:  tvo IMinistry of                 National task force esobero (4) and
and Staffing               staff, two EN staff each for ftve hblf      lducation staff snd two EN staff each    Education *tsff and five EN staff                Ont short-torm t ntrnutionaul
deys.                                       for 5 half dayet.                          sach for flve half dsye tu 1988                consultant, 
snd 1989. 
Teaching:  The above four staff plus six   Teaching   Tih. *bove four staff with       Teachings  The *bove seven staff               (Consultert for total of 4 musn
Additionsl outaide speakers.                au additional s1x outaide speakers.        sud three edditionsl outsids                   aontha).
speakers.
Amientioe Criteria          Restricted to the profesetouel teching    Restricted to primry school                  Profassional etaff of the ENs. D1tectors       NA
staff of stl of the ENs. Dirsctors snd    inspectors. Directorate of primsry           and vice principals of ENe, pvechipedagogy
vice principals of ENs. psychopedsgogy      education staff, teacher advis9re.         staff. teecher trtining ani other subject
*teff. tsscier training and otier           directors snd vice priucipcie of the       specsiaset staff of thé ENa.
subjeet specislist staff.                   ENs.
Enrolitast                  125 ataff frou the ENl (total - 125)         110 steff (total - 125)                   On. group of 125 persona (total - 125)         NA
Duration                    12 days                                      7 days                                    6 days                                         One wonth
FrsqUDucy                   Once ouly                                   Once oily                                  Once per veer in 1988 snd 1989                 Thref timessyser ia 1988 sud 1989
TSttiug:  Start             July 1987                                   Auguet 1987                                Aveuut 1988                                    Ibrch 1988
Witisi            Auguet 1987                                  September 1987                             Auguit 1989                                   Jul> 1989
location                    IURADI                                      KAMADI                                     NXIAtEY                                        lIANE?
Xostructioml Pregran                                                                                                                                              NA
1. Nain topic            - Profile snd role of the primary            - Profile sud role of the primary          - levisfon of the ps-service tencher
teaeer                                     teacher                                    training eyste«
2. Subsdiard y topics     - Revieiuon of the pro-service and in-      - Pedagogical support sud in-service       - Revised curriculum, ne» tsnchtiug
service teacher traising system             trasning                                   nethode  Skills for multt-grade sud
- IJpgrsding of underquelified staff        - Use of textbooka as s tesching aid         double-shift teecbing.   mprovyeute in
- Une of textbooke se a teaciing aid        - Care and maagmnt of textbookl              the teacher fxsminstion cnd certificate
- School snd personnel menagemnt            progrssI,
- Timetabling s*d school organisation
- Role of the tsachers in preventive
maintenance



REPUBLIC 0 NIGEER
PRIXCay IDUCAT1OIQ DEVELOPNmI  PSOJET
TABLE 2 - RESTRUCTURING OF TS8  PRIARY lSEACIiiiNG FORCE - TISERVICE TRAININC A   uNRPCRADINC
Title ot CourSe            1ipsradi?m  of undarqualifjed but esportenced              Ceneral in-cervIce tretatng for servizg prfmary           In-service triiiinf  f or achool directors Oc  acbool
"ucuiteura atixiliafrea".                                 teasclers.                                                mausgaseiit nud *duiudslrattoei
objectives of Cours#
1.  atin                 Upgrsding of uonjteurs auxillairsre.                      Revision of 8sueral t.aching mtoda.                        Speciaitat  .111 develom.nt for schoel dinectora to
faprova seool operatton.
2. S -oiijastt?va s      Reviaton of genoral teaein us thodas.
3. dequr.d Outcese        Elat,nation of tha grede of M.A. Md tuprovoent of        tlprove thi  quslity of earvin  c t*sieirs.                XIaprovad tana ment of sciools.
the qualicy of serving tescebr.
Praparation. Nanagemut   Preparationa   Oe Niui5atry of aducation staff end           Preprationt One lWinisrry of Educateon staff end          Praparattou:  Tva liuisty oa  education staff, tva EN
mmd Stafftmg               fouir EN ega! f for 15 day. tvics iSu 1987 Mud onee in    four EU staff for 10 deys ance par yaar fras 1987 to    staff #sci for fuse blat dAYO once a yeaêr 9987-I.
1908.                                                     1991.
Toaclinig   vill be done by tei regular EN staff (not    Teaching: vill be done by the reaular *taff of the         Teaciing:  Tie above four staff mad four addbtioini
iucluded in project>.                                     Et <flot included tn the project).                        outaide apeakers.
Adiestaon Criterta          Priiaary t*cira wbo liave beau graded *s Nagniteur        Saervius prthry tacicers except thoase wno have           School directors of prtimry schoisl..
Auxiliaire mmd ubo ara currently t.sciiing.               attaudad thea upsrtading cours. (iwiatituteura.
inatituteurs adjoints  omniturs).
Corolilent                 croup of 140 per yaar                                      1987-1989 Groups of 100 tuice per year                    Groupa of 50 fiave tims per yaar
(total - 420)                                             1990-1991 groups of 300 tvica par year                    (total * 1.250)
(total - 1800)
Duratioa                    200 days                                                  100 day.                                                  19 d4Ys
Frequeacy                   Thr.a timos                                               Tvice par year                                            PSve tues par ye4r
Ttittg: Start               September 1987                                            Septamber 1987                                            Auguat 1987
Pinal             june 1990                                                  June 1992                                                 Auguet 1991
Location                   MA WI                                                      1tARADI                                                   ldE, of the f tive EN
Iuatructtonal Praoran
1. Main topica            - Noe teach?lg natboda.                                    - New tesching oathoda                                    - Scttool mmawmnaut (resource *ud persouael
- Revised curriculum                                        senagemant)
2. Subsidiary topiea       - General padsgog' and psychopedagogy                     - GOnaral peds5ggy end paychogedagogy                     - TetaiibUig sud school organtzation
- Chtld psycloloar                                        - Child psychologv                                        - Nuiti-grade sud double-shift *chools                '0
-Une of çaextbooka e as   tascbiug aid end tiie cars of    - T4sciiing nathoda                                       Cars sud uasugenat of textiiookq
m-nasgment of tb xtbatke                                - Ust of textbaoka as a tsaching *id and the csre snd   -R.vlssd curriculum
- Role of the taacher tn praventive maitenance              *iagamnt af t&xntboob                                   - Nairtenauca otf chool butldign   snd propsrty        O 'r
- RoIl of thé tescber in preventive auinteneare                                                                 - -
- Spectal ek£11s for double-ahift or ailti-grade
teaching



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
TABLE 30 SEMINAIRES SPECIALES
DETAILED COST TABLE
(FCFA '000)
.... ... .. . .__. . .  ___. __. ___. __.. ... .......................  ----    - ---....... _._.....   ..........
uni       1987       1988  1189 1990 1991 1912 1993 1994 total   buit boet   1967    l98   t989   t990 1111  192 lm1993 14 totat
_.  __ .......suc
A  SImtinRE PmIR LES tCOLES MOIMLE INSTITUTEURS
............. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~  ~ ~  ~  ~ ~  ~ ~  .. . .    ..............  .. . .   ...   ...   .....  ...  .     
ZIPUPARATII 51A6E ET EtlCSREIIEIIT                lb   joer        t30     -  -13                                        11  - Ie l.69    1.520  -.-1-                *              .52e
PaaîgcîPawîs PERSomt Etl                           11  jour    t.SOO       -.-             -          1-  -    600        0.33   t7.4S5       -.-13.4151
S*-total SEUINAIR  POUR LES (ctLS NORMLE INSTITUITEURS                                                                              14. 0;5-                                          14.0; O
IL SInIAIRIZ   POMR tES t INSPECTIONS PUINIIUES
PARATION STU;E ET EIICItIREIIEIIT                 lb_  jour         80     -80                                           12. 13     970       --                           -    -       0
PARTICIPANTS INSPECTORAT                           11  jour        770     --770                                          8.29    7. t53                                            7, t53
S*-totol SENIRAIRE POUR LES INSPECTIOttS PRIIIAIRES                     -8.124                                                                   -        -     -       -    -     -     -81
C. SENINIIIRE PDtR REVISION fORMATION ENSEIGNANTS
FOûIATEtRS En                                                                   iljor  -    -    -       -     -           ,55  I.48  -    895       84-                            1.171
PERSfflttEt El                                         jou.          -   750   70-         -.500                          9.07              253   7. 63             -14.65
S.6-Total SENINAIRE POUR REVISION FORMATION ENSEIGNANTS                                                                                  -  848    ,13        -        -     -     -     -  16.284
I. TAS  rom  POUR REIVISIOt OES PROGRIIIES
PRIME RESPONSASLES PROGRUIIIE                          iIC           -    12   12 -24                                       20        -    240      240    -                          180
CONSUltANT                                        Neals              -    2    2      -       -4    4.312.5 5                             8,t25   8.625                       . -7, ft
#*-Total TISI fORCE POUR REVISION OES PRIGRAIS                                                                                           -    885   8.0t5-t17.170
Total ImSTeIN   COSIS                                                                                                                  22.138  17,013  17.001  -      -        -  -    -    16,153
t::1:: :,::.:2, ttte tsst,:: test fies :::. set: ::-ttt
Total                                                                                                                                   22.138  17.013  1 ,OOt "    "        ; .       - :5.163
. . ....--     --- -- ---  -- -     - -- --- -   -- --- -- --- -- --- -- -----            --- -- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- -- --    . ... .. ... .. ... .. .. . .. ..
S.ptu*ar 5. 1986  18:35
" ,
QI
'meI



REPUBLIC OP NIGER
PRIMAB.Y EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 4. RECYCLAGE DES ENSEIGNANTS
DETAILED COST TABLES
(PCFA '000)
.._  __  ... ,-  ,, ...., , . .................... ................................ _. _.....  ......... ........... _
...............                                                                                  .      .         -
09911  9987  9999  1989  1990  1991  1992   1992 9094  Iotal  9o49 ~~osî  998,1    9099  9999  9090    1099l1t92   1902 99 49 lo lo
1. ,wvtisTrw2   catis
à  9tCTtIht 0DIS 9MTEUR1  S AuIXIlIlais
999919*11 STfUtES StotErtEttT            ttt jt.           90        15                                                        m 2          4      8ee      3fF2        -        -         -       -    -    *       900
PARTI99 481S tSffi91199  £O ItI ES       nomw>  tmr   1t4,100   2l."O  21.000 U    4.0                  -       -    -    84.0          1.9   28.410 U 2. f       2,920 2   9.460                            - -0  90t.160
.......~~~~~~ ......., ,         ,,.. .......    ..... ... .. ..  .....
Sub-lotal 96ltGY9t E CES            9UXtlEES                                                                                                      2Y.060   532. 20   S2.MO   2.490                                  189. s6e
EtRECYTft6E 8EtEtit CEtS EM5lIGt0tTS
PBItP*RIGIO STKESIOEII ItttUtott         tt0  9tm          se        se       se        so       s                            2s0           *     200       200      200       200      2ee        -      *        9.000
*  Pfttft1cIP999î                        99o. J, t0. 00    20.000    20. 00   40             se00    60  30 20.00     -     80. "O 9ooe         99.tO 310 B00   "19G00   17.200  t le. M 59  400   3*6, 400
St-toet  998re1Ct1    GEtttRft DES  ol9 s f$8t1 t                                                                                                 20.000  3JO,0   309.800   79.400  tBe.000  S9.400              -  351,400
C. fffCYTCl     Of SIeCTEURs DES fOUtf5
6Pf10tOllt lm X6ES Il ETt9t0seT 1tl      H   J0w         710      770       770      70       ?T0         -    -           3.- If       t4   9.00    0.040    9.040    9.040    9.040            *    ,    -   45. 99g
f9 tipOITs                               9bo.  jo..,    4. 750    4. Is0    4.7150    4.750    4 7so                       23. "A0       7.84  217 240   37. 240   31. 240   37.240   3T.240       -             t99.200
S.jI-?otaI REtYCtftfiE DES Dtf91CTEttRS 0fS ECOtES                                                                                                 46.820   46, taO   4.82f0   46.290   46.290                      229 399
Total îuESTffE9  coStS                                                                                                                                93 340  929.900  239.000 ee  21, 940  96. 290  89.400            74f.430
total                                                                                                                                                  93.340  919.20 13IL 9.000  I2. '40  9816;2110  99.400            149, 459
SlPIt 8. 1986 Io 35
tle
WAPED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t1
October 1986                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -



_53                           ANNX 3-2
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EXPERIMENTATION WITH DOUBLE-SRIFT TEACHING
1.        Background.  In Niger primary school class size differs markedly
between urban and rural areas. In the former, classes are generally
overcrowded reflecting a strong private demand for education caused partly
by increased rural to urban migration following the recent drought. In
rural areas, classes are comparatively mall due to low population density,
sluggish private demand and out-migration.
2.        At the departmental level, average class-size ranges from 26 in
Diffa to 61 in Niamey; the national average is 41. However, the
urban/rural difference only becomes apparent at the sub-department level.
In the Department of Maradi (departmental average of 41) the average class
size ln the commune (urban area) is 48 while in one of the rural
arrondisements, Dakora, it is 28. At the school level the overcrowding is
more easily identified; in Maradi Commune there are four schools with an
average chas. size above 52 pupils/class. The overcrowding ls particularly
etriklng in the capital city where 48 out of a total of 54 schoole have 55
or more pupils per clase, 13 of which have average class sizes of more than
65. No statistlce are available on clase size by grade vithin each school.
However, average class size of this magnitude suggests some very large
urban classes, especially in the beginning of the primary cycle.
3.        To address the problem of inefficient resource use in rural areas
due to saall class sl2i, the Government has promoted the use of multi-grade
teaching in rural schools. The small average number of classes per rural
school of 3.5 confirms the Government analysis tnat many schoole have
adopted this technique to compensate for the low enrollment by grade,
thereby making more effective and rational use of teachers snd classroome.
To encourage more extensive use of multi-grade teaching, the project would
etrengthen the pré-service training of teachers in this technique and help
identify more primary schools where multi-grade teaching could be
introduced.
4.        The results of the education simulation model (Annex 2-5) show
that one way of responding to the strong demand for education in urban
areas that is both efficient and consistent with the Government's budgetary
constraints, ls to reduce unit costs through the introduction of
double-shift teaching in primary education. This approach has se far not
been applied in Niger.
5.        Objectives.  The overall objective of this project element is to
assist the Government develop and adopt a policy promoting double-shift
teaching which would lead to a reduction ln the salary cost per pupil



~ 54          ~            ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 4
through an increase in the pupil-teacher ratio. 1l  To this end the project
would, folloving a careful reviev of different f esible options for
double-shift teaching in an urban primary school enviroument, select for
experimentation a limited number of approaches including one based on a
reduction in the number of hours of instruction in the first three grades
of primary school.
6.        Reguired outcome. The required outcome for this project element
in to increase the pupil-teacher ratio in urban areas through the adoption
by the Government of double-shift teaching for urban primary echools,
suitable to the Nigerien situation.
7.        Strategy/approach.  The strategy adopted is based on an
eight-point program:
(a) Creation of the National Task Force;
(b) Design and preparation of the experiment;
(c) Sensitizing of public, teachers, etc.;
(d) Identification and selection of experimental and control achools,
classes and teachers;
(e)  Training of the experimental teachers through annually organized
vorkshops;
(f) Experimental teaching;
(g) Monitoring and annual quantitative evaluation of the
cost-effectivenesa of experiment; and
(h)  Summary evaluation of the experiment and recorAmendations for
policies regarding introduction of double-shîft teaching on a
large scale in urban areas.
8.        The National Task Force vill be a part-tlme group of four
nationals drawn from the Ministry of Education, INDRAP and one of the
Primary Teacher Training Colleges. They vill be assisted in the design,
preparation and runnaing of the experiment by three consultants: a primary
education curriculum expert, an educational researcherlevaluation expert
and a specialist in school organization and timetabling. Prior to
experimentation the Task Force vill examine the economic, educational and
social consequences of different approaches to double-shift teaching vith
different modela of room-teacher-cohort combinations, reductions In the
number of contact hours at the lover grades, a more rational school
calendar, "rotating" class groupa rather than "home-based" class groups,
and revision in the curriculum to allow reductions in the school timetable
of the lover grades. The experimentation should test a limited number of
such approaches and should be designed so as to allow the Government
sufficient information to choose between the different options.
Il/ It fa recognized that, in schools vith severely overcrowded classes, a
part of the potential for increasing the pupil-teacher ratio through
doubleshift teaching may be used for lovering the class size. In such
cases, the benefits derived from this technique vould be in the form.
of better-quality instruction rather than lover unit costs.



- 55            ~           ANNEX 3-2
Page -3 cf 4
9.        To ensure that parents, primary pupils, the schools and their
staff understand the reasons behind and the objectives of this experi-
mentation vith double-shift schooling, a short campaigu vili be mnounted to
sensitize public opinion to the importance of the experiment.
10.       The experimentation, vhile liaited to the urban primary schools
in Niamey, vill attempt to have a representative sample of teachers vorking
in different locations vithin the city. Forty currently serving primary
teachers, of different backgrounds, qualifications and grades, vill be
chosen as experimental teachers and vill attend specialist training
vorkshops for seven days each year from 1988 through 1990. The veekly
number of teacher-pupil contact hours, teacher preparation time, pupil
achievement and other relevant indicators vill be measured on a regular
basis and the annual seven-day training in 1989 and 1990 vi}l be used to
introduce modifications and improvements to the experimental teachers.
il.       A detailed monitoring and evaluation procedure vill be adopted
and the achievement of pupils in the experimental classes vill be measured
regularly and compared to a control group. The monitoring and evaluation
of the experiment vill be carried out by the task force with the assistance
of the specialist consultants.  The task force vill produce an annual
comprehensive report on the experiment. The report should be submitted to
the Government and discussed with IDA before the beginning of each achool
year. At the end of the experiment, the Task Force vill produce a final
report vith formal recommendations as to the model of double-shift teaching
suitable for adoption urban primary achools in Niger.
12.       Time-table.  By September 1987, the Task Force vill prepare a
report examining d1fferent feasible approaches to double-shift teaching in
urban primary achools in Niger, and selecting a limited number of
approaches for experimentation. The experiment should start not later than
October 31, 1988, the ongoing results of the experiment should be reviewed
vith IDA not later than September 30 each year, and the final results and
their policy implications should be revieved vith IDA prior to
September 30, 1991.
13.       Administration aud management.  The experimentation vith
double-shift teaching vill be administered by the task force, assisted by
consultants. The task force vill report through the Director of Primary
Education to the Secretary General of the Ministry of Education; however,
members of the task force are expected to liaise with other institutions to
endure a comprehensive and coherent approach, e.g. the evaluation unit of
INDRAP, the curriculum team vorking on the teacher training program, and
Ministry of Education services such as the Planning Dlirectorate. Such
liaison vill be channeled through the Directorate of Primary Education.
14.       Detailed costs.  Details of the quantities, theîr units and the
program over time are given in the attached table. The national task force
members are part-time and vill be paid the standard Goverument research
allovance for the estimated three months per year that they are expected to
devote to the experiment. The 40 teachers selected and trained as
double-shift teachers vill receive the research stipend during the period
of the school year that they function as double-shift teachers. This has
been estiaated as 60% of the total year.



-56-                                         ANEX 3-2
FPage 4 of 4
15.             Unit co0t8 snd unite.  The detailed cost estimates given above
are based on the following specific unit coste which have been standardized
throughout the project.
Item                              Description/Contents                                    Unit                  Co0t
Training               Transport, documentation and per                                 Man day    FCFA 7,300
diem (standard rates from
Annex 3-1).
Consultants   Specialist servIces from outside                                        Man month    US$12,500
Niger (all inclusive).
Prime/bonus   Standard Goverument research                                            Man moath  FCFA 20,000
stipend (additional allowance for
participation in the experiment).
ENSEIGNEMENT A DOUBLE VAC VION
DETAILED COST TABLE
(FCFA '000)
160t1tC Ot 88888
tm lm  lm  mi                         lm            tOltt
& «1180 Il îI8tUIl ~~            ~&  t4e
......  . .. ...  ....  ...  ...  ...  .... .... ...    ....... . .....  .... .....  ....  ....._....     ...
..___............
158l0 60818 818181881W88   licme     Il  Il  13  il  -  ---  48            le   14   24   14   34080
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -                               - - - - -   _   .._._ ...  ......._
601811L0 t Plrt  tlrttll8t,i _ t         12  t-  12-         -  -   4t  4,18     2t -   e 8.61  - Z -.2             11.2
0181u18 008488110           =         - t     - t 1      -`BS -      O  4,181 O  8.   4L3.0  4.311 4JIM 1 t    .e."01
mu    ttit&8.88              _b X1        t       **-*          -   *  4.t1u    81  4.11 4'l        -**--  li
_ __ _ _ ~~~~....       ...__.  _.___________.._ 
081-1.1.1 0111180 81 1402881180                                                   11.40  11.480-  ----  - -.100  -  -  - . 1...1
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~; -                                                 ..............
*C_8 ttJt  1008 W081818161ll UPrt jZlw  - 180 2110 28t4  -    -    84 -      It  *    .00,O4  2.0t4  8.044  -  -  - 8.81t
1510f 1681110111ll U10888888  8_1     -14 188  I4   -            - *7       1 0       8.880 8.100 1.400           - 8802
108.1 18888160Iètt*tt                                                               10 X22414 10 Z   8. 801  -  -  -  - Il.
..... .....  .4. ....       . .  .. ....1.
WAPED
October 1986



-57 -                        ANNX 3-3
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
1.        Background.  At the primary edueation level, the Goveranent
supplies, free of charge, pupil textbooks for French and teachers' guides
for all subjecta. Hovever, the ratio of students per book for French
varies between two and four and the provision of teachers' guides in not
always adequate. Books currently used are, with few exceptions,
unsuitable.  Most were written for the Francophone West African region in
general, moat vere manufactured and published abroad and imported into the
country. Many vere published from 10 to 20 years ago and are often
outdated. The average cost of primary level books te high at 1510 FCFA and
through lack of control over the publishing procesas, no cost/book-life
ratio has been established and the durability of books is poor.
2.        Each year the Directorates of the Ministry of Education
responsible for, respectively, Primary, Arabic and Secondary and Tecbnical
Education, prepare lista of their book requirements for the coming achool
year. The annual requirements are based on the number of pupils, the
previcus number of books distributed, the number of books stored in the
inspectorates and the budgetary allocation. Book procurement ls the
responsibility of the Dlrectorate of Financiai Affaire (DAF) which issues
Invitation each April for the oupply of books to the central varehouse in
Niamey. The Directorate of Primary Education (DEPD) requires that books be
consolidated into separate cartons for each of the primary inspectorates.
The DAP cails in the lorries of the primary inspectorates, repaira and
services them and supplies them with fuel to deliver books, other achool
supplies and equipment to all the inspectorates. Distribution of books and
other supplies from the inspectorates to the achools is the responsibility
of the district inspectors; however, different means are necessary,
including collection by the head teacher, delivery by the inspector or the
sous-prefet.  Recent annual expenditures on the current textbook program
included 140 million FCFA for about 92,000 primary level books and 11
million FCFA on repaira, service and fuel costs fer the textbook related
activities of the inspectorates' transport.
3.        Since educational publishers are overwhelmingly foreign,
Nigeriens have not had the opportunlty to develop the specialized skills
involved In planning, writing, editing, revising, designing, illustrating,
producing and promoting the correct use of textbooks and teschers' guides.
A fev books have been vritten by Nigeriens for Niger, however often the
author is given as the National Institute for Pedagogical Documentation,
Resea,ch sad Promotion (INDRAP) and the publishers have been French because
the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) has financed these publications.
Teachers are not using some books as efficiently as they might in the
classroom as they have received insufficient training in the use of books
as te4ching aida.



- 58-~                        AIINX 3-3
, Page'2~~'of 6
4.        %Jectivee.  The overall objective of tkts project element te to
*ouure that the project camopeents aimed at reducing unit recurrent and
capital co«te do not tapair .ducatioual quality. The project element vill
therefore (æ) dev.lop a national capability to create nev textbooks aud
teachers' guides where no suitable materials exist, and to adapt such
suitable imported materials vhose adaptatton rights way be acqulred, ed
(b) strengthen the capabilities to procure, store and distribute training
materials.
5.        More specifically, the project aims at:
(a) adding about 940,000 puplS textbooks and 66,000 teachers' guides
to the books already in use in primary school, and to make them
iore educatioually and culturally appropriate;
(b)  training teachers lu the classroom use of the noew books and lu
the managem_nt of physical resources;
(c) developing a national capacity for a future improved book
provision by training local staff in the planning, developeent,
vriting, revision, editing, design, illustration and production
cf educational books, thereby creatiug sn infrastructure for
local publishing able to respond to future needs;
(d)  strengthening the existing distribution system through
iprovement of varehousing, transportation and staff;
(e) safeguarding available books through the provision of suitable
storage facilities at prlaary school inspectorates and in
classorom*.
6.        Repuired outcome.  To ensure that a nucleus of competence is
created in educational publishing and that, by the end of the project, one
textbook betweeu tvo pupils i available in primary echools, in at least
flve core subject areas.
7.        StratogyfApproach. The textbook element of the project covers
three main groupe of activities:
(a)  Textbook development, adaptation sud publsihing:  developuent
over thes modium teir of a wanagerial and tecinicai capability
vithD IN DRAP to adapt such suitable imported materials vhose
adaptation rights may be acquired and to create new book$, for
teachers or pupils, where not suitable materials exist, in the
core subjecte - French, math, science, geography and hlstory;
(b) Textbook proecurement and distribution: strengthening the
capabilities to procure and distribute textbooks and teachersi
guides; and
(c) Textbook storage: iprovement of storage for textbooks at the
central, district and clasaroom level.



AUNX 3-3
Page 3 of 6
8.        The development of the national cspacity to develop, adpt Mid
pubisih textbooka sud teachera' guides vould lncludes
(a) esatablialueut of a publications untit at IUDRAP;
(b) adoption of publication targets, book supply targets and au
overall program of book produetion;
(c) training of authors;
(d>  developqeet of INDRAP  evaluation cspacity;
(e)  renovation but no significant expansion, of DNDRAP' printing
capacity; asd
(f) expansion of the physIcal facilities at IMDWAP required to
accomodate the above.
Full details of the above are available in Vorking Paper No. 1. lu
addition, Table 1 of this annex glves the details of the Book Production
Phasing and the vritiug timetable, and Table 2 chove  the book supply
targets by subject area, grade and type.
9.        To strengthen the capability of INDUA? to procure related
specialist publisiing services and al80 to improve book procuremaent and
storage, currently the respousibllity of the DAi, the project vill include
both tratDing and coueultancy servies (detatld   la Annexes 3-13 ard 3-14,
snd the renovation asd refurbiabent of sosm existing buildings to mal.
them more suitable for vareoiousig oprations. The war.eouse manager vill
also raceive specialist training. The provision for improvements in the
storage facilities of the pritary 8c50ool ispectorates, their tratsport asd
distribution system snd the storage facilities for books available at the
priary echool level are cevered under the project component desip ed to
strengthen hums and finauciel resource management.
10.      Coordination sud management. The i.plemetation aud daily
management of tMs project  leament vill be undartaken by INfRU  as both
curriculum development sud the deftintion of the contents of teachers'
guides and pupils' textbooks i th. responsibility of INDRAP. However,
textbook approval i8 the respe8ibtltty of the National Textbook Cowulttee
composed of eigit memberss  tire. from the Ministry of Education, three
from IN»UP and t»o from Efs.
il.       Costs ansd gutttis«  Full details of all quantities, unit costs
snd the phasing of expenditures are provided lu Table 3  The unit costs
are based on the standard costs described in Annax 3-1.



REPUBLIC OF NblE
PRUIM   EDJCATION DEYELOPIENT PROJECT
TExT8DGD  DEVELOPlENT PRO1RAI
Table t
B#Cl  PRODUCTIOI PHASI#B #Y  SUBJECT AREA, GRADE AII TYPE
--- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- ---  - --- -- --- .. ... .  EAR    - --- -- --- -- -   - -- --- -- --- -- --- -- ----- --- -- --- -- --- --
SUBJECT    BRADE    '            DveRCE           M7                        1q89                         1999                        IQ                           191                         199
APEA
Frenzt      Ci    Textboob  ûr:q>nate   rîit1nq and Testinq           Prîntinq and Distribution            Lse                       Revision               2nd Print ano Dstrb1itiwt           Use
French      CI      Guide      Adapt                   Adaptation    Printianç ad Distribution 1           Use                         Use                          Use                         Use
French      CP    Textbook er;înate                  llritrtin  and Testin;                      'Printinq and Dtstributior      ,     Use                          Use                         lise
French      CP'    Su de        Adapt                                               Adaptation   1Prsnting ana D1>stribution           Use                          Use                         Use
French     CEI    Textboo#   otqt-iate                              M'lnting and lejting                                      !Printinq and DOstripution            Use                         Use
Frercn     CEI      6uide      AdaoPt                                                                           Adaptation   Wc,-ntinq and Distribution             Use                         Use
Frerch     CE2    Tentbook  Dri;gnate                                                                                          Nrlting and Testin;g        Printing and Distribution I          Use                 t
Frenci     CE       6uide      AtiOt   '                                                                                                    Adaptation    Ptznttng and Distribution             Use
French     CRI    lextbook  Originate                                                                                                                      Wr;tiînq and Testin;           Printin; and Distributti'
french      t1    GuI de        Adtat                                                                                                                                    Adaptation       Prit3ng and tistributiot
-ithuetic  CI      6ulte       Adapt                   Adaptation 'Prir.:nq and Distribution              Use                          Use                ;        Use ese                                         *
Arith et.c  cft    Guide        Adapt                  Adaptation   :Prntinq artd Distributton             Use                         Use                          Use                         Use                                o
Arîtlhetîc CEî    Textbook  Oriqgnate 'irtin;                         Testinq and Revision        Printinq and Distribution            Use                          Use                         Use
Aritbnetîc CEI      Euide       noapt                                              Adaptation    Printinq and Distribution             Use                          Use                         Use
Arîthle2tî  CE2    Textbock  Originate                                             Writinq        Testin; and Revision         Prîntin; and Distribution            Use                         Use
Arithteilc CE2      6uide    Orîgînate                                             Writing       ;Testin; and Revîsion         Printing and Distritution            Use                         Use
Arithmetit CH!    lextbook  Or:ginate                                                                           Uritin;       :Testtng and Revision        Prînttng and Distribution            Use
Arithaetic CHli     Guide    Orîignate                                                                          Writing       !Testinq ant Revision        Printng antd Distribution            Use
Arithmetît CM.'   te%ttook  Uriginate                                                                                                        irttiqn        Testîn; ang, Reîsion       'Prntin; antid Distribution
Arithaetic C?2 '     uide    Originate                                                                                                      ilritinn       Testing and Revîseon        :Printing and Distribution
Science    CEî    Textbook    Adapt                    Adaptation   :PrFntinq and Dtstribution            Use                          Use  Rtevîsîo       Frinting and Distribution            Ue
Science    CE'      Guide    Origînate  UVritin;. Testing. RevisioeMPrintinq and Distribut:on              Use                         Use                          Use                         Use
bcience    CE.   Textboox    Adapt                                                 A daptation   'Printiig and Distribution            Use                          ose  Revîsion       Prtnti#9 and Distritation
Science    CE2      Buite      rigiqnate               Nr:tin;       Tfestin; and Revîsion       'Prlntîng and Distribution            Use                          Use                1        e:*
Science    C!    Textbook    Adapt                                                                              Adaatation    Prnntinq and Distribution '           Use                         Use
Science    CUI    6uide    lriginatt                                               dritin;       tTestin  and Revision        :Print:ng and Distribution I          Use                         Use
Science    CM?    Textbook    Aidapt                                                                                                         Ad;atation   !Printinq and Distribution            Use
Sciente    CH2 '     uide    Originate                                                                          or:ting        Testîn; and Revision        Printon; an  Dis4rxbution           -Use;
tHstorv     CE    tex.ttoDt  Ortignate                bliri-n        :Testinq and Revision       !Printinq and Distribution            bse                         Ujse                          wIee
Histori.    CE      6uide    Orîgiqate .               Nrititg        Testtn  anid Revision       Prbtîtng antd Distribution           Use                         vUM                          Use
Hlfsto-u    C#    Textbook  Originate 'riting                                                     Testing and Revision         Printin  anid Distribution           Use                         Use
Nistoer     CLI    Suide    Driginate                                'ritin;                     ;Testing and Revîsion         Printin; antd Distribution           Use                         Use
5eograpbî   CE    Textbook       dadpt                 Adaotation    Printinq and Distribution             Use                         Use  Revision       Frintînç and Distri ution            Use
6eographv   CE      Guide       Adapt                  Adaptation    Printinq and Distribution             Use                         Use                          Use                         Use
Geography   CM    Textbooi    fiMapt                                               Aaptation   ;Print-ng and D'stributior              Use                          Use                         Use
6eographr   CH      Guide       Adapt                                               Adaptation    Prîntinq and Distribution            Use                          Use                         Use
--:-8:--  AN



PRIIIIRY EDIIATION DEVELOPIENT PMWECT
TEXT80DI DEVILOPIENt PROIRAN
Table 2
9OOI SUPPLY TPMIETS IY  SUWJECT AREA. bRADE 4ND TYPE
SUIICE      -    -------------------------------------    YEAR-----------------------------------------
SUECT       GRADE                            1089               199                1990               1991                I99                TOTAL
ARA              s1TEit800X    6UIDE  :TEXTSOOK   GUIDE  :TEXT800K   W10E  TEXTBOE  K   WUIDE  :TEXT000K   6UIDE  ITEXTOO0K    6UIDE  tEITOWIOK   GUIDE
French       Cl  bOr:q:nate   Adapt      44,755    3,050 '                                         36,597                                 81,352     3,050
CP  tOriginate   Adapt                         40,876    3,050                     b :                                       40,17b     3,050
CEI :0riginate   Adat                                          , 39,146    3,030                      b                      39,146     3,030
CE2 !Drsginate   Adapt                                                                36,584    3,030                        36,594     3,030
CIl :Originate   Adapt                      i                                                            32,421    2,650    32,421      2,650
C12                                                                                                                              ôo         o
:  230,379    14,810
Arithettc   CI                 dapt                3,050 1                                      :                   b                          o     3.050
CP               Agàpt                3,050                    ;                                                                  0     3,050
CEI  Ardaite    dtat                           42,119    3,030                                           34,461           : 76,590      3,030
CE2  OOrlg.nite Originatel                                        33,117    3.030                                           33,117      3,030
CRI lDriginate Driginatet                   :                  I                      29,309    2,b50                    : 29,3e9      2,bS0
CN2  Or:ginate Orpoinatel                                                                             : 32,624    2,540    32,624       2,540
:'71,30    IJ,350
Science      Ci:                      :0                                                                                                                 0b
CP                      :                                      4                   b                                                        0:
EI:  Adapt   Originatel  42,119    3,030                      b                      34,461                                 7,0        3,0301
CE2 :  Adapt   Originatel                   : 37,333    3,030                                            30,545              67,878     3,030                                                e
CHIl:  Adapt   Otiginate:                                         29.308    2,650                     t                      29,308     2,U6J
CM2:  Adapt   Origiate'                                                              30,590    2.540                     I 30,590      2,540
*204,356    11,250:
Historv      Ci                       :                                                                                                        O         0:
CPIl0 
CEI lDriqinate Originatel                      3S,717    3,030                     b                   b                     38,717     3,03D:
CE2 lDraginate Driginate:                      31,679    3,030 I                   :                                         3l,678     3.030 I
CIl :Driginate Origqtnatel                  I                     32.944    2,650 i                   :                      32,944     2,6U0 
C12 lOriginate Onginatel                    :                     26,955    2,540                     :                   : 26,955      2,540
I 130,294    11.250
6eoqraphy    Cl                                                            I                                                                   0         Ol
CPI                     '0                                                                                                                  0:
CEI   ad4pt      Adapt      43,699    3,030                     J                  : 35.754                               : 79,452      3,030:
CE2 1 Mapt       Adapt    35,754    3,030                      '                   : 29,253           I                   I 65,007      3,030 I          @
ColNI  kapt      Adapt  I          1           30,791    2,650                     ,      :                                  30,78G     2,650: 8
C#2I Adapt       Adapt  I                      25,185    2,540 J                                       :                  : 25,185      2,540:
1   :     :                  ,                   t                  :                   : ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~2o0D,425    11,2S0: u .
ALLGSUPJECTSCl                    -   : U44,755    6,100         0                   0        0I   36,597       0O          O        O: 91,352       b,l00:
CP i                            0    3,050    40,976    3,050M          0         I        o        QI        o         0:  40,876      6,100:         P
CEI i                   I   85,88    6,0*0 1 80,836    6,0b0 1 39,146    3,030 1 70,215             o I 34,461          0   310476    35,150D 
CE? Il                     35,754    3,030    69,011    6,060    33,117    3,030:  65,837    3,030 :  30,545            0: 234,263    I5,150I
Cti  I                  :       0         0   30,791    2,650 I 62,252    5,300 :  29,309    2,650 ;  32,421    2,650   154,764    13,2»
IC" 1                            0        0* 25,185    2,540    26,M         2,540    30,59O    2,540 1 32,624    2,540   115,353    10,160 I
..........-----------!------- ----------------- -_______--                                        --- *_ --------__ ----- ___ ----___________ -  -
11:16:1S9 AN      Sab-t0tali          :6I,326   18,240 : 24.,6b9   20,360 I 161,470   13,900   232.548    8,220 t 130,051    5,190   97,094    65,910 I
13-Oia-B6       Totals                         184,560            267,049             175,370            240,769             135,241           1,002,994



..................                        ...........  .......... ...      ...............   ..........                 .............                  ...   ......... ..  .....   ...  ............
................................... ............. ........
,~~~~~~~~~~. . ..   ......., -
...i ....           lO c...... l..t..... ......                                                                                                                                                                   amimieabM
4t**  Inu.i
miMat               **} §4tZt_ -   . 0 »* ,L  .Oi   cUlai LOUIg S  cill   i.l                                                             _                                                                       ilUil  il
&4lit Ceatsat»  aissuei.«. ep,csaluei                                                                                                                                  .îcmcMmrn   i utUEimitili
mii      .      * ua      m       w*      isaci  t      tI iUL                                                                                                                             cm   UuUiiU *  .      i.w  t
Ste         - .   e-    *I          .u     »        *                        *s        «     g..    *   i                    &X      oag   i                                                     _
.......... ...        .       .       .
MIa                       .      1010I   lse    oaI                            -t *                    ,            .        .        *
Uc-O                                      -       soij  scaj  tas mec          :    :     :    .          .   .   ..    .....-
au  m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m
.ut                        eis                                                             i *             iWtl  1     lS OS  Bc                   ca_5M  m
cméi mi it  .
1844    4       4S   cieta ce   tBîalue                                                                                                                             s lilU'MUa  mc1  *1101m t
lU.s     .   .   .                                ilS~    ts<               Ut        W                            -        .         ..    e          e       ii~                                 iUUIml 
1W.    -   -                      ."r .           Sic-*in,  c.   .                     et i                                                                     so l y
tX~~ ~ ~ *   -iS                                  Sit SnS- .t nt t                                                                             it ta«S_Iu-                                      t
.                        ... . .                                                                                   .        .       . . ..            ..      ...... ............ j  i.l...  ..........
-   .   .  .  mg    jg   ~~tte        tèl                                                                                                                             mupmi  liRai'ccli
m-ci       *                *       ~        ~                                     .   .   .         -        .        .        St       c        a                                 Ifhuil     Mli
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aaum                                                                    annu  e
owsor
MllE    -  <c  ~~~~~~~~~g*<c   w*~~~~~~ ~~~                                                                                               masm      e a     ma ies m Nucc
....... .. .  .. ..  .... ........ m.....  .........                                                                                                              -       ~                i__
ucb  .       ciel   aiel   ccii   cci~~              ~~u tu                eatim   aiU4,i
Ue~~~~             .M'    -ag   bas    faimic                                                                         . ~                                  .oct                   Momifeies amuim  caMpf
ueec      ecg    c.a   ~~~MIO  0ie-e   08c,   MU                    rcm       .                                                                le5e    cc U   mc iin   m  O
tiSaI   *      ~            ~                                  la:   ~                        .                .         *       c-c      ce       haa                                m ou      m
Uc*c                                                                    m~~~~~~~~~~~m  I»o  i                                                                                  l c m ç .m i
mis                                                                                  am   ém~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Uhm m ieuasms
NumUc am mac.maa 
ow m  e                                                                 zoom $11110411 f=  s~~~~~-i.am.
. .4†.4 . .4.-                                                                                                . .....            .         n.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e4  ,1
iNa   mi ccc.  Uit   tacs    aie.   ~ mca "l m i 4                                          je 111u ccim   ;m  c  m   Ni  mi       liai tac 
Cc108 Up                                                                            t,ci,  '   l.  !'    -  al       91
mi                         ou                                  en                                                       m        m~~~~~~~~(OO   YM
etoi        9*'#,   M#           ml  MI                                                       til      m        SU       m I1811011O11111 m  a
mou   '01          3011,    0110.##                       fta     inava                         etu~xu   ObIaz
ow     ut   m    m   cr   MW                                                                                       à,redLUUfnAa  UUVDGUAlàI



-63 -                     ANNE 3-4
Page 1 of 12
REPUBLIC 0F NIGERIREPUELIQUR DU NIGER
PRIMAiT EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/IROJET DE
DEVELOPPENUT DE L'ENSEIGNEMET PRIMAIRE
SUMNAY 0F CONSTRUCTION, REHAUILITATION AND MAINTENACE/RESUNE DU
PROGRAMME DE CONSTRUCTTON, REHABILITATION ET DE FUINTENANCE
1.       Objectifs.  Afin de réduire les Coûte d'équipement unitaires et
élargir l'acà&  l'enseignement primaire, le projet:  (a) définira des
plans et des techniques de construction d'établissements d'enseignement
primaire à faible coût en faisant davantage appel à la main-d'oeuvre et aux
matériaux locaux, et mettra en place un programme de construction portant
sur la construction de 750 salles de classe inspirée de ces plans et
techniques; (b) remettra en état 3.000 salles de classe existantes qui
nécessltent d'importants travaux de réfection; et (c) encouragera la mise
en place d'un système d'entretien communautaire des écoles.
2.        Généralités.  Il y a cinq approches différentes à la construction
scolaire au Niger:
(a) Bureau des Infrastructures et de l'équipements scolaires (BIES).
Le BIES fait partie de la Direction des Etudes et de la
Programmation (DEP) du MENESR et a été créé par décret en 1979.
Le BIES est chargé de la préparation et de la mise en oeuvre des
programmes de constructions scolaires (CS) du MENESR. Il est
aussi responsable de l'établissement de normes pour les CS et de
leur application dans les écoles tant publiques que privées; la
préparation et du suivi des programes de grosses réparations; et
la représentation du NENESR à la Commission de l'Urbanisme;
(b) Travaux Publics (TP) Les TP réalisent sur demande du BIES les
constructions secondaires et supérieures pour le compte du
MENESR. Ils disposent de personnel qualifié détaché dans les
Arrondissements (voir par. (e) ci-dessous);
(c) Travaux Communautaires (TC). Les TC sont une entreprise d'Etat
placée sous l'autorité de la Présidence et chargée de la
construction de bâtiments sociaux. A ce titre, les TC
construisent les écoles primaires financées par le budget
national, à la demande et sous le contr8le du BIES.
Présentement, leur capacité de réalisation est de 100 à 150
salles de classe par an. Au temps du boom de l'uranium, la
capacité des TC pouvait atteindre 4 ou 500 salles de classe par
an. Depuis, leurs moyens comme le budget ont diminué.
Cependant, leur compétence technique et logistique reste
qualitativement élevée. Les TC font généralement sous-traiter
les travaux de construction par de petites entreprises ou des
tâcherons auxquels ils procurent et livrent les matériaux, et
surveillent l'exécution. De maême, les TC s'occupent des grosses
réparations demandées par le BIES;



-64 -                    ANNEX 3-4
Page 2 of 12
(d) Ateliers Scolaires (AS). Les AS sont rattachée aux Inspectorats
pour assurer des services de maçonnerie et de menuiserie Tois et
m6tal, surtout réserves à la construction de table-bancs et autre
mobilier. Les AS sont sous utilisés présentement. surtout les
maçons, par manque d'outillage, de matière première et
particulièrement de direction technique.
(e)  Conseils Sous-Régionaux de Dévelopement (CD). Les intérgts des
Communautés Locales sont représentés aux CD qui sont charges de
récolter la Taxe d'Arrondissement (450 FCFA par habitant
non-scolarisé et de 14 ans et plus). Le produit de cette taxe
annuelle est utilisé suivant les besoins de la communauté et sur
décision du CD à des réalisations prioritaires telles que
dispensaires, puits et salles de classe primaires. Le CD est
formé des agents techniques de l'Arrondissement, dont
l'Inspecteur scolaire, et placé sous la présidence du
Sous-Préfet; il gère un budget annuel variant de 50 à 100
millions de FCFA suivant la population. Jusqu'à 20 salles de
classe par an peuvent être réalisées par de petites entreprlses
locales sous la surveillance des agents TP des Arrondissements.
C'est le choix des CD parmi d'autres besoins qui en détermine le
nombre.
3.        Le coQt de construction varie selon les techniques de
co&struction eiployés, comme suit:
(a) Constructions "en dur". Ce sont les bâtiments correspondants aux
normes NEN!<R. Les murs sont en parpaings de 20cm d'épaisseur
enduits de deux faces sur un plan de 9,40 x 7,40m, soit 63m2
utiles. Les murs sont reliés par des chatnages en béton armé
verticaux et horizontaux. La toiture est formée de bacs en
aluminium posés sur des profils en acier IPN. Un plafond
suspendu en bois contreplaqué protège la salle de la chaleur
diurne due au rayonnement solaire sur la toiture. Le sol est
constitué d'une chape de ciment posée sur une dalle de béton.
Les fenêtres sont en menuiserie métallique à perslennes. En 1984
le coût d'une salle de classe construite en dur était de 3,7
million FCFA ou 57.800 FCFA/m2. Environ 70X du coût représente
ls matériaux importés. Environ 44S des constructions primaires
a_    r sont "en dur".
(b) Constructions "en semi-dur". M>me caractéristiques que sous (a)
mais, par économie, les parpaings sont remplacés par des blocs de
banco (terre malaxée avec un peu de paille et de l'eau,. et séchée
au soleil). En conséquence les enduits de ciment intérieurs et
extérieurs sont fixés par des treillis agrippés au banco pour
assurer leur adhésion. En 1985, le coGt d'une salle de classe
construite en semi-dur était de 2,6 millions FCFA. Environ 29%
des constructions primaires au Niger sont "en semi-dur." Les
constructions "en dur" et "en semi-dur" sont financées par des
fonds publics, dont 10-15% par les CD.
(c) Autres types de constructions. Il s'agit des salles de classe
construites par les populations soit en banco, soit en paille -



-65 -                   ANNEX 3-4
Page 3 of 12
les paillotes. Le plan est généralement limité en largeur à
4-5m, en raison des portées obtenues par le bois de ronier
(palmier résistant aux termites environ 5 à 6 ans, mais de plus
en plus rare) ou en bois de brousse. Sur une longueur de 9mp le
nombre des table-bancs est réduit à 14, ce qui oblige à serrer 3
élèves par table au lieu de 2 normalement. Le banco est le
matériau usuel des habitations. Les murs ont 40cm d'épaisseur et
la toiture plate est également recouverte d'environ 23cm de
banco. L'écoulement des eaux de pluie est assuré par des
barbacanes en tôle. Le confort de ces habitations est excellent
grâce à l'inertie thermique du matériau, répondant au climat du
Niger. Ces bitiments peuvent durer longtemps à condition que les
habitants prennent constamment soin de faire les réparations
nécessitées par les attaques de termites ou par l'érosion durant
la saison des pluies. Environ 16% des salles de classe au Niger
sont construt.tes en banco. Les paillotes ont les memes
caractéristiques en plan mais sont précaires. On les qualifie de
temporaires. Si elles ne sont pas remplacées par des structures
plus durables, elles doivent itre refaites chaque années après la
saison des pluies pour la rentrée scolaire. Ces salles de classe
abritent au Niger environ 11% des classes du primaire. Il est
difficile d'en estimer le coût. Leur valeur nominale est peu
élevée: de l'ordre de 100.000 FCFA pour les paillotes et
5-700.000 FCFA pour les salles de classe en banco. Cependant
leur valeur réelle est plus élevée dans la mesure où ces
bâtiments sont à refaire entièrement chaque année pour les
paillotes et partiellement pour ceux construits en banco. C'est
pourquoi les populations demandent leur remplacement.
4.        D'autres modes de construction bien adaptés au climat et
cohérents avec lez cnditions économiques du pays ont été développés
récemment au Niger:
(a)  Tamazalak (région Agades).  Il stagit d'un ensemble construit
pour un centre de formation agricole de base, réalisé sur le mode
de construction en banco traditionnel mais protégé par des
enduits de ciment grillagé pour les murs et pour la toiture par
une chape cimentée. Le tout repose sur des fondations de béton
léger sur un compactage de rocs. L'ensemble est mieux protégé
contre les intempéries que la construction traditionnelle.
Cependant, comme pour ces dernières, les portées sont franchies
par du bois, matériau de plus en plus rare et limitant la largeur
des espaces couverts. Le coût en 1982/83 était de 15.000 FCFA/m2
avec un financement suisse;
(b)  V,linque (N-E Niamey).  Réalisation de divers bâtiments pour le
projet "Tapis Vert". Conçu pour développer la protection des
arbres et la reforestation, ce projet se devait entre autres
d'encourager des méthodes de construction permettant d'éviter
l'emploi du bois. Ce sont les concepts développés par le célèbre
architecte égyptien Hassan Fathy qui ont été appliqués. Les
qualités de résistance à la compression du banco sont mises à
profit pour couvrir les portées entre murs par des d^mes, des
arches et des voutes. Des maçons locaux ont été formés à ces



-66-                 AMM  3-4
Page 4 of 12
techniques, qui ont été ensuite répétées dans un autre projet de
protection de l'environnement, dans la région d'Iferouane. Les
rapports mentionnent des coGts faibles, mais sans précisions.
(Financement canadien et Wl)>
(c) Habitat à Niamey. Le projet a été financé par l'USAID pour
réaliser des prototypes de logement à coOt réduit en recherchant
l'emploi maxifam de matériaux locaux, tout en assurant une
durabilité plus grande que celle de la construction
traditionnelle en banco.  Ici aussi les d8mes, arches et voûtes
ont été utilisés afin d'éliminer le bois, et le banco a été
remplacé par la latérite stabilisée avec 5% de ciment et pressée.
Cette solution tout en minimisant les problèmes d'érosion, permet
d'éliminer les enduits, sauf pour le revatement de toiture.
L'expérience a été conduite par les services des TP. Le coût
incluant la formation des maçons et les essais de résistance en
laboratoire a été en 1983 de 27.000 FCFA/m2. Ces projets
démontrent l'intérat que porte le gouvernement du Niger au
développement de méthodes de construction artisanales visant
l'emploi des matériaux locaux améliorés.
5.        Stratégie proposée par le projet.  Présentement le BIES ne peut
s'acquitter que de la partie administrative de ses taches, faute de
personnel technique qualifié. Le projet prévoit en plus de l'architecte
spécialiste l'adjonction au personnel de troîs techniciens (profil TP)
chargés de normalisation et conception; préparation, procédure technlque
des marchés; et contr8le et supervision. Ce personnel sera équipé et doté
de moyens de transport. Cependant il est évident que ce personnel n'aura
jamis la capacité d'assurer toute la surveillance requise par la
construction de salles de classe primaires par définition très dispersées.
Ils ne pourront le faire qu'avec la collaboration coordonnée d'agents TP
d'Arrondissement déjà chargés de la surveillance des travaux financés par
leur CD respectifs.
6.        Vis-a-vis do NMESR, les TP n'interviennent en principe que dans
la réalisation des bStiments d'enseignement secondaire et supérieur. Mais
en ré' 'ité, ils interviennent également par le truchement des agents TP
d'Ar, :>.dissement dans la réalisation de salles de classe primaires lorsque
celles-ci sont financées par les CD. Dans ce cas les agents TP sont
compétents pour préparer et faire passer les marchés avec les petites
entreprises locales. Après approbation des marchés, ils assurent la
surveillance des travaux. L'inspecteur scolaire de l'Arrondissement
propose la localisation des nouvelles salles de classe au CD et se charge
d'obtenir du NEDESR que des enseignants soient attribués aux salles de
classe approuvées, qui d`s leur mise en service, seront recensées dans ses
rapports annuels. Compte tenu de la faible proportion (environ 10%) des
salles réalisées à ce niveau d'autorité, il reste une réserve de
compétences que le projet s'efforcera d'utiliser pour augmenter les
ressources limditées du BIES. Avant tout le projet offrira, par le
prototype de salle de classe primaire et le cours de formation auquel
participeront les agents TP des Arrondissements, un modèle avantageuw que
les CD seront encouragés à utiliser pour leur propre programme.



-67-                     A      3-4
Page 5 of 12
7.       Les ateliers scolaires (AS) placés sous l'autorité des
inspecteurs manquent généralement d'outill4ge et de matière première. Mais
surtout leur travail s'effectue souvent en dehors de toute surveillance
technique. Le projet s'efforcera de remédier à cette lacune en établissant
un lien par l'intermédiaire de l'inspecteur entre les agents TP de
l'Arrondissement et le travail de l'AS concerné. Les maçons des AS
suivront la tme formation que les agents TP, et en meme temps qu'eux, sur
les méthodes de construction du prototype développé pendant la préparation
de projet. Les agents TP assureront l'encadrement et la surveillance des
travaux de construction de salles de classe exécutés par les maçons de l'AS
et assignés par le BIES qui fera assurer l'achat et la fourniture des
otlitillages et matériaux de provenance commerciale. Les matériaux locaux
(latérite, sable et gravier) seront fouruis par les villages recevant les
nouveaux batiments.
8.       Les Travaux Comunautaires (TC) en dépit d'une baiese de capacité
depuis les années du boom de l'uranium, ont conservé leur compétence
technique et logistique. Cependant, comme les autres parties prenantes,
ils ont utilisé jusqu'a présent un modèle de construction coûteux, à base
de maté5riaux importés, et inadapté aux conditions climatiques et
économiques du Niger. Le projet leur offre un nouveau modèle qu'ils auront
pu étudier lors de la réalisation du prototype et pendant le cours de
formation également. Sur les 750 salles de classe à construire par le
projet, le BIES leur en fera réaliser 500-les 250 autres seront
construites par les AS. Les TC serort aussi chargés de faire exécuter les
réparations de 3.000 salles de classe existantes endouagées, dont la
technique "en dur" ou "en semi-dur" leur sont familière.
9.       Construction des nouvelles salles de classe. Le plan est de 6.8m
x 9.2m utile, soit de 1.5a   1.2m2 pour 40 à 50 élèves. Il comporte 6
fenetres et 2 portes selon les normes du NISR.  De plus, la salle de
classe est équipée d'un tableau noir peint incorporé et d'un placard à
c8té. La technique de construction répond aux objectifs suivants:
élimination du bois dans la structure; inertie thermique suffisante pour
neutraliser les effets du rayonnment solaire et de ce fait élimination de
tout second oeuvre tel que plafond; durabilité, et dureté suffisante des
matériaux pour permettre un ancrage solide des scellements; réduction
autant que possible des matériaux importés; matériaux abondants dans le
pays; technique de construction siple à acquérir au moyen d'une courte
formation à la portée des maçons et tâcherons locaux. A ces fins, pour le
modèle adopté et expérimenté sur prototype, on s'est inspiré des avantages
des réalisations en service au Niger, mentionnées au par. 4 ci-dessus.
10.      L'élimination. du bois dans la structure  tout en mialmisant
l' emloi de mat riaux  ort s est r aMis e par 1utilisation d'arches pour
franchir la portee transversale, et de voûtes pour couvrir les espaces
entre les arches, soit 3 fois 2.80m. Le tout est épaulé par des
contreforts. Le dôme a été évité car il est difficile à réaliser
artisanalement pour couvrir de plus grands espaces simples que de l'ordre
de 4m, mieux adapté k l'habitation qu'à des salles de classe. L'inertie
thermique est oircenue par des murs d'une épaisseur de l'ordre de 30   40cm
de toute façon nécessaire pour la stabilité. De plus une orientation
obligatoire des batimets N-S permet d'éviter la pénétration des rayons du
soleil à l'intérieur. Le matériau le plus abondant est généralement la



- 68 -                       ANNEX 3-4
Page 6 of 12
latérite (également utilisée pour la construction des routes). Stabilisée,
selon l'expérience des TP. par l'adjonction de 5% de ciment pour la
superstructure (10% pour les fondations) et comprimée sous forme de briques
29/10/14 par ex. au moyen d'une presse à main, elle offre la durabilité et
la dureté nécessaires pour éviter les enduits et permettre de bons
scellements. Les m&ies résultats peuvent être obtenus en stabilisant et en
pressant le banco sur les lieux ot ce matériau est accessible. Les
fenêtres et les portes soit d'accès soit de placard sont réalisées
artisanalement en menuiserie métallique persiennée selon le modèle familier
au Niger. Par économie, le sol est prévu en latérite compactée.
il.       Le coût de base estimé pour une salle de classe s'articule comme
suit:
CoGt Unitaire         Total
Quantité          CFA/RTT         ('000 FCFA)
Ciment                       274 sacs                  2.193             600
Grillage                     130 m2                      272              35
Liteaux/bastings              30 mi                    1.722               51
Contreplaqué                 4.5 feuilles             13.597              61
Persiennes T8le              32 mi                       336               il
T8le                         5.7 m2                    1.663               10
Cornières                    30 ml                       141               4
Serrurerie                     -                          -                17
Latérite                     162 m3                    2.000             324
Sable, gravier               36 m3                     1.500              54
Maç-sons                     1536 h                      150              230
Manoeuvre                    3840 h                      114             437
Transports                   1125 tlkm                    29              32
1.866
Soit, pour une surface construite de 70m2 et une valeur d'environ 26.660
FCFA/m2 ou $EU 77/m2.
12.       Le stockage des matérikux ne posera pas trop de problèmes.  Les
matériaux seront fournis annuellement aux TC et aux AS. Les TC disposent
de leurs propres entrepôts centraux et de leurs propres moyens de
transports. Compte tenu de la très faible quantité des bâtiments à
exécuter annuellement par les AS individuels (2 par maçon) les moyens de
stockage dont ils disposent seront suffisants pour les matériaux qui leur
seront l.vrés directement.
13.       Réparation de salles de clasne existantes.  En dehors des salles
de classe construites en banco ou les paillotes censées être réparées par
les populations concernées, les bâtiments "en dur"t et "en semi-dur"
endommagés sont classés en deux catégories de réparations suivant la
gravité des dégats: (a) petites réparations, et (b) grosses réparations.
Les petites réparations seront réservées à la moitié du programme et
comprendront principalement la réfection des peintures et, surtout pour les



-69-                         ANNEX 3-4
Page 7 of 12
bâtiment8 "en semi-dur", la reprise des scellements des portes et fen#tres,
et des chapes. Les grosses réparations pour l'autre moitié comprendront,
en plus des interventions précédentes, les remises en état visant des
dégâts structurels tels que toitures partiellement arrachées; murs
fissurés; et/ou affouillements partiels dus aux eaux de ruissellement
(souvent résultant d'une erreur d'implantation). Les interventions seront
à justifier par une utilisation intensive des batiments. Les dégâts
majeurs et irréversibles devront entratner une procédure de rewlacement et
de révision de l'implantation.
14.       Le BTES sera responsable du programme de réparation.  Il établira
les listes d'interventions annuelles qui seront à faire approuver par le
MENESR. Les critères de choix devront tenir compte du groupement des
localisations pour faciliter l'accès et l'approvisionnement. Le BIES
assurera la préparation technique des marchés de fourniture et de livraison
des matériaux. Le BIES préparera et négociera les contrats annuels de mise
en oeuvre et de surveillance avec les TC. Les travaux seront faits par des
tâcherons engagés par les TC, qui approvisionneront les chantiers par leurs
propres moyens de transport.
15.       Il va de soi que dans le cadre du projet, les procédures de
passation de tous les marchés suivront les directives a appliquer selon
l'Accord de Crédit par la Direction du projet.
16.       Le coût de réparation d'une salle de classe est estimé à 92.270
FCFA pour les petites réparations (dont 8% de main-d'oeuvre et 8% de
transports). Pour les grosses réparations, le coût est estimé à 142.400
FCFA (dont 18% main-d'oeuvre et 5% de transports).
17.       Tableau Récapitulatif des Coûts.  Le Tableau 1 donne un résumé
des quantités et cots de base du programme de construction scolaire
financé par le projet. Des informations correspondantes sur les programmes
de rénovation et d'entretien sont données au Tableaux 2 et 3
respectivement. Le Tableau 4 donne les coûts unitaires estimatifs pour
l'ensemble des travaux de construction financés par le projet.
18.       Calendrier de Réalisation.  Les étapes prévues pour la
réalisation des programmes de construction et de rénovation sont comme
suit:



-70-                           ANNE 3-4
Page 8 of 12
1987   1988    1989   1990   1991  1992   1993  Total
Construction
Travaux
Comuautaires          30      80      80    100    100    80       30    500
Ateliers scolaires      15      40      40      S0     50    40      15    250
Total               -    1mm 2                   150   I É     --    -
Rénovation
Petites riparations   145    240       240    350    225       0      0   1200
Grosses réparations   145    240       240    350    225       0      0   120
2   X487  LUX M m                                   w Q °



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMAXY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 1. PROGRAMME DE 750 CONSTRUCTIONS PRIMAIRES
DETAILED COST TABLE
(FCFA '000)
z ~ ~ ~ ~~. tl_               1W        100       4080      100       103      100       100    1194  tota 'aî ^î                 f00      1000    119      .09      1001     11       10 n. 0   t
U.    *   tX   tS  th "  léX      > ^      tt        t4."       §0       '    12t te        QttS      1tw    ^        ,        ......   ..               ..~........................ " !n! ..... ..............
t "ggtt bittt. ° 2,Ri                                       lm        m                  Le"                      eai at   e st  t.ta  t4w ";$ 44"  
2. 001U                100          3,30    os.00    13.00    1 foi,*    10* su       .000       43     .     9110        0.           ,0      4.24      .2      .       1        4.t      t. ni   -    21.181
3. SiO                nt           1.310    3.00       1.00      4.M0      4000000 00iL       I.rO21.0 î49                           2.11   ..2t0.20              nt1  1. ni   4.M4       tà» 22
4.CelulPt0           rmèîlI,11         II        620       su        w.       31        lie       I              3.2910      .0 is.03           toit.     toi    Lm01  0.4          1.010    2.5 
S. MlosiosUS             411           1.440     3.04     3.1040    4,M9      4.100     2540      1,44           3êAM        0.111         403    telle   1.243    l'oit   1.081   1.40         403           0.0
0. t 18I3               u              PA        40        61        M0       800       01        "O             4.30       I.M0         40    1. 144    1. 14.   1,42e    1.430   1.1444     tu            11
3.  0402*               ut           1.33*     3.1000    3.040     4.100    4.100,    3,00      1.35Su.         22.060      O 141        toi      10       300    0en        03       34      tes           3.420
R.ui..                                    -                                                                                               e-t. .. . .  .   . _130  ,0       1  .    .1. M        2          f
.tOIlUlie               Nic          1.30    te. 440   01.440   24.300    34.300    11.440      1,390          131.9100         t     #41.00    30.00    30.100 40 4&M    « 40 30  2M00    14.11100       343.4»0
le. SABILI               oc           l,o2e    4.320      4,32      1,400     3.400     4.32 no    620           21.000        1. 3     2.410    IL400    0.400    .100   & 100    6.400)   1.40            4&0.30-
et.   w slu              w           00. ff   104.330   1104.230   23.4100   320.400   104.320   lm1.13       1.113.000       0.11      00.300   21.0$48  21.040   atm1   34.106  21.00   <0.20        -    M.0
ty. U  Iu1UVms           id          11.400m  400.00   4010.00 S 14000 M 01400    440.000   112. no           2,08.00        O.$## 4    10.0    12.30 ni 2.301   e 00.31    L 0331    33.30    1002 M      330.0
to.m90309             noA          30.02s   i3,»   1.000        100u t.13    00.10   lu3.0     3 0.623        eu3.11       0.020       1.41    3.12    1.00      4.43     4.11     3.002    1.43 OU2
Ti FtuS * - b *h-;*éoz --**w *t *+* *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---                                                  .. ..... ...-------
3*-tot*tal       ctmI COSOOIU80023.00   323.00  210,001  SM 0,461                                                                                                                               et10   9113  1.Mw30
IL miUiO
I.1041MIS         0.110            10      24»0    3.4»0    2.000    8000,   3.400            on            Io.000     1020       #14.00   30.04   30.04   4028,      e 4010    3I.0Ut   t403         320
3.UU580m41iOai         olte              41        10       in0       10        oné       12        43              130    0 1           1. 0    3. 14? -,141 u, eo         3.*       . .143 1.-  -   -    10,
L comas                IlAlt l           41       120        12       10        on        120        4-    *        10       l5, 4                                                                              on 000  3,  3    ,,,  0W  -    *-  4.11t
S0- 1001 2l2  . .
....5. .. ... ....  .   ..    .  ------. . ........ -.                                                       .   ..
3                   *X*--*   -   -*   ......                                                                                   . ..... .  -   .... --  . . . . .                                 .3  . .  ...   .  . , ,,.
0V  . f 31U
I. 31 MM11           wUIet               14        14                             .                                 100         119     4.4»0   4.440                  -        -        .        -    .     0
0. 40 118E lI(ll1    mol,mi               4*       W                                  00                             M           4       1.440    0.400                                                       2.080
. 3001               P.îcp. 1             10 111-l.                                                   -   -          134        13       1.001    1.001       -                                  o.           200
0..........  W....... ...Dt ma    *.   .....  ..t.....ttS@         ...t *ft.....t
1.1.1                                                                                                     101.108  311.010  200.1»  333.423  333.432  280.130  100.031    -  e. 003.023    O~~~~~~~~109108MAt   M.38  .43   =28  in   00.?  #U&
.. .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. .  .. .. .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. ..  -- - -- - .. . .. . .. . .. . ..  . . .. . ... .. . ..... . .. . .. .. . .. . .. . .. . .   . .. . .. . .. .



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 2. RENOVATION ECOLES PRIMAIRES
DETAILED COST TABLE
(FCFA '000)
Unit   III?    19I0             If8 _ 990   1991   09|2 19M 3 1914  Total   Unit Coot  39?  e1u4      19l9    M190     <Ut   tM  003  t0    *
flOt fl53t21 tîn:t:: r:,.:. :o.:::,tt:g nana. :Se tRoco.: wsa:n:c: sfc:.: o,..: ss.s ::.sCC s:.:.nî;:tns:.g: utws:- :.:. gInC 10* : WI..buî
S. lsiTkUCt oim
t. PETITES REImttiolIS lUlERS4tX                 -       -       -       -       -         -    -        -              13.920   23.200   23.200  33.541   22.i40    .   -lO,.8
2. PETITES REPAOUTIOUS T                         -       -PIII   -                         -                             t.368    2.10    2. 2      3.301.  2,4    -   -    -  1t.4
3. PETITES PEPARTIUNS IRAISPOT                   -       -                       -         --1. 32                                2.30     3.200    8.381    2,01     -   -    -   18.108
4. 6lSSES REP4R7 IU IOS lUTER14tS                    -       -       -           -   -   -    -          -              19. 704  32. U9   32.03    4t17.    31.1 1    -   -    -  14. 0t
5. CWSSES tEPMAaliî     n-                               -       -               -   -    -   -          -               468      t0 7.*    1.080   11,130    *, 2»   -   -    -       10.
6. IlOSSfS UEP44TiSAU SP0T                       -       -       -       -       * -       -    -   -                    1 320    2.200    2,200    3. M8    2.00    -   -    -   10. 0
S*-Tot*t COtSItCtlION                                                                                                      42,239   70.9    10.30   12t079    .81 en                  35.;S
1. TABLES sUCS à kEIIPUICER         Unit.   2. IS0   3.600   3. 00   5.220   3.420    -    -        -   16.000  16.264   5. 131  58.552  5M 552   84.,9o    55.424    -   -    -       l2u1
2. TROtUS W4tS à REP4RER            Cnite   tlS. t 1.091.8 1.091 8 1.583.1 1.03t.2       -    -      5.451      2.235    1.4U4   t.440    2.4       3.3S8    2.318    -             l- t2. 1
3. 00111ux A REIIPLACEI             llUnite     72     120     120    174      114         -   -       600    26.223    1.,t      3 .47    3.147   4.,SU    2.09    -    -    .  <5.134
4.  01*11Et à UEPIR                 Unito    32.6   54.4   54.4        0.d9   *t.7    -   -    -       2t2      3.907      130      e17      217      315      20m    -    .   -    1.6S
. CRiASSES a REMPLICES              Unit.      216    360      360    522      342    -   -   -    1.800        5.564    1.202    2.003    20t   2.904   t7.03    -    *    -   10.0t5
5. M0IRES lA RNP1.tgER              unit*    39 5    65.8  8S.8   95 4   12.5    -   -   -             329     83.455    3.205    5.491   5.4S1    7.962    6.217    -    -   -   1.451
M  R1RES A REPdRER                  Unite       t    1S.4   78.4  t13.1   14.5    -   -    -           392       1.02       48       80       80       tt6      14    -    -    -      400
S.b-totel atI9t1ER                                                                                                         43 15S   11.21   71       104.298 I* 8.31     -         - 3M0.647
Totel I12ESTWENT COStS                                                                                                        M5.3t s 142.320  142.3  208.31   135.212    -   -    - 111.642
99..r attuto oc=s5   u:tetX *$,Cou:r $* ewwet5SW *#* r.I  "OS9gt*
Total                                                                                                                          SS,391  142.520  <42.330 2060 1n t35.213    -               f- 711.ff
n      .aIn:. _,,_inn_    -,   ___      ._. . . . ...  -------- - _ _ __  _ _   . ,
S0ttu 5. 1080 08:t60
vi-
IN,
o.-
o i



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 3. SYSTFMN D'ENTRETIEN
DETAILED COST TABLE
(FCFA '000)
Quint4ty
Unit  l9u?  t19      tn9  t990 l   991  1992  t$93  1994  Totel   tnt CDt  1981  1988    l989   t990   1991   192   193   1994  total
in=   ni: -crrn..    nn cg..   ; =e     =     .... a==c   ncar : uC; C-C.nCf  r utcu   Vrac :::;:m-:;; c:;::; r:;c;: :u:t:s  us;;;; nuge:3  tcuais cO=cc
1. INVSTllElT C0STS
___.   _____tu   _
t. IUOUSSE WTttS6    Unint.      -   1.700   tO0   100   100   t00   t0o   100   2,300        22.922         3A969  2292  2         2.232  2.292  2.292  2,292  52.t21
Su-loto  E«tlPEIIEilt                                                                                        -  38.A43  2.292  2.242  2.2M2  2.292   .        2.292 242521
total INSIItINT OeSTS                                                                                           -  38OU18  2.292  2.292  2.92  2,n2  2.292  2.242  52,lit
;n;un tCu: eu = :XC  ::: ane5S: ::a:C:  O:ur-: seont 2:a:c:n
total                                                                                                               38.968  2. 292  2.292  2.292  2.202  2.292  2.292  52.121
asic u:nmt cgin u.t;:;; cans gtue of".*s&s carcnt incis*
sotgmet 5. 198euIt 36
Nt 



REUlIQE DU NIGER
PR0JE¶f DE DEVEOPPDINYT DES Le ENSEIGNENT PRIMAE
TABL    4. COUTS UNITARES ESTIMATIFS DES DATIlMTS (MOBIILIES,
UQUIPDffsETS, TvVAUm  ETIEURS, ET IMPEUS NON COIeS)
(SEU '000
Surface     Par place       Surface
Capaciti  netteine       d'EUve        brut/m8     Colt/m    Colt Uitaire
A.  750 Classes Primires
Salles de Classe                  40        63           1,58              70         77 -5.400
I.  Riovation de 3.000 salles
de classe
Petites REparations               40        63           1,58              70        398            267
Grosses Réparations               40        63           1,58              70        5,9            413
C. ItDA?
Extensioa bureaux                  -         -             -             620        604         374.480
Unovatio« imprimerie               -         -             -            1.226        163        199.840
D.  Stocke Central
Rénovation                         -         -                           420         314        131.900
a.  Isctorat
U veaux bureux                     -         -             -              150        78.4        11.760
Nouveaux logements                 -         -                            120        62.2         7.460
F.  Bureaux des Infrastructures et
de 'EugipemeItosScolaires
Rénovation des bureaux             -         -             -             367         418        153.410
G. Bureau de Coordination du Projet
Rénovation dsburea-                          --                          284         325         92.360
WcoeD
October 1986



~ 75            ~        *  A1U3-5
Page 1 of 6
REPUILIC 0F NIGER
PRIMAIY EDUCATION DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
SUMN&RY OF SUPPORT TO STRENGTREN RUMAN
AuD FINANCIAL RESOURCE NANAGDERNT
1.        ObMective.  To enhauce NESR's capabilities lu the area of human
and financial resource mangement the project vould reinforce (a) prtimary
school inspectorates; sud (b> NINESR Directorates respousible for buman and
finncial, resource umagemant.
Reinforcement of Primary School Inspectorates
2.        Eack  ound. Vithin the MENESR tbe Directorate of Preschool and
Primary  ducation or.ction de l'enseignement pré    !aire et du premier
degré-DEPD) is respousible for mauaging priaary education. This task is
largely carried out through a network of 35 primary achool inspectorates
(one in each district or "arrondissementn) including seven which bave the
statue of departmental inspectorates (confer Chart 1). Eight of the 35
inspectorates vere established at the start of school-year 1985186 and are
so far not operational as they lack required physical facilities.  Another
eight inspectorates are lodged in rented facllities.
3.        The creation of the eigbi nov inspectorates reflects au effort oun
the part of tIe Goverument to improve its support to and control of rural
primary schools througb a further decentralization of the existing
inspectorate staff. The distribution of this staff by inspectorate li
given la Chart l.  At the end of the school-year 1984185. the inspectorates
had a total of 300 staff (32 inspectors, 59 pedagogical advisors, 70
primary sachool teaciers performing administrative and supervisory tasks,
and 39 administrative support staff. The inspectorate staff haudle
personnel matters, advisc on curriculum and supervise teachers, collect
education statistics, and decide ou construction of nov classrooms. lu
addition, 18 i»spectorates have vorkshops ("ateliers scolaires") totalling
113 skilled staff - carpenters, electricians, painters and asons - and
about 50 unskilled laborors. The vorkshops produce and repair school
furniture. They vill also play a key role in the construction of 250
classroome under thus project and in the school maintenance program
(Aunez 3-4).  Seven of these 18 vorkshops lack buildings asd equipment sad
four others are ouly partially equipped.
4.        Strate*. The project vould assist the MENISR in strengthening
the primery school iuspectorates sad thereby iaproving their capability to
(a) control the use of resources at the departuental sad school level; (b)
support teschers sad monitor the quality of instructicn; and (c) initiate
and supervise school construction, rehabilitation ' td maintenance financed
throngh the project as vell as by local communities.
5.        Xeaso.  The project vouLd finance:  (a) construction of office
facilities (Mludtng storage rooms for textbooks) for 16 inspectorates,



- 76 -                        ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 6
lodgings for 14 inspectorates, and vorkshops for seven "ateliers
scolaires"; (b) furniture for the 16 inspectorate offices and 14
inspectorate lodgings, equipment for the 16 newvinspectorates and tools for
the seven new inspectorate vorkshops and additional tools for four existing
workshops; (c) eight lorries and 16 landrovers (eight of these vill be
reserved for the nev insepetoraes while the remaining 18 vill be allocated
to existing inspectorates as needed); sad (d) 10 staff months of local
seminars to train inspectorate staff în administrative matters. Summary
information on quantities and base cosets of support provided by the project
la given in Table 1. Purther details concerning the construction,
including architectural dravinge, are given in Working Paper No. 2.
Annex 3-8 gives details on furniture, Annex 3-9 on equipment and Annex 3-14
on the trianing of inspectorate staff. The Directorate for Primary
Education vill be responsible for managing the implementation of this
sub-component (Annex 3-11).
Reinforcing the MENESR Directorates Responsible for Resource
Management
6.        Background.  MENESR employs about half of Niger's permanent civil
servants and manages about 21% of the Government's recurrent budget. The
development of MENESR's managerial, administrative and analytic capacities
have not kept pace with the growth in aize and complexity of the education
sector. To create a more efficient administrative structure, the Govern-
ment established in late 1985 the MENESR by merging the former Ministry of
Higher Education and Research vith that of National Education. Hovever,
while this action promotes ;. more efficient use of administrative personnel
-- MNEbESR has 10 directorates as compared to 13 in the former two
Ministries (Anne% 2-8) -- and facilitates a better coordination of overall
educational development, MENESR lacks the trained personnel and equipment
required to improve its budgeting and management procedures.
7.        Strategy.  The project vould assist in strengthening the NENESR
directorates responaible for (a) personnel management; (b) budget prepa-
ration and control; (c) acholarship allocation and monitoring; and
(d) administration of examinations and achool guidance. To this end the
project would review and improve budgeting and administrative procedures
and computerîze the records regarding personnel, finance, equipment,
furniture, scholarships and examination reaults.
8.        Means.  The project would finance (a) six micro-computers
(including equipment for emergency pover supply), one each for the
folloving six Directorates 1/: Directorate of Preschool and Primary
Education, Directorate of Secondary and Technical Education, D:rectorate of
Financial Affaire, Directorate of Administrative and Legal Affai a,,
Directorate of Examinations and School Orientation and Directorate of
Righer Education; (b) furniture; (c) 60 staff months of scholarships abrôad
in the areas of computer sciences and personnel and finance management;
1/   In addition, three micro-computers vill be provided for the
Directorate of Educational Planning and Programming (Annex 3-6) and
one for the Project Coordination Unit (Annex 3-11).



- 77                         ANNEX 3-5
Pige 3 of 6
(d) a total of 21 staff months of local training for MENESR staff initi-
ating them in the use of micro-computers; and (e) 36 months of short-term
consultants' services to assist ln (i) revievlng and revising MENESR's
personnel management procedures; (iI) reviewing and revising MENESR's
financial management and budgeting procedures; and (iiî) computerizing
MENESR's records. The last item would include the following steps:
determining computerization needs, selecting hardware and software, instal-
ling the micro-computers and providing on-the-job training in their use for
MENESR staff (following the initial training provided under point (d)
through locally organized courses), and computerizing the records on MENESR
teaching and non-teaching personnel, expenditures, equipment, acholarahips
and examination results. It ia expected that a team of three consultants
(one system analyst, one expert in personnel management and one expert in
financial management) vould assist in carrying out these tasks during
several short-term missions during 1987 and 1988.
9.        Sumuary information on quantities and base costs of support
provided by the project is given in Table 2. Table 4 of Annex 3-4 gives
details on construction, Annex 3-8 on furniture, Annex 3-9 on equipment,
Annex 3-13 on specialist services and Annex 3-14 on local and foreign
training. The Directorate of Planning and Programming (DEP) will be
responsible for managing the implementation of this sub-component
(Annex 3-11) assisted as described above by short-term consultants.



Chsrt 1- 0zsuistionsl Churt of the D=etorate of PrInhoo1 sd PrTBy           tio
retorSt~~~~~~~~~ieco
_at 7                                                          Te8 des t 8  _ureau      Jattes et
Eqtpueut (2)              Du Controle Pedas.                  du Personnel (3)           Pbniscies
et de Il'nsei8nement                                           eolotrs* (3)
.            ~~~prtvem3                                                            l     
AU*     (19)   DIff* (10)          |       1(14)         NAWI (14)        N    (11)   .   .  .4.                     Zll  *  (23)
1.t.P.D.          .1.9P.D.                                      .          I.E.P.D.         I.ISP.D.                  1.E.P.».
*ritUt**         la -8.ros* (8)   Sirat N'Coud (8)   Dkoro (11)             tlingut< (7)       us a"                 Gour t9)
S1t* (3)                            Doutchbt (11>         usroufa **    Kollo (17)          1il$1. **                Nsg   (15)
ga**                 1ay11 * (6)      J.E/lI (7)        Kelax * (7)              mmm.re 0*
Teasous (12)    lias  Il (1)   loi  (11)                    lulé (7)
Oull **          1ade  (10)               Taoul 0*
T&* (9)          Tchtu-tSb.rds  * (tl)
Tltl try (13)
i lpares lu parenthesea dm  umber of staff lu ispectorates establisbed prior to achool year 1985186.                                 Ci
* Ipetorateu exlsting prior s4bool yp.r 1985/86, to receive construction under the projecet,                                         %
0*  seo%teo establUsli et the start of scbool yger 198536.
-   - ?rlusrP   Sobool Inhpectorate et the Dsprtmntal Leel.
IM  - Prtusw  Sebool hospectorate et tde District (rosdiuesent) !4vel.



RBPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 1. SUPPORT TO INSPECTORATES
DETAILED COST TABLE
(FCFA J000)
*Matltp                                                             ..roe
Ibit     1981 ttl  189 t9 IM 199112 t    1 9J3  94 Total kit Coot    lui    l9U       tUlt 11m lm      I mi    1992t 194  tot1
*s"ssmmga  su,  ss  S.:, esame *mss eues mats est  masae  *sessssa  ,.mssuus sume:, s :ssuif  eusss uses sas  *188 5300 B$t8U*85
_. ......I
2. liisEuX                         Mts bat     3   4    4    3    -4 -.  3-U                   .5t .9      .ns 10 ,0 lM 1M   t2517         -    -    -    -flU
t. AtILII  UmmJ                      ite       3    8    3-      -    -         -    -         422.      3l.84    42&M    3.44  Mffl       -      -        - -  1.110t
t. AItIE OMETS 1   1                           J    *    4 à       -   -    -    -           l U00.t2     2.1   8.00   8. 2   2.1s         -    - -         -    -   1tt
1. 9IDItlE à II                    M"te        4              -    -    - -    -        tS      4.428    il752  2S.928  18.404       ., .    .    .    . bout,
Sé-lotal WOIIlElS                                                                                           20.E6  3058   ttO  t010.1          - -       -    -   044j1
.._.__.... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~   ~    ...... ...          ... ....        ..  ..    .........
1.MtSM PEOO S                                  4    5    J    3                         tS  z2't.i        8.9018.42  it12u0,11                            - . . .a
2. 811150S  alIS                               t                                         a J    t   -  -    -   5. Sf  1,.0    l.tt1   4 1 ,  -  -l- -          S
J.  4iIîrn t ClE11I                            t   2    1-       -    -    -    - -4  t            200.   1.10   t53t   1.2t5-        -10
8*-Total  4I1UP!U          't.7S2 O                                                                                  8.088  1t03   t2u         -    -    -    -  51. 0
s. wUiwi1s'E
t.'424J°                           balt       *2              4    -    -e                                .'§ -  - 86 6.1  9.00  --2.0        -    -    -      82.80
1*-Iota  WiIIIWtES                                                                                         108.80        -       - 34.508    -    -    -    -  83000
E. fe U89110
t. Ptt4UtL OtS INMCT IS               jel           *    5-          -      -     -     -    10  924          -  4.02   4.020 u       .     .     .            940
....... ........ ........ ....... .......  ... .. .v ._...2!:
é*-total FWIION                                                                                                      4.020   4.- -*40
aus.ms " :.:., estampa musosas sm   ues mss aas muasU                       1.1,1 
total IUSIf   COlts                                                                                           812. 11                   N.        -    -    -    - 30431t
Total                                                                                                          lu2.173  68. 45  W.,051  18.889    -    -    -    - m 30.814                   1* 
1. 1108  It 30



=PUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMI EDUCATION DEVLOPMBNT PROJECT
TABL15 2. SUPPORT TO STRENGTHEN 1ESOURCB  NAGEMNT
DETAILED COST TABLE
(FCFA '000)
ety                                                                  S.   Cost
-- - - - - - - - - -   -               -- - - - - - -- - - - - -               -- -- -   .., .. . . . . .
Unit    t987 t988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 Total Unit Coat   1987           9eU      l9m     19m    te9t1    19 193 1994  Totul
n:eWà:::::   a :5:0 an.n:: n:::  o:e: *::: ton: tn: toton  ::::::::  t::;:::: toto:::B  OIt:::: an::,: on::. :::: toc: ton: tfl8000
I. lIt4VESTIENit COSfS
. N108ttER
t. tt455EPT tl WIEUX                                      ---                                                          8,925   8.925                        t-,80
Sè-total ,.e.îo EI                                                                                                   -    a925   a925          -      -    -    -    -   n, 00
IL EQUIP#EIIT
1. PC SOfTIR E   ENTRETIEN           Unît        -    6--.                                        5,092.5         -   34, tSS       -      -       -    *         -   34 ns                 G
2.  IlM ATEURS ET ENTRETIEN          Unte         -    6    -                                   1,344. 15         -    8,065        -      -       -    -    -     -    805
t. EUOIPEIIEII                                    -    -    - 1 ------ -    -8- S,625 - -625  ----                                                            . ..       ,2» 
5*b-Total EOUIPENEWY                                                                                                  -  50.845   8.15               -        -       -   59.410
C. SPECIALISTES ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~5.    a 
t. INALYSTE 6E SYSTENS             H_ofas        4    6    21--2    4,312.5   17.250   25.875   8.65                                               -    -    -    -   51,t50
2. EXPER7 GESTION PERSONNEL        Ik_o1          6         1--               -2    4.312.5   25.875   25.875                       -      -       -    -    -    -  51.15
3. EXPERT 8906ETTISAT108             leau.        6    6 8--    12    4.312.5   25.875   25,375                                     -                   -    -    -       T50
Sb-Total SPECIMltlSTES                                                                                         69,00    77, 62    8,625       ..-    - .             -  I,250
0. FONTION
1. WRSES SUR PC                    ratl           4   10    6  -    -     -    - -          20        759    3.036    7.590   4 554        -       -       -       -   15, ltO
2. BORES GESTION PERSONNEL         llnio.s        4    6    -    4    e    -     -     -    20         759    3,036    4.554        -  3,030  4.554    -           -   15, 1i8
3. OUI ES GESTION PiNINCIERE    liq A m6*        4    6          4    6    -     -     -    20        759    3,036    4,554        - 3.036  4.554    -    -    -   J5, t80
4. SE1IN1IRES tOC4UX SUR PC        fl_toh        21    -     -     -     -  -      -     -    21      275    5,775          -         -     -      -    -          -    5,5
S*-Total FORMTION                                                                                               14.8U3   16.898   4.S54  6,072  9.108    -    -    -   Si, 315              bu
E. CWUTS  OiDITINELS
1 MATERIEL PC                       "multe        -        -     -     -     -   - --                           349      524      524    524    524  S24  524           3,4t 
5*-Total COttTS IDOITIONNELS                                                                                       349       524     524    52      524  S24  524    -    t,490             0%
total 1NWESIEIIT COSTS                                                                                              4J.232  1!4.816  31,253  6.536  9,682  524  524    -  281,375               M    i
Total                                                                                                              814,232  154.616  31.253   ,598  t,632  5524  524    -  281,375
tl:;.  nnn *  snt   encn  gnonZ C::ti:  tn:C: :ta; non s tonn::
…-_    - - -__- - --____-                    --__-_-          - --__*_-_-  __                                                                                             .......
St~ S. 1#60 It l
WAPED
October 1986



81-                       ANNEX 3-6
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY 0F SUPPORT TO STRENGTHEN EDUCATIONAL PLANNING
1.        Objective.  To enhance MENESR's capability to plan and monitor
development of the education sector as well as to develop and implement
cost-effective uieasures, the project would reinforce the Directorate of
Educational Planning and Programming (Direction des Etudes et de la
Programmation-DEP).
2.        Back£round.  The DEP is organized into three different bureaus
(Chart 1): the Bureau of Research, Planning and Programning (BRPP), the
Bureau of Statistics and School Napping (BSCS); and the Bureau of School
Infrastructures and Equipment (BIES). The functions allocated to each of
these three bureaus and to the office of the Director are sumuarized in
Chart 2. Presently the BIES exists only on paper, and the two other
bureaus do not even have the limited staff shown in Chart 2. A substantial
part of the work carried out by DEP is performed by the Director.
3.        Strategy.  The project vould setrengthen DEP's capacity to (a)
compile, analyze and publish timely and reliable education statistics; (b)
establish and maintain a country-wide school map covering all levels and
types of education; (c) prepare and monitor the implementation of policies
promoting more cost-effective resource use; and (d) plan and supervise
school construction, rehabilitation and maintenance.
4.        Work Program.  Within the general framework given in Chart 2,
during project implementation the three Bureaus of DEP vould complete the
following tasks:
(a) review and improve the registers on pupils kept by schools and
revise the questionnaires used for collection of statistice from
the schools; train the staff at the achool and inspectorate
levels to maintain the registers and complete the questionnaires;
computerize the processing of education statisties; train the
staff at the central level in the analysis of education
statistice; and publish annually a yearbook of education
statistices covering all levels and types of public and private
education and including data on pupils, teachers, physical
facilities, examination results as vell as on cost and financial
aspects;
(b) establish and maintain a country-vide school map cscvering all
levels and types of education;
(c) conduct quantitative studies in support of policy reforms,
including the following: (i) factors governing unit costa in
primary. secondary and higher education; (ii) public finance and
equity impact of coat recovery achemes for textbooks and ochool
supplies; (iii) supply of and demand for primary and secondary
achool teachers; (iv) scope for extending the use of multigrade



-82-                               A    36
Pasge 2 of 7
Chart 1: Org4aftat±onal Chart of tch Dîrectorate
of Plamdg  and ProLraU4i
3!                   I~~~~~~secretariat
4 adainistrative
staff
1 achool mapping specialist          2 educational plnmuers          1 senior architect*
2 education statisttuians           1 econonist                      1 architect*
1 coeputer specialist                1 resea.rb sud                  1 uetreur*
valuition specialiat          2 dea4ners*
, controleurs*
4 support staff*
2 drivers*
* Staff financed by the project
BSCS - Bureau of Statisti sad Scbool llpptlue  de la Statistique et de la Carte Scolaire
IRPP - Burea of lesearch, PImmiM md Prog         _       de L  :ecberche, de la Planification
et de la Progratioo
lDMS - Bureau of School  efrt tu   Md  gqui.mitilwas des Infrastructures et de
l 'equipemat scolaire



Chart 2: Fonctions et Tâches de la Direction des Etudes et de la Programmation (DEP)
LA DIRECTION
- Organisation du Secrétariat
- Suivis du fonctionnement de la Direction
- Diagnostic du système d'enseignement: administration, finances, constructions, équipements et démographie
- Préparation des plans et des programes de constractions et d'équipements
- Participation a la préparation du budget
- Etudes sur la planification et la programmation de l'éducation
- Suivi de l'exécution des travaux de constructions et d'équipements
- Participation aux travaux de réforme et de changement de structures
- Proposition de normes techniques de constructions et d'équipements
- Détermination, avec les autres directions, de l'implantation des bâtiments
- Proposition de mesures d'amlioration des rendem_nts en liaison avec les directions concernées
- Evaluation de l'impact des projets en cours ou à réaliser
- Collaboration avec les autres directions et services du Ministbre
- Elaboration des rapports d'activités
BUREAU DE LA STATISTIQUE ET DE LA         BUREAU DE LA RECHERCHE,            BUREAU DES INFRASTRUCTURESS ET DE
CAMTE SCOLAIRE                            PLANIFICATION? PROGR»&TION        LVEQUIPEMENTS SCOLAIRES
-  Recensement scolaire primaire et       -  Etudes et recherches de         -  Elaboration de programes de
secondaire, public et privé               coûts en capital                   constructions et d'équipements scolaires
-  préparation du traitement              -  Etudes et recherches en         -  Préparation de dossiers d'appels d'offres
informatique des données                  rendement                       - Supervision des travaux des constructions
-  Confection de l'annuaire               -  Etudes et recherches en            et de l'allocation des équipements
statistique scolaire                      résultats scolaires             -  Etablissement des normes techniques des
-  Enquêtes ponctuelles dans le           -  Etudes et recherches en            constructions et des équipements
contexte scolaire                         planification scolaire             scolaires
-  Analyse critique de la carte           -  Etudes et recherches            -  Contr8le de l'application des normes
scolaire et de ses composantes            préparatoires a de                 techniques
-  Etablissement d'un fichier des            nouveaux projets                -  Recherche de réserves foncières pour
villes et des villages                 -  Etudes et recherches sur           constructions scolaires
-  Contr8le et étude des registres           l'adéquation du systhae         -  Planification, sur le plan national, des
scolaires                                 éducatif sous ses aspects          constructions et des équipements
administratif et économique       scolaires
- Préparation des dossiers d'amélioration
des constructions
-  Participation aux délibérations de la
Commission Nationale d'Urbanisme



-84-                          ANNEX 3-6
Page 4 of 7
teachlng in rural areas; (v) alternative ways of introducing
double-shift schooling in urban areas; (vi) evaluations of the
internal and external efficiency of the experimental primary
schools as coupared to the traditional primary schools;
(vit) ways to promote participation of local communities in
- chool construction and maintenance; snd (viii) the economic
rentability of using "ateliers scolaires" for building schools
and making school furniture;
(d) prepare proposals for a third education project for external
financing;
(e) develop designe and construction techniques for lov-cost primary
school buildings; prepare the annual echool construction and
:ehabilitation program and supervise the implementation of thie
program; and establish community-based school maintenance systen
including the preparation of a manual for school users.
5.        In general, tasks (a) and (b) vould be handled by the BSCS, tasks
(c) and (d) by the BRPP, in cooperation with the Directorate of Primary
Education and the BIES, and task (e) by the BIES.
6.       l4eans. The project would finance:  (a) rehabilitation of an
unused former secondary school dormitory to serve as offices for the BIES;
(b) furniture, equipment and two vehicles for that Unit; (c) three micro-
computers including one for the BIES; (d) 72 staff »onthe of long-term
specialist services (architect) for the BIES, 42 staff months of long-term
specialist services and 19 menths of short-tern specialiît services to
assist in conducting the studies listed in para 4, point (c); (e) 55 staff
monthe of short-term specialist services (including 36 from local
speicalists) to prepare education projecte for external financing; (f) 40
menthe of scholarshipe abroad in the area of education planning, education
etatistice and school mapping, 30 months of seminars related to the use of
low-cost school construction methode and 10 monthe of study trips abroad in
the field of educational planning and low-coet school construction; (g) 69
staff monthe of local seminars on educatîon statistice and school mappiug;
and (h) operating coste, mainly for the BIES.
7.        Summary information on quantities and base coSts of support
provided through the project is given in Table 1 for the DFP excluding the
BIES, and in Table 2 for the BIES. Table 3 gives details of operating
costs for the BIES. Annex 3-8 gives details on furniture, Annex 3-9 on
equipment, Annex 3-12 on specialist services and Annex 3-13 on local and
foreigu training. DEP will itself be responsible for managing the
implenentation of this sub-component.



REPU8LIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATIO DEVELO                  PROJECT
TABLE 1. SUPPORT TO EDUCATIONAL PLANNING
UWrAILED COST TABLE
(FCFA '000)
lant1Ity                                                          Sos. Couts
Unit   S1987 198  1989 199  19I 1992 1993 1994 Total  Unit Cost   1987    1988       1981    1990    1991  1992 1993 1994  Total
1. IIIVESTUET CosTs
A. . ILIER
t. 4URE4ttX ET   tIRES-- ------ -    --                                                                                                       -    -  S-  ---- 3-5--
Sub-TotS   ItlER                                                                                              -  3.570         -       -       -    -   -    -   J.5'0
L  EOOIPEIIEIITI
t. PC ET ENiTRETIENt              Unîte       -   2    -   -      -   *     -   -      2    S,692.5           11.385                     -                 -   It,385
?040UI.tNEUR ET EIITRETIENI    Unit.       -   2-         -        -       -2  t. 344. 156              -  2.688         -       -       -    -   -    - 2,88                       'J'
3PNOTOPEUSE                    Unite       -         -    -    t * -   -    -    2    1.897.5               t 898                             ..1 8          3.791
SiA-totol EQUIPENENT                                                                                          -  15,S1                 -   1.8S8    -   -    -   11.18
C. SPECIli tTES
t. PIJIFiftCAtEUR               Iomk_a       12  12  12    5    -   -            -   42       3,450   41.400  41.400   41.400  20,700       -   -    *   -  144,900
2. COUSIItAUwTS                ll w_ois       2    a    B    3   2    -    -   -    19   4,312.5   8.625  25.875   25.875  12,938  8a.2S    -    -   -  81.938
3. PREPARJTION PRWET            Ik_Mls        -        -     a 8       -    -   - _    l    4.312.5        -       -  25.875  25,875  25.819    -    -   -   ttS25
4. EXPERTS lOCUIx               ln_mois       -    -   12  12  12    -    -   -   36            200                     2,400  2.400  2.400           -    -   t,200
S$b-totsl SPECIALtSTES                                                                                   50,025  67,275   95,550  61.9t3  3ti900            -    31,668
0. FOlMTIO1
1. 4 MMRSES                    NH mots        -   a   16  10   6    -    -   -   40             759        -  6,012   12.144   1.5rs    4.554    -   -    -  30,360
2. SERUIAIRES STATISTIQUE       léommit         11.5 It1.5 11.5 11.5    -    -    .   46        316        -  3.634    3,634   3.634   3.634    -    -   -   14.536
3. SERINAIRES CARTE SCOLAIR      mois        -      11.5  5.8  5.8    -    -   -   23          31s                -   3.634  t,81t  17.61    .   .             7.26S
S*b-Total fOUlIT ION                                                                                           -  9, 706   19,412  13J 041  10.005    -    -       52. 184
E. COUiS AOITIONIIELS
t. NATERIEt PC                   Annuite      -        -                               -                 698    698                98    t98    -    -   -   3.490
S*-Total CWUTS LOrTItoNEts                                                                                 698     6S8       98    698    tT98                    3.490
Total IVESTEIIT COSlS                                                                                       50.723  911220  115.660  79.652  49.501    -    -   -  88.5m
ric:a.ac :w-::=:. :w:w:::ccu ;tt:e vacloes"a  :r  ;X:5  Unc=CCt:
Total                                                                                                        50.723  97,220  115.88   7S 652 49.501    -    -   - 388,ns                  'ut
ig        l. .    ...



IPUmIC OF NIiI
TANtE 2. SUMPPOT TO SCU9OL OOISTRUCTIOU UNIT
(ICPA 000>
qwîySe.lits 
...........................................................   ...-------.............--------------------........----,_---------------._--,.--__--_.__
unit      tfurt    lm  Iwo lut lm   fou  leu  total  unit Cow                 1s        fou       tons    Iwo    tfoi        lm       fo3u  tues  total
.umgs:2.i  ims *S"     S URS  gSUS 353S 8555 e   313 3313*W  38513  335351533  SX=" 55 :5  -e55m  ir"sîp.  :.ss,q   sttCsa#8 s wsss S:SamuîÙ sus. sm .s.
1. I#0SThtu CtS 
t. MUOATIC ON 05*1                                                                                                 31. 75   21. 110-                          -        -        -     -
Sé1ibotil CtShUtTIOI                                                                                                   31,75     21.110         -        -        -        -        -5.1
s. soUIMma
_. 0....... _
I. t    t   -ix                                                                                  -                       -   10.00-                   -        -       - t            -     .
2. fC  ET  TOMIt(                                   -     I                                              1.612. 5        -    503-                    --                         -5
Si>lotul   CDMFIIMtillé JlJS 2.lt -----
a. mwî.auus si imî         u                        -    -    -    -    -    -    -.-5-                                  - -,- -  4          -                -        -   ---        - ---- -
Ah-Total EIFsIIU                                                                                                                ; t 9.043      .        .                                    ; .
0. ,.SIUU.
t.0G1153                             Mott          -   -    -             -          -      -    -.1 -                        -     tO,.OOS      -        -            -        -    -   1tO.0
8*Toa VC nItSMUStt-                                        I    -     -     -                             .9               -         -   10.15-         -       -        -              -   11.5W
IL  SRCiUSh
t.   UNItUTllt no Eltl1Ei                          -    12          -         -     -    -    -                                        le. no      .* 156         44            -    -     t2.#4
0. sumîîo.
t. SIUIUM   lwite                                   -    -0  20    -      -    -    -    -       20       317            -    3.-   I3.10             -       -         - -           -    1.41
0*-Total  OISU1TES                                                    t.51                                                        0.,4
E. SCEUITS  ITWNS S
......._._..
t. 4MItItE                        O      dis _ t      12   t2                  12          - la          3,4b0    41 401    4.01   0 41.400  41,01   4t.44  4.014            06
$*-total SCUITS ItTE                                                                                                   41.4E    41t 4e   4t0 4t   410410  41.4to  4t.00 4M -                      m210,8e0
1.s*l    _EVWULhIT 50115             _    t258   130.141 êW.t51  55. 18   10                                                                                                  5 4H  8, 012   t2 1U4  -   »1. 28
t.4*1                                                                                                             tOtt E     1     1  1      1  1 1 1tO01 tO.5 -1*t  -  -                 08.. .   30  316  & -23 3 tôl  & a  -  --
1. luffES D EtTffl                it   tii         2    2    2    2    2    -            -     - t0        VU      . O'    , ,55     81853 83 . s.um.h' l'Sie             8*"       °    : 7'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ ........ ........ .......  ...... ....... ....   ......
t.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l    Iolèl                     len  t8   la t8   la Ut t1 2ê                 to0     $1S2ê    1.121      J.2 ne    a&2 sua52  sa    -.   2eZ M                          
2.IURtaEt                         uio                   1    1    t    t    1    t              7    9,0t4         104 It01  907       9. 44   1. t4    *,Ot14   t,Ot4    0,Ot14    -          lUSt     W
*. tIWIIIIt »lottlu                 i               t    t    t    t    t    t    t    -         1      tê,Ot6    t6.01ô   tXO168  té,Olô  15,01E  18.010  tôOts  U.011s    - 12,1"                       " 
4.   IttlYEttCUltt                                  2    2    2    2    2    2    2              1 4  t,UJ.3. O     2,96t    2,9ê1    2.918l   2.» Ut       w      ,m       2. -.  20,n 2,  
" s § t e;* ls"; es ; st ........ ........ ........ ....... ....... ....... ...... ...  .....*... 
$*Ttdl  olL25 Mtt49ht                                                                                                    I e    310, t5  3s,2e    7t*7 s                  31 .M..  S.M   . ......... é 21,2"
......î .....    ,                                                     'î7ts .. ,îï. «" ; t**|
..._, ..,...... ...........,..... _....... ............. ,............ .....................,. ..... ............................. ......................................................... ,,...,,_ .............. ....... . . ., ......_. _.
lm,rw1 



-87-                           AIIIEX 3-6
Psge 7 of 7
Table 3: Estimates of Aniwal Op.rating Cost of the Bureau
of School Infrastructures a"d Bu-. eu  t (8IES) 1/
A.         Salaries of Local Staff 2/                Indice          FCFA
Architect (1 post)                         750          2,031,000
Métreur (i post)                           400          1,372,300
Designer (2 poste)                         350          2,086,000
Building techuicians (3 poste)             400         4,113,900
Secretary (1 pont)                         300           918,000
Typiot (2 poste)                           250          1,570,000
Orderly (1 post)                           150            531,000
Drivers (2 poste)                          150          1,062,000
Provision for part-tine assistance                     2,331,800
Total Local Salaries                             16,016,000
B.         Other OperatinR Costa
Stationary and supplies                                 1,800,000
Electricity                                            3,000,000
Telephone                                               1,300,000
Maintenance (telephone, photocopier, air
conditioning)                                        1,360,000
Vehicles (petrol, insurance, matntesc"ce)               2,967,000
Per diem mission for site supervision 3/               3,528,000
Miscellaneous                                           1,614,000
fOtal Other Operating Costs                      15,569,000
Total Annual Operatina Costa                     31,585,000
1/   Further details on estimates are given in Vorking Paper No. 2, pages
B.27-B.29.
2/  Salary for senior architect (expatriatu) not included.
3/  Covers per dieu for field tripe for arckitecte and building
technicians to supervise buflding and constr-iction vork.
WAPED
October 1986



- 88 -                    ANNEX 3-7
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRINARY EDUCATION DEVELOPhENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
1.        Project costs are based on November 1985 prices-updated to
reflect a change in the exchange rate from FCFA 385 - US$l at appraisal to
FCFA 345 - US$1 at negotiations. Cost estimates for the primary school
construction program are based on the development of a prototype of a loy-
cost classroom using local materials and labor. Cost estimates for the
school rehabilitation prograu are based on a Government survey of the
quality of existing classrooms. The details behind the cost estimates for
the construction and rehabilitation programs are explained in Annex 3-4.
Cost estimates for the other civil works components (extension of INDRAP,
construction of inspectorate offices and lodgings, renovation of DAF vare-
house for textbooks as vell as of offices for the School Construction Unit
and the Project Coordination Unit) are based on comparable civil works
completed recently; further details are given in Working Paper No. 2.
2.        The average co0t per moath of internationally recruited
specialist services is estimated at US$10,000 for long-term services and
US$12,500 for short-term services. Scholarships abroad are costed at
US$2,200 per month. Annex 3-1 explains the assumptions behind the costing
of local specialiats and locally arranged seminars.
3.        Physical contingencies of 10% have been applied for the civil
works, furniture and equipment expenditure categories. Allowances for
annual price escalations are as follows: 7.2% for 1986; 6.8% for 1987 and
1988; 7.0% for 1989; 7.1% for 1990 and 4.0% per year for the period
1991-95. Price contingencies for foreign and local costs are assumed to be
equal due to compensating exchange rate adjustments. Total physical con-
tingencies are estimated at US$1.1 million (4% of total project coste) and
price contingencies at US$5.9 million (22% of project costs).
4.        Table 1 shows summary accounts by project component; Table 2
shows project coet by component and expenditure category; Table 3 shows
project cost suumary by expenditure category and Table 4 shows the
financing plan by project component.



.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s u: g ei s .a.qas
*a.&ase  r.   pout                 .u         Ml*            au la1 f90   "O s    ulsc  "Ors loi  M         marsl         rît 'ua           lta          -4 'tg ar                                     u.uaq  éteaê-à
oou '§                                    as          ni e           us _ ,,,,,e $,,,C_ ___ i                       % n           soi _            -               _---                 -       -- iegamRé3l.0ia"ase'ig
t   ~        ~~~ 0W j"         u; &         sws;    stra             us.. N            ossct   .u'tn        st'0çS    tN'aa        1L9Sfl's      UN|fea        049,             ss.s. -îo                                   use$ imni  a'a.
a   s    on .te -s    1set 'ts;   éte.gab    ut SUt 4 1 4<9 PU                     iu'08      0           ut 199 'U     mo i eu '$;        4            801#'        gît '00                     SISCO 16  6  1S 1>3     503
§               . -.  --                 01684;      5- le-                                                                       09800 l a                            .                                SUmitAiG   311s59  A°
§11«  00   Mê'i'    fOfi'K    C          e        CU119t         Ut'16tt ObZou'  -                    tl'l.l S         'CIS                                   680,49      00lSIW                    SUS01511  d3d0 tow °-q#
o~~'~~~~  .«i  Us-«oT                       04 -;    i                                         -'o                                     on'ea ;6i t&',                                    IsmSU t1311 #fS33d5  'e
*        o-o  .oî 'm'a       e.'msb    o99<          ass,'.o:       oçootl   -               -          - 99sstm                                < 900                         ut0'5          )snhAvMlahI S1351  W533dS '
e   e0   "tt66Ws    Sbillt   00t»é   t°°&+Ot  énesc   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~         °tt6°éc      glèllC                        ect,tg         }IIOIIII"31111 53155lbl:S115X31ds *  1
o        o.e   wu98L09      ons'       o<.s*         soi 'OB       sBails   e c0            -           *           0t'a         ou            0t$ 'S           ëst'0O0       Us 5<i£W i   aot:4-S 3
-------- j      '.          or-'j 411 '   0e i i         i mm  is ui          OtUs                                               tu l W 't  t'C ttt ser         ooo           ts;ît u                      os iolî oeu1
°o       o. Ca sst                      Kose e    t  I'I  '.        005'S9    -              -         -                         COIa'iU                -                                        58000481 snf           .atitl
mtU' t    w OeJ             ausO tIu                 s'l            bl Ss i S'U                                    oe           sels. -WI  IUW  *  I0OS'  .10d@A-5
*                     58155   008 e08'Ua           WlOi       O'''' ---------- ---'''-----   ---- -           ' -----'''''- -''-'---    - - -'''- - S '----- ----- ----- -
eo                     e*       *0'1  olJ u i      ou$ loiv ouSs    tlt'                                           -                                     utS IIS'l                                                                    ni'Ui      -    1 
silos   **G                  aUi         ntu         85541 Sl9' la t. suOrtu *                                      0*           *ll tC        -                 -            -                      10W1 am  i50          .
CD                                                                                                                                                                            damima 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SS   ait3d11*
ut .&4   *ut  "i             ust  ;    bus           lits           0 ose     r,i t '                  ss            s.lu3a1     ..r'is                                                                          11- hu 11 's
sse0                                               ----- ------f55 680-  ---  - OOl -------          NOit    40        u 0905  SCrit                          --- -       -                                 UB5IeS.
..~~..... sus.  ...S.assfl  .....flfl  *gfltSkSSt*S* 888*85545  580*8*8*  4 4 4 4 8   4*5*                            3    *     4 ~ ~ ~ ~~ .............
OuîUmUus                     134%&8. .s. .s Snou   IuDaaW                                                9     3810109   ------------------- - - S
iii"éi1ii*          i                          *3 SmsftIMa Sts3eos                                151815muiesU3iFsÇ   i 
<000 . VADAi)
LX.MNOJNOD ZDZrO  Aq XRlOO  1WOS   *t S$Y
Maroua zzao'laa aNoIVDnaa iXViïa
§i& do arxIana



'i'8
Ç  |#              n          losoCc       C'I 86618  8'11    18S6X'£8'8    0<8  9S        es6 0881o 1  to00180181C  £O'S9r£1':U                                                                S£soe  133Mlld 114,£
M Z ,_ _~~~~~~~~~~~.....  ......   ....  ......  _.._......  ..__,_ ___.._....  ..._____________________. __ .___.....
81         068 t   s   0619.5  tA'1 8t ' '8e8 t  f 1 t    I n 96       illi         c  sec'es S m    'a '  t 'S6t 'e-m8T    fIld
S  SI        8££108~~~l   *a l fr15'89  B8'88                  et         on 98180<  u     88188 '8         980'Ugoot1                                                   S400UoU0  808U
s0        s         mê*1u'ss  110'008'e,t'et0îas              .ê      es n       s   o» lacs 1 e  eslm l i'ts C   UetIbs'toti e                                                       s isWo  uîusu  a
..... ..... _._ .........  __.._........  __._..........___ .......  ___ ____......... .............. ..........._._.__ ___________. ___.___._ __ --------
«        48         610188u tu le St t0 tu6u0'591'5    181'1  tt       008                        00  u       lc e s'0IU  oI es6o   tN a                           31131111D1Jil111SNI  3I  :1 I'î PS
68      98          888800 2     9~ '8188 8au le   Ott tu'8l 8t8u  68  et        8  '1CUlm  là  Lis lm  eL          Z en1 leu '1                                             NIV3I        d 1101@_-"S
W        W se88m'bu 19  80608cl   ut00'8 on                           8<         86 se8s  88 l     6819  'fr81    008'81 ou Wot                      S3ce1th8£           838 V1908    SW3lSl 81311 -VS
*    6         888' la aulot I            tu la818      8        86          6<6fru£<'898        6<'loS lm    000'1<'8 lot                                                    V3iU 311611
et      te          sce lois I   lait     w  la   sot loit   09       4t         OUEBloieeo10     esst, #eet 'bis    ou 1186 eO S'C t E'Et31U3MI                          £31 6311088l   ifnfliff
8<      e 18        81'19        La leu81     tes '00        8<       ler        Str'btt'i$t'   UO1'Stb'$419            18'8<                     'eIId<  NI                  11îuîwo s.0 su   mo;a11111148-,
O       U8          ci08 '8Il   9980 8I   C8lt               9        etSgo 988'W    t    t%'68It6l8eu            s3oi                                      019      14151 ns et       UI I d 8
alst1-3l a   VI  h11103  1381   S 903183U1  18
§~ ~~8              18          000 '811   £69 '1  '1   1089             88       88         888 '808800n c4  898 'SM '800    888 '<8      'l8<:88"  tlE    SIfIOWI -   3 SUO£31UId  I
... .._... .__.__._.._._.... ..... ..........__ ........... ........ .......  .- .... ....... ..... ............... ......... ..... ............ ..
a       et U80 l0i 0616 lait0tt8                             t        et         00 lui les        S 0'tc900      o0US1                                                               A3ISI 't
^ ~ ~~1              1            01U1        00 '06       908 4 '89'     II       8          00 '88901        00 lX't01'£8    00 '81< '£8                      S£81          1400 10        S3i3 £VUIOIUSI  6,@-
8        8<         188198       00006        898Ot'l  @'t       S 8le           00'1 16l         ou     '£t lg   Ott 108U 'e le                       sS1V M            M Is   OU  3S 3U1U1            'S
SJJV   i3 SU11411091110 SUllII, S3Q u1U     'O
et«      O& U99 luG't 16   & lIb'Ctt                 'La'    Ot       at          e wZ leu  lut le   m 1t'9'lois    l C'4tb'611m          11D3IUîNUuh           11V3hOI110 SUIV£IUO M80  5D1:_ IBII  Ul  V
....... ...._._._      ........... .    ... .....              .. .....   ....... ... _ ___ ..........._... ._.... .... -_.------------
La a4 90t ul'u't   t' 8s *ap1   U                                                          4Oleles ISpot0't 'mut 8 0I40t UI 1  1ldl I0101
aI       U          'loi         008C'I        m4 li         I        si         eoc l  #         0U  1894` loi   ooe USai              X#ItI#11  SIUISDU 0 Il M0t1  31_01 V 113!1|130    'C
tl       t          "'t '        eeo,0 lsot lm  4    et               C          oos la te 'bu     oo ouc Ui      ees 1t Ui                        Sll$1,1 3S111113 Sdl0  M  MID1111lS311  fliffl
___... _._.__.. .__.,....... ............ _ . _.......... ....... ..... ....... .. ..__.......... .............. .............___. _............... _ 
tg      -               esIt 14 -             Sb69 est -do                       oe etT 00        -               eo 1s8t enS11113S11  3SWllà3il
&        g           ollu 0o o S                             80808     t         00 St's          0018le          98 46l                                                      lll          iii
S11 1101181113|538  'I
1    11111111 1110à 30$ L3111Vod  S1l  S#Z T11t131  1
8«4»0 ~~~~~~~~«$sauIU 10DIIUdZ
__. _  _. __.. ..     .   .. . . .. . . . .. . . .  .. . . . .  .. . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . ...  ..__.................... 
lm                                               IV~~~~~~~~~~~~J3jà



__ ,_ ............... _........................................................._____._........... ._._.__......................... __...__
.teaeik2*889088,s. ""Fagna$***so  atetsu egs    C"engage**   content           ..  8ga"tsss*s*$$tzZ*scsX
S8S8gE  USU*B0888 SUSBZt    S -on   $ utU-ts 8s   au    -$&   338       t oUu lot&léO8  gsg gg         lsli*let SS8gS*lm.s.mta    sus1s885                                   le
.~~~~~~~~~ ,' - ---------  .....__._.__ _....................  ................... .............. ........................ ,__
it      a           est ti'%  t'8s             ni ls t         tg      Of         au j6loti Ib   lafulmll           tt     't M1                                    1 19     m  l &e-    »i
U        os         4Oe'Ifi  st att¶            M lm          U        es         m uoit î                  eui osr  Q  Mra1                          »      sasoe utt  OS lUlOl
s        es           ui*s *'tZ   a   eu I'stl      satOs                         so1 es  Ut        lar0megl    C s84149VO'                           S.GaIa o3 311131  MOI
*        55         5l* 181      SU  Sw        OU ~N          O        BS          A        0lm0 1i0l  9  1t  du  '5  U M  St    b   loti SloiOIAhlhU  Sma  'à
la       ce         8usC»us       4 SsWlu't l  olu8            ,       te Ug  se''1ts  5iil m  Il 0                   's 1811                        5315111loud  hl*1@-4m
I        -           sU 'N4                    6 S55-t                            o 0   ls lmI115.10 l                                          501 55 e8    S31 lU53dS 
S1       00W         *'#&'l usAi lmU S    -                   Bs       eon o lt1 '60ult    *55O1te                   -           '       1UUGIIVI U  SIIS9lWIAS l
53     u*s   '3
S$IG l58           t 50500-    NI8S't 861 1                   55       51 . . OfllU* 'sO' O*'Çetnl    0 88801                                           *hIUN:o"i I'°1-'.nS
,~~~~~~ ... ... _ ......... ............. . _............ ..... ........ ....... .......... .............. ................. ............ ............. .......
85*l     -          1 1t'ilut '8    -                         ss c'    -           un lA ,s         -                555188981 lg1 MOI &miIUO  ':
S        Wl         OWeL0S M      0* £8o45     -              t        eol        00*1WM5 1        OW.5l51s          -                        55U1301 V                  'tS 8
fS  «          W~~~U '44*    -OB1148       MOt           t9       ft         94'S'LU          Ot *st>$         OOO'M't1                           tiom     t  99101ff
_ __                lI _._5 I. _5 .86< _   _I _5    _ l    _                  _,   .0_   .___ .........   _ ,_ ..........                                            .. ._5  Mli   __.i.._
toi                                           s~~~~~~~~~Iulîas s'ola-s
8        oo1        0o* SAS       00018        -              8        001        eo805 WU"             *5o88" -0                                            5310511110  8
ot       OS1        qC88161           ZlSg'tt,    m t         ot       u          Ug'bg'ti  9 4Utt"'M'9              00VOISIS                         1     s!«|3     
<S      Ilft         moI tI8    0OI5S-I   ntewe               Ua       N          l8 LtLl 1U  OW58'P4 S              0tt'55561                                 I31110011 '
te   t               M W,    08611*t8    m' 1'CO le    tt               t          S'9'B lu    otl  ut      l 'tui    1                                      10113904MF  19
nolffl            #04                             lm"                                     1
oui~~~1 4*5*0 Sœ Uq                                                                                    *£ u gg
51013                                                         8 1101 a
misdo iiimca



- 92 -
ANNEX '-7
Page 5 jF 5
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIHARY EDUCATION DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
TABLE 4. FINANCIAL PLAN BY PROJECT COMPONENT
(Including Physical and Price Contingencies)
(In US$ Thousands)
0f Which
Total     IDA     Germany      Norway      Niger
A. Reduction des coûts unitaires
de fonctionnement
1. Restructuration du corps
enseignant                         3.0       3.0        -            -         -
2. Enseignement à double vacation
et à plusieurs niveaux             0.3       0.3        -            -         -
3. Publications pédagogiques          4.3       2.5        -           1.8        -
Total partiel                      7.6       5.8        -           1.8        -
B. Reduction des coÛts unitaires
en capital
1. Construction de 750 salles de
classe                             7.2       4.3       1.7           -        1.2
2. Renovation de 3000 salles de
classe                             2.9        -         -           2.9        -
3. Entretien                          0.2       0.2        -            _         -
Total partiel                     10.3       4.5       1.7          2.9       1.2
C. Capacité institutionnelle
1. Ressources humaines et
financières                        2.5       2.5        -            -         -
2. Planification                      3.8       3.7        -            -        0.1
3. Bureau du projet                   2.0       1.9        -            _        0.1
Total partiel                      8.3       8.1                              0.2
Total                             26.2      18.4       1.7          4.7       1.4
m     ccmuu       umm                     mm
WAPED
October 1986



- 93                                   3
ANNEX 3-8
_EPUBLIC OF IGER
PR1MARY EDUCATION DQEVLOPHENT PROJECI
SUMMiARY o FURNITURE
No. of     Unit Costs    Total Costs
Prolect Comvonent                      Type of Furniture            Units       (1F&  000)     (FCFA 0O0)
1. Reduction ta Recurrent Unit Costa
(a) Restructuring of the teaching    No furniture
force
(b> Double-shift and multi-grade     No furniture
(c) Textbock development,
procurement and distribution     Furaiture for IRIRUUP
Coplete set of office furniture  17 offices           556          9,457
Shelfing for library                                               1,186
Furniture library office             1 office         556            556
Furniture for lecture room                                           233
Video storage                                                      1,335
Conference and seminar room                                          816
Furniture vorkshop                                                 1.670
Total Furniture Component 1                                                                             15,244
2. Reduction in Capital Unit Costa
(a) Construction of 750
clasarooms                       Pupil deaks                            15,000        16.26        243,971
Teacher deaka                             750       26.22         19,665
Teacher chairs                            750        5.56          4 170
267,8C6
(b) Rehabilitation of 3,000          Pupil deska                            18,000       16.26         292,860
classrooms                       Teacher denka                             600        26.22         15,732
Teacher chairs                          1,800        5.56         10,008
Cupboards                                 330       83.43         27,532
Repair of pupil desks                   5,460        2.23         12,175
Repair of teacher desks                   270        4.00          1,080
Repair of cupboards                       390        1.02            398
359,647
(c) School maintenance system        No furniture
Total Furniture Component 2
627,453
3. Institutional Development
(a) Resource Management               (i) Inspectorates
Gmpiete set of office furniture       96         556         53,424
Purniture reception                  16          185          2,960
Set of shelfs                        16          964         15,4?4
Complete set of housing furniture    14          900         12 605
(i£) MENSR 2eso  DEP
Lump sum  for office furniture                               17,850
(b) Reinforcement of DEP              (i) Education   Planning
Lump sua for o ffce furniture                                 3,570
Cii) School Construction Unit
Lump sum for office furniture 1/                             14,994
(c) Project Coordination Unit             Lump sum for office furniture li                               9.179
Total Furniture CoWponent 3                                                                            130.006
Total Furniture                                                                                        772,703
-  -~~~~B
l/   Details are given in Working Paper No. 2.
WAPED
October 1986



RePOc OF UlGER
EEPELI 0F  moe
SUOMNA  OF EQMJPNBW
No. of          unit Cot         Total Coet
Project C-ooest                                Of §V!2mt                    Unit.           <P1A 000)         (CFl 000)
1. Reductioen  n Recurrent hlt 1ots
(a) Reetructurir of the teacbing        No equipant
force
(b) Double-slbft aid aulti-!rade        no equipuont
(c) Tetbook developsut,                  (I> D
proc_net and distribution                llip iiuYfiit                              2           4,565               9,130
Machine a ecrire                           2              810              1,620
Jeu de caracteres                          6              16                  96
Pleuse                                     1             8                   856
Titrewe                                    1             400                 400
Insolateur                                 1             570                 S70
Aesei>leuse                                1            3,420              3,420
Tenrelreleur                               1              760                740
Table a dessin                             1              40                  40
Cout of installing equtpymt                                                1.S8
(IL) rocur tt  iDrectorate of
FSIMMcIal Arratre -- DAY>
Procuremsut or textDooa ail        1,003,000            0.421            422,430
(lil) Dlstributiort )D I
Ve(ele (4X4>                              1            S,175              5,175
Lip as for equipsent ad
furaiture for bock steorp
rom                                                                     .19&46?
Total Ibulgent    ot 1                                                                                                465.53
2, lbeXtten ta C:pttal Vot Conte
(a) Ctic.t      of 7Ci                  Loup smo for tools, bnd presse                                                  2,803
cl ros                               Md supplles
(b) libubitati. of 2,400                no equipsut
(c) Sehool maintence syfl               Tool kit for scbool                          2,300            22.9             52&721
total !%Ol   rpomumt 2                                                                                                  S5,522
ai  Doeils of textbook procurmet are given La i4nex 3-3.



3. Institutional Developieut
(a) Resource Management                    Ci) In    orates
machiLe-à ecrire                            32              225                7,200
Duplicateur                                 16               315               5,040
Chimatiseur                                 96               225              21,600
Divers équipement                                                              2,000
Assortiment menusier                        14               80                1,120
Assortiment fer                             14               45                  630
Posters à souder et groupe                  il              690                7,590
Assortiment maçon                           14                76               1,067
Etais                                       11                38                 418
Presses à laterite                          38              135                5,130
Véhieule (eamion)                            8            6,900               55,200
Véhicule (4x4)                              16            5,17?               82.800
(il) MEÉRM  escet DEP                                                               975
micr*orrdite Our                             6            5,693               34,155
Ondulateur                                   6             1,344               8,065
Divers équipement                                                             17 250
(b) Reinforcement of DEP                   Ci) Educational Plannmin
micr0-ordtalteur                             2            5 693               U,38B
Ondulateur                                   2            1Y344                2,688
Photocopieur                                 2            1,898                   
(ii) Schoal Construction Unit                     2
ZUC»,ro-ornateur                             1             5,693               5,693
Ondulateur                                   1            1,344                1,344
Machine à calculer                           8                80                 640
Mbh$ne à écriere                             3              422                1,266
Machine à relier document                    1               270                 270
Photocopieur                                               1,898               1,898
Equipbment télépholique                                                        4,500
Divers équipement                                                              1*430
Véhicule (4i4)                               2            5,17$               10 350
.(c) Project Coordination Unit                 Micro-ordinateur                              1            5,693                5,693
Ondulateur                                   1             1,344               1,344
Machine à ecrire                             3              422                1J271
Photocopieur                                 1            1,898                2,898
Equipement téléphonique                     10              108                1,075
Machine à calculer                           4               80                  320
Vébicles (4x4)                               2             5,175              10 350
Total equiuaent Comonent 3                                                                                                   316,476
Total equipsent end vehicleo                                                                                                 837,529
October 1986
o 



-96 -                    ANMEX 3-10
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMMRY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF RECURRENT EXPENDITURES AND OF
GOST SAVINGS GENERATED BY THE PROJECT
1.        The table below provides rough estimates of (a) the incremental
Government recurrent expenditures and (b) the co0t savings generated by the
project. The assumptions behind the calculations are explained in the
notes tu the table. The estimates of incr_emntal expsnditures probably
reflect quite closely the likely effects of the project on the Government
racurtent budget. Rowever, the estîmates of cost savings are more
uncertain and are likely to underestimate considerably the beneficial
effects of the project since they do not include difficult quantifiable
e.fects such as the impact of improved institutional capabilities on the
cost-effectiveness of resource use, the impact of better trained teachers
and improved availability, relevance and quality of textbooks on internal
efficiency of primary education, and the effects of increased contribution
by local communities to school construction made possible by the
development of low-cost construction techniques based on locally available
materials.
2.        The estimates of cost savinge assume an annual enrollment growth
of 4%. This equals the projected growth in the school-age population over
the period considered and would imply maintaining the primary school
enrollment ratio at its 1984 level (25%). Compared to a situation where
the reduction in unit costs promoted through the project are not
introduced, the cost savinge generated by the project would be higher than
those shown belov if annual eurollment growth vere to exceed the assumed 4%
level.
3.        The estimates show that the savings resulting from the measures
included in the project are likely to exceed substantially the recurrent
expenditures ge.arated, especially when the project is fully developed.



_97 _                             AME 310
Page 2 of 2
Estitmtes of Annual Incremental Renwmt  Mnditures Md
Annual Cost Savingis Generated by the Project
(million FCFA)
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992    1993    1994
1. Increaental exmenditures
(a) Teachers for 750 new class-
roons 11                           33    120    210    324    440    537       582      596
(b) Upgradinig "moniteurs" of 420
"moniteurs-aux."                    4      12     19     23      24     25       26      26
(c> Textbooks 2/                          -                     -                      -  }00
(d) Maintenanci of 750 new class-
rooms 3/                            1       5      9     13      18     21       23      23
Sub-total                          38    137    238    360    482    583       631      745
2. Cost 8avinas
(a) Scholarships  i highier
education 4/                      100    178    253    325    394    394        394     394
(b) Chan8e in ricruitment
policy 5/                          14      30     48     68      90    115     143      174
(c) Double-sKift in three firat
grades of urban achools 6/         -       -       -       -      -    323     659      692
(d) Construction of lov-cost
schools 7/ Y                               - -     -          -       -      -          704
Sub-total                         114    208    301    393    484    832   1,1ff   1.964
Net Savings t/ (2) - (1)           76      71     63     33       z    249     565   1,219
1/   Based on:  (1) annual construction plan given ln Annex 3-4 (p. 8); (Il) one teacher per
clases and recruitment of 86% "instituteurs-adjoints" (IA) and 14% "instituteurs" (I);
(iii) annual starting salary of FCFA 975,000 for I and FCFA 690,000 for IA; and (iv) a
5% increase in salaries every two years as a consequence of automatlc promotion.
2I   Figure for 1994 estinated as difference between the annual cost of procuring the books
developed under the project and the expenditures on textbook procurement it  1984.
3/   Annual maintenance costs estimated at 2% of construction costs.
4/   Cumulative effect of reducing scholarship budget aamually by 3.7% during period
1987-1991.
5/  Assuaing a 4% annual enrollment grovth and constant pupil-teacher ratio.  The savings
result from limiting the recruitment of "instituteurs" to 14% of the total annual nev
recruitment instead of following a policy that vould lead to 20% of "instituteurs" in
the teaching force lin 1994 (saving 285,000 CFAF per new teacher recrutted as
"instituteur-adjoint" instead of as "instituteur".
6/  Computed under the assumption of 4% annual enrollment grovth and that no nev teachers
vould be needed in 1992 and 1993 due to double-ehift teaching. Teacher requtrements if
no double-shift teaching are given in Annes 2-6.
71   Assures that construction under the project does not replace Covernment construction
(i.e. no savings during project implementation), that enrollment greva at 4% annually
and that nev construction techniques developed under the project la used for all the 320
nev classrooms required in 1994 (savings per clasaroom eatimated at 2.2 million CFAF in
1984 prices>.
8/   Does not include savings duo. to factors such as Impact of iproved instttutional
capabilities on the cost-effec-iveness of resource use, and the impact of better trained
teachers and improved avsilability, relevance and quality of texthooks on internal
efficiency of primary education.
VAPED
October 1986



-98-                       M        3-11
Page l of 4
REPUELIC OF NIGER
PRIMAiT EDUCATION DEVEL        PROUECT
PR03ECT IAW ENHNT
1.        Background.  To smplify the institution-building effecte of the
project, lts various components vould be l"plemented by the concerned
Directorates of the Ministry of National Education, Righer Education and
Research (MENESR). Hovever, in view of the sete and complexity of the
project and consideriug that this ie the first IDA-financed project to be
implemented by this Ministry, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would be
etttablished and placed under the authority of tbe Ministry's Sec;etary
General.
2.        Functions. Table 1 shows the operational responsibillty for the
different project components. The PCU vould ensure overall coordination of
project activities and vould serve as liaison between the Goverument sud
IDA. More specificall", the PCU would:
(a)  assist ln the preparation of annual work program  and budgets for
each project component;
(b) supervise the preparation of bidding documents and handle the
procurement of goode and specialist services;
(c) prepare and maintain all project accounts, folloving generally
accepted accounting formats and procedures;
(d) prepare all necessary documentation for vithdraval of funds from
the local project account and for submission of withdrawal
applications to IDA;
(e) ensure the timely implementation of the specialist service snd
fellovship components of the project;
(f) arrange for annual audits of all project accounts by auditors
selected folloving IDA guidelines snd ensure that such acdits are
forwarded to IDA within six months after the end of each fiscal
year; snd
(g) maintaln a detailed record of all phaies of project
implementation, propare and submit to the Bank semi-annually
progrese reports ou the implementation of the project, and subait
a completion report no later than six months after the completion
of the project.



99 _                         MNEXu 31
Vag. 2 of 4
Table i - Siimary of Ouerational Resoonoibilltr by Proiect CocnenSt
Operational
ProJeot COmwonento              Responsibility *             Remarks
1. Reductioni t Unit Recurrent Conts
(a) Restructuring of the teachbig force   DEMD
(b) multi-grade snw double-sblft
teaching
(j) multi-grade teacibng              DEPD              lu cooperation vith DuP
(14) Double-shift *perinentation       DEPD              lu cooperation vitb DE?
(c) Textbocks
(t) development                       DIDRAP            la cooperation vith concerned
NENESR directorates
(ii) procurement                       INDRAPJDAF        In cooperation  tb PiPDm
(tii) distribution                      DAF               lu cooperation vitb
inspectorates
2. Reduction in Capital Unit Costs
(a) Construction of 750 classrooms        BIES/DEP          In cooperatiou vith DEPD and
inspectorates
(b) Rehabilitation of 3,000 classrooms    BIES/DEP          In cooperation with OEPD end
inspectorates
(c) Scbool maintenance system             BIESDE?P
3. Institutional Developmaent
(a) Resource management
(i) InspecForates                     DPM               In cooperation vitb DEP for
civil vorks
(ii) MENESR except DEP                 DEP               In cooperation vith concerned
MNESR directorates
(b) Reinforcamemt of DEP                  IIP
(c) Project Coordination Unit             PC?
*N5NESR - Ministry of National Education, Righer Education and Research
DEPD - Directorate of Pre-school and Pritary Education
INMRA? - National Institute f . Pedagogical Documentation, Research and
Pomotion
DAY   - Directorate of Financial Affaire
SIES - lureau of School Infrastructures and Equipment
DE?   - Directorate of 8ducational Planning aon  Programning
PCV   - Project Coordination Unit



-100-                    ANNEX 3-11
Page 3 of 4
3.        Staffin8.  The PCU would include the following staff:
(a)  Project Director
(b)  Project Management Specialist
(c)  Accountant
(d)- Support staff (secretary, typist, orderly end driver)
4.        Means.  The project would finance:  (a) rehabilitation of unused
former secondary achool dormitory to serve as offices for the pOCT;
(b) furniture, equipment and tvo vehicles; (c) six years of specialist
services for project management specialist, eight months for audit, and 2
months for consultant to assist in computerizing project accounts; (d) 30
months of scholarships abroad In the field of project management*
procurement and accounting, 30 months of local workshops related to project
implementation and 10 months of study tours; and (e) seven years of
operating costs covering salaries of local staff and other operating costs.
Table 2 gives details regarding annual operating coste and Table 3 provides
a summary of the support to the PCU. Annexes 3-8, 3-9, 3-13 and 3-14
provide further information on, respectively, furniture, equipment,
specialist services and training. Architectural drawings for the civil
werks element are provided in Working Paper No. 2.
Table 2 - Details of Annual 9perating Costa for Project Coordination Unit
I. Salaries of Local Staff 1/                                        FCFA
Director                                                        2,672,000
Accountant                                                      2,031,000
Secretary                                                         918,000
Typist                                                            785,000
Orderly                                                           531,000
Driver                                                            531,000
Total Local Salaries                                        7,468,000
2. Other Operating Costs
Stationary and supplies                                         1,500,000
Electricity                                                     2,000,000
Telephone                                                       1,000,000
Maiitenance (telephone, photocopier, air conditioning)          1,200,000
Vehicles (petrol, insurance, maintenance)                       2,967,000
Miscellaneous                                                   1,280,000
Total Other Operating Costs                                 9,947,000
Total Annual Operating Costa                               17,415,000
lf   Salary for Project Management Specialist not included.



REPUBLIC 0F NIGER
PRINARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PRO JECT
TABLE 3. SUPPORT TO PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
DETAILED COST TABLE
(FCFA '000)
le" 01  18  lm0         lut0 090   1192093  MA9 Iotal  UsA0t C*u0    lui7    f91    lm1    loft    lui    l1m    1992            94    0B
0.  COOsiR00Clcqst
I  R79178110  SOIlJ                                                                                               9119   12,7r48                                                   - 2.
Sé-loîuo tlmslmvcîoou                                                                 19,111   12~~~~ ~~ ~~ ~~                        ~       ~      ~    ~~~~......  ...  ---------  ---- -.... ....   ...
I. 0990*0>1                                                                            -   ~~~~~~       ~ ~~ ~~ ~~                        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.179  lis- -    97
S*-70040 6061(116                                                                       -    1~~~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....  ...-   - ----- - -----. ....
c. îquip      tgjNTRTIN u i
2. OUOhitAIEtiR Il 197117164  Unuts  I-I  1.2~~~~~~ ~                                       ~      ~~44 Ise  .    . 44  -                                       .844
3.08 001   E 101IR0              Imfite       I                       -                        4219.61        423       648                 -       -        --                   oM
4. C*tctClIICE                       unit.        2    24                                           80 649         toi      loi                 -       -        -       -       -      32
8. PWO1000PoEu9              <m~~~uite         Il-I                                          .87.            -    1,18         -                         -       -            101 
S  m-ot.1  0011009                                                                                                 1.660    1.14111.00
p. 10040C050.15 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~I                              11 S3        1.1
Soà-lotsl Vt91010163                                                                  8.078        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....  ...  - ---- ------  ---- ---- ---- -------
l.I oCinB(2ISis10Imqn10 
.  osuaîPC                   i      î       2-      -          -    -          -        2    4.31285      8,678                                                                   us  - - -  ,3
3.01                                 I0Eî                I     1          1    I          I            817        817       807    S.07 in     1      .05      .179   S.in138    us1  40.400
3. 00511019 72041       011î    ~~~~12   12   12   12   12   12    -              72        .490    41,400   41.400  41.400  41.400  4 1. eoe. 40.48                  -   M 40.0
SIè-70t.I SPECI&*lIS11                                                                                              88.200   40.8S"   48,57IS  40. Sn   40,SIS  46 .-78   S.17 in  11 S  216.428
E. MISlES
I. 01900185S                         00owi.              B    O   10    6    -           -     30         799          -    0.0n    4. 54   1. 90   4.8854         -                    2.770
2. 501019111S 005119 / SUAIS    00~vo0 ~  Io   10   le    -            -         30         306          - 3.1808   3,160 .3. les           -                               au - 0,*
2. VOVIGS 61080(roofs                               2          2    2    2    -                 0         759     1,1        .80 *t  1. §18   §.900   1.81 Ille-                          "O9
Si~~~~~-1ota0 701011109                                                                 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....  0......  ..,2.2  2......   .0... ----- ---- ---  --- -8.0
0. C0915l 10 91t.no 119 0U  115                                                                                                                                                               e
0.7090000911  *nnuit*     I    I    I    1    I    I    I    -        7      7~~~~~~~~~~,468  7.468    1,460  7, 488 7.49   7.46807.4601.4080.1
2. 08*710  V010COieuts                ous         2     2    2    2     2    2     2          14  1.403.635      3. 97    2.961   2.907   2.96?   2.918   2.91    2.00           -    0.ni00
'.Et11                           Ani.           0    O    I                                        6o9u       0.8M     6.9"O80  6900   6.9000 a,»O I "O91    6.& "O                   no
S*Itîcofs 8001709990S                                                                                         07,409   01.408  11,418  1 .418 1.418  17.418s 740 -                 1214m.... ........
Total 07S79097O COSYS                                                                                                 $00.0.7  to8.091  ?13.92 101         18 i. fil a. m      0    98 1. in41   198.49 (a
7.0.0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... u .«.. .***.....a.un...  ... ...*.......0
000?100.0     06   M    3.222I 28.8     1.9237   3.9M    21.8 M    .11%  893,100
. ....91n  ..    ...     .       ,.... * t...... X. s:.*...    .
WAPED
October 1986



.-  .      -          -          .-
'I .U $  I         .,             , I. @*              . e
.~~~~ _n _Uh ''             mSE 
I. _ II
if~   ~    S f4 a,P  d~a
Zs-    4 .   -~           t0-



1LUftuTmION SCEED3LE
Y87            FM8          Fns9          ns o91                       Y9 2         F 93          VY94           1
O,Oew                                JASOUD3W       JASOWMW   JASOUJWN<  JASDJW   JASOND,JFW     JASONIDIFWIU  JASOJPAê  .SONDJFIW   3 IJAUIwC_
3.  5ST1tUTXoeifl QIEUt
(e)   _mo Remaco u aree    . it  St
(t)  loepctorat*   f
_ Ct,1i Worba                                XXII         =              =~tI       =      lZ X   lXXSX
-  Equipuet                                  XXII  =X        =             I
-  Puzrtre                                   m         _      _          =            IIV
- Loal fr.t"u                                         xS
<It) KUSI «emcpt for 1*?
_  EquSuat                                                  mm
- LocalT tt.llXS
- Pellowahipo Abroed                    mm       =   =
- Spectalte Sewtvce  (fore)                         m    Xx XX     XX
- Suppite  for PC                            XXXI  IXUVM= =xxx Xom    ..                                                  = =   ..
(b) gtcattol Plaute$ <O) 61
(t)  De  cept for UES
- luxttute 
-  Eqoutpuso
- Specictst Servtcee (foreia)                                            .. .  ...a                             m X     x.
- Spectaltat Servtcea 'local>                                             UXXD        =             =
- Locl Tratwi                                                      X                           X
-  pellowabtpe Abroed                                                                 -             -
'- Supplie PC                                                mmIXD =XIXX =X  -                              =   =   ...
<tt) SlES
- Ctlti Norte
- PututtOgO
-  Equtp.t 
- Vtele                                                                   S
-  Specta*tet Services Cerchit&ct)           xx           1                                    =                            ....
- Operattun Coete                            wtmw         =             =             =                                               . _..
<e) Projece Cerdfaittoo unit
-  Ctl  te
-  Wumottuge                                                      x
-  Eqtpu. .
- Vebict.                                                                                  X
-  Spectmlitt Services (foreitot)                   X          =             =             =             =             =             _             XIX
- Oparatto Costa                             F                   1                                               
m, rOTE 4etatls ou timeltaton ucb.6l. *re &TveuV   toa smx 3-5.
0/  Nlre dteails on tupleston achele are given in Annex 34 .
Octobor 1996



R4PUELIC o1 NIGER
PRD<URT BOECATION DBVELOP1WIT PROlJCT
SWIUEY Or LOCAL à"D FOREIGU SPBCIALIST SEIVICES
NBgUl OF LOCAL OR    TOTAL          Staffin                                                     BASE COST
PIOC T CouT                             SPTCIALIST SOtVICES            PRSsOS   FOREIG7 s IIIOi S   nON    TO                         JOB DESCQIPTION                        'Oui
1 8 eduction of ofcurrent
unit Costa
1.1 Beatrcturig of the            1. TTainerO sad apecialiatr on tccher           10     Local          4.3    6/87    8187   Prepretton, muaagewent and  te ftfsg ef            1.519
Pri.ry Teacbhtg Force             tratoing (IUinistry of Mutatton mad                                                      »orkshop on teacher training for the OU
-  *taff).                                                                              staff.
2. Trainera and specialists on pr*aary          10     Local          2.6   7/87    9/87   Preparation. manaemt sud staffin4 of                  970
teachers, ochool inspection.                                                            vorkshop On achool snd tescher mnasembt
manmeat and control (Miniatry of                                                        for the inapectorate.
Education and EN ctaff).
3. Teacher traînere (EI staff).                  5     Local          7.4    8/87    9/88   Preparation enly of the upgrading in-                900
service couraec for loniteure Auxtlitire.
4. Te4cher traînera (EN staff).                  5     Loal           8.2    8/87    9/91   Preparation 2!U  for the refrosher tn-             1,000
service courses for servins primary
teachera.
S. Trainerc and specialiats tu achool            8     Local        126.6    7/87    8191   PreparaCton. manaement., Staffiag and             45,199 
mageent <Ninistry of Mutation.                                                          revicson of the manual in-ervtce traeSingi
Inspectorate and School directorc                                                       progra  for primry achool directore.
itif fi.
6. Teacher traSnera (EN staff).                 lO     Local          5.1    7/88    8/89   Preperation and etaffirg of vorkahop on            1.779
teacher training for EN staff.
7. National   1k Forts for the revidion          4     Local           24    1/88   12/89   Revieion of pro- and in-eervice teacher              480
of the teucher training curriculum.                                                     training aystea asd curriculum.
8. Tesaher training gpecialiets.                 1    Foreign           4    6/88   12t89   Reviston of the pre-eervice teacher               17,250
traininS curriculum for aIl primary teecher
training courses.
1.2 Double-Shift and M2lti-       9. National Tak Force for double-ahift           4     Local           48    1/87   12/90   lansement. control sud evaluation of                 960
Grade Teachine Teehniques         achooling.                                                                               double-ehift achoolipa experiment.
10. Currieulum expert/adeisor.                    I    Foreipi           4    1I88   12/68   Adaptation of curriculum to double-ouhft          17,250
*nd nulti-grade ecboling.
Il  Bvalu.tion/ieaearch expert.                   I     Foreign          5    1187   12190   Design of expar4oeute sud onitoring of            21,563
result of double-shift achooling.
42. Organiration/Timetabling expert.              1     Foreign          4    1/87   12/89   Preparation of che expertmntal                    17,250
implemeutation of double-ahift schoolins.
13. Double-ahift experiental achool              40     Local          576    1188   12/90   Teaching in the expertiental double-thift         11,520        O
teachere                                                                                eleesee                                                          w



NUMBER OF  LOCAL OR    TOTAL          Staffing                                                       BASE COST
PROJECT COMPONENT                         SPECLALIST SERVICES              PERSONS   FOREIGN   MANMONTSiS  FROM    TO                        1CR DESCRIPTION                   (PCFA '0003
1.3 Provision of Primary          14.  National Textbook Committee.                    8      Local         11.8    l/87   12/92   Coordination and control of the approval of            1,440
Textbooka and                                                                                                                    textbooks and toachars' guides spproved for
Teachera' Guides                                                                                                                 use.
15. Textbook writers.                               30     Local          948    1/87    9/92   Writing of apeciflc primary achool textbooka    18.960
and teachers' guides.
16.  Publishlng management consultant.               I     Foreign       18.0    1/87   12/92   Managenent and control of the textbookJ               85,996
publishing component. Contract
preparation. analysis of bide. Supervision
of all apeciali»t services needed in the
puiblishingftexttook component.
17. Writers advisor/tralners.                        '     Foreign        2.6    1/87   12/88   Training and advice to the textbook vritera           11,213
engaged by the Government.
18.  Editorial adevisors/trainers.                   2     Foreign         18    1/87   12/91   Training and advtce to the National                   77.625
Publiahing Unit. (One expert in
publihing/editIng, other in edtting.)
19.  Evaluation consultant.                          1     Foreign          6    1/88   12/90   Advice to the 1NDRAP evaluation unit and              25,.7s
the design of the evaluation of the
textbook component.
20. PFocurement expert.                              1     Foreign           2    187   12188   Advice on improved procurelsant procedures            8,625          _
for all textbooka, teachers' guidee and
related materiala.
2.  Reduction of Capital                Nono.
Unit Coste
3.  Inatitutional Development
3.1 Human and Financial             1.  ComputIng expert (short-term).                  1     Foreign         12    6/87   2/89    Systeme ana1.e. an4 desigsn of data                   51,150
Resoutce Managemert                                                                                                              processaing for personnel and financial
%anagement. Assiatance In installins
micro-computers and on-the-job training in
thair use.
2.  Personnel management expert                     1     Foreign          12    6/87   12188   Revision and computerization of MENESR
(short-tere).                                                                                personnel management.
3.  Pinancial and budgeting expert                  I     Foreign          12    6/87   12/88   Revision and computeritatlon of MNPESR
(short-term).                                                                                financial and budgeting procedures.
3.2 Educational Programming        4.  Educational planner.                             1     Foreign         42    6/87   12/90   Ceneral educational planning and                     144,900
and Planning                                                                                                                     management.  AsSiSt in organtiation and
teaching at training courses.  Conduct
studies on coat-effective resource use.
Psovide on-the-job training in educational                    'I
planning. research and etatisttes.
5.  Consultants (short-tarm)                        3     Foreign          19    6/87   12/91   Short-tere consultant resources to sasist            81,938
- Statistics and data processing                                                             In specific atudies and organiration and
- School mappfng                                                                             in the teaching of specific tratning
- Economics of educatton                                                                     courses.



NUMBCR OF  LOCAL OR    TOTAL          Staffing                                                       BASE COST
PROJECT CONPONENT                         SPECIALIST SERVICES             PERSONS   FOREIGN   M1AMONTHS   FRO)t   TO                        JOB DESCRXPSION1                  (PFCA   ?M)
6,  Project preparation spectalist.                 I     Foreign          18    1/89   12/90   Unapecified services as needed ta prepars a          77,625
future educatiotal project.
7.  National Tank Force for the                    4      Local           36    1/89   12191   Aa above.                                              7,200
prepatbtion of a following project.
8.  Project architect.                              I     Foreign         72    1187   12/92   Technical advisor on school construction.            248.400
3.3 Project Management Unit        9.  Accounting consultant (vith micro-              I      Foreign          2    1/87   12/87   Design and setting-up of the project                   8,625
computer experience).                                                                        accounting system on a micro-computer.
10.  Auditor.                                        1     Foreign          8    1/87   12/94   Annuel independent audit of project                   41,400
accounta.
Il.  Management and accounting.                      1     Foreign         60    1/87   12/93   Advisor to the Project Director.  reaes of           248,4D0
responsibility include preparation of work
programs and annuel budgets, handle
procurement of good4a nd specialiat
services, proeess vithdrawal applications
and maintain project accounts. Iucuutbent
need eçperience vith Management of
Bank-financed projecte.
Summary of
Specialiat Services             Man Months            % of Total               _
Foreign                       333                    16%                 Total base cost speci4list services              1.381,112
Local                       1.798                    84%
Total                       2,131                   1002
WAPED
October 1986



Annex 3-14/SENIV
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FIîMARY £DUCA1TON DEvFLOPMFNT PROJECT
SIT9MMRY OF LOCAL AND FOREIGN TRAININC
NUM?ER OF  LOCAL OR   TOTAL        Timing                                                                          BASE COST
PROJECT COMPONENT                    FIELD OF 5TIIDY           PERSONS   FOREIGN  MANTHIS  FROM   TO              BASIC QUALIFICATIONS          SUMMARY OF RESYONSIBILITIES  (FCFA '000)
1.   Reduction of Recurrent
Unit Coste
1.1  Restructuring of           1. Workshop on teacher trainîng          125     Local        49.3   7/87   8/87  Advanced degree in edutation   Teacher training staff of               12,495
Primary Teaching                                                                                              and experience in teachins        ENs
Force
2. Workshop on teacher and              110     Local         25.3   8187   9/87  Advanced degree in education   Pedagogictal staff of primary            7,153
school moanagenent                                                              and experience In education    inspectorates
managelment
3. Ceneral teaching methods             420     Local    2,761.6   9/87   6/90  Moniteur Auxiliaire                  Primary school teaching            158.760
(Upgr !'ng)                                                                     (untrained primary teacher)    staff
4. General teaching methods           1,800     Local    5,917.8   9/87   6/92  Moniteur, Inst. Adj. or Inst.  Primary schoul teaehing                  356.400
(In-service training)                                                           (trained primary teacher)        staff
5. School management and              1,250     Local        780.8   8/87   8/91  School Director (trained           School directors                   186,200
admSnistration                                                                  primary teacher with
management experience)
6. General tesching methode and         125      Local        49.3   8/88   8/89  Advanced degree in education   Teacher traIaing staff of               14,505
revision of teacher training                                                    and experience in teaching        ENIS
techniques
1.2  Double Shift and           7. Techniques for double shift           40      Local        27.6   8/88   8/90  Quelified and experienced          Double-shift experimental            6,132
multigrade teaching           teaching in urban priatry                                                        prImary teachers. selected       primary teachers
techniques                    achoolt                                                                         for double shif t experiment
1.3  Provision of Pr.mary       8. Curriculum development for            25      Local        20.5   8/87   8/91  Advanced degree in education   Staff et INDOPA                          5,812
textbooks and                 primary achools                                                                 vith teaching and curriculum
teachets guides                                                                                               experience
9. Author training                       30     Local         39.4   2187   4/88  Advanced education degree,         Contractual staff (SNDRAP)           9,480
teaching and extensive
vriting experience
10. Editing/Publishing Director            I     Foreign         12   4/87  12/88  Advanced degree in education   Staff of INDRAP                          9.108
and expertence in publishins
Il. Editor of texts                        3     Foreign         27   4/87  12/88  Advanced degree in education   Staff of INDRAP                         20,493    n 
and writing/edlttng                                                               x
experience
12. Layout Artist                          1     Foreign         12   4/87  12/88  Coisercial artist vith             Staff of INDRAr                     9.108    w 
publishin$ experlence
13. Evaluation and quantitative            2     Foreign         18   9/87   7/88  Advanced degree in educatien   Staf of ofINDIAP
educattonal research methoda                                                    wtth rosearch experience and
ttaciting experience



Annex 3-14/SENIV
NtMBER OF  ' OCAL OR   TOTAL       Timlnx                                                                         BASE COST
PROJECT COtPONENT                    FIELD OF STUDY            PERSONS   FOREIGN  MANMONT?S  FROM   TO            PASIC QUALIFICATIONS          SVMMARY OF RESPONSIBILITIES  <PCFA '000)
1.3 (Continued)                14  Procurement                            2      Foreign        10   6/87  12/87  Sound general education and    1) INDRAP and 1) DFA                     7.590
administrative experienco
15. Workshop forman                        I     Foreign         10   9/87   6/88  Experience in printing            Staff of INDRAP                      7,590
vorkshops
16. Warehouse management                   I     Foreign          6   2/87   9/88  Sound technical educatlon          Staff of DFA                        4 554
and long administrative
experience
2.   Reduction of CaPital
Unit Costa
2.1  Low-cost construction    1. Mason# and building                     154     Local         308   4/87   6/87  Basic education snd craft          Co=nma ty scht.hl z-nstruction    13.762
program                       technicians                                                                     training or experience            uslng local %aterials
3.   Institutional Development
3.1 Human and Financial         1. Training of inspectorate              90      Local          10   7/88   8/89  Inapectors and qualified           Personnel and resouree               9,240
Resource Mai, oment           staff in educational                                                            administrative staff from         management of education st
administration and                                                              inspectoratea                    the Inspectorate level
management
2. Operation and use of                   2     Foreign         20   9/87   6/89  Degree in mathematics or           Data processing resource            15,180           _
micro-computers                                                                 computer science with             advisors for the Ninistry of                         O
administrative experiente        Edueation
3. Personnel management and               2     Foreign         20   9/87   6/91  Degree in public                   Personnel zmaagement for the        15,180
administration                                                                  administration or personnel    Ministry of Education
management and vide
administrative experience
4. Budget preparation and                 2     Foreign         20   9/87   6/91  Degres in accounting. vide         Budget preparation and              15,180
financial management                                                            experience in administation    finenciel aralysis snd
and budget preparation           expenditure control
5. Use and operation of                  15     Local           21   1/87  12/87  Middle-level and senior            Ceneral administration and           5.775
micro-computers                                                                 clerical and administrative    support staff
stsf f
3.2  Educational Programiming  1. Educational Planning (two)               4     Foreign        40   9/88   6/91 Degres in economice of              Ninistry of Education               30 3 Q
snd Planning                                                                                                   education                        planning staff
Ed. Statiatics and data                                                         Degree in mathematics/           Ministry of Education
processing (one)                                                                          stattstics               plsnning staff Ministry of
School Mapping (one)                                                            Degree in Edutation              Education planning staff
Planning/Administration            Collect4on. analysis and
preparation of annual
2. Collection and analysis               70     Local           46   1/88  12/91  Inspectorate and ceontrcl          educationai stetistist              14,536
o! educational statistica                                                       ministry planning/statietics
staff                            Preparation of firet local
level achool m»ps
3. School mapping                        35     Local           23   1/89  12/91  Inspectorate level planning                                             7.268
stOff
o'



Anncx 3-14/SENIV
NtIlWER 0F  1 OCAI. OR   TOTAl.      Timing                                                                            BASE cosr
_ PROECT C0MPOMENFT                   FIELD OF STUDY             PERSONS  FORF.IGN  MAKMONTHIS  FROM¶   TO            BASIC QUALIFICATIONS           SbU*IAY OF RESPONSIBI1lTIES  (FCFA '000)
4.  Use .,f low-cOft constituttoi           1O     Foreign         40   9/87  6/90   Baccalaureate with minimum 2   hi,ildlng technicans involved              W0.160
techn1lqts                                                                         years experience in con-           in thp school constructVon
structlon                         program
5.  Semtnars on low-cost con-             404      Local          212   1/87  6/92   Practical experience in              Local staff lnvolved  fa low-         9,480
struction                                                                          school construction                cost school construction
-      Foreign         10   6/87  6/92   Staff involved in con-                                                     7,590
6.  Scldy tours                                                                        structton
3.3  Project Management         l.  Proj6et mpnagrnent                        I     Foreign          3   9/87  12/87  Project Dirpetor                                                           2,277
Unit
2.  Procurersent                             1     Foreign          3   9/87  12/87  Trainivt  and experience  .i:        Project procurement                   2,277
procurement                       specialist
3.  Prol-et Accolunting                      2     Forejgn         12   9/87  6/90   Degree ln accounting or              Project accountiag                    9,108
related subjecta. Extensive
practice experience
4.  Uospecified acholarahips                 -     Foreign         12   9/87  6/92   Training of PCU staff as                                                   9,108
required
5.  Workshops on project                           Local           30   1/87  12193  Staff involved in proJect                                                  9,486
nsnagement implementation                                                          ImplemeDtation
6.  Srudy tours                             -      Foreign         10   1/87  12/93  Staff involved in project                                                  7,590
impleaentation
Total Training                                              1,042,794
Sumiary of Trabning              Mau Months             S of Total
Forelgn                        315                      3%
Local                       10,292                     972
Total                       10,607                    1002
WAPED
October 1986
,s :
e ai
o ,



REPUULIC OP NIGERIREPU8LIQUE DU NIGER
PRIIURY EDUCATION DEVELOPWEN? PROJECT/PROJET DE DEVELOPPENI DE L'ENSEIlNElIT PR&ITRE
DIlSUTtSElNEN  PROFILEIPROFIL DES DEBOUltSEHilTS
Die bursetnents /D4éboursemeflets
_____________________________                       ~~~~~Prof ile/Prof  lile
und                         BI Quartert/       Cumulativel
Anales budgltaires         Par trimestre       Cumu3stif                  Project/Projet        Regiona1 Sector/Sectent I 1'6chelle r!gionale
et trimestres               (US$ Million)       (UsS Killion)                    2)                                     (..
1987   3   (31-Mar-87)           0.4                0.4
4   (30-Jun-87)          0.1                0.5                          3                                      0
1988   1   (30-Sep-87)           0.1                0.6
2   (31-Dec-87)          0.1                0.7                          4                                      5          'n
3   (31-Mar-88)          0.2                0.9
4   (30-Jun-88)          0.2                1.1                          6                  1a
1989   1   (30-Sep-88)           0.2                1.3
2   (31-Dec-88)          0.3                1.6                          9                                     17                       ......
3   (31-Nsr-89)          0.3                1.9                                           *-. , /
4   (30-Jun-89)          0.4                2.3                         13                                     24                         . " ;...î,
1990   1   (30-Sep-89)           0.4                2.7                                                                                                              ,
2  .(31-Dec-89)          0.4                3.1                         17                                     33
3   (31-l4ar-90)         0.4                3.5                                                                             _
4   (30-J3.n-90)         0.5                4.0                         22                                     42       j                               r
1991   1   (30-Sep-90>           0.5                4.5                                                                                                                                         C>
2   (31-Oec-90)          0.5                5.0                         27                                     52                                                /
3   (31-nsr-91)          0.5                5.5
4   (30-Jun-91)          0.5                6.0                         33                                     61          *.
1992   1   (30-Sep-91)           0.6                6.6                                                                                                                  Ài/b,À,4t fctgtj/
2   (31-Dec-91)          0.6                7.3                         40                                     70                            ,4f.
3   (31-Har-92)          0.8                e.1
4   (30-Jun-92)          0.9                8.9                         48                                     77
1993   1   (30-Sep-92)           1.0                9.9
2   (31-Dec-92)          1.2               11.1                         60                                     84
3   (31-lar-93)          1.4               12.5
4   (30-Jun-93)          1.5               14.0                         76                                     89
1994   1   (30-Dep-93)           1.2               15.2                                             ~î                                                   i    ~i      r ~ ~ vs ,,
2   (31-Der -93)         1.1               16.3                         89                                     94                                           b.t.r.
3   (31-Nsr-94)          O.t               17.0
4   (30-Jun-941          0.6               17.6                         96                                     98              AsBBuPog loan effectiveness during the third
1995   1   (30-Dep-"4)           0.5               18.1                                                                                quarétner ou ofY87 Avec l'hvpothese que le.
2   (31-Dec-94)          0.3               t6.4                        100                                    100              troisiet;e trioestre de l'année budWgaire 87.               X
I     rAPE 9
October t986                                                                                                                                                                                     |1



- 111 -                          ANNEX 3-16
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION
The Government's financial contribution to the project is
estImated at 469,262,000 FCFA, equivalent to US$1.4 million or 5% of total
project costs. The (.overnment's contribution would be used for the
procurement of loc.l materials for the echool construction program and to
cover 10% of the recurrent costs incurred mainly by the institution-
building component. The table below shows the breakdown of the
Government's contribution by expenditure category and calendar year.
Government Contribution by Expenditure Category and Calendar Year
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991   1992    1993   Total
Laterite              14,580  38,880  38,880  48,600  48,600 38,880  14,580 243,000
Sand                   2,430   6,480   6,480   8,100   8,100  6,480   2,430  40,500
Operating Costs        5,425   6,026   6,287   5.997   6,204  5.801   4,952  40,693
Total Base Cost       22,435  51,386  51,647  62,697  62,904 51,161  21,962 324,193
Physical Contingencies  2,244   5,139   5,165   6,270   6,290  5,116   2,196  32,419
Price Contingencies    2,486   9,578  13,857  22,427  27,193 25,048  12,061 112,650
Total Including
Contingencies        27,165  66,103  70,669  91,394  96,387 81,325  36,219 469,262
WAPED
October 1986



-112 -                        ANNEX 4
Page } of 2
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF THE PROJECT
1.        In addition to increasing the access to primary education by
about 13% as compared ta 1985 enrollments, most primary school pupils would
benefit from the project through better trained teachers, improved
availability, relevance and quality of textbooks and improved school
buildings. The project provides a technical package to improve quality and
relevance of primary education, make primary school more cost effective and
strengthen institutional capacity to plan and develop the entire education
system. Not all the benefits of the project are amenable to
quantification.
2.        Cost-benefit analysis has been carried out on simplified
assumptiens to assess the effect of the components aimed at reducing
recurrent and capital costs and improving quality of primary education.
These components -- teacher training, development, production and
distribution of teaching aids, construction and rehabilitation of primary
schools -- account for about two-thirds of the total project costs. For
the purpose of the analysis, benefits have been estimated by quantifying
users' savings arising from the projects expected positive effect on the
repetition rates through an improved learning environment. No specific
etudy has been carried out of users' savings from an improved learning
environnent in Niger.  However, research on other African countries show
that the provision of improved physical facilities, teaching aids and
teacher training have a positive impact on retention rates, i.e. reduce
repetition and dropout rates.
3.        Users' savings have been estimated on the conservative assumption
that the technical package provided under the project woi,ld result in a 15%
reduction in repetition rates -- from 14% to 12%. The costs for each
repeater "saved" to the economy have been computed adding the private
opportunity cost of attending school to the public expenditures on his/her
education. On the assumption that (a) the economic life of the project
would extend over 20 years, and (b) the textbook supply is replenished
every four years, a comparison between costs and benefits yields a return
of about 8%. If to the estimated savings resulting from lower repetitions,
prudeit estimates are added to take account of the cost effectiveness
improvements resulting from multi-grade teaching, double-shift teaching and
a gradual restructuring of the teaching force (5% of public recurrent unit
expenditures on the e~ach direct beneficiary), the comparison of costs and
benefits on the components above yields a 13% return.
4.        These estimates are to be considered minimum returns as no
allowaace ls made for improved productivity, easier and better acquisition
oa adaptive agrieultural research and new farming practices and lover
fertility. They are consistent with comparatively high rt.turns to primary
education highlighted in Annex 2-4 as well as with the University of Dijon



- 113 -                   ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
study. According to this study, on the basis of earning differentials in
wage employment, in Niger primary education produces social returns between
15% (on the assumption of 18 school year equivalent to complete the primary
cycle) and 30% (on the basis of six years to complete the cycle) while
lower secondary, upper secondary and higher education have social returns
respectively of 6X, 13% and 6%.
WAPED
March 1986



3'                             2'                             4Ir Gueza/o~~
N I G E R 
.sJ                                                ~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~i  k                     
Poved Roods (Il or 2 lanes-
PQved Roads under Construçtton `
Engineered  Gravel Roods
Simple Earth Roods                                                    -
Maîntoined Ttacks
.... Simple Tracks
Rîvers                                                                          Ii Gol             l
±    Aîrports
D Oeportmeni Capitals
Deportment Boundories                                                       Nouaga 
!   Internotionol Boundories                 .                Tchoe-hbaoade'     N
jc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j
t * _t; 2                          .          2         ~~~~~~~~~ ~~TAHOUA2j 
r                                                              , ; , - \, - - - -- ~~~~--- -- -   - --
bZO  --.   t            faet                                                   Dobr-ou       vaoal\M
Kaô   I~~~~~M
ToichO                          Nk'                      I
$s_,       /\;>«Y,  1              Dogeaondut,chi 
N_ Toroo    5g          m(                                                     M ARADI
\f     - 1             \      D ("
\   f S~~ \,;.    XSabonf 
0.  2.                     4 , oG mba
'                   *          2-Y4§v                                                          1 



T                                                                                                             IBRD 16779R
10~~~~~~~~~~~, ,, ,, .f       
,S'                            f~~~~--                                                          I      cn
-e  -                     -»  R                                                              J 4
- -
",                                                               /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
Xrbl55snot _fn ut
\ao~  t                                                                                      6i J
lé t                                           Ngutgm       -
ure                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14'
*fE > ;~                                                                                1    - * ' ~ ' :                              16
Mt tomeléD                                                                     >q                               ALGE RIA
5Of*9Ut9OS~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ "a /-  .                                      t"-
et Znggimon 
MALi                 NIGER
KILOMEETERS
0       50       100     IS0      200      250                                                  -      CHAD
MAILES                                 12§ I5o 12
't-      .-*-.' t'.       t/sætv_:o .Z a                        .NIGERIA
4vJlt «   OrO J.Ognt tS SO  b4   -  -` *        '            ' CE :t a 
.'t t~'t-t .ttt .t,tttvtt e,tv.~. t'  yvo~'t          i-     ~       CE1NTRAL
~~~- t-'~~~~~~~~~~~"                                      -            (   ~~~~~~~~~AFRICA
CAME RON1 RP
10'       12                                     -                    ,eCMEOO(Rg.EQ.GuINEAi  `,  k r ? 8
MARCH 1986



