Document cf
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAl flyo1Ut4
Report No. P-4401-NIR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
oF SDR 15.3 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 28, 1986
This document has a restricted distribuUon and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. lis contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0 - CFAF 345
CFAF 1 million - US$2,899
MEASURES
l m    -  1.09 yd.
1 M2   -  10.76 sq. ft.
1 km2 - 0.38 sq. mi.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO     -    Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BIES      -    Bureau of School Infrastructure and Equipment (Bureau des
Infrastructures et de l'Equipement Scolaires)
DAF       -    Directorate of Financial Affairs (Direction des Affaires
Financières)
DEP       -    Directorate of Planning and Programming (Direction des
Etudes et de la Programmation)
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
INDRAP    -    National Institute for Pedagogical Documentation, Research
and Promotion (Institut National de documentation, de
recherche et d'animation pédagogiques)
KfW       -    Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
LCB       -    Local Competitive Bidding
MENESR    -    Ministry of National Education, Higher Education and
Research (Ministère de l'Education nationale, de
l'enseignement supérieur et de la recherche)
PCU       -    Project Coordination Unit
FISCAL YEAR                    SCHOOL YEAR
October 1 - September 30            October - June



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrover:           Republic of Niger
Beneficiary:        Ministry of National Education, Higher Education and
Research (MENESR)
IDA Credit
Amount:              SDR 15.3 million (US$18.4 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard
Project
Description:         The project supports the strategy formulated by the
Government, vithin the framework of its structural
adjustment program, teo develop primary education
through more efficient and effective utilization of
education resources by:
1.   Reduction in Unit Recurrent Costs and Improvenients
in Quality and Relevance of Primary Education by:
(a)  limiting the recruitment of "instituteurs"
and thereby the growth in average teachers'
salaries through (i) provision of in-service
training to improve the qualifications of
existing teachers, and (ii) improvement of
the quality of pre-service training of
"instituteurs-adjoints";
(b) promoting a more efficient use of existing
teachers by extending the use of multi-grade
teaching in rural areas and introducing the
use of double-shift teaching in urban areas;
and
(c) improving the efficiency of the learning
process by a strengthening of the national
capacity to develop and adapt low-cost text-
books and teacher guides, and to procure and
distribute them.
2.   Reduction ln Unit Capital Costs and Improvement in
Access to Primnary Education by:
(a) developing designs and construction tech-
niques for low-cost primary school buildings
and constructing 750 classrooms using these
designs and techniques;
This document bas a restricled distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. lts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(b) rehabilitating 3,000 existing classrooms; and
(c)  promoting the development of a commnity-
based school maintenance system.
3.   Promotion of More Cost-Effective Use of Education
Resources by:
(a) strengthening the Ministry of Education's
(MENESR) capacity to manage and control use
of human, physical and financial resources at
central and local levels;
(b) reinforcing the planning and monitoring caps-
bilities of the Directorate of Planning and
Programming (DEP) vithin the MENESR; and
(c) establishing a capacity within MENESR to
prepare and implement education projecta.



- iii -
Summary of Project Cost Estimate
(net of taxes and duties)
Local   Foreign   Total
(US$ iaillon)
1.  Reduction of Unit Recurrent Costs and Quality
Improvement
(a)  Teacher training                               2.3       0.1      2.3
(b)  Multi-grade aud double-shift teaching          0.1        0.2     0.2
(c) Textbook developîment, adaptation,
production                                     0.6        2.6     3.2
Sub-total                                3.0        2.8      5.7
2.  Reduction of Unit Capital Costs and
Improvement in Access
(a)  Construction of 750 classrooms                 3.1        1.8     4.9
(b)  Rehabilitation of 3,000 classrooms             0.8        1.3     2.1
(c)  Establishment of maintenance prograim          0.0       0.1      0.2
Sub-total                                3.9        3.2      7.1
3.  Promotion of More Cost-Effective Use of
Education Resources
(a)  Strengthening of Rescurce Management           0.3        1.7     2.0
(b)  Reinforcement of Planning                      0.6       2.3      2.9
(c)  Establishment of Implementation Capacity    0.3           1.3     1.5
Sub-total                                1.2        5.2     6.4
Total Base Costs                                        8.0       11.2    19.2
Physical Contingencies                                  0.5        0.6      1.1
Price Contingencies                                     2.6        3.3      5.9
Sub-total                                3.1        3.9      7.0
Total Project Costs                                    11.1       15.1    26.2
====   ====    ====
Financing Plan:
IDA                                                7.5       10.9    18.4
Norway                                             1.1        3.6     4.7
Federal Republic of Germany (through KfW)          1.1        0.6     1.7
Government                                         1.4         -      1.4
Total                                             11.1       15.1    26.2
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.



- iv -
Estimated Diabursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   ]993   1994   1995
------------------       US$ million                 - ----
Annual          0.5    0.6    1.2    1.7    2.0    2.9    5.1    3.6    0.8
Cumulative      0.5    1.1    2.3    4.0    6.0    8.9   14.0   17.6   L8.4
Economic Rate of
Return:            Not applicable.
Project Benefits
and Risks:         The project would lncrease primary school enrollments by
about 34,000 pupils (an incremental annual growth of
about 2% between 1987 and 1992), and improve quality of
education for most primary students through provision of
better trained teachers, improved availability, relevance
and quality of textbookls and improved school buildings.
The project would also promote more cost-effective use of
education resources, increased participation by local
communities in primary achool construction and main-
tenance, and development of policy formulation and insti-
tution building as a base for longer-term sectoral
development. Together, these measures would arrest the
decline in the primary school enrollment ratio and lay
the foundations for future growth. The main risks arise
from: (a) the Ministry of Education's lack of experience
in implementing Bank projects and its inadequate tech-
nical capacity in executing a large program of low-cost
construction; and (b) pressure to recruit more costly
teachers ("instituteurs") rather than to improve the
quality of education through more coat-effective
measures. To minimize the former risk, the project would
equip the Ministry with a Project Coordination Unit and
with a Bureau that will plan and monitor iimplementation
of the school construction and rehabilitation program.
To address the latter risk, the project would improve the
qualifications of existing teachers, strengthen the pre-
service training of "instituteurs-adjoints," and provide
for the development, procurement and distribution of
textbooks and teacher guides. Furthermore, the Govern-
ment has confirmed that its recruitment and promotion
policies will reflect the need to limit future increases
in average teacher salaries.
Appraisal Report: No. 6115-NIR
Mag: IBRD 16779R
October 1986



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPHENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republie of Niger in an amount of SDR 15.3
million (US$18.4 million equivalent) on standard IDA terme to help finance
a Primary Education Development Project. Additional external financing for
the project vould be provided by a grant from the Federal Republie of
Germany (through the Kreditanstalt f6r Wiederaufbau, KfW), in the amount of
US$1.7 million equivalent and by a grant from the Kingdom of Norway in the
amount of US$4.7 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        This section is based on findings of the missions in 1985-86
concerns the first Structural Adjustuent Credit to Niger (Report No.
P-4185-NIR). Annex I contains country data.
Structural Characteristices of the Economy
3.        With an area of 1.27 uillion km2, Niger is about 2.5 times the
-ize of France. It is a landlocked country, and its closest access to the
sea is 600 km from the southern border. The population is estimated at
about six million and growing at almost 3% a year, which ij above the
average for Sub-Saharan Africa. Nearly 90% of the poplnlation is concen-
trated along the southern border, in the 12% of the land that is considered
arable. Rainfall is limited and often irregular, while soil fertility ie
low and declining, due to intensive use. Niger is one of the poorest
countries of the vorld, with a per capita GNP of US$200 in 1985. The life
expectancy at birth of 45 years te low, even by African standards. High
infant and child mortality accounts for 60% of all deaths in the country.
In 1985, the adult literacy rate was only 14% (87 for women), and the
primary school enrollment ratio not more than 25%. one of the lowest in
Africa.
1/   Parts I and Il are substantially the same as those in the President's
Report for the Transport Sector Project (Report No. P-4219-NIR) which
was approved by the Executive Directors on May 27, 1986.



4.        The Nigerien economy has traditionally been dominated by subsis-
tence ag-iculture, w±eh millet and sorghum taking up 80% of the cultivated
area. Livestock als provides an important source of income and export
receipte. Except during the Sahelian drought periode, the country has
always been self-sufficient in food production, despite its very llmited
agricultural resource base. The discovery of large uranium deposits in the
late 19609 triggered the development of an important mining sector in
Niger. Under highly fasvorable conditions in the world market for uranium
during the late 19709, the mining sector expanded rapidly; uranium became
the country's principal foreign excliange earner and a major source of
government revenues. As a result, Niger went through a period of rapid
growth and modernization, and the public sector took a dominant position in
the modern economy. The uranium boom ended in the early 1980e, when prices
dropped and Niger's production decreased. Consequently, the share of the
mining sector and the modern sector in the economy both declined
significantly.
5.        Niger has traditionally maintained an open economy, exporting and
importing about 25% of its GDP. Strong trade linke exist wiïh Europe
(mainly France) and neighboring African countries (partirularly Nigeria).
This openness has been facilitated by the West African Monetary Union, of
which Niger il a member. The Union's central bank (BCEAO) issues a common
currency for its member states, the CFA franc. Its full convertibility
into French Francs, at a fixed rate of CFAF 100 - 2FF, is guaranteed by the
French Government. In return, the monetary union imposes discipline over
the monetary and balance of payments policies of its member countries.
Past Economic Developments
6.        During the first half of the seventies, Niger exhibited all the
features of a resource-poor Sahelian country. Economic performance vas
dependent on a limited number of crops and livestock, which were severely
constrained by poor soils and unfavorable climatic conditions. This vas
dramatically illustrated in 1972 when devastating droughts caused a sharp
decrease in crop production and in the livestock herd. During the second
half of the seventies, Niger's economic performance lmproved significantly,
and real GDP grew at an average 7% per year.  The growth of the rural
sector accelerated, due to favorable veather conditions and a succeassful
herd rehabilitation program.  The uranium sector went through a boom,
boosting the share of the mining sector ln GDP from 6% in 1975 to 13% in
1980.
7.        This favorable economic performance ended abruptly in the early
eighties as a result of two factors. First, real export prices of uranium
fell by more than 50% between 1979 and 1982. Uranium export earnings
stopped growing and uranium revenues dropped from 25% of government
revenues ln 1980 to 14% in 1983. Second, agricultural production vas
hampered by unfavorable climatic conditions, forcing Niger to increase food
imports. As a result of these developments, real GDP stagnated in 1981-
1982 and declined by almost 3% in 1983. This slowdown in economic activity
was accompanied by the emergence of sizeable fiscal and external deficits.
Budgetary revenue, which had peaked at 13% of GDP in 1981, fell to 10% of
GD? ln 1983, reflecting the heavy dependence of revenues on the modern
sector and on international trade. Public expenditures, on the other hand,



- 3 -
continued to grow. Consequantly, the budget deficit averaged 9% of GDP
over the 1980/81 - ?982/83 period. At tho  marn  time, tho external current
account deficit (including officdil grants) averaged 10% of GDP.  Export
revenues of uranium as wll as livostock products utagnated and, whun
expressad in US dollar terzs, decroased substantially.
8.        Whan tho uranium boon came to an end, a number of serious dofi-
cinncies in the structure of the *conomy bacamo avident.  Pirit, during tho
uranium boom, the Govornment used the public expenditure progran as the
primary instrument for allocating financial resources in the economy and
for generating economic growth. Public investment foeused on infrastrumc-
ture and building projecta, while agricultural investmont encountered
serious problems. Recurrent expenditure favored personnel and transfer
payments over operation and maintenance, to the detriment of existing
infrastructure and basic public services. These imbalances were exacer-
bated in the early eighties by rapidly increasing ïnterest payments on
public debt, a decline in tax revenues, and inadequate cost recavery for
public services. Second, although uranium revenues started to decline in
1981, the Government continued to implement its ambitious development plan
by relying increasingly on external borrowinge. To finance growing budget
and external, deficits, the country accumulated a heavy foreign debt, which
rose to US$915 million at the end of 1984, or 65% of GDP. A substantial
share of this amount Was committed on commercial terms. Without debt
relief, the debt service ratio would have risen to 45Z in 1984. Third,
during the late seventies, public enterprises proliferatred into uneconomic
activities and acquired privileges that discouraged private sector develop-
ment. Many of them incurred substantial operating losses and became a
drain on the government budget and the financial sector. This negative
performance vas caused by government regulatory policies in the areas of
pricing, marketing and employment, by excessive government interférence in
day-to-day management, and by lack of qualified personnel and inadequate
accounting practices. Finally, the rural development strategy which the
Goverument pursued over the last ten years to achieve food self-sufficiency
was implemented through expensive, large-scale projects, using unproven
technology and heavy institutional infrastructure. The Government inter-
vened actively in input, product and financial markets, to overcomne per-
ceived weaknesses in private sector activities. This distorted market
incentives for agrieultural production and caused substantial budgetary
outlays.
9.        The Government began addressing some of these problems in the
1982/83 budget year, by taking austerity measures such as a freeze in wages
and salaries, cutbacks in expenditures for material, supplies and invest-
ment, and tighter control over foreign borrovings. A stabilization program
vas initiated and supported by three consecutive IMF Standby arrangements,
the last of which was approved in November 1985. Debt rescheduling agree-
ments werp reached with the Paris Club in November 1983, 1984 and 1985, and
with the London Club in early 1984. Implementation of the stabilization
program has been satisfactory, despite the impact of the last drought on
public expenditures and the balance of payments. By 1985, the current
account deficit had been reduced to 3.6% of GDP and the budget deficit to
4.9% of GDP. The reduction in the budget deficit reflected mainly a
substantial cutback in investments; efforts to limit and restructure
current expenditures or to increase revenues were less successful. The



- 4 -
réduction in the curront account defocit was to a gront extmnt tho rosult
of n sharp docroaso in importe, brought about by demand management
policies.
10.       Reual GDP, however, contir.tied to fall in 1984, for the third
consoeutivo yeur. The sharp docline of 16% was duo primarily to a sorious
drought, which roaultod in a 30-40% docline in food crop production and in
s 40% los8 in the livestock hord. Other factors w±th a negativo impnct on
GDP wvre the closuro of tho Nigerian border for almost a yenr and the
reduced leval of public exponditures.  GDP growth resumod in 1985 to an
cstimated 7.1%, due ma±nly to a setrong rocovery of the rural sector
following abundant rainfall. It ie oxpected thet the recovery of the
economy from the drought will, continue through 1986.
Niper's Developnmnt Prospecta
il.       In the present clrcumatances, Niger faces a double development
challenge. First, the country has to overcome the financial imbalances and
structural veaknesses that are the legacy of the uranium boom. Second, it
has to develop its economy on a narrow resource base, as regards both
physical and human resources. The recent decline in real GDP clearly
pointe to the need to complement continued austerity with policy mensures
that allow the country to restore a minimum acceptable rate of growth. The
focus, thus, should be on lmproving the efficiency with which existing
resources are utilized, while efforts continue to expand the productive
base of the economv.
12.       Structural Adjustment Program.  To improve economle growth
prospects whi]e keeplng budgetary and external imbalauices at sustainable
levels, the Government of Niger has complemented its ongoing stabilization
efforts with an adjustment program aimed at overcoming the structural
probleme ln the economy. The adjustment program focuses on increasing the
efficiency of existing învestments, improving policies for more efficient
future investments, and reorienting policies for strengthening the
country's human and physical resources.  The first phase of this program
focuses on policy improvements in three areas where structural problems are
most acute and where policy change would have the greatest beneficial
impact on the budgetary and balance of payments position: (i) public
resource management, (ii) parastatal reform, and (iii) agricultural policy.
IDA is supporting the program through a structural adjustment credit,
approved in February 1986.
13.       Under the adjustment program, a nore efficient use of budgetary
resources is being pursued to better utilize existing ïnvestments, expand
essential services snd strengthen the basis for future economic develop-
ment. A three-year budCet program has been adopted for the period 1985/86-
1987/88 reflecting: <t) restructured recurrent expenditures vith increased
allocations for operation and maintenance, a freeze in personnel expendJ-
tures in real ters and reduced transfers to consumers; (ii) restructured
investment expenditures, wtth more emphasis on directly productive invest-
ments, human resource development, and rehabilitation of existing infra-
structure; (iii) expanded domestic resource mubilization through cest
recovery efforts; and (iv) improved external debt uanagemLent. This budget
program will be reviewed and rolled over annually.



- 5 -
14.       The Govmrnment'a parastatal raform program, whbch in dauignad to
inursano ths efficiency of public enterprimea au well as to encourage
private invoatmont, covers thres aroms: () rvaiions iu incontivo
policimu; (ii) improvoumnta in the lagal and inmt±tutional frammwork for
the parastatel moctor; and (iii) rehabilitation, privatization and liqui-
dation programa for individuel enterpriiue. In thia context, prica snd
trade controla have been considerably relexod, logiulation clarifying tha
relationuhip botueen thé ntate and individuel enterprimes hau bien adoptod,
and rehabilitation of thi mont important mnterprnieu heo bean initiated.
Pr±vattzatann or liquidation effort. are underwmy for othar public
mnterprisaa.
15.       The Governmant has reformulated its rural devaloputnt stracegy
nnd supporting policies to lmprove the îfficiency of its interventions in
this sector and to liait their budgmtary impact. Firot, the sectoral
invastment program is bming reoriented, emphaaizing quick-yielding, amall-
scale productivity projeccts, farmera' participation1 and rehab±litation of
existing infrastructure. Second, the oporations of the coreals marketing
and atorage ageney have been limitod to the management of a reduced
aecUrity stock; and Ita price stabilization role has been eliminated.
Third, subaidies on agricultural inputs are being curtailed in order teo
sxpand their availability and liait their budgetary impact. Fourth, a
refor. program of the agricultural credit systee, which had practically
collapeed under severe financial atrains, has been initiated. Finally, the
agricultural research program la being reoriented towards applied research
et the farm level and farm systeus research In order to strengthen the
basis for longer-term agriculturul growth.
16.       Expansion of Resource Base.  The structural reform measures are
expected to reduce the policy impediments to higher and more productive
utilization of the country's existing resource base. However, this
resource base la saali and the extent of supply responses to the improved
poiicy framework la uncertain because of Niger's low level of development.
A necessary corollary to the policy reforms, therefore, is a concerted
effort to reduce the country's severe resource constraints and expand the
productive base of the econocy. This relates primarily to a further
development of the agricultural, industrial and energy sectors, and to an
accelerated development of Niger's human resources.
17.       The longer-term prospects for agricultural development in NNiger
are uncertain, given the low and diminishing fertility of the soil and the
unstable climatie conditions in the Sahel region. Food self-sufficiency in
the eightles and beyond can only be achieved through a gradual improvement
in yields on land thar i already under cultivation. Better use of aodern
agricultural inputs, the development of amall scale irrigation schemas, and
applied research on rainfed agriculture will be important for the future
development of Niger's rural sector. In industry, development ls handi-
capped by the limited size of the domestie market, the landlocked position
of the country, and the lack of local raw material resources. Neverthe-
less, private initiative should be encouraged by improved promotion and
incentive policies. Finally, the development potential in energy and
mining should be better assessed by geological survevs and exploration
activities. An important coal deposit vas identified in 1983, but high
transportation conts cast serious doubts on the economic viability of its



- 6 -
d.v.lopment. Similarly, mmall oil reserves have recently been discovered,
but their exploitation appears to be uneconomical et this stage.
18.       Devaloping human resources is crucial for future economic growth
in Niger, although investments in thia area have a very long gestation
period. Primary oducation will hava to be exponded as a firet priority.
Further *xpinoson of post-primary education -- tncluding professional and
vocational tratning -- should be based on a coreful assessiaent of expected
rosourcà availability and estimated future needs for traiied ianpower.
Hoalth programa should focus on improving basic health services in the
rural armos and on preventive rathor than curative health care. Finally,
the current rate of population growth of aluost 3% a year puts unbearable
pressure on the country's scarce resources, and on budgetary allocations
for public services. Therofore, Nigerl. development program has to be
accompanied, as s matter of urgency, by an active policy of reducing
population growth.
19.       Ta furcher these d.evelopment objectives, a major effort wlll be
required, both on the part oi Niger and its aid donors. The Nigerien
Governuent needs to continue its careful review of investment strategies
and to make adequate counterpart financing available for project imple-
mentation.  External financiai assistance would have to increase in volume
and be provided on highly concessionary teros, preferably in the form of
grants, in light of the country's external debt situation.  Aid coordi-
nation needs to be atrengthened to ensure that assistance projecta are in
line with the Government's adjustment and devciopment strategies. In
addition, Niger requires increased non-project dssistance to support policy
reform, and donors should consider recurrent cost financing. In view of
the Government budget constraints, which are expected to persist, donors
should continue to finance local costa. Finally, in order to keep Niger's
debt servJce burden manageable in the future, donors should be prepared to
consider supplementary measures of debt alleviation.
PART IT - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGER
20.       Twenty-nine IDA credits have been approved for Niger as of
September 30. 1986, for a total amount of US$344.7 million equivalent.
There has been one IFC investment, ln the amount of US$2.2 million. Ten
IDA credits, amounting to US$100.9 million, were for the rural sect-r
(drought relief, rural development, forestry, irrigation and livestock).
Eight credits have been for transport the most recent of which was a Trans-
port Sector Credit, covering sectoral investments and policies, approved by
the Executive Directors lu May 1986. Nine other credits covered
telecommunications, education, health, water supply, power and industrial
development. An Economic and Financial Management Improvement credit
assisted the Government in the preparation of its Structural Adjustment
Program nov supported by Development and Special African Facility Credits
of US$20 million and US$40 million respectively. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank Group Operations in Niger as of September 30,
1986.



- 7 -
21.       While the Government's macroeconomic performance in recent years
has been quite satisfactory as discussed in Part I, experience with project
preparation and implementation has been mixed. The Second Haradi and DoBSO
Rural Development Projectes (Credit Nos. 1026-NIR and 967-NIR) encountered
major difficulties due to inadequate institutional arrangements, managerial
problems, a lack of proven technical packages for rainfed farming, high
investuent and operating costs of irrigation, and poor credit recovery.
These projects, as well as the First Livestock Project (Credit No. 885-
NIR), have also been affected by cumbersome administrative procedures
and the recent severe drought. Highway and feeder road construction projects
have been and are being implemented on schedule. Social infrastructure
projects, on the other hand, have suffered some delays, largely because of
the inexperience of implementing institutions. An industrial development
project approved in FY82 has suffered implementation difficulties caused by
the low demand for industrial credit, which in turn is the result of the
downturn of the economy. We are currently discussing ways te improve the
implementation of this project with the Covernment.
22.       In the early 1980s, project implementation was also adversely
affected by the shortage of counterpart funds due to the Government's
financial difficulties. Under the Special Action Program, the financing
plan of several projects was revised to reduce required goverament contri-
butions, which had originally been set during the uranium boom period, in
line with the more limited resources available. Also, revolving funds were
introduced to help accelerate disbursements.
23.       Reflecting the difficulties faced in the early 1980s, the
disbursement ratio dropped from 59% in FY80 to 16% in FY83. The ratio
increased to 26% in FY84 following the introduction of the Special Action
Program. The disbursement ratio of 13% ln FY86 was below the ratio for
Mali (34%) and Burkina (19%), both of which are Sahelian countries at a
similar level of development. This is explained partly by the fact that
a substantial share of IDA's undisbursed funds at the beginning of FY86
vere in the industrial project and in projects in the agricultural sector,
which have faced the delays mentioned above. The Goverament is currently
working on measures to reduce the administrative constraints to credit
disbursement.
24.       IDA's lending program in recent fiscal years has consisted of an
average of two projects per year amounting to about US$20 million. The
program has been small largely because of difficulties in project prepa-
ration. The strong policy dialogue that has developed over the last years
between IDA and the Government, in combination with Niger's eligibility
under the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa, has led to a s.ibstantial
increase in lending. In FY86, three IDA and two SFA credil'- totalling
$117.8 million were approved by the Executive Directors to finance the
Government's Structural Adjustment Progran as well as operations in the
health and transport sectors. An increased IDA lending level is expected
to be maintained in the coming years, provided that the Government remains
successful in formulating and implementing a program of comprehensive
policy reform, and takes the steps required te prepare planned projects in
a timely fashion.



- 8 -
25.       Future IDA operations vill continue to support the Government's
adjustment process.  They will alse assist the Goverument in addressing
longer term development constraints, particularly those related to agri-
culture snd human resource development. Assistance to the adjustuent
effort vill take several forms.  First, depending on the success of the
Goverument's efforts tu implement the first phase of the structural adjust-
ment prograu, additional structural adjustuent credits vill be considered
ln the future te extend the reforms to other areas of the economy. Second,
IDA vill provide follow-up support for tbe implementation of the Govern-
ment's ongoing parastatal reform program agreed to under the SAL through a
public enterprise project scheduled for appraisal in FY87. Third, a number
of important lending operations vill have a sectoral orientation. Through
them, the Government will further develop sectoral strategies and vill
deepen and extend policy measures initiated in connection wïth the first
SAL. These sectoral programs will involve the revision of investment
programs emphasizing maintenance and rehabilitation of existing facilities,
cost-effectiveness of investments, restructuring of recurrent expenditure
budgets, and additional cost recovery measures. This orientation vill be
followed both in economic infrastructure projects and in projects which
primarily aim at addressing long-term issues in education and health.
26.       Recent and future IDA operations reflect the above approach.  The
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, approved in FY85, focuses on the rehabi-
litation of existing infrastructure and on increased cost recovery in
irrigated areas. A similar sectoral approach is being taken ln the health
and transport projects approved by the Executive Directors in FY86, and
vill also be proposed in energy and vater supply projects expected to be
appraised in FY87.  The proposed education project vill focus on improving
the efficiency and effectiveness of the primary education system.
27.       With respect to longer-term development issues, IDA will help the
Governnent to find ways to alleviate the country's severe resource con-
straints. Emphasis vill be given to increasing agricultural production and
human resource development, while at the same time promoting population
control. Due to the absence of appropriate technologies for rainfed culti-
vation, it is difficult to determine at the present time how agricultural
production could be strengthened in the long term. To start to address
this problem, IDA proposes to follow a three-pronged approach. First, a
major sector study vill assist ln the formulation of a rural development
strategy. IDA is providing a $500,000 grant to help finance this study
under the Special Project Preparation Facility. Second, through an agri-
cultural research project which is currently under preparation, ve vill
assist the Governament in developing an appropriate research approach.
Finally, new small-scale production approaches vil be tried through a
suall rural operations project that vill test various agricultural input
packages under different climatic and soil conditions. Regarding human
resource devalopment, in the future, IDA vill continue to emphasïze the
expansion and increased efficiency of basic services such as primary edu-
cation and rural health programs. Together with the Agency for Inter-
national Development of the United States and the United Nations Fund for
Population Activities, IDA is assisting the Government in developing
programs to control population growth. Projects in the infrastructure
sectors, on the other hand, vould focus on maintaining and making effective



- 9 -
use of existing assets with only select expenditures on truly high priority
new investments.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Structure of the Educational System
28.       In structure and organization, Niger's education system is
similar to that of other French-speaking West African countries. A six-
year primary cycle is followed by four years of lower and three years of
upper secondary schooling, and by higher education at the University of
Niamey, the National School of Administration or abroad. Teacher training
is provided at the upper secondary level and at the University of Niamey.
Koranic schools are found in most villages.  Agricultural and vocational
training are available in several small centers. About 90% of public
expenditures on education are channelled through the Ministry of National
Education, Higher Education and Research (MENESR). Other Ministries are
responsible for their own training programs.
Issues iu Primary Education Develepient
1.   Access and Equity
29.       At 14%, Niger's adult literacy rate is one of the lowest in the
world. Its gross primary enrollment ratio of 25%, one of the lovest in
Africa, Ls down froe  272 in 1980.  Access to primary education differs
markedly by seX and by district. Girls account for 36% of primary enroll-
ments and the enrollment ratio for the 39 districts ranges from 7 to 65%.
Enrollment growth in urban areas is severely constrained by limited edu-
cation capacity as witnessed by overcrowded classes (generally more than 55
pupils per class) and restrictions on new admission at the start of each
school year. Increased rural to urban migration resulting from the recent
drought has caused further overcrovding of urbau classrooms and smaller
classes in many rural schools. Enrollment groweth in rural areas is con-
strained by a combination of demand and supply factors. Low population
density makes supply of education costly (class size is generally below 35)
and necessitates large catchment aceas for each school which, in turn, has
a negative effect on demand. Decline in rural incomes, and low perceived
private benefits resulting from poor opportunities for admission to the
next level of education and for entry to wage employment, are further
causes for the slackening in demand for rural priuary education observed in
recent years. If allowed to continue, this virtual stagnation at a low
level of humai resources development vould have serious detrimental effects
on the cuuntry's long-tern economic growth prospects. Research evidence
from other developing nations points to a peverful beneficial impact of
schooling on factors such as agricultural productivity, physical health,
nutrition and fertility as well as on certain sets of social, political and
personal valies which promote development. Improvements in all these areas
are necessary to attain sustained economic growth in Niger.



- 10 -
2.   Financial Constraints
30.       Rigid budget ceilinge.  Despite Niger's low enrollment ratios,
the share of the Government budget devoted to education (21%) is above
average for Sub-Saharan Africa. Simulations of the effects of alternative
policies regarding the allocation of the severely constrained resources,
both wïthin the sector and between education and other sectors, show that
prospects for even modest improvement in access to primary education depend
largely on the extent to which education resources can be used more effec-
tively.  If policies vere to remain unchanged, the primary school enroll-
ment ratio would decline (from 25% in 1985 to 14% in year 2000) even under
the optimistic assumption of a 2% real annual growth in the education
budget.
31.       High unit recurrent costs.  At about US$77 per student, Niger's
recurrent unit costs in prisary education exceed the already high average
for Western Africa. Teacher salaries account for 84% of the primary edu-
cation recurrent budget. The wage bill required to sustain a given euroll-
ment depends on (a) the number of pupils per teacher; and (b) the average
salary per teacher. The pupil/teacher ratio in primary schools has
declined from 41 in 1980 to 36 in 1984; a gradual rise to 45 pupils per
teacher would permit an increase in enrollment by 25% without augmenting
the number of teachers. This would require larger class size and increased
use of multigrade teaching in rural areas as vell as more effective use of
teachers and classrooms in urban areas through double-shift teaching.
32.       Current practices for recruiting and promoting teachers result in
a strong upward pressure on average teacher salaries. Niger has three main
categories of trained primary school teachers: "instituteurs" (I), "insti-
tuteurs-adjoints" (IA), and "moniteurs." The third category is now being
phased out and training is provided only for the I and IA grades. The
level of teacher salaries in Niger is about average for West African
countries and is set according to the civil service schedule. For given
starting salaries, three policy variables govern the development of average
teacher salaries: (a) the distribution of new recruitment among the three
categories, because the starting salaries of the I and IA categories are
2.27 and 1.50 times that of the "moniteurs"; (b) the range of the three
salary scales, because the maximum salary for each category is about twice
the starting salary; and (c) the pace of movement upward through the scales
because each scale has ten steps and a teacher is promoted automatically
every two years and may aLso be upgraded from one category to another. The
strong upvard spiraling of average salary per teacher resulting from the
phasing out of "moniteurs" and the increase ln recruitment of "insti-
tuteurs", combined vith the automatic promotion every two years is exacer-
bated by the young age structure of the Nigerien teaching force.
33.       High capital costs.  In 1984, the cost of a primary school class-
room made from cement blocks amd tin roof was about US$10,000.  This is
about five tinmes the costs of enmploying "banco" which is the most commonly
used local building material (a mixture of clay, straw and earth). The
share of all classrcoms constructed from local materials declined from 47%
in 1975 to 27% in 1985. To reverse this trend, it is necessary to develop
improved building designs and techniques based largely on locally available
materials. In addition to reducing construction costs, a greater reliance



- il -
on local materîals would help establish a pattern whereby school construc-
tion and maintenance would largely be the responsibility of each village.
34.       High student subsidies.  Student subsidies account for 31% of the
budget for secondary education, 60% of that for higher education, and 20%
of the total public education budget. Considering the bleak prospects for
gainful employment for graduates and the fact that many of those who
benefit from subsidies belong to the better-off social groups, a gradual
reduction in the scholarship budget vould seem justified from an economie
as well as from an equity point of view.  Furthermore, over time this would
facilitate a gradual increase in the share of the education budget devoted
to primary education (40% in 1986).
3.   Quality of Primary Education
35.       The MENESR considers the quality of the primary education
teaching force inadequate. Although the quality no doubt is low, 84% of
Niger's primary school teachers have at least two years of teacher training
following completion of lower secondary education. Therefore, to minimize
training and salary cests, the quality of the teaching force should be
improved through a more rigorous selection of entrants to teacher training
programs and through a strengthening of the quality of these programs
rather than through an extension of the length of the training. The
quality of instruction is also adversely affected by an acute shortage of
textbooks and teachers' guides. Even when pedagogical materials are
available in limited numbers, they are outdated, the language and approach
to learning used are outmoded and the content is not adapted to Nigerien
culture and customs since these materials have bean developed abroad for
the West African region in general and not specifically for Niger. Other
physical facilities such as school buildings are in great need of repair.
Internal efficiency of primary schools is low -- 14% of all pupils are
repeaters and only 20% of those who sat for the primary school leaving
examination in 1985 passed. Thus, action to improve resource utilization
should be accompanied by measures in support of quality and relevance.
4.   Planning and Management
36.       MENESR employs more than half of Niger's permanent civil servants
and manages about 21% of the Government's recurrent budget. The Ministry's
ability to use these resources cost-effectively is hampered by its weak
capacity for planning, personnel management, and budgeting and cost
control. In late 1985 the Goverument established a potentially more
efficient administrative structure by (a) merging the Ministry of Higher
Education and Research with that of National Education to form the MENESR,
and (b) creating eight new inspectorates in rural areas. The former
decision facilitates a more efficient use of personnel -- MENESR has 10
directorates as compared to 13 in the former two Ministries -- and a better
coordination of education policies. The latter decision decentralizes
existing inspectorate staff, thus allowing a better support to and control
of rural primary schools. However, for these organizational changes te
improve resource utilization, the MENESR needs to revise its planning,
budgeting and management procedures and the inspectorate staff must be
provided with office space and essential equipment.



- 12 -
The Government's Sector Adjustuent Strategy
37.       As mentioned above, the Government has launched a structural
adjustment program aimed at increasing the efficiency of resource use and
strengthening the country's resource base, as vell as tmproving the balance
of payments and public finance position. This program includes an
education stratagy which has the twin objectives of preventing the
Government's tight financial constraints from causing a further decline in
the already low enrollment ratio in primary education, while laying the
foundations for long-term education developments in line with expected
resource availability and labor market conditions. Annex IV summarizes the
Governuent's education sector strategy. Te implement this education
strategy the Government has initiated several measures designed to:
(a) reduce unit recurrent costs (through containment of the increase in
teacher salaries and allowances, and through more efficient use of
available resources); (b) reduce unit capital costs (through development of
low-cost school construction and maintenance); and (c> recover costs
(through reduction in scholarsh±ps in higher education, introduction of
charges for school supplies, expansion of fee-charging private schools and
increased financial contribution by local communities to primary school
construction). Following the decline in the success rate at the priuary
school leaving examination in 1985 (para 35), the Government also
established (in October 1985) a Commission to review the training and
status of primary school teachers.  The Commission's Report (issued in
March 1986) recommends several measures aimed at improving the quality and
working conditions of teachers. The Goverument has not yet considered the
Commissions recommendations.
38.       In sum, the Goverument's strategy calls for adjustment from a
suall, costly and essentially elitist education sector for the few to a
more equitable, relevant and efficient system vith an expanding primary
education base and a more economical secondary and higher education that
develop in line with expected resource availability and labor market
conditions. Implementation of this strategy needs necessarily to be phased
Over several years and must be concurrent with a strengthening of the
managerial capacity of MENESR. Furthermore, its financial implications
require careful monitoring. Although net yet fully articulated in all its
aspects, the strategy responds to development needs and deserves support as
an integral part of the country's broader structural adjustuxent program.
The proposed project would assist the Government in its implementation.
The Bank Group's Role
39.       Niger has received only one credit for the education sector -- an
agricultural education project (Cr. 1151-NIR of Ray 1981 for US$21.5
million). Project implementation has not faced serionus problems. Hovever,
the project is essentially one of civil vorks carried out by foreign
contractors (67% of total project costs). During the last two years, a
concerted effort has been made to pronote a dialogue on education policy
and to improve the Bank Group understanding of the sector as well as the
Government's appreciation of the Bank Group's criteria for education
financing.  Within the context of the overall structural adjustment program
the formulation of the Governuent's adjustment strategy for the education
sector has been promoted through this effort. Recognizing that a broader



- 13 -
educational base is an essential condition for sustained economic develop-
ment in Niger, the Bank Group supports the high priority given in the
Government's strategy to primary education. Given the issues outlined
above, support for expansion of primary education would be provided
directly, through assistance in facilities, teacher training and textbook
production, and indirectly, through support for policies designed to reduce
unit costs and to reallocate education resources in favor of primary
education, as well as to encourage the efforts of local communities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       Financed under Cr. 1151-NIR, project preparation began in 1984.
The main components to be financed were pre-appraised in February 1985 and
the education sector strategy was further developed through an intensive
policy dialogue between the Covernment and IDA during the summer and autuin
of 1985. The project vas appreised in November 1985. A supplementary
Project Data Sheet is given in Annex III.
A.   Project Objectives and Description
41.       The project would support the education strategy formulated by
the Government (paras 37-38), within the framework of its structural
adjustment program. Implementation of this strategy ij expected to result
in a more equitable, relevant and efficient educational system where
priority ie given to the expansion of primary education and where secondary
and higher education would develop in line wvth expected resource avail-
ability and labor market conditions. To ensure the implementation of the
education features of that adjustment program, IDA and the Governument have
discussed and agreed on the general composition of a three-year education
investment program and its recurrent cost implications. Furthermore, the
Gavernment would: (a) discuss with IDA annually on each fiscal year's
recurrent budget for education as vell as discues and agree with IDA
annually on the composition of the investment budget for the coming three
years; (b) recruit and promote teachers ïn a manner guaranteeing that the
percentage of "instituteurs" teaching in primary schools does not exceed
14% of total teaching staff ln such schools throughout the execution of the
project; (c) reduce the nominal scholarship budget for bigher education by
at least 3.7% per year from FY88 through FY91> and not grant other
subsidies for non-academic services to students to compensate for this
reduction. In order to monitor progress on the above policy issues and on
project implementation, the Government vould, not later than June 30 each
year, starting in 1987, organize an annual project and education sector
review meeting with IDA.
42.       In addition to supporting the Government's structural adjustment
program generally, the project ls specifically designed to: (a) reduce
unit recurrent costs in primary education while improving quality and
relevance; (b) reduce unit capital costs and improve access to primary
education; and (c) promote a more cost-effective use of education
resources. These three major project components are discussed in more
detail below.



- 14 -
1.   Reduction in Recurrent Unit Costs and Improvements in Qualîty and
Relevance of Primary Education
43.       To reduce recurrent unit costs without impairing educational
quality, the project would: (a) assist in restructuring the primary
teaching force; (b) promote the use of multigrade teaching and double-shift
schooling; and (c) enhance tile national capacity to develop, adapt, procure
and distribute appropriate low-cost textbooks and teachers' guides.
44.       Restructuring the ceaching force.  To contain future increases in
average teachers' salaries, the project would limit the need for recruiting
high-cost "instituteurs" by improving the quality of existing teachers and
of the pre-service training of "instituteurs-adjoints" (para 32). The
quality of existing staff would be enhanced through in-service training to
upgrade the qualifications of 420 formally untrained but experienced
teachers, and through refresher courses for about 1,800 semi-qualifîed or
qualified teachers and 1,250 primary school directors. The quality of pre-
service training would be improved through specialist workshops for the
staff of the teacher training colleges. The contents of the in-service and
pre-servic9 training would include topics relating to other aspects of the
project such as the use of textbooks, multi-grade teaching techniques, and
school maintenance, management and timetabling. The project would provide:
(a) specialist services for developing and conducting the above courses and
workshops; and (b) about 800 staffyears of local training. At the annual
project and sector reviev meeting (para 41), the Covernment would discuss
with IDA and agree on the annual program for in-service training.
45.       Double-shift and multi-grade teaching techniques.  To achieve
more intensive resource utilization, the project would extend the use of
multi-grade teaching in rural areas and introduce the use of double-shift
schooling in urban areas (para 31). To this end, the project would improve
the training of teachers in multi-grade techniques and experiment with
different methods of double-shift schooling in about 40 urban classes to
help develop suitable policies for extending the use of this method.
46.       The project vould finance:  (a) specialist services to design,
manage, evaluate and carry out the experimentation with double-shift
teaching; and (b) ïn-service training for the teachers of the experimental
schools.  The Government has confirmed that it would: (1) not later than
December 31, 1987, diseuss and agree vith IDA on the detailed program for
the experiment with double-shift teaching; (ii) start the experiment not
later than October 1988; (iii) review with IDA the ongoing results of the
program not later than September 30 of each year and take into consider-
ation IDA's comments; and (iv) discuss the final results of the experiment
and their policy implications vith IDA prior to September 30, 1991, and
agree on subsequent actions.
47.       Provision of textbooks and teachers' guides.  To further ensure
(in addition to improved training of teachers) that the cost reduction
measures outlined above do not impair educational quality, the project
would: (a) establish a national capability to develop new textbooks and
teachers' guides where no suitable materials exist, and adapt such suitable
liported materials whose adaptation rights may be acquiret; and
(b) strengthen the capabilities to procure, store and distribute training



- 15 -
materials. To this end, a publications unit, an author training and
advisory service, and an educational evaluation unit would be established
vithin the National Institute for Pedagogical Documentation, Resecrch and
Promotion (INDRAP). The Institute's existing printshop would be renovated,
the procedures for textbook procurement would be improved, and the storage
and distribution facilities at the central and the inspectorate level would
be renovated and equipped.
48.       Textbooks are to be loaned free of charge, one for every two
pupils, and would last three years. A limited cost recovery scheme for the
related provision of consumable materials and supplies hes been introduced
by the Covernment. Under the project, the budgetary and equity impact of
these measures would be evaluated to help the Covernment develop a suitable
cost recovery policy for textbooke. Textbook-related training would be
provided through pre- and in-service training (para 44). The project would
provide for the development of 44 titles in five subject areas by a
national education publishing unit, and the printing of about one million
textbooks and teachers' guides ln French, science, mathematics, geography
and history. The responsibility for curriculum development and the defi-
nition of the contents of pedagogical material is with INDRAP. An informal
National Textbook Committee of the Ministry of Education -- on which INDRAP
i represented -- approves both teachers' guides and pupils' texts. INDRAP
has developed revised materials in mathematics and geography as well as
experimental texts in five local languages. The majority of the 44 titles
scheduled for production would be originated by national author teams.
49.       The project would Einance:  (a) civil works to extend and improve
the existing INDRAP premises, to improve the Directorate of Financial
Affairs' warehouses and to extend or improve the inspectorate storerooms;
(b) furniture, equipment ard one vehicle; (c) the acquisition of adaptation
rights or the cost of co-publishing arrangements; (d) specialist services
and training for the development of the selected titles; (e) the printing
costs of the textbooks and teachers' guides; and (f) operating costs (bock
distribution). At the annual project and sector review meeting (para 41),
the Government would discuss with IDA and agree on the number of textbook
and teachers' guides to be developed as originals by national authors and
the number to be adapted or co-published from suitable imported materials.
The Government would: (i) establish and maintain a publication unit, a
training service for authors of educational publications, and an evaluation
service at INDRAP by December 31, 1987; snd (ii) prior to carrying out any
new project for extension of INDRAP's printing capacity, submit to IDA for
comments and exchange of views an economic and financial study of such
project.
2.   Reduction in Unit Capital Costs and Improvement in Access to
Primary Education
50.       To reduce unit capital costs and improve access to primary
education the project would: (a) develop designs and construction tech-
niques for low-cost primary school buildings relying largely on local
materials and labor, and implement a construction program te build 750
classrooms based on these designs and techniques; (b) rehabilitate 3,000
existing classrooms badly needing repairs; and (c) promote the development
of a community-based school maintenance system.



- 16 -
51.       Low-cost construction program.  A prototype of a low-cont clas-
room hes been developed using local materials (i.e., bricks made mainly
from locally available laterite stabilized with 5% cement, compressed by
hand-operated presses). The roofing is based on a vault structure which
eliminates the need for timber, and reduces the need for imported metal for
doors and windows. This design -- which has already been tried out in
Senegal -- is expected to allow for a 25-year economic life with limited
maintenance.
52.       The construction program would be under the responsibility of the
MENESR Bureau of School Infrastructure and Equipment which would be
strengthened under the proposed project (para 61). Of the 750 classrooms
to be fînanced, about 500 would be built by the "travaux communautaires" (a
force account organization under the Office of the President of the
Republic), and about 250 by the "ateliers scolaires" (the workshops of the
inspectorates). Self-help schemes and negotiating contracts with small
local contractors would be extensively used in both casea.  The "ateliers
scolaires" would also produce simple furniture for the new and rehabili-
tated classrooms. Prior to the launching of the construction program, one
or more prototype classrnoms vould be constructed in order to train the
masons of, respectively, the "travaux communautaires" and the "ateliers
scolaires" as well as the building technicians of the Ministry of Public
Works, placed at the district level, in the use of this new construction
technique.
53.       The cost per classroom is estimated at about US$5,400 which is
about 55% of that of classrooms made from cement blocks and tin roof
(para 33). It is expected that -- through developing a replicable low-cost
school design and the skills at the community level required for construc-
tion based on this design -- the project would help speed up the current
trend whereby the main responsibility for primary school construction is
transferred from the Governnent to local coimmunities.
54.       The project would finance:  (a) construction of 750 new primary
school classrootis; (b) production of furniture for these classrooms by the
"ateliers-scolaires"; and (c) local training for masons and building tech-
nicians. The Government (i) has built and assessed the prototype of the
new construction design, and (ii) presented a program for mason training
and for the first year of construction. At the annual project and sector
review meeting (para 41), the Qovernment would discuss vith IDA and agree
on the annual construction program, Jneluding site selection. Agreement
each year on this program as vell as on the composition of the education
investment program for the coming three years would be a condition for
disbursement for classroom construction.
55.       Primary school rehabilitation.  A recent Government survey showed
that of the some 6,500 primary classrooms in Niger, over 50% need repair.
and that school furniture often is lacking or in poor condition. The
project would rehabilitate about 3,000 classrooms, and repair and/or
replace furniture in these schools. The renovation program would be the
responsibility of the MENESR Bureau of School Infrastructure and Equipment
and would be carried out by the "travaux communautaires." The project
would finance:  (a) material, labor and transport costs for the renovation
of the 3,000 classrooms; and (b) repairs or replacement of the furniture of



- 17 -
these classrooms. The Government has alrsady prosented to IDA a reha-
bilitation program for the firet year. At the annual project and sector
review meeting (para 41), the Government would discuas vith IDA and agree
on the annual rehabilitation program.
56.       School maintenance systeu.  The project vould promote the
development of a community-based maintenance system which vould assist
achool users in repairing minor damage to furniture and buildings which, if
left unattended, could require costly repaîr, and improve the capability of
the "ateliers scolaires" to make any major repaire (para 58). To promote
maintenance by achool users, the project would finance: (a) the prepa-
ration of a manual for teachers and achool directors describing the ways
and means of identifying and repairing common minor damages and giving
instructions for reporting major damages to the "ateliers scolaires";
(b) training of teachers in maintenance procedures <para 44); and (c) the
provision of maintenance tool kits for echools. The Government intends
that school maintenance procedures and manuals would be prepared, discussed
wlth IDA and introduced not later than September 30, 1988, and that main-
tenance subsequently would be adequately supervised by the inspectorates.
3. Promotion of More Coast-Effective Resource Utilization
57.       To promote more cost-effective resource utilization the project
vould strengthen the capacity of the Mlnistry of Education (NENESR) to:
(a) manage and control the resources at its disposal; (b) plan and monitor
education development; and (c) coordinate the implementation of IDA-
f inanced education projects.
58.       Strengthening of human and financial resource management.  The
project would support the reorganization of NENESR (para 36) and improve
its capacity ta manage and control resource utilization in the education
sector. To this end, the project would, through provision of specialist
services, training aud equipment, assist the Government to review and
improve budgeting and administrative procedures, and computerize the
records of the Directorates in the Ministry responsible for: (a) personnel
management; (b) budget preparation and control; (c) scholarship allocation
and monitoring; and (d) administration of examinations and school guidance.
In addition, the project would train the staff of the inspectorates and
provide them with essential facilities in order to strengthen their capa-
city to: (i) control resource use at the departmental and school level;
(ii) support teachers and monitor the quality of instruction; snd
(iii) execute and supervise primary school construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance.
59.       The project would finance:  (a) construction of facilities for 16
inspectorates (eight are currently in rented offices and eight are newly
created and vithout facilities) including vorkshops for seven "ateliers
scolaires"; (b) furniture and equipment for the 16 inspectorates and work-
shop tools for the seven new "ateliers scolaires"; (c) micro-computers for
the Ministry; (d) specialist services in the field of personnel and finance
management and for computerization of records; and (e) training in the use
of micro-computers.



- 18 -
60.       Strengthening of educational planning.  To onhance the MENESR's
capability to plan and monitor education devolopment, as vell as to develop
and implement cost-effectiveness measures the project would, through the
provision of specialist services, training and equipment, strongthen the
capacity of the Directorate of Educational Planning (DE?) to: (a) compile,
analyze and publish education statistice; (b) develop and monitor the
implementation of policies promoting more coat affective tesource use;
(c) establish and maintain a country-wide school map; and (d) plan and
supervise school construction and maintenance.
61.       The project would finance:  (a) civil works to renovate an unused
former secondary school dormitory to serve as offices for the DEP's Bureau
of School Infrastructure and Equipment (BIES); (b) furniture, equipment snd
two vehicles for that Unit; (c) specialist services in educational planning
including funds for preparation of future education projects; (d) training
in educational planning, etatistics and achool mapping; and (e) operating
costs for the BIES. The Governuent has: (1) issued a decree defining the
responsibilities and functions of the BIES; and (il) confirmed that the
BIES has been strengthened by the appbintment of an architect and three
building supervisors and the purchase of one vehicle. At the annual
project and sector reviev meeting (para 41), the Governuent would discuss
.ith IDA and agree on the work program. of DEP.
62.       Establishment of a project coordination unit. This vould be cthe
first IDA-financed project to be implemented by NENESR.  To amplify the
institution-building effects of the project, its varlous components would
be implemented by the concerned MENESR Directorates. To ensure overall
coordination of project activities and to serve as liaison between the
Governument and IDA, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would be established
directly under the Ministry's Secretary General. The Unit would:
(a) assist in the preparation of annual work prograns and budgets;
(b) oversee and assist in the procurement of goods and specialist services
and in the implementation of the fellowship program; (c) process credit
withdrawal applications and maintain project accounts; and (d) consolidate
project progress reports. The Unit would be headed by a Nigerien director
who would be assisted by a specialist in project management and an accoun-
tant as well as by support staff.
63.       The project would finance:  (a) civil works to renovate an unused
former secondary school dormitory to serve as offices for the Unit;
(b) furniture, equipment and two vehicles; (c) specialist services for
project management and audit; and (d) operating costs. The Government has:
(j) issued a decree establishing the PCU and appointing the Project
Director; and (il) confirmed that procedures for recruitment of the project
management specialist and of supporting staff have been iuitiated.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
64.       The total project cost over the seven years of implementation is
estimated at US$26.2 million equivalent (net of taxes and duties) with a
foreign exchange component of US$15.1 million or 58%. Base cost estimates
are at December 1985 prices. The project vould be financed by IDA (US$18.4
million equivalent or 70% of total cost), a grant from Norway (the equiva-
lent of US$4.7 million or 18%), a grant from the Federal Republic of



- 19 -
Cermany through KfW (the equivalont of US$1.7 million or 7%), and budgetary
allocations from the Covernment (US$1.4 million or 5%).  The Norwegian
grant would finance procurement of textbooks and rehabilltation of primary
schools including sehool furnitura.  The grant frou the Federal Republic of
Germany would finance a part of the primary uchool construction program.
The Government would finance local construction materials (laterite and
sand) and oporating coite.
65.       The savinge resuiting from the monsures included in the project
are ltkely to exceed the incremental recurrent coste that the project
generates in any fiscal yenr during project implementation.  For the first
year after project completion (1994), the annuel cost of operating the 750
classrooms constructed and the textbook program developed are estimated nt
CFAF 745 million in constant 1985 prîces, equivalent to about 4% of the
MENESR's FY86 recurrent budget. Of these costs, 80% constitute teacher
salaries. In 1994, the savings resulting from the project are likely to be
at least 2.6 times the incremental recurrent costs generated.
Project Preparation and Execution
1.   Present Status of Preparation
66.       Each project component is supported by a detailed annex in the
Staff Appraisal Report. The textbook (paras 47-49) and construction
components (paras 51-56) also are supported by Working Papers. Designs for
the civil works included in the project have been developed, and the
building of the prototype (para 51) was completed in August 1986. Suitable
sites have been identified for the textbook developxent, educational
planning and management components. Site selection for the annual class-
room construction program vould be reviewed by IDA each year (para 54).
The Government has taken steps to strengthen the Bureau of School Inra-
structure and Equipment (para 61), and has issued a decree establishing the
Project Coordination Unit and appointing its director. The Government has
already taken the measures listed in paragraphs 54, 55, 61 and 63.
2.   Implementation
67.        Implementation responsibility.  The operational responsibility
for project implemelntation would be given to the relevant MENESR Direc-
torates. The Project Coordination Unit (para 62) vould serve as liaison
vith IDA and would support the Directorates in the areas of procurement,
financial administration, documentatien, monitoring and reporting.
68.       Implementation schedule.  Based on the capacity of the MENESR,
the "travaux communautaires" and the "ateliers scolaires,t' as well as the
measures taken to expand it, the execution of the project can be realis-
tically scheduled over a five-year period from credit effectiveness. with
allowance for one more year for the closing of the accounts. However,
experience with previous IDA-financed projects ln Niger suggests a longer
implementation period. Therefore, implementation of the project has been
prudently planned over a seven-year period and disbursement over eight
years. This corresponds to the Regional profile for the education sector.



- 20 -
69.       Specialist services and followships.  The project would provide a
total of 178 years of specialiet services (of which 84% by local staff) and
a total of 884 years of train±ug (of which 97% local training and in-
country fellowships). Terms of roference for the specialist poste have
been agrmod with the Governuent. The Government has confirmed that staff
trained abroad under the project would be required to remain in their
assignmente for a period of three years following completion of training.



- 21 -
3.    Procurement
70.          The following procurement arrangements  would apply:
hAmounto and Methoda of Procurement
(uSS million)
Procurement Method        Total
Cont Iteus                                   ICB          LCB       Other        N/A        Conte
A. Civil Works a/
1. School construction (except
laterite and sand)
- Part T                              -         1.1  bl      0.6  CI                 1.7
(1.1)       (0.6)                    (1.7)
- Part II                             -           -          1.7  dl      -          1.7
(1-7)                   (1.7)
- Part III                            -1. l i                             -           1.4
2. Laterite and sand for Parts 1,         -           -            -         1.2  fi      1.2
Il and III                                                              C)           ()
3. School rehabtlitation                  -                      1 4  d/   -4
4. Civil woras other than echool          -          1.7           -           -          1.7
construction/rehabilitation h/                  (1.7)                                (1.7)
B. Furniture
1. For rehabilitated echoole              -          1.5  jl       -                      1 5
2. U1 other furnitur'                    -          1.4         0.3  e/      -           1.7
(1.4)       ( - ) -                  (1.4)
C. Equipuent
'. Geieral and vehieles                  1.2         0.4           -          -           1.6
(1.2)      (0.4)                                (1.6)
2. Texttooks                             1 5  g/    0 3   '       -           -           1.8
D. Training                                   -          -           3.9          -          3.9
(3.9)                   (3.9)
E. Specialist Services                        -          -           5.0          -          5.0
(5.0)                   (5.0)
F. Operating Costs                            -          -            -          1.6         1.6
(1.4)       (1.4)
Total (including conctingencies)         tr7        -9Ucv       14. r--                  76arr
(1.2)      (4.6)        U.2         (1.4)      (18.4)
Note:  Figures in parentheses show the respective mounts financed by the IDA credit.
a7   The construction of clasuroome is divided lnto the following three parts:
Part I   - Classrooms to be constructed by the "ateliers scolaires" and financed by IDA
(except for laterite and sand).
Part Il  - Classrooms to be constructed by the "travaux comnunautaires" and financed
by IDA (except for laternte and sand).
Part III - Clasarooms to be constructed by the "travaux communautaires" and financed
by the Federal Republie of Gernany (except for laterite and sand).
b|   Construction material except for laterite and sand.
El  Labor services hired through small laboL servlc  contracts.
ai   Procured through force account contracts idth t"travaux communautaires".
ei   Procured under KfW (Kreditanstalt fur WiedeeuEfbau of the Federal Republic of Germany)
procedures.
f/   Laterite and sand provided by the Covernment.
Financed by Norway and procured under IDA procedures.
Contracts for constructing inspeetorate offices vnd lodging, extending I IDRAP's
building, lmproving central warehouse and local scorehoines for booka, and for
rebabilitating offices for Bureau of School Infrast1.:v"ire and Equipument and for Project
Coordination Unit.



- 22 -
71.       Because of their relatively small size and the vide dispersion of
claseroo construction and rehabilitation, civil works contracta totalling
US$9.1 million are not likely to attract foreign firms and would be carried
out by farce account or through negotiated contracts vith local artisans
(para 52) according to procedures acceptable to IDA, or through contracts
avarded following local competitive bidding (LCB) for work described in
paragrapha 49, 59, 61 and 63. Equipment and printing of textbooks (total
valup at US$2.7 million) would be grouped to the extent practicable to
facilitate competition in bidding; packages of US$50,000 equivalent or more
would be awarded after international competitive bidding (ICB) according ta
procedures acceptable to IDA. Goods manufactured locally would be given a
preferential margin of 15% or the applicable customs duty, whichever is
less.  Procurement packages (announcements, bidding documents and proposed
avards) exceeding US$50,00 equivalent would be subject to IDA's review
prior to avard. For contracts valued at between US$15,000 and US$50,000
equivalent, two conformed copies of each contract would be subject to
post-review by IDA before withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account.
Contracts valued at less than US$15,000 equivalent viould be held by the
Borrower for review by IDA supervision mlssions and for audit. Specialist
services and fellowships would be procured in accordance vith IDA guide-
lines. Construction of primary school classrooms for US$1.7 million
(including school furniture for about US$0.3 million) to be financed by the
Federal Republie of Germany vould follow procedures acceptable to Germany
which are economical and efficient. The Government has confirmed its
intention to apply the procureinent procedures and arrangements outlined
above.



- 23 -
4.   Disbursement
72.       Disbursements by category are as follows:
Allocation and Diobursement of IDA Credit
(US$ million)
Proposed IDA    % of Expenditures
Category of Expenditures              Allocation    to bc Financed by IDA
1. School conitruction (except for laterite and
sand) ai
- Part I                                        1.3                 100
- Part II                                       1.3                 100
2. Civil works other than sachool
construction/rehabilitation                      1.6                 100
3. Furniture (except for rehabilttated schools)     1.2                100
4. Vebicles and equipment (except for textbooks)    1.2                 100
5. Training                                         3.0                100
6. Specialist services                              4.0                 100
7. Operating coste                                  1.1                 90
8. Unallocated                                      3.7
Total                           18.4
a/  The activities lncluded in, respectively, Parts I and Il of the project are explained in
paragraph 70.
5.   Special Account
73.       To facilitate disbursement, US$400,000 would be advanced from the
proposed IDA credit and deposited in a Special Account held in a local bank
and operated by the Project Director. The Special Account would cover
about three months of expenditures. Reimbursement applications to IDA
would be grouped into packages of at least US$50,000 equivalent and be
fully documented, except for expenses related ta in-country training, fees,
incremental operating costs, and contracts valued at less than US$25,000
equivalent. These expenses vould be reimbu;sed against certified state-
ments of expenditures, for which documentation would be retained for review
by IDA supervision missions and project auditors. Reimbursement appli-
cations would also include a statement of account movements since the last
application, with the balance certified by the bank holding the account,
and a reconciliation showing that the balance represents the original
amount less payments awaiting reimbursement or emall working advances.



- 24 -
Should any disbursements made subsequently be disallowed by IDA, the
Government would redeposit the correspouding amount.
6.   Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
74.       The Project Director would establish and maintain accounts for
esch project component. Late submission of audit reports has been experi-
enced ln the Firet Education Project (Credit 1151-NIR) Ln recent years. To
ensure punctuality, the proposed project provides for specialist services
ta audit project accounts. The Governument intends that: (a) all project
accounts would be audited annually and all disbursement against statements
of expenditures would be audited semi-annuully by an lndependent auditor,
acceptable to IDA, and that the audit reports would be sent to IDA for
review within six months of the end of the Government's fiscal year,
starting in 1987; (b) the Project Director would submit to IDA semi-annual
progrees reports starting by the period ending December 31, 1987; and
(c) vithin six months of the project Closing Date a final report on project
achievemente would be prepared and submitted to IDA.
D.   Project Benefits and Risks
75.       Benefits.  The construction of 750 classrooms would permit an
enrollment increase of about 34,000 pupils by 1992 (an increase of about
13% as compared to 1985 enrollments). Moreover, rehabilitation of 3.000
classrooms, restructuring of the teach±ng force, reduction in construction
costs, increased participation by local communities in construction and
maintenance, reduction in the volume of scholarships, and improved resource
management tn the education sector are expected to result in considerable
fiscal savings (para 65) and, thus, to a substantial increase in access ta
primary education.  In addition, the institution building supported by the
project i expected to provide the basis for a more carefully planned
long-term education developuent in line with the needs of the economy and
the budgetary resources of the Government. Finally, most of the about
251,400 pupils already enrolled in public primary schools would benefit
directly from the project through better trained teachers, improved
availability, relevance and quality of textbooks and improved school
buildings.
76.       Risks.  The project has two main risks.  Firstly, the Ministry of
Education has no experience in implementing IDA-financed projects, and
inadequate technlcal expertise in low-cost classroom construction. To
address this problem, the project would equip the Ministry vith a Project
Coordination Unit to monitor everall project implementation, and vith a
Bureau of School Infrastructure and Equipment to implement the construction
and rehabilitation program.  Secondly, there is some pressure from vithin
the educational establishment to recruit more costly teachers ("insti-
tuteurs") rather than to improve the quality of education through more
cost-effective measures. It is expected that the Government's commitment
made vithin the context of its structural adjustment progran to limit the
growth in recurrent expenditures, will result in a teacher traint.ng and
recruitment policy that will contain the growth in average teacher
salaries. To facilitate the implementation of such a policy the project
would provide in-service training for existing teachers, improve the pre-
service training of "instituteurs-ad4oints" and strengthen the Ministry's



- 25 -
capacity to develop, procure and distribute textbooks and teachers' guides.
Furthermore, the GovernLent has agreed to recruit and promote teachers in a
manner guaranteeing that the percentage of "instituteurs" teaching iD
primary schools does not exceed 14Z of total teaching staff in such schools
throughout Zhe execution of the project. In the school year 1985-86,
"instituteurs" accounted for 14.62 of the primary school teacbing force.
PART V - RECOMMENDATIONS
77.       I au satisfied that the proposed IDA credit vould comply vith the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
Preaident
Attachments
october 28, 1986
Washington, D.C.



ANNES I
- 26-                                               Page lof 2
11169 E R    ECOUN1       IC   IMDICATDRB
bnal Brmth Rateu 11 *t Constut Pricu
I-t
la 191                        Ictual             Est.                   Pro juct
[Mlin. ot     --------ci-                                     --------
Indicatr                           turrent 119>      1991     1992     190      1590     1965    19C6      197    19,      1m       1Wm
NRTIINIM. COITS
Gras Dmstic Product                     1770        l.Ol   -0.1    -2.6%   -16.0%       7.1%     3.0%    2.01    2. 11     2.2%     2.31
qricuîtvre                             817        8.42     1.31     3.52  -20.9      16.4%     3.61     2.2%    2.1%     2.31     2.41
Industry                               305      20.21    -7.71     0.52   -21.1%     7.31     1.SI    2.11    2.11    2.21    2.61
of whi.ha  lininq                    146       29.01   -12.81     3.4%  -11.2%      0.81    0.01    0.02      0.01    0.01    0.01
Surica                                 574        7.9n    -0.31    -0.%   -16.5%      9.31     1.31    2.01     1.12    1.9%      1.9L
lapat Tan aid htUls                     74      -5.41    -2.5%   -17.0%  -21.1%       1.0%    0.41   -e.9       4.51    4.32      4.5%
Consuoption                             1678       19.12   -3.71      4.2%   -7.6%    -2.2%   -2.01    0.5%        1. 1    1.5%     1.11
fross Fixai Capital farmtiu              239      -16.5n   -33.31   -16.01  -17.1%    -s.n       1.1     3.1%     6.3%    2.31      1.11
Emparts of lacs & M-F Services           371      -2.n   -19.31       8.21  -10.9%    -9.0%    -1.9%     6.2      1.62     1.62     1.51
Imprts of lo4s c    If Services          422       -1.41   -11.32   -14.8%    -7.2%    11.5%   -15.31    2.1%     4.3%    0.9%      0.9n
PRICES                                               lui      152      1193    1994      1995     196      l7       ISU9    159m    19
6P Deflator (19I>1001                              94.3    92.9   100.0   108.7   116.9   123.!   131.3   139.2   147.5   156.4
Exchuge Rate ICFRFIISJI          (yerage)         271.7   320.6   391.1   437.0   44.    350.0   350.0   350.0    50.0   350.0
Exepat Price Imiez (1913.1001                      76.5    97.4    100.0   103.8    93.5       %.3   100.3   104.9   110.3   114.1
lapart Price Indrs <19931001                      105.1   101.3   100.0    59.3    98.1    q5.7    97.7   101.6   105.5   109.1
Tera of Traie Indu  (19SW1001                      72.9    86.3    100.0   105.6    95.3    100.7   102.1   103.3    104.6   104.6
Shre cf 6DP at lakriet Pricn 111                  verage bacul [arense I1)
<at carrent prices)                            (et ceatant pricul
Cateqry                                     1970     1975     190      1955    1990           1970-75  1975-80  19N-35  155-90
Brass Dheastir PrDduct                          100.02   100.01   100.02   100.12   100.01             0.31    7.11    -2.32      2.31
Agriculture                                   42.01    46.41   42.6%    44.51   49.71               2.31    5. 3      1 1    2.5%
Industry                                     10.1I    27.5%    22.72    17.21    11.42             22.41    3.11    -0.11      2.22
cf  Ahich: lining                            0.11     5.8t   12.6%     9.21     5.71            130.7n    24.9Y     1.91    0.01
Services                                     29.21    21.7I   29.7%   35.0%    35.91               -5.51    14.1%   -0.2       1.L
lqot  axesahtein                             19.71     4.5t    5.O2    3.12    4.O                -24.11    11.6h   -9.01    2.6U
Share in 99P
Ca.ptiîa                                      9.7n    86.91    77.41    97.11   91.71               0.31     4.71    2.01    0.61
tra   Fixea Capital Farutiu                   11.91   21.9%    28.31    12.81    10.91              5.5l   12.9%   -18.61    2.92
Experts of lacds                              12.3%    19.5l   22.5%    20.21    15.11              9.92    12.71    -6.52     1.S1
lpwrti of 6eis                               23.89    25.91    31.3%   24.4%   19.21                9.02    10.1   4.62    -1.31
POLIC F1111  luncl. 6rtt   i Brat-Financud Invuntut>    1975          1980     1985    1990
(Billions cf Currnt CFF>
Current Revenus                                        20.2    64.1    69.5   101.5
Correct Expndîitmre                                    17.3     50.9    72.5    71.3
Current Srplu  (.1 or beficit 1-1                       2.9    1L3.3    -2.9      30.2
Capital Expuditure                                      1.5    70.2    27.7    40.5
Farign Finmciî  let]                                      -     40.4    23.4    13.1
lincludia; reucb.uli:q>
22-Oct-lé



-27 -                                                            MNNEx I
Psge 2 of 2
NILINCE  OF POVUEITS  mii  EXIERIIL CAPIIAL ain  DENT
ktual                Et.               Prajmt.i
C àT E  B D R ïY----- ._-- _ ____
1991     1992     1983    1994      1995      1986     1907     197B     1999     l0
U11M    OF ULIIMIE 0F PAEIIEMTS                                        lflIo.n Df Currmt os $1
Esports of GDond                             497.6   366.7   370.5   303.9   250.6    337.4   351.7   371.7   390.3   419.0
of .hichm  Uru1ueu                           373.5    276.3   29B.7   226.1    214.4    267.1   275.1   293.4   292.3   301.1
Agriculture and                   124.1    62.1      Si.    52.6       22.0      45.1    49.1      9.6      71.1    78.3
Llvntack
lmport ef Bnds                             -662.8  -542.9  -438.9  -318.3  -353.7   -355.4   -372.   -407.1  -427.7  -43.0
of uhichi  Fuid                               29.4    27.7    32.3    23.2    t1.3          22.9    21.7    22.9    24.0    23.1
Dther Cutuur Gos                   94.9    l9.3   149.9    108.0    91.3        120.0   126.6    133.1      40.3   140.0
Petrolm   ald its Produtt         135.4    47.9    34.6       27.0    27.6       26.3    24.3    27.1    30.0    33.4
Int.rutiate t Capital Ou"         195.7   268.1   223.1   15L1    143.6    186.3    200.3   224.0   233.4   245.4
Sbvices tatl                                -1152t  -110.2  -100.0   -92.9 8 4.1   -112.9  -11.1  -115.1  -112.3  -117.1
TIrnsf rs                                    159.6    96.8    96.3       73.2    130.0      82.3    91.7    92.3    97.7   107.7
Private                                    -46.4   -48.7   -44.6    -32.0   -32.3    -42.9    -42.9    -42.9    -42.9    -42.9
Pulic                                      154.9   145.5   131.0   105.3   162.3         125.1   134.6   135.1   140.6   151.6
CErrent tiant Bahlce                        -171.8   -189.6   -01.9   -24.0   -57.2    -49.6    -48.0   -59.3   -52.0   -41.4
Curant  uraunt ulance
excludinq PubiLcI Tranmsfn                -326.9  -335.0  -212.8  -129.3  -219.5   -173.7  -132.1  -193.4  -192.6  -192.0
Financina  Rtob, Total                       209.4    59.6    95.6       15.1     19.6      -5.4    23.1    49.7       46.6    54.0
KTI loins (t tl                              236.à    37.4    53.0       16.5     13.9       0.3    23.1    49.7       46.6    54.0
Gffitcil-wmrce laIns  Inet>                254.8     52.6    57.5    27.0    26.0         10.0     32.3    54.3      49.7    54.3
Privatrsmrce loins l(ut>                   -19.2   -15.2    -4.5    -10.5   -12.2         -9.7    -9.1    -4.6    -3.1    -0.3
tur Capital <neat                            -29.2     22.2    32.5    -1.4        5.9      -5.7      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Ivermîl Balae                             36.6  -129.9       3.7    -B.9   -37.6    -5.0    -24.9    -9.6          -s.4    12.6
External Capital and Det                        1991     1992     19W3     1984     1998      1986
Briss Iislrusents                            284.1   153.1   127.8    97.5    101.3    1o0.3
Publk                                    279.3    75.8    90.0    77.9    92.4          92.6
Extermal D bt
htst.ndiq Md DiHbarsui                     909.4   837.0   920.9   908.6  9S5.2
lét Service et LT                             1181     1982     193      194      195       1996
Tali <befn Ruscebliulî                     153.2   193.5   132.3   133.7   142.0    179.6
Df thir:  Ianteret                       83.1      77.9    57.5    52.6    54.5         63.9
Prinmcipl                      70.1    115.6    74.8    91.0    87.5        109.7
leschuiIlag                                           0.0      8.9    49.2    44.5        56.3
TDaI Cafter Rmcbhling)                     153.2   193.5   123.3    94.4    97.5         122.3
Pq.ts as I of Emprts    io RrBsch.         30.92    46.62    33.02    40.51    51.52      49.12
of 6is ad Nom Factor: mith Rnd.                             30.9S    25.62    35.41    32.S9
Sof vics
Vila
n-on-_ M 



- 28 -
ANNEX Il
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATUS 0F BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A.  STATEMENT 0? IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1986)
US$ Million
Credit    Fiscal                               Amount (lesa cancellation) c|
Number     Year      Purpose                   IDA ai b/         Undisbursed
Fifteen credits fully disbursed                82.00                  --
885      1979       Livestock                 12.00                 3.58
886      1979       Feeder Roads              10.00                 0.18
1026      1980       Second Naradi Rural Dvt. 16.70                  8.44
1151      1981       Education                 21.50                10.39
1225      1982       Industrial Development   16.00                  9.55
1226      1982       Second Forestry           10.10                 7.07
1309      1983       Vater Supply               6.50                 3.64
1394      1983       Fourth Bighvay            23.60                 8.24
1493      1984       Economlc & Financial      11.70                 8.27
Management Improvement
1511      1985       Power Eng. and T.A.        7.50                 5.73
1618      1985       Irrigation Rehabilitation 9.30                  8.31
1660      1986       Structural Adjustment    20.00                 16.55
A012      1986       Structural Adjustment    40.00                 33.02
1668 d/   1986      Health                     27.80                27.80
1706      1986      Transport Sector           15.00                15.00
A018      1986       Transport Sector          15.00                15.00
Total                         344.70                180.77
of which has been repaid   (4.39)
Total now outstanding
and held by IDA            340.31
Total undisbursed                                   180.77
a/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
hi Computed at the rate of the approval dates.
ci   Computed at the September 30, 1986, rate of US$1.21342-1 SDR.
d/   Not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMEIT AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1986
Loan                                             Amount
Number    Year    Borrover           Purpose      of Loan a/    Equity aJ   Total
_   ~(US$ Million equivalent)-
619-NIR   1982   Les Moulins         Flourmill      2.22          0.33         2.55
du Sahel S.A.
(BDS)
Total nov held by IFC               2.16          0.24         2.40
Total undisbureed                   0.43            --         0.43
a/   Amount at time of approval.



- 30 -                       ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPKENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I - Timetable of Key Events
1.        Identification:  To further the education sector dialogue between
Niger and the Bank Group, IDA organized in November 1984 a seminar in
Niamey to define, together with Government officials, an education sector
strategy designed to accelerate the development of primary education
through more effective and efficient use of existing education resources.
Project elements to support the implementation of this strategy vere iden-
tified and further developed during a pre-appraisal mission in February
1985. The policy content of the project vas further developed during an
intensive policy dialogue between the Goverument and IDA during summer and
autumn of 1985.
2.        Preparation:  The project has been prepared by the Ministry of
National Education, Higher Education and Research (MENESR) assisted by
technical assistance financed under Credït No. 1151-NIR.
3.        SAC Appraisal:  September 1985.  Agreement vas reached on overall
investment program for the education sector as well as on cost-saving
measures to be implemented in the sector during the period covered by SAC
(through FY88).
4.        Appraisal:  November/December 1985.
5.        Pre-Negotiations:  May-June 1986.  The two main outstanding
issues regarding scholarship budget and teacher salaries vere resolved.
6.        Negotiations:  September 9-19, 1986.
7.        Target Effectiveness:  January 1, 1987.
SECTION Il - Special Project Implementation Action
1.        A Bureau of School Infrastructure and Equipment and a Project
Coordination Unit have been established vithin the Ministry of Education.
SECTION III - Special Conditions
1.        Conditions of effectiveness:
(a) that the conditions for effectiveness of the cofinancing by the
Federal Republic of Germany have been fulfilled.



- 31 -                     ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
2.        Conditions of disbursement
(a) disbursement against claseroom construction vould be conditioned
on agreement each year between IDA and the Government on the
annual program for classroom construction as well as on the
composition of the education investment budget for the coming
three years (para 54)
3.        Other conditions:
(a) not later than June 30 each year, starting in 1987, the Govern-
ment would organize an annual project and sector review meeting
with IDA to discuss, inter alia, each fiscal year's recurrent
budget for education as well as to discuss and agree annually on
the composition of the education investment budget for the coming
three years (para 41);
(b) the Coverument would recruit and promote teachers in a manner
guaranteeing that the percentage of "instituteurs" teaching in
primary schools does not exceed 14% of total teaching staff in
such schools throughout the execution of the project (para 41);
(c) the Government would reduce the nominal scholarship budget for
higher education by at least 3.7% per year during FY88 through
FY91 and would not grant other subsidies for non-academic services
to students to compensate for this reduction (para 41);
(d) not later than September 30, 1987, the Government would discuss
and agree wvth IDA on the program chosen for the experiment with
double-shift teaching; start the experiment not later than
October 31, 1988, review with IDA the ongoing results of the
program, not later than September 30 of each year, and take into
consideration IDA's comments; and discuss the final results of
the experiment and their policy implications vith IDA prior to
September 30, 1991 and agree on subsequent actions (para 46);
(e)  the Covernment would establish and maintain a publication unit, a
training service for authors of educational publications, and an
evaluation service at INDRAP by December 31, 1987; and prior to
carrying out any new project for the extension of INDRAP's
printing capacity, the Goverament would subuit to IDA for comments
and exchange of views an economic and financial study of such
project (para 49); and
(f) the Government would prepare school maintenance procedures and
manuals, discuss them with IDA and introduce them not later than
September 30, 1988 and assure that maintenance subsequently would
be adequately supervised by the inspectorates (para 56).



- 32 -                    ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
THE GOVERNMENT'S EDUCATION SECTOR STRATEGY
1.        As part of the structural adjustment program being assisted under
Credit No. 1660-NIR, the Government has developed an education strategy
directed at the principal issues of the sector. The strategy has the twin
objective of preventing thet the tight financial constraint vould cause a
further decline in the weak primary education base, while st the same time
laying the foundations for medium- to long-term developments in line vith
expected resources avallability and estimated needs for trained manpower.
2.        The main elements of the strategy vere formulated ln the summer
of 1985 by an Interministerial Committee for Structural Reform, chaired by
the Ministry of Planning, and outlined in a Letter of Development Policy
(LDP) discussed with IDA in connection vith Credit No. 1660-NIR; the
relevant sections are reproduced in the attachment. These elements have
been further clarified at the beginning of the 1985-86 school year when the
Government hnitiated measures of major importance for positive adjustment
and reform in the education sector.
3.        The core of the strategy iL the Government's reduction of costs
throughout the sector and the redeployment of resources in order to reverse
the recent decline in the primary education enrollment rates. To contain
the increase ïn salary coteS, the Governuent has agreed to give prlcrity to
the training and recruitment of "instituteurs-adjoints" instead of the more
costly "instituteurs" and ta improve the quality of the teaching force
through in-service training of "moniteurs" and "moniteurs auxiliares". A
high-level Education Commission established Ln August 1985 by the Head of
the State to review the train±ng, statue and working conditions of
teachers, has recommended major revisions in teacher training and
recruitment policies. As a first measure to rationalize and improve
planning and management of the sector, in September 1985, the Governuent
unified administrative responsibility for education under one single
Ministry and introduced cost recovery measures such as charges for school
supplies and Lncreased tuition fees for private schools.
4.        In parallel with these policy changes, the Governuent ls tackling
the issues concerning the physical facilities at the disposal of primary
education: vith the assistance of consultants financed under Credit
No. 1151-NIR, it has carried out a survey and formulated a carefully
designed progras of low cost construction, rehabilitation and improved
maintenance.
5.        To provide for the expansion and improvement of priary
education, cOst reductions are being made in secondary and higher
education. At the start of the 1985-86 school year, fellovships were
reduced by about 15% ln real ternse as compared with their level ln 1984-85;
in addition, their administration is expected to be improved to enaure that



-33 -                      ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 5
assistance vill be directed essentially to the needy and able etudente
boing trained in areas rsquired by Niger devalopment. Cost reductions are
aima expected on the construction side through the phased implementation of
a acheme to restructure lower secondary education with Africin Development
Fund assistance; the implementation of this wcheme snd of other inveetments
planned for secondary and higher education is boing scrutinized in detail
to fit the resources constraint.
6.        In suam, the Government's policy and strategy call for positive
adjustment frosa s small, costly and assentially elitist education sector
for the few to a more equitable, relevant and efficient system vith an
expanding primary education base and more economical secondarJ and higher
education to moet clearly identified manpover requirenents. Implementation
of this positive adjustment policy needs necessarily to be phased over
several years ln line vith strengthened managerial and administrative
capability as ell as vith improved resources availabtlity. Although not
yet fully articulated in all their aspects, the Governmentte poiicy and
strategy are responsive to development needs and deserve support as an
integral part of the broader structural adjustment program.



- 34 -                     ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 5
Attachment
Exc tps from the Letter of Development PolicY
(Annex IV, Artachment 3, to Credit 1660-NIR)
EDUCATION
13.               In the education sector, Niger je confronted with a
double imbalance between (j) the ourrent development trends of the sector
and the long-term training needs of the country on the one hand, and
(li) the obJectives of the education system and the economic and financial
realities of the country on the other. This double imbalance has, over
time, been aggravated by the high unit costs of training at ail levels and
by an inefficient allocation of available resources. Notwithstanding the
significant share of the government budget allocated to education (21%),
Niger's primary enrollment ratio (25%) is one of the veakest in Africa.
Moreover, although the post-primary enrollment ratio renaïns poor, the
modern sector of the economy vill not be able to absorb all the graduates.
Concurrent with the groving unemployment among these graduates, Niger
continues to cope with a serious shortage of certain categories of middle
and higher level technicians.
14.       Consclous of these imbalances and of the degradation in the
educational system provaked by the economie and financial crisis, the
covernment has decided to substantially adjust sectoral objectives and
resource allocation.
15.       Absolute priority will be given to stemming the decrease in the
enrollment ratio of primary education and, subsequently, to its progressive
ïncrease. To that effect, the Goverrnment has decided ta postpone its plans
for extending the primary education cycle> to undertake a thorough reform
to improve the effectiveness of the teaching sta. !, to give priority to
training associate teachers, and to adapt the training programs to the
realities of the country. The Goverament has also decided to encourage the
creation of primary schools in the private sector and to expand the primary
education capacity through a low-cost school construction program, making
better use of local reinforced construction matez al.  A more rational
utilization of existing infrastructure in the rural areas as vell as the
physical rehabilitation of certain schools vill a;so allow an increase in
the number of students.
16.       The refocusing of priorities on primary education will be
combined with a deliberate slow-down on the expansion of secondary and
higher education. As mucli as possible, all future expansion of secondary
education should be concentrated on the lover level and pursued through the
decentralized construction of schools, which would reduce drop-out rates,
construction coste and, particularly, unit operating costs, due to fever
needed scholarships. The qualitative improvement of the teaching staff
vill be pursued through a reform of the teacher training college, which is
being prepared, and through retraining of certain teachers.
17.       Access to higher education vill be based strictly on individual
qualifications as well as on the needs of the economy and the
administration.



- 3-                     AHN   IV
Page 4 of 5
Attac'ient
18.       The economic development of Niger vill depend to a large extent
on the availability of technicians and specialized labor. Nevertheless,
taklng into account the high coste of training, the Government vill
carefully assesa the needs of the country before establishing any new
technical and higher level training.
19.       In view of its financial constraints, the Goverament vould not be
able tu allocate a larger share of lts resources to the education sector,
eupecially as far as operation and maintenance are concerned.  Assuming
that official development assistance vill finance moet of the investments,
operation and maintenance of the system vill have to be financed largely by
the Government sad the beneficiaries. The qualitative and quantitative
improvement of primary education vill, therefore, oaly be possible to the
extent to which the Coverument - through a combination of more efficient
utilization snd reallocation of existing resources vithin the sector - is
able to free itself froa the constraints of a rigid budgetary ceiling and
rapidly increasing costs. The folloving measures, which aim to realize
savlngu and to transfer a larger share of aperation and maintenance costs
to the beneficiaries, vill be introduced:
(a) Construction of primary schools with local reinforced materials
and adapted to local conditions, starting in Bchool year 1985/86
(costs of a classroom vill be reduced from 4.3 miflion to 2.5
million CFAf).
<b)  Construction of small secondary uchools, starting ln 1985/86.
The unit conts for a school (four clasurooms, one administrative
building, a laboratory, and housing for four teachers) vlll be
reduced from 280 million to 107 million CFAF. Moreover, for aost
of the students scholarships vill no longer be needed (36,000
CeAP per student per year).
(c) Participation of the beneficiaries in the construction and
maintenance of classes (underway).
(d) Gradual restructuring of the teacher staff in primary education,
emphasizing the training of associate teachers
("instituteurs-adjoints"), vill start in 1985/86 (savings per new
teacher: 261,000 CFAP per year).
(e) Retire from service those teachers recognized as unfit for the
profession (undervay).
(f) Eliainate teaching allovances for administrative staff
(anticipated savingu: 72 million CFAF in 1986).
(g) In urban centers, transfer to the parents the cost of school
supplies beginning in 1986/87 (auticipated savings: 64 million
CFAF p.a.).
(h) A coumission has been created to study sud revise the scholarship
system, iocludîng the amount and conditions of scbzlardhips.
Stipenda are no longer being paid during vacations to those
students who have not successfully completed the annual exas.



ANNEX IV
- 36 -                    Page 5 of 5
Attachment
Together with other measures to limit the acholarships of
unsuccesaful students, savinga of about 168 million CFAF have
already been realized ln 1984/85.
(1) Promote private education sud etrengthen control over private
institutions to ensure the quallty of education.



[r             !'                            4-                Irl fuunnth                           e~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
N  I G    E  R                                !zim. â 
- IH-                                                          ffNIGER  I
. lPoed Roads (I or 2 Lanes)                                           N
Paved Roods under Construction             I
Engîreered Gravel Roods                                      N                    -\
-  Simple Eorth Roods                          I
Maintained Troccks                                                                                tAG
Simnple Irocki                                                                        Astca               
Rivers                                                                         In Go ;1
t    Airports
@    Depariment Capitais
Depoarment Boundories                                   T                  Nouag 
--Internatortanl EBundories                                 T _ h.m btbrwadenp ye_
)~  ~~~*. )___,....JlaEkrakrqe                                                Ca -f --çKe) |e
t 4
t ! t,-NG
NIAMEO                      go :!'RAtfJ
Torod.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IRRO  16779R
B                                  0-                                 12?                                14-
,, -         .----- -i
vwool,noui
~~)~<Sabonkah                                                                    
Moyoli~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
E1                                                   -                                                                                  J      11E ZINDER
:r»~~~~o                                                                    DIFF_-A,/        {,                  ALGERIA                    .
buIz\Mo@                                                                      t é.s MAL i  NIGER
'ri rn ~ ~    ~     Kel                                           Nugm               
KILOMETERS                                                                      '- CHAD
0aoh  L'50     100        0     2Cs  N  25.
mo~s                                                                100 -S                       12 *,r                               ?-
TA,LES                                         - -G      NIGERIA
~~~__. t>na                                                                                          - ,_ " 3:- °-o
_ _lill W _ _ _LOM ETERS_                                                      A M  R   O (   R R C
- ID -           12-                               C;uff -ll 'uva      55 'NT. RAL
MARCH 1986



