Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15748
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1740-NIR)
June 14, 1996
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perionnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQl :VALENTS
(June 5, 1996)
Currency Unit      =      CFA franc
US$1.00            =      CFA franc 516
CFA fanc 1 million   =    US$1,937.38
SDR I=                   US$1.44
US$1                      SDR.69
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER    SCHOOL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31                                   October - June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB               African Development Bank
BIES               Bureau des Infrastructures et des Equipements ScolairesiSchool
Construction Bureau
DEP                Directorate of Planning and Programming
EERP               Emergency Education Rehabilitation Plan
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
IDA                International Development Association
IN                 Instituteurs
INA                Instituteurs adjoints
INDRAP             Institut National de documentation, de recherche et d 'animation
pedagogiqueslNational Institute for Pedagogical Documentation,
Research and Promotion
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GNP                Gross National Product
MOE                Ministry of Education
PCU                Project Coordination Unit
PROSEF             Projet sectoriel d 'enseignement fondamental,'Basic Education
Sector Project/Hybrid
SAL                Structural Adjustment Loan
TTC                Teacher Training College



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY.
INTRODUCTION.1
A. Macroeconomic Setting .............................................1..................1
B. Bank's role in the Sector .
PROJECT OBJECTIVES ......2....................................2
A. Original Project Objectives .................................................2
B. Project Description and Components .................................................2
C. Credit covenants and Special Agreements .................................................3
D. Evaluation of Project Objectives .................................................3
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS ...........................................4
A. Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability .................................................4
B. Summary of costs and Financing Arrangements .................................................7
C. Implementation  Schedule .................................................7
D. Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives .................................................8
E. Assessment of the Bank's and the Borrower's Performance .................................................8
F. Assessment of Project's Outcome .................................................9
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS
LEARNED ..............................................................9
A. Important Findings of Project Implementation Experience ...............................................................9
B. Future Operations and Sustainability ....................................................................                               10
C. Lessons for Future Projects in the sector ....................................................................                          11
STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:                 Summary of Assessments
Table 2:                Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:                Project Timetable
Table 4:                Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:                Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:                Studies Included in the Project
Table 7A:               Project Costs
Table 7B:               Project Financing
Table 8:                Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:                Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10:               Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices:    A. Mission's aide-memoire
B. Summary of Borrower's contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribuLion and may be used by recipients only in the perfonmnancc of Lheir
officiai duties. 1us contents may not otherwise be disclosed wihout World Bank authoriation.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1740-NIR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Primary Education
Development Project in Niger for which Credit 1740-NIR was approved on November 18,
1986 in the amount of SDR 15.3 million (US$18.4 million equivalent) and which was
made effective on May 11, 1987.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1995 following two extensions from the
original closing date of June 30, 1994. It was disbursed up to the amount of SDR 15
million (US$20.8 million equivalent in 1996), with the final disbursement on April 30,
1996. The undisbursed amount of SDR 0.25 rnillion (US$0.36 million equivalent in 1996)
was canceled. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Kingdom of Norway
(US$4.7 million, fully disbursed); and Germany (US$1.7 million, fully disbursed).
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Makha Ndao (AF4PH), assisted by Messrs. Ross
Pfile (AF4PH), and Pierre Nignon (Resident mission, Niger); and reviewed by Irene
Xenakis, Portfolio Manager (AF4PH), Ian Porter, Division Chief (AF4PH), and Franz
Kaps, Operations Advisor (AF4DR). The Borrower provided comments that are included
as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission of October 1995. It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower
contributed to preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's
execution, contributing views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire, and commenting on
the draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1740-NIR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Bank's Role in the Sector. The Primary Education Development Project (Cr. 1740-
NIR) for US$18.4 million was the Bank's Second Education Project in Niger. It follows one
preceding Bank operation in education since 1981 (Cr. 1151-NIR) for US$21.5 million.
While the preceding project focused on training of middle-level technicians and extension
workers in agriculture and animal production, the project under review focused on primary
education, and the subsequent project, the Basic Education Sector Project/Hybrid (PROSEF)
(Cr. 2618-NIR), approved in June 1994, and effective September 26, 1995, focuses on the
education sector as a whole (para. 1.4).
2.    Social indicators paint a grim picture of the country's poverty, placing it among the
bottom five countries in the world for all social indicators.  The Government's social
adjustment program, aimed at increasing resource use and strengthening the country's
resource base, received assistance from the Bank in the amount of a US$20 million loan,
approved in February 1986. It was Niger's policy to move away from a small, elitist system
(with a literacy rate of about 14 percent and primary school enrollment of 25 percent in the
mid-1980s) to a broader and more equitable system, with secondary and higher education in
line with the economy's need and capacity (para. 1.5).
3.    Project Objectives and Components. The main objectives and components of the
Primary Education Development Project were the following: (a) reduce recurrent unit costs
and improve quality and relevance of primary education including: (i) restructuring the
teaching force by limiting the need for recruiting high-cost instituteurs, by improving the
quality of existing teachers and of the pre-service training of instituteurs adjoints; (ii)
expanding multigrade teaching in rural areas and introducing the use of double-shift schooling
in forty urban classes; and (iii) establishing a national capacity to develop, adapt, procure and
distribute about one million low-cost textbooks and teachers' guides; (b) reduce unit capital
costs and improve access to primary education including: (i) developing low-cost
construction techniques for primary schools and building 750 classrooms (thus increasing
primary school enrollment by about 34,000 pupils); (ii) renovating 3,000 existing classrooms;
and (iii) promoting the development of a community-based school maintenance system; and
(c) promote more cost-effective resource utilization including: (i) strengthening the Ministry
of Education's (MOE) capacity to manage and control the use of human, physical and
financial resources at central and local levels; (ii) reinforcing the planning and monitoring
capabilities of the Directorate of Planning and Programming (DEP) within the MOE; and (iii)
establishing a capacity within MOE to prepare and implement education projects (para. 2.2).



ii
4.    Given the exceptionally low and decreasing primary school enrollment ratio and
declining quality, the project's policy objectives and associated investments program were
timely, appropriate, and in line with the Bank's education sector policies.  The project
objectives were in harmony with the Government's own education sector strategy which were
based on the national consensus building that had taken place in order to lay the foundation
for sustainability.
5.    Credit Covenants and Special Agreements. In addition to the agreements reached
during negotiations, the following condition of Credit effectiveness was also agreed upon:
effectiveness of the cofinancing by the Federal Republic of Germany. This condition of Credit
effectiveness was complied with by Niger to the satisfaction of the Bank and the Credit was
declared effective on May 11, 1987 (paras. 2.3 and 2.4).
6.    The Development Credit Agreement was amended as follows over the course of
project implementation: (a) to double the amount of the IDA credit Special Account and the
authorized allocation specified in the Norwegian Grant Agreement due to rapid disbursement,
(b) to increase the amounts allocated under Category 1 (School Rehabilitation) and under
Category 2 (Furniture and Materials) specified in Paragraph 1 of the Schedule to the
Norwegian Grant Agreement, (c) a reallocation of Credit fands; and (d) extension of the
closing date (para. 2.5).
7.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The main objectives of the project were to reduce
unit recurrent cost, improve quality and relevance of primary education, reduce the cost of
classroom construction, increase access to primary education, and promote more cost-
effective use of existing education resources. Given the declining primary school ratio from
27 percent in 1980/81 to 25 percent in 1984/85, it was necessary to reverse the trend and to
put more emphasis on primary school expansion. The Government realized that if the
stagnation and deterioration of the education sector were allowed to continue, the low level of
human resources development would have serious detrimental effects on the country's long-
term economic growth prospects. Within the context of the overall structural adjustment
program, the Government's adjustment strategy for the education sector had the dual
objective of (a) preventing further decline in primary education enrollment, and (b) laying the
foundation for future development as seen from  a macroeconomic perspective.  The
Government and Project objectives were consistent and fell directly under the country's own
macroeconomic framework and structural adjustment program and were in harmony with the
Bank's country assistance strategy (paras. 2.6-2.8).
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS.
8.    Assessment of the Project's Success and Sustainability. Success in achieving the
project's main objective of assisting the Government in reversing the decline in the primary
school enrollment ratio is evidenced by the fact that this ratio increased to about 30 percent in
1994, in spite of a 15 percent increase in the primary school age population during the same
period. The efficiency gains implemented under the project were instrumental in reducing the
unit recurrent cost per primary school student from US$77 to US$62. Unit recurrent costs
were reduced by (a) limiting the need of recruiting high cost instituteurs (IN) in the teaching



iii
force, while the remaining being instituteurs adjoints (INA)--the starting salary of the former
exceeds that of the latter by 50 percent; and (b) introducing the use of double-shift teaching in
urban areas--one teacher teaches one group of pupils in the morning and another in the
afternoon; and expanding multigrade teaching in rural areas--one teacher teaches two grades
in the same classroom. Efficiency measures were implemented without impairing educational
quality improvement. At project appraisal, only 20 percent of those who sat for the primary
school leaving examination in 1985, passed. This percentage increased from 25 percent in
1989 to 33 percent in 1994. Unit capital costs were reduced through the development of low-
cost primary school construction techniques. Before the January 1994 devaluation of the
CFA franc, the average cost per classroom of CFA franc 2,178,000 under self-help
construction was lower than classrooms built in 1985 (under the supervision of the Ministry of
Public Works) by the private sector for the administration, and those constructed under the
Education I project, the average cost was lower by 50 percent and 31 percent (in nominal
terms), respectively. After the devaluation, the unit cost per classroom increased to CFA
franc 3 million. The adjustment measures which initially met considerable resistance from
students and teachers' unions when initiated have matured and are now well internalized by
ministry staff and the teachers' unions (paras. 3.1-3.9).
9.    Summary of Costs and Financing Arrangements. The total cost of the project
(Table 7A) was estimated at appraisal to be US$26.2 million equivalent with the Government
contributing US$1.4 million equivalent. Financing was provided by the following: (a) IDA,
US$18.4 million equivalent; (b) a grant from the Kingdom of Norway of US$4.7 million
equivalent; (c) a grant from the Federal Republic of Germany--through KfW--of US$1.7
million equivalent. Total disbursements of IDA's Credit at ICR preparation (US$20.8 million)
were higher than projected at appraisal due to changes in the US$/SDR exchange rate (para.
3.10).
10.   Implementation Schedule. Preparation, Negotiations, Signing, Credit Effectiveness,
and Implementation followed normal time schedules experienced in the country. The Closing
Date was extended twice for a total of 18 months (para. 4.1). Disbursements against
commitments were made until April 30, 1996. An outstanding balance of SDR 0.25 (about
US$0.36 million equivalent in 1996) under the IDA Credit, was canceled at Credit closing.
The Norwegian and KfW Grants were fully disbursed.
11.   Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives. The project achieved all its
major objectives. At appraisal stage, there were at least two main risks: first, the MOE had no
previous experience in implementing IDA-financed projects and had limited or inadequate
technical expertise in certain fields; and second, the goal of reducing education unit costs
through a cost-saving measure of recruiting instituteurs adjoints (INA) rather than instituteurs
(IN) was a more difficult and risky goal due to pressure for status quo from within the
educational establishment. To overcome the first risk, the Ministry of National Education,
Higher Education and Research (MOE) was equipped with a project coordinating unit (PCU)
and a school construction bureau (BIES) to implement the construction and rehabilitation
program. To facilitate the implementation of the second goal, several consultations with the
teachers' union were conducted. In addition, targeted measures such as teacher training, and
provision of sufficient textbooks helped overcome the initial handicaps. The delays regarding



iv
the computerization of the MOE were mainly due to unforeseeable factors (para. 3.8). The
issue was addressed to both the Bank's and the Government's satisfaction (para. 3.12).
12.   Assessment of the Bank's and Borrower's Performance. The Bank's performance
was satisfactory, and contributed to the achievement of most of the objectives. Project
supervision focused on overall support, encouragement, and priority issues to be addressed.
The Resident Mission provided guidance to the MOE, followed-up on issues which arose, and
held regular discussions with the MOE on project implementation. Despite delays at project
start-up in the school construction and textbook programs, the Borrower's performance in
project implementation was generally satiafactory. In some areas, the Borrower performed
particularly well, notably in implementing the efficiency measures. However, the Borrower's
performance could have been improved in carrying out the technical studies envisaged in the
SAR(para. 3.13).
13.   Assessment of Project's Outcome. The Primary Education Development Project can
be classified as satisfactory in reversing the trend of the declining enrollment ratio between
1980 and 1984, and in its effort to expand primary education through the efficient use of
education resources. The project made considerable progress in helping the Borrower to
achieve major efficiency gains by reducing unit recurrent and capital costs, and laying the
foundation for better quality of education through efficient teacher training and provision of
textbooks (paras. 3.14 and 3.15). The outcome was less satisfactory in entirely reforming the
management of the education sector.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS, AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
14.   For the most part, execution of this project and disbursement were on schedule
throughout the life of the project and covenants were in compliance.  Disbursement
procedures were regularly followed resulting in no rejections from the Bank and no negative
comments form the auditors. Further, regular supervision took place and despite a change in
Task Manager, no negative impact was experienced. A reallocation of the IDA Credit and the
Norwegian grant took place which allowed for the completion of the construction of 750
classrooms. A further one-year extension was given which allowed for additional classroom
construction. Being the first project entirely executed by the Ministry of Education, there
were some lags (in the construction and textbook program) at project launch which were
made up throughout the course of project implementation.
15.   Future operations will be developed in accordance with the Country Assistance
Strategy. Because of the low primary school enrollment ratio, emphasis will continue to be
placed upon expanding access to, and improving the quality of, primary education to raise the
general education level of the population. Moreover, measures aiming at further increasing
the communities' involvement in the provision of education will be provided for with a view
to further improving girls' access and expanding access to rural areas. The new Basic
Education Sector Project/Hybrid (PROSEF--Cr. 2618-NIR, effective on September 26, 1995)
builds directly on, and seeks to further, the positive results of the project under review (para.
4.4).



v
16.   Future operations will also strengthen the links between the education system, the
labor market, and national development needs. To meet basic technical skills requirements,
while continuing the expansion of primary education, it will be necessary to support post-
primary education by improving the overall quality of general secondary, technical and
vocational training, and higher education (para. 4.5).
17.   Although the project met its goal, the public sector is not yet equipped to provide
sufficient educational services because of its limited resources and the rapid population
growth. A major lesson learned from this project is that new complementary ways of
delivering educational services (without placing a burden on the Government's recurrent cost
budget) will have to be employed such as community-based and private schools.
18.   A  second lesson learned is that flexibility is required to address unforeseen
circumstances during implementation. The Bank and the Borrower demonstrated flexibility
which helped address issues arising during implementation such as initial delays in the
construction program and textbook provision.
19.   A third lesson to be drawn from this project is the importance of consensus-building to
gain wide acceptance for reforms among the various groups affected at the national level.
Restrictive reforms and changes which affect the concerned urban groups--teachers' union
and University students--are invariably resisted by those groups. Thus, the rationale behind
foreseen outcomes and improvements, must be explained and discussed before
implementation.
20.   The fourth lesson concerns the long-term process of improving the national capacity to
develop manuscripts and produce textbooks. The textbook production program was delayed
due to an over-ambitious assessment at appraisal of the capacity of the National Institute for
Pedagogical Documentation, Research and Promotion (INDRAP) (composed of civil
servants) to develop and test manuscripts for new textbooks and teachers' guides. To avoid
delays, manuscript preparation should be entrusted to private authors who have the capacity
to deliver. The ongoing project is supporting the development of quality control at INDRAP.
21.   The lessons learned from this project, as well as the First Education Project, have been
built into the new Basic Education Project and will be further elaborated in future operations
(para. 4. 10).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1740-NIR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
INTRODUCTION
A.    MACROECONOMIC SETTING
1. 1   Niger is one of the poorest countries in the world (US$270 per capita GNP). Social
indicators paint a grim picture of the country's poverty, placing it among the bottom five
countries in the world. Most of Niger's land is arid and semi-arid and vulnerable to weather
conditions. The majority of Niger's population of 8.5 million (about 85 percent rural) earns
its living in the rural sector, through agriculture and animal production. Livestock and
uranium account for the major exports.
1.2   Over the past decade, Niger's economic performance has been weak despite the
adoption of several adjustments programs. Real GDP declined by approximately one-half of
one percent per annum over the period 1993-94, and poverty increased significantly over the
same period. This very weak performance has been attributable not only to exogenous shocks
such as the deterioration of the terms of trade and chronic drought, but also inefficiency of
economic management, low levels of domestic saving and investment, and weak human
resources. Furthermore, until the 1994 change in parity, the real appreciation of the CFA
franc, particularly vis-a-vis the Nigerien naira, significantly impaired Niger's international
competitiveness.
1.3   Subsequently, the Government of Niger adopted an economic program designed to
capitalize on the benefits from the devaluation, while cushioning some of the adverse effects
of the change in parity on the most vulnerable social groups. Niger's 1994 economic program
was supported by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Despite the difficult
fiscal situation, the devaluation of the CFA franc and favorable weather conditions allowed
real GDP growth in 1994 to reach four percent, and real per capita to increase for the first
time in years. Still, much remains to be done in order to make further progress in stabilizing
the economy and to foster an economic environment conducive to sustainable, labor-intensive
growth and poverty reduction.
B.    BANK'S ROLE IN THE SECTOR
1.4   The Bank's involvement in Niger's education sector started with the First Education
Project (Cr. 1151 -NIR of US$21.5 million, effective in July 1982, and which closed on June
30, 1990, two and one-half years behind schedule). The project was designed to improve and



2
expand the output of middle-level technicians and extension workers in agriculture and animal
production through the development of two  agricultural schools.   While physical
implementation of this project faced no serious problems, the project's development impact
was reduced by low capacity utilization at the two schools and high recurrent costs. The
former resulted from the Government's financial inability to recruit new graduates into the
civil service at the rate foreseen at appraisal, combined with too slow action on the part of the
schools to develop programs which addressed training needs in the private sector. The high
unit cost was largely caused by the low capacity utilization and reflected the failure to reduce
staffing in step with the enrollment decline.
1.5   In 1986, Niger launched a structural adjustment program--SAL 1--(US$60 million
including $20 million from IDA) aimed at increasing the efficiency of resource use and
strengthening the country's resource base, as well as improving the balance of payments and
public finance position. This program included an education strategy with a dual objective of
preventing the Government's tight financial constraints from causing further decline in the
already low enrollment ratio in primary education (paras. 2.6 and 2.7). Recognizing that a
broader effort in education is an essential condition for sustained economic development in
Niger, the Bank Group supported the high priority given to primary education in the
Government's strategy. Thus, the Primary Education Development Project (Education II)
became the first to focus broadly on primary education.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A.    ORIGINAL PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.1   The main objectives of the Primary Education Development Project (CR. 1740-NIR,
signed in December 1986, for US$18.4 million) were to: (a) reduce unit recurrent cost and
improve quality and relevance of primary education; (b) reduce the cost of classroom
construction, and increase access to primary education; and (c) promote more cost-effective
use of existing education resources. Given the declining primary school ratio from 27 percent
in 1980/81 to 25 percent in 1984/85, it was necessary to reverse the trend and to put more
emphasis on primary school expansion.
B.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND COMPONENTS
2.2   The project components consisted of the following: (a) reduction in recurrent unit
costs and improvements in quality and relevance of primary education including: (i)
restructuring the teaching force by limiting the need for recruiting high-cost instituteurs, by
improving the quality of existing teachers and of the pre-service training of instituteurs
adjoints; (ii) expanding multigrade teaching in rural areas and introducing the use of double-
shift schooling in forty urban classes; and (iii) establishing a national capacity to develop,
adapt, procure and distribute about one million low-cost textbooks and teachers' guides; (b)
reduction in unit capital costs and improvement in access to primary education including: (i)
developing low-cost construction techniques for primary schools and building 750 classrooms
(thus increasing primary school enrollment by about 34,000 pupils); (ii) renovating 3,000



3
existing classrooms; and (iii) promoting the development of a community-based school
maintenance system; and (c) promotion of more cost-effective resource utilization including:
(i) strengthening the Ministry of Education's capacity to manage and control the use of
human, physical and financial resources at central and local levels; (ii) reinforcing the planning
and monitoring capabilities of the Directorate of Planning and Programming (DEP) within the
MOE; and (iii) establishing a capacity within MOE to prepare and implement education
projects.
C.   CREDIT COVENANTS AND SPECIAL AGREEMENTS
2.3   During Credit negotiations, the following agreements were reached, namely, that the
Borrower will: (a) recruit and promote teachers in a manner guaranteeing that the percentage
of instituteurs teaching in primary schools does not exceed 14 percent of total teaching staff in
such schools throughout the execution of the project; (b) reduce the nominal scholarship
budget for higher education by 3.7 percent per year from FY1988 through FY1991, and will
not grant other subsidies for non-academic services to students to compensate for this
reduction; (c) prepare school maintenance procedures and manuals, discuss them with IDA
and introduce them not later than September 30, 1988 and cause the inspectorates to provide
adequate maintenance supervision thereafter; (d) cause the project accounts to be audited
annually and disbursement against statements of expenditures to be audited semi-annually by
an independent auditor, acceptable to IDA, and forward the audit reports to IDA for review
within six months of the end of the Government's fiscal year, starting in 1987; and (e) submit
to IDA semi-annual project reports starting by the period ending December 31, 1987, and,
within six months of the project closing date, a final report summarizing the project
achievements.
2.4  In addition to the above agreements, the following condition of Credit effectiveness
was also agreed upon: effectiveness of the cofinancing by the Federal Republic of Germany.
This condition of Credit effectiveness was complied with by Niger to the satisfaction of the
Bank and the Credit was declared effective on May 11, 1987.
D.   EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.5   During the early 1980's, the country's extremely low literacy rate of about 14 percent
remained stagnant, and the primary school enrollment decreased (para. 2.1). Despite Niger's
low enrollment ratios, the share of the Government budget devoted to education (21 percent)
was above average for Sub-Saharan Africa. Simulations have shown that if policies had
remained unchanged, the primary school enrollment ratio would have declined (from 25
percent in 1984 to 14 percent in year 2000) even under an optimistic assumption of a two
percent real annual growth in the education budget. Thus, the Government realized that if the
stagnation and deterioration of the education sector were allowed to continue, the low level of
human resources development would have had serious detrimental effects on the country's
long-term economic growth prospects.
2.6   A concerted effort had been made to promote a dialogue on education policy and to
improve the Bank Group's understanding of the sector as well as the Government's
appreciation of the Bank Group's criteria for education financing. The mains elements of the



4
strategy were formulated in the summer of 1985 by an Interministeriel Committee for
Structural Reform, and discussed with IDA in connection with the Structural Adjustment
Credit No. 1660-NIR. These elements were further clarified at the beginning of the 1985/86
school year when the Government took measures of major importance for positive adjustment
and reform in the education sector. Within the context of the overall structural adjustment
program, the formulation of the Government's adjustment strategy for the education sector
had the dual objective of (a) preventing further decline in primary education enrollment and
(b) laying the foundation for future development as seen from a macroeconomic perspective.
2.7   In assessing the objectives, it should be noted that they have a general clarity. Goals
fall directly under the country's own macroeconomic framework and structural adjustment
program and are in harmony with the Bank's country assistance strategy. Overall, the project
was successful in meeting its principal goals (paras. 3.1-3.8).
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.   ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S SUCCESS AND SUSTAINABILITY
3.1   Success in achieving the project's main objective of assisting the Government in
reversing the decline in the primary school enrollment ratio, is evidenced by the fact that this
ratio--which declined from 27 percent in 1980 to 25 percent in 1984--increased to about 30
percent in 1994, in spite of a 15 percent increase in the primary school-age population during
that period. The share of girls in total enrollment increased slightly by one percent. The high
rate of growth in the school-age population, constituted a serious obstacle to rapid expansion
in the coverage of primary education. Although primary school enrollment increased from
251,400 students to 445,500, or by some 77 percent between 1984 and 1994, more than
three-fourths of this increase was required just to retrieve the 1980 coverage level and to keep
pace with population growth.
3.2   Reducing recurrent unit costs. The efficiency gains implemented under the project
were instrumental in reducing the unit recurrent cost per primary school student from US$77
to US$62. Unit recurrent costs were reduced by (a) limiting the need of recruiting high cost
instituteurs (IN) in the teaching force, the remaining being instituteurs adjoints (INA)--the
starting salary of the former exceeds that of the latter by 50 percent; and (b) introducing the
use of double-shift teaching in urban areas--one teacher teaches one group of pupils in the
morning and another in the afternoon using the same facilities; and expanding multigrade
teaching in rural areas--one teacher teaches two grades in the same classroom. Until 1989,
the proportion of instituteurs adjoints was limited to 14 percent, and then increased to 19
percent. Because the output of the teachers' training colleges (TTC) consisted of 46 percent
instituteurs (between 1990 and 1993) started to jeopardize the project's objective, the
Government, as of October 1994, began recruitment into TTC on the basis of 85 percent INA
and 15 percent IN. This change in recruitment will help contain the future growth in the
teacher salary budget. In 1989/90, the primary education system accounted for 139 classes
using double-shift teaching (largely above the 40 urban experimental classes provided for in
the project) when, due to growing political instability in Niger, the student and teachers' union



5
rejected double-shift teaching along with the scholarship reduction policy. Despite this halt,
IDA continued the sector dialogue with the Government and teachers' unions.  This
intensified dialogue led to the continued implementation of double shift-teaching which
increased to 207 classes in SY1993/94, and to 680 classes in SY1995/96 with an enrollment
of 69,596 students. Because of the increased use of multigrade and double-shift teaching, the
pupil/teacher ratio, which declined from 41 in 1980 to 36 in 1984, increased to 40 in 1994.
3.3   Improving the quality and relevance of primary education. The efficiency measures
described above were implemented without impairing educational quality improvement. At
project appraisal, only 20 percent of those who sat for the primary school leaving examination
in 1985, passed. This percentage increased from 25 percent in 1989 to 33 percent in 1994.
The transition rate from primary to lower secondary education also increased from 23 percent
to 30 percent. Although the repetition rates of 3 to 16 percent in grades one through five
constituted an improvement, the rate in grade six of 42 percent is due to the lack of places in
lower secondary. This high repetition rate in grade six is being addressed under the follow-up
project.  The pre-service and in-service training was modified and enhanced for quality
improvement.  The ineffective and costly four-year pre-service teacher training was
abandoned. Graduates from lower secondary schools undergo two years of training to
become instituteurs adjoints, and those graduates from the upper-cycle complete a one-year
training program to become instituteurs. In addition, the organizational structure as well as
the training program content were reformed to allow students enrolled in pre-service training
to gain practical experience and to develop synergy and interaction between pre-service and
in-service training.
3.4   As regards the in-service training, it has been run through about 500 teachers' study
groups established in networks of closely located schools, and under the supervision of senior
teachers and/or pedagogic advisors, and school inspectors. This method has proven to be
more cost-effective than a large, centrally organized seminar which implied long distance
travel for teachers and payment of per diems. Through the in-service training programs: (a)
420 unqualified teachers (moniteurs auxiliaires) have been upgraded to semi-qualified
teachers (moniteurs); and (b) 2,963 semi-qualified or qualified teachers and primary school
directors have been retrained. To further ensure quality of education, the project provided
about one million textbooks and 12,000 teachers' guides including: (a) one book per two
pupils in reading for grades two through four, in mathematics for grade three, in social
sciences for grades three and four; and (b) one mathematics workbook per pupil for grades
one and two.
3.5   Reducing unit capital costs and improving access to primary education. Unit capital
costs were reduced through the development of low-cost primary school construction
techniques. The average cost per classroom of CFA franc 2,178,000 (before the devaluation
of that currency) under self-help construction was lower than was estimated. After the
devaluation of the CFA franc, the unit cost per classroom increased to CFA franc 3 million.
As compared to classrooms built in 1985 (under the supervision of the Ministry of Public
Works) by the private sector for the administration and those constructed under the Education
I project, the average cost was lower, by 50 percent and 31 percent (in nominal terms),
respectively.



6
3.6   To increase access, the project supported the construction and rehabilitation of
classrooms. A total of 982 classrooms (including 82 classrooms for the experimental phase)
were built and equipped; thus increasing enrollment by about 45,100 pupils as compared to
the SAR target of building 750 classrooms and creating 34,000 additional places. This was
achieved through the reduction in unit capital costs; and through reallocation of credit funds
of SDR 700,000 derived from the following savings: (a) SDR 500,000, through the
decentralization of the in-service training of approximately 3,500 teachers and directors (para.
3.4); (b) SDR 100,000, through the early replacement of 5 long-term foreign technical
assistants with local staff and short-term technical assistance; and (c) SDR 100,000 through
unrealized contingencies covered by the "unallocated" disbursement category. The project
rehabilitated 1,913 existing classrooms or 63 and 95 percent of the initial and revised SAR
targets respectively. Due to cost-underestimation at appraisal and to the ambitious target of
rehabilitating 46 percent of the existing classrooms, the number of classrooms to be
rehabilitated was brought down to 2,000. The project provided 2,300 tool kits for school
maintenance as well as school maintenance manuals for teachers and school directors.
Although, several workshops were organized to train teachers in maintenance procedures, the
strategy of promoting maintenance by school users was not effective because of a lack of
incentives for teachers and weak supervision from school inspectors in that area.
3.7   Promoting more cost-effective resource utilization.  The amount allocated to the
higher education scholarships budget was to be reduced by 3.7 percent per year from FYI 988
until the end of FY1991. Although the condition was met in 1988, the scholarship budget
increased from CFA franc 2.1 to CFA franc 2.4 billion from FY1989 to FY1991 which
showed an effort to contain the scholarship budget during those years. Unfortunately, this
effort was not maintained after 1991. Following the National Conference in 1992, from which
students (who led the pro-democratic movement) extracted dramatic advantages, the
scholarships budget reached CFA franc 4.5 billion. A new policy for higher education
scholarships is being implemented under the follow-up project which aims at bringing the
scholarship budget down to CFA franc 3.5 billion by 1998/99.  Additional adjustment
measures were also implemented. In addition to limiting the proportion of IN (para. 3.2), the
teaching indemnities for persons trained as teachers but occupying administrative posts were
abolished as well as the automatic recruitment of graduates into the civil service; and boarding
facilities were closed at lycees.  Despite the increase in the scholarship budget, the
implementation of the combined efficiency measures helped in reallocating education
resources to favor primary education: the share of primary education in the Government's
total recurrent education budget increased from 40 percent in 1986 to 45 percent in 1994.
The Government investment budget provided CFA franc 600 million annually for primary
school classroom construction.
3.8   Strengthening educational planning and management. The project supported the
computerization of the Ministry of Education for: (a) personnel management; (b) budget
preparation and control; (c) scholarship allocation and monitoring; and (d) administration of
examinations and school guidance. This computerization had been held up until July 1992 due
to an internal country dispute over the exoneration of project-financed goods and services
from duties and taxes. All concerned directorates were equipped, and the staff trained.
Although the system is in place, it is not yet fully operational. Thus, it is premature to assess
if there is a significant improvement in the management of human, physical, and financial



7
resources. Regarding education planning, the support given by the project has allowed for an
increased capacity in the collection and analysis of data and in the development of school
mapping. However, the Planning Directorate was unable to realize all the studies foreseen
under the project due, in part, to the insufficient number of personnel capable of undertaking
them. Being a developing country, Niger is generally weak in areas such as management,
planning, and monitoring of resource use. The education sector employs the single largest
group in the civil service--more than one-third. Its capacity to manage change has been
successful under the project under review, but it remains to be seen if this will also be the case
in further education development.
3.9   During the project's implementation period, development of primary education was
made with a view toward future sustainability. Major components contributed directly to
sustainability i.e., (a) budget reallocations in favor of primary education; (b) more efficient
resource use; and (c) increased community participation.   A  particularly promising
achievement was made in classroom construction, in which unit costs decreased.  The
adjustment measures which met considerable resistance from students and teachers' unions,
when initiated, have matured and are now well internalized by ministry staff and the teachers'
unions.  To deepen and sustain the education reforms, the Government developed an
Emergency Education Rehabilitation Plan (EERP) in which absolute priority is given to
expansion and quality improvements of primary education. The EERP (supported by the
Basic Education Sector Project/Hybrid--CR. 2618-NIR) includes a set of policy measures
designed to further promote more cost-effective use of public education resources. Thus, the
project's sustainability can be ranked as "likely".
B.    SUMMARY OF COSTS AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
3.10  The total cost of the project (Table 7A) was estimated at appraisal to be US$26.2
million equivalent with the Government contributing US$1.4 million equivalent to finance
local construction material--laterite and sand--and part of the operating costs. Financing was
provided by the following: (a) IDA, US$18.4 million equivalent; (b) a grant from the
Kingdom of Norway of US$4.7 million equivalent financed procurement of textbooks and
rehabilitation of primary schools including school furniture; and (c) a grant from the Federal
Republic of Germany--through KfW--of US$1.7 million equivalent financed a part of the
primary school construction program.  Total disbursements of IDA's Credit at ICR
preparation (US$20.8 million) were higher than projected at appraisal due to changes in the
US$/SDR exchange rate. The grants from Norway and Germany were fully disbursed. The
Government experienced difficulties in mobilizing the counterpart funds foreseen. A grant
from the Netherlands signed on May 10,1994, assisted the Government in absorbing arrears.
The estimated and actual disbursements are given in Table 4.
C.    IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
3.11  The project was adequately prepared.  To further the education sector dialogue
between Niger and the Bank Group, in November 1984 IDA organized a seminar in Niamey
to review, together with Government officials, alternative policies designed to accelerate the
development of primary education. The discussions were supported by findings derived from



8
an education simulation model used to study the effects on primary school enrollment of
alternatives policies. The discussions continued during IDA missions to Niamey in February,
June, and September 1985, and especially, during a three-week visit to Washington in August
1985 by three high-level officials from the Ministry of Education. In the course of this visit,
new and more comprehensive simulations were prepared by the Nigerien officials, assisted by
IDA staff These analyses and exchanges of views between IDA and the Government
constituted an important input into the formulation of the Government's Education Strategy
and served, in turn, as background material for the preparation of the Project as well as for the
element of the Structural Adjustment Credit dealing with the education sector (para. 2.7).
The IDA appraisal mission visited Niger in November/December 1985, Board approval was
given on November 18, 1986, and signing of the Development Credit Agreement took place
on December 15, 1986. The Credit effectiveness date was May 11, 1987. The project was
executed over a period of eight and a half years, compared with an original execution period
of seven years. The original closing date of June 30, 1994 was first extended to December 31,
1994 and further extended to December 31, 1995 (para. 4.1).  Disbursements against
commitments were made until April 30, 1996. An outstanding balances of SDR 0.25 million
(about US$0.36 million equivalent in 1996) under the IDA Credit was canceled at Credit
closing. The Norwegian and KfW Grants were fully disbursed.
D.   ANALYSIS OF KEY FACTORS AFFECTING MAJOR OBJECTIVES
3.12  At appraisal stage, there were at least two main risks: first, the MOE had no previous
experience in implementing IDA-financed projects and had limited or inadequate technical
expertise in certain fields, particularly in low-cost classroom construction; and second, the
goal of reducing education unit costs through a cost-saving measure of recruiting instituteurs
adjoints (INA) rather than instituteurs (IN) was a more difficult and risky goal due to
pressure for status quo from within the educational establishment. To overcome the first risk,
the MOE was equipped with a project coordinating unit (PCU) and a school construction
bureau (BIES) to implement the construction and rehabilitation program. A sizable staff
training program for the PCU and BIES and the provision of specialist services helped address
this risk. The BIES and the PCU are now fully operational and totally composed of national
technicians. The PCU was transformed into a permanent directorate of the MOE under a new
name (Education Projects Directorate) and with a responsibility of managing all education
projects regardless of sources of funding. To facilitate the implementation of the second goal,
several consultations with the teachers'  union were conducted.  In addition, targeted
measures such as teacher training, and provision of sufficient textbooks helped overcome the
initial handicaps. The severe delays regarding the computerization of the MOE were mainly
due to unforeseeable factors (para. 3.8). The issue was addressed to both the Bank's and the
Government's satisfaction.
E.    ASSESSMENT OF THE BANK'S AND THE BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
3.13 The Bank 's performance was satisfactory, and contributed to the achievement of most
of the objectives initially established for the project. The Resident Mission provided guidance
to the MOE, followed-up on issues which arose, and held regular discussions with the MOE
on project implementation. Despite delays at project start-up in the school construction and



9
textbook programs (paras. 4.2 and 4.3), the Borrower's performance in project
implementation was generally satisfactory.  In some areas, the Borrower performed
particularly well, notably, in implementing the efficiency measures. However, the Borrower's
performance could have been better if the technical studies provided for in the SAR had been
carried out. The project, throughout its supervision, was given a performance rating of"2" on
overall status as well as on achievement of project development objectives. During the first
two years of implementation, project management performance was also rated "2", but was
then given a "I" for the remaining four years.
F.    ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S OUTCOME
3.14  The Primary Education Development Project can be classified as satisfactory in
reversing the trend of the declining enrollment ratio between 1980 and 1984, and in its effort
to expand primary education through efficient use of education resources. The project made
considerable progress in helping the Borrower to achieve major efficiency gains by reducing
unit recurrent and capital costs, and laying the foundation for better quality of education
through efficient teacher training and provision of textbooks.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY
LESSONS LEARNED
A.    IMPORTANT FINDINGS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
4.1   For the most part, execution of this project and disbursement were on schedule
throughout the life of the project and covenants were in compliance.  Disbursement
procedures were regularly followed resulting in no rejections from the Bank and no negative
comments from the auditors. Further, regular supervision took place and despite a change in
Task Manager, no negative impact was experienced. However, a reallocation of the IDA
Credit and the Norwegian grant took place which allowed for the completion of the
construction of 750 classrooms. A further one-year extension was given which allowed for
further classroom construction. Being the first project entirely executed by the Ministry of
Education (the First Education Project was under the direction of the Ministry of Rural
Development), there were some lags (in the construction and textbook program ) at project
launch which were made up throughout the course of the of project implementation.
4.2    Of the 750 initial classrooms program, about 500 were to be built by the travaux
communautaires (TC--a force account organization under the Office of the President of the
Republic); and about 250 by the ateliers scolaires (ASC--the workshops of the inspectorates).
The most important reason for the delay in project start-up was the Government resistance
within the Ministry of Public Works (Travaux Publics - TP) to give up its monopoly vis-a-vis
the Government's construction activities.  The experience with the TP under the First
Education Project with a pilot program of 60 classrooms was not conclusive. It took three
and one-half years for the TP to build uncompleted classrooms with very high unit cost. For
school rehabilitation, the price demanded by the TC was about ten times that foreseen in the
SAR. As regards construction, the TC proposed a unit cost 33 percent above the price



10
achieved by BIES. In addition, the TC requested 40 percent of the total amount of the three-
year contract to be paid in advance with no bank guarantee. Clearly, neither of these
conditions were acceptable. As regards the ASC, it seemed as though during the project's
first-year, their capacity to build 250 classrooms was overestimated. Thus, IDA, supported by
Germany and Norway who cofinanced the project, requested that the entire construction and
rehabilitation program be transferred under the total responsibility of BIES. The transfer was
a success due to a change in strategy which was essentially based upon the use of local
materials (in order to avoid importing materials). Construction of the two prototypes from
local materials and having vaulted ceilings did not give the expected results as the technique
was not perfected and construction time was long.  Achieving the vaulted ceilings was
fastidious work and necessitated skilled laborers; large-scale construction would be nearly
impossible in rural areas. Thus, the prototype was abandoned and others were constructed,
one of which was adopted by BIES. The technique used, which is very simple, was mastered
by local builders, and construction time was 45 days. BEES, through the use of local masons,
constructed more than 100 classrooms in less than one year.  In addition to reducing
construction costs (para. 3.5), the approach used was very popular as it generated work at the
village level.
4.3    With regard to textbooks, the project supported the creation of a national capacity to
develop textbooks and teachers' guides for primary education, and the printing and
distribution of these materials. The main weakness was to rely on civil servants at the
National Pedagogical Institute (INDRAP) for preparation of the manuscripts rather than on
the private sector. It took Niger about five years to produce and provide to schools the first
book under the project, because the staff needed to be trained and the national capacity to be
developed. However the shortage that occurred during that time could have been avoided had
the Government been more willing to import textbooks from abroad as a stop-gap measure
until national manuscripts could be developed and tested. The Government even resisted
acquiring textbooks which were developed for francophone West African countries, and
which existed on the international market in subject areas such as mathematics, science, and
reading. Given the important delays that occurred, the Government agreed to: use the private
sector for editorial assistance and co-editing arrangements with foreign publishers; print the
books abroad; and import existing textbooks from the international market. This agreement
helped speed up the provision of textbooks to students (para. 3.4).
B.    FUTURE OPERATIONS AND SUSTAINABILITY
4.4   Future operations will be developed in accordance with the Country Assistance
Strategy which is designed to (a) address long-term human capital including reduction of
poverty; (b) promote private sector development; (c) increase efficiency of public resource
management; and (d) support actions to facilitate supply response. Because of the low
primary school enrollment ratio, emphasis will continue to be placed upon expanding access
to, and improving the quality of, primary education to raise the general education level of the
population. Moreover, measures aiming at further increasing the communities' involvement in
the provision of education will be provided for with a view to further improving girls' access
and expanding access to rural areas.  The new Basic Education Sector Project/Hybrid
(PROSEF--Cr. 2618-NIR, effective on September 26, 1995) which aims at reaching a gross
enrollment ratio of 35 percent by 1999, builds directly on, and seeks to further, the positive



I1
results of the project under review. The practical and operational character of the instruments
developed during project preparation are expected to be of great help in implementation.
4.5   Future operations will also strengthen the links between the education system, the
labor market, and national development needs. To meet basic technical skills requirements,
while continuing the expansion of primary education, it will be necessary to support post-
primary education by improving the overall quality of general secondary, technical and
vocational training, and higher education.
C.    LESSONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS IN THE SECTOR
4.6   Although the project met its goal, the public sector is not yet equipped to provide
sufficient educational services because of its limited resources and the rapid population
growth. A major lesson learned from this project is that new complementary ways of
delivering educational services (without placing a burden on the Government's recurrent cost
budget) will have to be employed such as community-based and private schools.
4.7    A  second lesson learned is that flexibility is required to address unforeseen
circumstances during implementation. The Bank and the Borrower demonstrated flexibility
during project implementation which helped address issues arising during implementation such
as initial delays in the construction program and textbook provision.
4.8    A third lesson to be drawn from this project is the importance of consensus-building to
gain wide acceptance for reforms among the various groups affected at the national level.
Restrictive reforms and changes which affect the concerned urban groups--teachers' union
and University students--are invariably resisted by those groups. Thus, the rationale behind
foreseen outcomes and improvements, must be explained and discussed before
implementation.
4.9   The fourth lesson concerns the long-term process of improving the national capacity to
develop manuscripts and produce textbooks. The textbook production program was delayed
due to an over-ambitious assessment at appraisal of the capacity of the National Institute for
Pedagogical Documentation, Research and Promotion (INDRAP) (composed of civil
servants) to develop and test manuscripts for new textbooks and teachers' guides. To avoid
delays, manuscript preparation should be entrusted to private authors who have the capacity
to deliver. The ongoing project is supporting the development of quality control at INDRAP.
4.10  The lessons learned from this project, as well as the First Education Project, have been
built into the new Basic Education Project and will be further elaborated in future operations.



:



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Studies Included in the Project
Table 7A:    Project Costs
Table 7B:    Project Financing
Table 8:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10:    Bank Resources: Missions






13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives    Substantial    Partial      Negligible     Not applicable
Macro policies                 nI           E              G               G
Sector policies                El                          El             L0
Financial objectives           GI           0I             G               0
Institutional development      ]            0              G               El
Physical objectives            El           GI             GI              D
Poverty reduction              E            El             GI              El
Gender Issues                  El           El             O 
Other social objectives        A            GI             G               0
Environmental objectives       O            LU             E               0
Public sector management       E            LI             O               0
Private sector development     G            El             0               0
B. Project sustainability             Likelv         Unlikelv           Uncertain
0              E                   G
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactory     Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                    E I                 G       
Preparation assistance            El                  E l
Appraisal                         El                  G              O
Supervision                       RI                  O              L
Highly
D. Borrower Performance             Satisfactory     Satisfactory     Deficient
Identification                    0l                  G        
Preparation assistance            0                                    LI
Appraisal                          0                  C                G
Supervision                       E l                                  G
Highly                           Highly
E.  Assessment of Outcome       Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory
LI             0                  oI          LI



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit titlc                      Purpose                        Year of   Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Education I       Assist the government to: (a) improve educational    1981     Closed
(Cr. 1151 -NIR)      planning and prepare future education projects; (b)
formulate policies and programs for upgrading key civil
service personnel; and (c) upgrade the quality and expand
the output of middle-level technicians and extension
workers in agriculture and animal production.
Following operations
Support the implementation of the Government         1994    Ongoing
1. Basic Education    Emergency Education Rehabilitation Plan (EERP). The
Sector Project/Hybrid  project is a hybrid comprised of (a) a Sectoral Refonn
(CR. 261 8-NIR)      Program supported by general budgetary assistance
released in two tranches, and designed to promote more
cost-effective use of public education resources' and (b)
a Sector Investment Program designed to increase access
to and quality of primary education and to improve the
Government's capacity to plan and manage resource use
in the sector.



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle   [   Date planned            Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification                     November 1984           November 1984
Preparation                        Feb., June, Sept. 1985    Feb., June, Sept. 1985
Appraisal                          Nov.-Dec. 1985          Nov.-Dec. 1985
Negotiations                       September 9, 1986       September 9, 1986
Board presentation                 November 18, 1986       November 18, 1986
Signing                            December 15, 1986       December 15, 1986
Effectiveness                      May 11, 1987            May 11, 1987
Project completion                 June 30, 1994           December 31, 1995
Loan closing                       December 31, 1995       December 31, 1995
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96
Appraisal      .50      1.1    2.3    4.0    6.0    8.9    14.0   17.6    18.4   18.4
estimate
Actual         .45      .71     2.45    5.07    9.71    12.89   14.97   16.03    19.09   20.85
Actual as % of  90      65      106    126    161    144    107    91           103    113
estimate
Date of final                                                                   April 30, 1996
disbursement



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Objectives                   Key Indicators                              Results                                   Observations
A. Construction of 750 classrooms    A. 832 classrooms constructed and furnished  Following a reallocation of the IDA funds, 150
and furnishing of 18,750 tables-  24,537 tables-bancs, 980 teachers' desks, 1,961    additional classrooms were constructed in 1995
bancs 750 teachers' desks, 1,500  chairs and 980 armoires.                      including 82 experimental.
chairs and 750 armoires
B. Construction and equipping of    B. 150 classrooms constructed and equipped.
150 classrooms (2nd extension)
Rehabilitation of 3,000 classrooms    1,913 classrooms rehabilitated.           Original objective was rcduced to 2,000 due to
cost underestimation at appraisal. l
Replacement of classroom furniture   17,134 tables-bancs, 533 desks, 1,800 chairs, 300   Objectivc achieved.
in rehabilitated classrooms 18,000    armoires replaced or repaired.
tables-bancs 600 teachers' desks,
1,800 chairs and 300 armoires
Creation of a maintenance program    Maintenance manuals written and distributed in    Objective achieved. implementation will
the schools.                                  continue.
Furnishing of maintenance tools   2,300 tool kits distributed to schools.       Objective achieved.
1. REDUCTION OF             Increase in total enrollment during    Total enrollment in primary education increased    Objective achieved. The enrollment ratio which
CONSTRUCTION UNIT           the period 1986-87/1991-92 in      from 251,400 students in 1984 to 445,500 in   declined from 27% in 1980 to 25% in 1984,
COSTS AND IMPROVING   primary education of approximately   1994, an increase of 77%.                         increased to about 30% in 1994.
ACCESS TO PRIMARY            34,000 students
EDUCATION.
Rcduce inequalities:                                                            With regard to reducing inequalities
A. Increase in girls' education   A. The proportion of girls in enrollment      (geographic and gender), supplementary means
remained stable at 37.4% in 94-95 compared to    are integrated in the follow-up project.
36% since the beginning of the project.
B. Increase in education in rural  B. Education in rural zones remains low: 20.2%
zones                            in 1993.
Reduction in construction unit costs   Classrooms now cost 2,178,000 CFAF (1994)  Objective largely achieved.
compared with 4,369,600 CFAF in 1984. With
the devaluation, classrooms cost approx.
3,000,000 CFAF.



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation                                                (Continued)
Objectives                  Key Indicators                                Results                                    Observations
2. REDUCING                  Double-shift teaching in 40 urban  680 double-shift classes in 1995-96.           Objective largely achieved. Pedagogy by
RECURRENT COSTS AND   classrooms                                                                               objcctive introduced, a change in the pedagogic
IMPROVING QUALITY                                                                                              approach.
OF PRIMARY
EDUCATION                                                                                                                                                  l
Investment budget (construction)   Each year the State allocates 600 million CFAF  Initially the State should construct 150 classes
for the construction of 120 classes.           per year, but because of the devaluation, it is
limited to the construction of 120.
Increase teacher/student ratio     From 36 students/teacher in 1984-85 to 40      Because of the increased use of double-shift and
studcnts/teacher in 1994.                      multigrade teaching, the student/teacher ratio
which declined from 41 in 1980 to 36 in 1989,
increased.
Reduction of 3.7% per year for     In 1991, the budget allocated to higher education   A new policy for higher education scholarships
scholarship expenses during the   scholarships (2.37 billion CFAF) was consistent   is being implemented which aims at decreasing
fiscal years 1987-91 without giving    with the objectives. The slippage occurred  the amount to 3.5 billion CFAF by 1998-99.
other grants to students for non-  following the National Conference in 1992/93,
university services                when the scholarshlip figure reached 4.855 billion
CFAF.
Reduction in the repeater average  Repetition rate of 3 to 16% in grades one to five.   Grade six: 42% due to lack of places in lower
(14%in 1985)                                                                      secondary.
Increasc in pass rate offiui de cycle    Between 1989 and 1994, the results of the CFEPD   Improvement in rclation to 1985 (basc year),
exams                              increased fromil 25 to 33.                    level of 20%.
A limiit of 14% on the numbcr of   The qualified teaclhcrs corps is filled.       The streamlining process is uniderwav:
instiluleurs in the teaching corps                                                henceforth, recruiting in the ecoles normales
are now made on the basis of 15% instituteurs
and 85% instiluteurs adjoints.
In-servicc training and equipment    Personnel trained "in-service" and equipment  In-service training and equipment distribution:
distribution:                      distributed:
A. 420 moniteurs auxiliaires to be    A. 420 imoniteurs auxiltaires               A. Objective achieved.
trained
B. 1,800 moniteurs and institileurs   B. 1,757 imoniteurs and instiluteurs adjoinIs  B. Objective achieved.
adjoints to be trained
C. 1,250 school directors to be    C. 1,206 school directors                      C. Objective achieved.
trained
D. Workshops for ecoles normales    D. Eighlt workshops took place for 465 personnel   D. 298 instituteurs and pedagogic advisors
I personnel                         of the ecoles normiales                        trained.



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation                                             (Continued)
Objectives                  Key Indicators                               Results                                  Observations
E. Furnishing of textbooks and    E. Furnished textbooks and teachers' guides.  Furnished textbooks and teachers' guides.
tcachers' guides:
-Training for textbooks           -Training for 53 authors (editors, illustrators,  National Textbook Committee now exists.
photographers) in Niger and abroad.
-Preparation of 44 textbooks in 5  -Production and distribution of 30 titles.
subjects
-Printing of approximately I million  -Production and purchase of 1,049,839 textbooks   Objective surpassed except with regard to
textbooks.                        and teachers' guides.                         French.
Adaplation of primary education   August -September 1987, Realization of programs  Objective achieved.
programs                          (113 participants).                                                                     l
Distribution of I book per 2 students  In 1993-94 the book/student ratio was 0.48% and   Objective achieved.
in primary in principal subj. matters  0.5% in 1994-95.
3. STRENGTHENING OF    Strengthening of human resources
EDUCATION PLANNING    and financial management:
A. Improving the administrative   A. In the process of being realized.
and budgetary procedures
B. Computerizing the MEN/ES/R     B. In the process of being realized.
C. Construction of 7 educational  C. Five of 7 were constructed.
workshops
D. Construction of 16 inspectorate                                              D. Revision from 16 to 7 inspectorates.
offices including 8 new
E. Furnishing of 8 vehicles to the  E. Achieved.                                E. Objective achieved.
new offices
A. 42 man months of long-term     A. 48 man months of long-term specialists
specialists services              services.
B. 74 man months of short-term    B. 4 man months of short-term specialists
specialists services              services.
Training program
C. 48 man months of scholarships
abroad in the areas of planning,  C. 33 man months of scholarships for training
education statistics and education  abroad.
mapping
D. 69 man months of seminars on                                                D. Objective achieved.
statistics and education mapping  D. 89.5 man months of seminars organized.
Creation of a Project Coordination    Realized.                                Objective achieved.
Bureau
Increase in the budget allocated to    From 40% in 1986, the primary education share   Increase of 5 percentage points of budget
primary education                 in the national education budget was 45% in 1994  allocated to primary education 1986-94.



19
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study                 Status                        Impact of study
1. Comparison of performances
of experimental and non-
experimental schools.
2. Development of an regional   Undertaken,  Two counterparts in the DEP were trained as well as
educational map to serve as a    first half of 1993  representatives of the DEST and DEPD. However the low
model for all of Niger.                      level of understanding of those responsible for continuing
the activities may handicap the follow up.
3. Study of the textbook
distribution policy in Niger.
Undertaken in    A workshop should have taken place to share the results of
4. How to increase education by  May 1994.   the study, compare the conclusions with the various people
encouraging the participation                responsible for education, collect suggestions and criticisms,
of local collectivities to                   and debate the conditions of corrective measures. Results
construct, maintain, and                     remain within the DEP due to a lack of someone to carry out
promote the school.                          the workshop.



20
Table 7A: Project Costs
Item                                       Appraisal estimate
(US$M)
Foreign
Local Costs    Costs            Total
1. Reduction of Unit Recurrent costs and Quality
Improvements
(a) Teacher Training                                     2.3          0.1              2.3
(b) Multi-grade and double-shift teaching                0.1          0.2              0.2
(c) Textbook development, adaptation, production         0.6          2.6              3.2
2. Reduction of Unit Capital Costs and Improvement in
Access
(a) Construction of 750 classrooms                       3.1          1.8              4.9
(b) Rehabilitation of 3,000 classrooms                   0.8          1.3              2.1
(c) Establishment of maintenance program                 0.0          0.1              0.2
3. Promotion of More Cost-Effective Use of Education
Resources
(a) Strengthening of Resource Management                 0.3          1.7              2.0
(b) Reinforcement of Planning                            0.6          2.3              2.9
(c) Establishment of Implementation Capacity             0.3          1.3              1.5
Total Base Costs                                         8.0         11.2             19.2
Physical Contingencies                            0.5         0.6               1.1
Price Contingencies                               2.6         3.3              5.9
Total                            11.1         15.1            26.2
Table 7B: Project Financing
Source                 Appraisal estimate (US$M)      Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
IDA                                             18.4                             20.8
The Kingdom of Nonvay                            4.7                             4.7
Federal Republic of Germany                      1.7                             1.7
Government                                       1.4                             1.4
TOTAL                              26.2                             29.6



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section  Present                              Description                                                  Comments
status                              of covenant
BOARD        3.03    C       Maintain PCU during execution of project with such responsibilities, powers, No Comments.
services, and facilities as are specified in Schedule 5 of the DCA.
3.04 A  C       Not later than June 30 of each year furnish to IDA: (1) draft 3-year rolling   (ii) Programs annually discussed during SPN missions;
investment budget allocated to education sector; (2) annual program for  (iii) the 1995 draft Budget was discussed during
classroom construction under project; (3) draft annual recurrent budget for   December 1994 mission.
upcoming FY.
3.04B   CP      Reduce by at least 3.7 percentage points per year form FY88 until end of    Condition met for FY88. However, from FY89 to
FY91 the amounts allocated for higher education nominal scholarship budget, FY90 scholarship budget increased from CFAF 2.1
and not grant other subsidies for non-academic services for students.  billion to CFAF 2.4 billion from FY89 to FY91.
3.05    CD      Recruit and promote teachers in a manner guaranteeing that percentage of    Percentage of about 6% for school year 1988/89 and
Instituteurs teaching in primary schools does not exceed 14% of total teacher 19% for 1989/90. Recruitment into the 4-year
staff in primary school throughout the execution of the project.     Instituteur program stopped in October 1989. To
continue to limit the percentage of Instituteur all TTCs
recruit trainees since October 1994 on a basis of 15%
Instituteurs and 85 % Instituteurs Adjoints.
3.06    CD      Review with IDA not later than June 30 of each year progress mad in  A review was conducted during June/July 1994 mission
achieving objectives of project and of education sector set forth in section    and in October 1995.
3.40 and 3.50 and in Schedule 2 of DCA.
3.07    CD      (A) Not later than September 30, 1987 prepare and furnish IDA for review    The experiment, started in October 1988 with 50
and approval a program for experimental double-shift teaching to be  classes, was expanded to 139 in 1989 and reduced to
implemented not later than the beginning of October 1988 school year; (B)   129 in 1990 (40 urban classes were planned in SAR).
Not later than September 30 of each year, review with IDA said program's   Double-shift is introduced now in about 500 classes.
ongoing results and take into consideration IDA's comments; (C) Not later
than September 30, 1991 review with IDA final results.
3.08    C       Not later than December 31, 9187 establish and maintain at INDRAP a  Coordination between these three has improved.
publication unit, a training service for authors of educational publications and
evaluation service.
3.09    C       Prior to carrying out any new projects for the extension of INDRAP's  No Comments.
printing capacity, Borrower shall submit to IDA for comments and exchange
of views on economic and financial study of such project.



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants                                                      (Continued)
|rAgreemtnt  Section  Present                             Description                                                 Comments
status                              of covsnant g
BOARD        3.10    C        (A) Prepare and fu1ish IDA for review school maintenance procedurs and  (a) Printing of maintenance manual is completed. 
manuals to be put into effeci not latcr than Sepdembyr 30,1 988; (B) Causc    Maintenance kits are delivered.
the inspectto    o provide adquate maintenance supervision thereafter.  (b) Training of Inspectors will be completed this year.
3.11    CP     Cause all staff having received training abroad financed under the project to   No Comments.
remain in their assigaments for a period of at lease 3 years after completionl
of such training.l
4.01    C      (A) Maintain adequate records and accounts; (B) Havc records and accounts  No Comments.l
including those of the Special Ac-count audited by independent auditorsl
acceptable to IDA and furnish IDA with certified copy of audit report notl
later than 6 months after end of each semester of each FY: for all
expenditures with respect to withdrawal from SA were made on basis of
SOEs, have records audited semi-annually.
Covenant types:                                                            Present status:
I  = Accounts/audits
2  = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries           C     =       covenant complied with
3  = Flow and utilization of project funds                                 CD   =        complied with after delay
4  = Counterpart funding                                                   CP   =        complied with partially
5  = Management aspects of the project or executing agency                 NC   =        not complied with
6  = Environmental covenants
7  = Involuntary resettlement
8  = Indigenous people
9  = Monitoring, review, and reporting
10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional action
13 = Other



23
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE    REVISED WEEKS                                ACTUAL WEEKS
Through appraisal                             91.6                            91.6
Appraisal -- Board                            40 6                            40.6
Board -- effectiveness                        7.5                             8.7
Supervision                                   51.8                           115.4
Completion                                    14.6                            3.1
TOTAL                                        206.1                           259.4



24
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Nmbr.    Days               Specialized             Perform.   Rating              Types of
Stage of                       of        in              staff skills                                        problems* * *
project cycle    MMIYY    persons   Field                  represented*               Impl.       Dev.
Status**    obj.**
Through              2/83          1         5      E
appraisal:           5;83          3         12     E, GE (2)
7/83         1         3      E
10-11/83       2         11     E, GE
3/84         4         10     GE, A, TE, TX
9-10/84       2          9      GE, A
11-84        2          8      GE, E
2-3/85        5         12     GE, EP, A/C, TX/C (2)
7/85         2         6      GE, EP
Appraisal           11-12/85       4         18     GE, EP, A/C, E/C
through              4/86          3         11     EP, A, E/C
Board
approval                                        _
Board                2/87          2         8      A. EP
approval             4/87          2         3      EP, TE/C
through
effectiveness
Supervision          7-8i87        1         4      EP                                   2           2                M,O
12/87        6         12      EP, A, E/C (2) S/C, GE              2            2               M,O
5-6/88        4         9      EP, GE(2), GE/C                      2           2                M,0
9/88         3         16     EP, TE, E/C                       No 590       No 590
1-2/89        5         13     EP, GE, TX/C, A/C, GE/C              2           2               M,O
7/89         3         19     EP, TX/C, A/C                        2           2                 0
12/90        3         13      EP, GE/C, GE, TX/C, A                            2                0
2/91         1         15     A/C                                  2           2                 0
11/91        1          6      GE, PO/M                            2            2                0
7/92         3         14     EP, DC, TT                           2           2                 0
2/93         1         7      EP, PO/M                             2           2                 0
6/93         2         to     EP, DC, PO/M                         2           2                 0
7/93         1         6      GE, PO/M                             2           2                 0
12/93        3         18      EP,DC,PO/M                          2           2                 0
8/94         1         7      EP                                   S           S                 0
1/95         3         15     EP, PO/M, PA/M                       S           S 
Completion           12/95         3         15     EP (2), PA                           S           S
*Kev to Specialized Staff Skills: A=Architect; DC= Division Chief; E=Economist; EP=Education Planner; GE=General Educator;
OO=Operations Officer; PA=Projects Assistant; PO=Progran Officer; TE=Technical Educator; TT=Teacher Trainer; TX=Textbook Specialist;
-/C=Consultant; -/M=Resident Mission Staff
** Key to status as shown on Supervision Form 590 from I (highest) to 4 (lowest)
*** Key to problems as shown on Supervision Form 590: F=Financial; M=Managerial; O=Other; T= Technical



APPENDIX A
MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE






NIGER
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIP IAIRE
(CR1740-NIR)
PROJET SECTOREEL D'ENSEIGNEMENT FONDAMENTALUHYBRIDE
(CR261 8-NR)
MISSION DE SUPERVISION IDA
Octobre 16 - 31, 1995
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.           Une mission de l'IDA conduite par M. Makha Ndao , composee de Mme
Margaret Kilo (specialiste en education) ; MM. Pierre Nignon (charge de programmes),
Ross Pfile (assistant de programmes) ; et Mme Oumou Hainaikoye (assistante de projets)
a sejoumr au Niger du 16 au 31 octobre 1995. A la suite du Seminaire de lancement du
PROSEF, Mine Thu-Ha Nguyen, du departement de deboursement, a bien voulu accepter
d'animer une seance de travail et de formation le samedi 4 novembre 1995 sur les aspects
de decaissements au profit de la Direction des Projets Education et des responsables des
composantes du nouveau projet. Mme Nguyen procedera aussi a la revue echantillonnee
des etats certifies de depenses du projet.
2.           La mission a eu des discussions tres enrichissantes avec leurs Excellences
M. Jules Ouguet, Ministre de l'Enseignement Superieur de la Recherche et de la
Technologie assurant aussi l'interim du Ministre de l'Education Nationale ; M.
Almoustapha Soumaila, Ministre des Finances et du Plan; et Mme Mindaoudou Aichatou,
Ministre du Developpement Social, de la Population et de la Promotion de la femme, ainsi
qu'avec les bailleurs de fonds, les ONGs, I'Association des Parents d'eleves, les syndicats
des enseignants. La mission remercie vivement les responsables des services techniques
des differents ministeres, pour la richesse de leur contribution. La mission a aussi visite
des ecoles a Niamey et elle s'est rendue compte de la qualite des initiatives en cours. Elle
remercie le Gouvemement pour lui avoir permis d'assister au seminaire de lancement du
Projet Sectoriel d'Enseignement Fondamental (PROSEF). Ce genre de rencontre tres
ouverte avec la participation des partenaires sociaux de l'education (parents d'eleves,
syndicat des enseignants), des autorit6s locales, des ONG et des bailleurs de fonds est
fortement saluee par la mission.
3.           La mission avait pour objectif de superviser le projet de developpement de
1'enseignement primaire (PRODEP) et de prendre part au seminaire de lancement du
Projet Sectoriel d'Enseignement Fondamental (PROSEF). Elle devait aussi identifier les
secteurs possibles d'intervention dans le cadre d'un eventuel projet portant sur
l'enseignement technique et de la formation professionnelle. II s'agit lia d'une premiere
mission d'exploration qui sera approfondie au cours des missions ulterieures.



4.           Le present aide-memoire resume les principaux points discutes lors de la
mission et les conclusions qui en decoulent. La Partie A de I'aide-memoire est relative au
Projet de Developpement de l'Enseignement Primaire ; la Partie B conceme le Projet
Sectoriel d'Enseignement fondamental, les conclusions sur l'Enseignement Technique et la
Formation Professionnelle figurent dans la Partie C. Les aide-memoire de la mission de
supervision IDA du 25 juillet au 14 aout 1995 conduite par M. Pierre Nignon et Mine
Oumou Hainaikoye sur le PRODEP et le PROSEF, (voir Partie D) et de la mission
d'exploration sur I'Enseignement Technique et la Formation Professionnelle conduite par
M. Andre Komenan du 18 au 22 septembre (voir Partie E) font partie integrante des
conclusions de cette mission et figurent en annexe du present document.
PARTIE A.
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE (Cr. 1740-NER)
5.           Le Projet de Developpement de l'Enseignement Primaire (PRODEP) sera
cloture le 31 decembre 1995. La mission a pu noter avec beaucoup de satisfaction les
progres importants realises dans l'execution du programme d'activites soutenant la
deuxieme prorogation de la date de cloture du credit. Les objectifs principaux du projet
sont atteints. Des progres notables ont ete realises dans la distribution des manuels
scolaires. La visite de terrain a permis de constater qu'un nombre grandissant d'cleves
disposent de manuels et de fournitures scolaires.  Ce qui constitue une amelioration
notable par rapport i l'observation de la mission de 1994. La mission a not6 avec
beaucoup de satisfaction les progres notables accomplis en matiere de carte scolaire et les
perspectives de rcorganisation de la Direction des Etudes et de la Programmation du
MEN. La coordination des composantes s'est beaucoup renforcee. Ces efforts de
planification et de concertation doivent etre poursuivis en particulier dans le domaine de
l informnatisation des ministeres d'education et de la construction de la derniere tranche de
classes.   L'execution du programme d'informatisation des ministeres charges de
1'6ducation n'a pas encore donne les resultats escomptes et risque de constituer un echec
si les directives donnees par les deux ministeres ne sont pas appliquees et terminees avant
fin novembre. La mission ne voit pas la pertinence de mettre a la disposition des
composantes de nouveaux outils informatiques dans le cadre du PROSEF si aucun progres
significatifn'est realise dans l'application du plan de rattrapage convenu lors de la dernidre
mission IDA. Des mesures hardies doivent etre prises pour que les operateurs
puissent terminer les travaux de saisie avant fin novembre 1995 (au besoin remplacer
ceux qui manifestent de la mauvaise volonte y compris les encadreurs qui n'assument pas
leurs taches convenablement).  Les travaux de constructions de classes doivent
demarrer au plus tard le 15 novembre 1995 si non il sera impossible de terminer ces
classes et de les receptionner avant le 31 d6cembre 1995.
6.           Les taux de decaissement des divers financement lies au projet a la date du
30 septembre 1995 se presentent comme suit (i) Credit IDA: 91.9 % sur un montant
total de 15.300.000 DTS ; (ii) Don Norvegien: 99.9 % sur 35.000.000 NOK; (iii) Don
2



KfW 100% sur 3.500.000 DM ; et (iv) Don Neeriandais un pour-cent (1%) sur 2.145.000
NLG.
6. 1   Sur la contre partie de l'Etat nigerien, if reste a regier la somme de
15.000.000 FCFA. Cette situation menace P'execution des activites de la fin du projet et
peut avoir des consequences negatives sur le rythme de decaissement du Credit IDA. II
est donc urgent que le Gouvernement prenne les dispositions pour la regularisation de
cette situation avant fin novembre 1995.
6.2.   Sur le Credit IDA, if y'a des risques qu'au moins cinq pour-cent du montant total
du credit soit annule si le processus d'acquisition des biens et services n'est pas acc6lere
au courant du mois de novembre. En outre le dernier programme de cent cinquante
classes doit etre termine au plus tard le 31 decembre 1995, date de cloture du credit.
Toutes les dispositions necessaires doivent etre prises a cet effet. La mission a rappele a
la Direction des Projets Education que selon la pratique de I'EDA, les depenses
encourues (travaux termines et receptionnes, biens delivres, services rendus) au plus
tard le 31 decembre 1995 sont eligibles pour financement sous reserve que les
demandes de retraits de fonds parviennent au siege de la Banque Mondiale a
Washington au plus tard le 30 avril 1996.
6.3   Sur le Don neerlandais, le rythme de decaissement est tres faible. La DPE et
lea composantes doivent acceilrer la preparation des dossiers techniques et les
soumettre a l'IDA avant fin novembre 1995.
7.           La mission a discute et arrete avec ]es responsables des differentes
composantes et la DPE des dispositions a prendre pour les dernieres activites du projet y
compris les aspects relatifs aux engagements et aux decaissements. La DPE prendra
toutes les dispositions necessaires pour terminer l'inventaire physique des biens
acquis sur le PRODEP. La mission et le gouvernement se sont mis d'accord sur les
modalites de preparation et le format du rapport d'achevement du projet.  Le
gouvernement fera parvenir a HDA son rapport d'achevement accompagne d'une
synthese de six pages maximum au plus tard le 30 janvier 1996. L' DBA transmettra au
gouvernement pour commentaires un projet d'evaluation finale avant fin fevrier 1996.
PARTIE B.
PROJET SECTORIEL ENSEIGNEMENT FONDAMENTAL (Cr. 2618-NER)
8.           Le seminaire de lancement du PROSEF a atteint ses objectifs de
vulgarisation de l'information et de clarification du projet. Le programme d'actions
actualise y compris le budget de la premiere annee du projet sera transmis i l'IDA
au plus tard fin novembre 1995.
3



9.           La premiere tranche du volet decaissements rapides d'un montant de
10.000.000 SEU a et entierement deboursee. La DPE fera parvenir a IEDA avant fin
decembre 1995 un dossier complet et detailli sur l'etat d'avancement des mesures de
reformnes pour la rentree 1995/96. Elle devra accdlerer aussi le decaissement sur la
partie investissement du projet.
10.          La mission a eu a preciser que les elements du projet relatifs a la cellule
d'evaluation et a l'equipe nationale pedagogique mobile sont sous la responsabilite de
I'ENS qui travaillera en etroite collaboration avec les structures concernees. Les requetes
de mise a disposition des ressources du projet destinees a la sous-composant formation
continue des maStres seront cosignees par la DEPD et l'ENS. La composition de ces
equipes ainsi que celle de la cellule pour la scolarisation des filles sera transmise a l'IDA
pour avis avant toute decision finale.
11.          Le volet manuels scolaires devra s'executer conformement a la description
du projet et tenir compte de l'intervention des autres partenaires pour eviter des
duplications. Dans ce contexte l'INDRAP devra developper ses capacites en matiere
d'evaluation et de contr6le de qualite des manuscrits. Il va sans dire que dans cette
perspective aucun agent de l'INDRAP ne pourra soumissionner aux appels d'offires qui
seraient prepares par l'INDRAP. La mission a insiste sur l'urgence i demarrer l'audit
technique et organisationnel de l'INDRAP. Le dossier y afferent sera envoye a
'IDA pour avis avant le 15 decembre 1995.
12.          La mission estime que compte tenu du volume de travail important en
mati6re de construction de classes, le BES qui est rattache a la DPE doit beneficier d'une
mnarge de manoeuvre suffisante pour prendre les initiatives necessaires et disposer des
moyens adequats permettant une mobilite et des prises de decisions rapides.
13.          Il est important de developper une strategie pour le choix d'un
coordinateur qui sera selectionne sur une base consensuelle par un comite de selection
pour conduire les travaux relatifs a la definition d'une strategie de developpement de
l'enseignement superieur.
PARTIE C.
ENSEIGNEMENT TECHNIQUE ET FORMATION PROFESSIONNELLE
14.          Les premieres discussions sur l'Enseignement Technique et la Fornation
Professionnelle (ETFP) font apparaitre: (i) une absence de cadre coherent en matiere de
politique ETFP ; (ii) une dispersion des centres de decisions et d'appui ; (iii) une
duplication des formations ; (iv) une faible efficacit6 externe ; (v) une inefficacite dans
l'allocation interne des ressources ; (vi) une faible incitation au d6veloppement du secteur
priv6 ; (vii) une prise en compte insuffisante du secteur informel ; et (viii) une rigidite
institutionnelle.
4



15.          La mission recommande de mettre en place un groupe de travail inter-
ministeiel auquel seront associes: le secteur prive formel et informel, et les partenaires
sociaux ; ce groupe de travail serait charge d'elaborer une strat6gie sectorielle de
deve1oppement de l'Enseignement Technique et de la Formation Professionnelle. Une
premiere esquisse de cette strategie pourrait etre disponible fin janvier 1996.
Fait a Niamey, le 31 octobre 1995
Pour la mission IDA
Makha ao
5






APPENDIX B
SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
(Complete document is available from AFISC)






SUMMARY OF ICR OF THE
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(EDUCATION II / CREDIT 1740-NIR)
January 1996
The Primary Education Development Project (PRODEP) for US$26.2 million was the
first IDA project executed by the Ministry of National Education. Signed on December 15,
1986, and effective on May 11, 1987, the Education II Project should have closed on June 30,
1994; it was extended a first time to December 31, 1994 and then a second time to December
3 1, 1995 in order to achieve certain project activities and ensure a transition with the new
Basic Education Sector Project.
The Project was designed to support the Government's strategy under the framework
of its structural adjustment program. The implementation of this strategy would lead to an
education system which was more equal, more effective, and better adapted to the needs; in
which priority would was given to primary education and in which secondary and higher
education would develop according to the available resources and market conditions.
The objective of limiting recruitment of instiluteurs and favoring institute urs adjoints,
was not attained until the end of the project--school year 1994-1995. While double-shift
teaching encountered difficulties in the beginning, by June 30, 1995 there were 454 double-
shift classrooms with 43,994 students. While the project was able to furnish students with
1,031,339 textbooks and teachers guides, the diffusion problem of books produced by
INDRAP was not solved. As of December 31, 1995, 982 classrooms had been constructed
and 1,913 had been rehabilitated allowing for a 5.25 percent increase in the number of
students enrolled.
With regard to strengthening the MEN, the central directorates were equipped with
furniture, air conditioners, vehicles, and computer equipment; strengthening planning activities
included construction of locations for the BCP and BIES which have become the Education
Projects Directorate. Finally, the project financed the computerization of the MEN.
Two problems remain following the closure of the PRODEP: the Nigerien
counterpart funds have not been paid to the Project since 1993; and the reimbursement of the
advance given to GIE Albassa for cement for construction of 150 classrooms.
On the whole, the results obtained allow the project to be ranked a success. The few
weaknesses encountered during project implementation have led to a knowledgeable and
competent staff which will facilitate the implementation of the follow-up project.






SYNTHESE DU RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT
DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE
(PROJET EDUCATION H / CREDIT IDA 1740 NIR)
Janvier 1996
Introduction
D'un montant de 26,2 million de dollars, le Projet de Developpement de l'Enseignment
Primaire (PRODEP) ou Projet Education II est le premier projet IDA execute par le MMinstere de
l'Education Nationale. Signe le 15 decembre 1986 et mis en vigueur le 11 mai 1987 le Projet
Education II devrait etre imitialement clos le 30 juin 1994; il a ete proroge une premiere fois au 31
decembre 1994, puis une seconde fois au 31 decembre 1995.
Le Projet a ete concu pour appuyer la strategie formulee par le Gouvemement dans le cadre de
son programme d'ajustement structurel. La mise en oeuvre de cette strat6gie devrait deboucher sur un
systeme educatif plus equitable, plus efficace et mieux adapte aux besoins, oui la priorite sera accord6e
A l'enseignement primaire et oui l'enseignement secondaire et superieur se developperont en fonction des
resources disponibles et des conditions de marche. A cette fin, le PRODEP prevoit:
a) de reduire les cofits unitaires de fonctionnement et d'ameliorer la qualite de l'enseignement;
b) de reduire les cofits unitaires des constructions et d'elargir l'acces a l'enseignement
primaire;
c) d'encourager l'utilisation plus rationnelle des ressources pedagogiques.
Il faut noter que le PRODEP a ete proroge au 31 decembre 1995 aux fins d'achever
convenablement certaines activites projet et d'assurer la jonction avec le nouveau projet qu'est le Projet
Sectoriel de b'Enseignement Fondamental (PROSEF). Entre autres activit's a achever, on peut
mentionner:
(i) l'informatisation du Ministere de l'Education Nationale, de l'Enseignement Superieur et de
la Recherche, aujourd'hui scinde en deux ministeres;
(ii) l'amnlioration de l'acces A l'enseignement primaire en augmentant le nombre de classes A
construire;
(iii) le renforcement des inspections de l'enseignment du Premier Degre y compris les aspects
de genie civil et de formation;
(iv) la campagne d'information Education et Commmunication (IEC).
1) De la Reduction des couts unitaires de Fonctionnement et de l'Amelioration de la
qualite et de l'adaptation au milieu des programmes d'enseignement primaire
1.1 Recrutement des enseignants et la formation continue
L'objectif vise par le PRODEP qui consistait a limiter le recrutement des instituteurs tout en
favorisant celui des instituteurs adjoints n'a pu etre atteint que vers la fin du projet. En effect, c'est A
partir de la rentree scolaire 1994-1995 que le recrutement d'6l1ves-maitres dans les Ecoles Normales, a
pu s'effectuer par voie de concours sur la base de 15% d'instituteurs et 85% d'instituteurs adjoints.



Toutefois, la formation en cours d'emploi, organisee par le biais des stages de recyclages, ateliers et
seminaires a touche plusieurs milliers d'enseignants et encadreurs des Ecoles Normales. C'est ainsi
que l'amelioration de la qualification du personnel enseignant s'est traduite par le passage du
pourcentage d'instituteurs et instituteurs adjoints de 84% du total des enseignants en 1984-1985 a 92%
en 1991-1992.
1.2 L'Enseignement du double flux
L'enseignement du double flux qui a connu A ses debuts la reticences des partenaires de l'ecole
est aujourd'hui accepte par ces derniers, ce qui a permis sa generalisation a partir de la rentree scolaire
1994-1995. C'est ainsi qu'A la date du 30 juin 1995, le nombre de classes a double flux s'elevait A 454
et le nombre d'eleves frequentant ces classes a 43.994. Au total 2.190 enseignants ont participe a 17
seminaires et ateliers sur le double flux.
II faut souligner que le seminaire de lancement du Projet Sectoriel de I'Enseignement
Fondamental tenu a Niamey du 26 au 28 octobre 1995, et qui a regroupe tous les representants des
partenaires de 1'Ecole nigerienne, a recommande la generalisation du double flux sur tout le cycle du
premier degre, c'est A dire du Cl au CM.
1.3 L'elaboration et l'adaptation des manuels scolaires et des livres du maiitre
Le projet a permis d'acquerir et de mettre a la disposition des dleves et enseignants 1.031.339
cahiers, manuels et guides, 28.000 tableaux de langage et 10.000 guides de prelecture. Hormis en
mathematiques oii le ratio livre-elve est superieur a 1. toutes les autres disciplines enregistrent un ratio
inferieur a 1 livre pour deux eleves. II faut par ailleurs noter que le probleme de la diffusion sur le
marche des manuels produits par l'Institut National de Documentation et de Recherche et d'Animation
Pedagogiques n'a toujours pas trouve de solution. Cette situation est nee du fait que le Ministere de
l'Education nationale n'a pas la maitrise de la politique des prix. Quant au probleme relatif A la
distribution et aux copyrights et films il a trouve un debut de solution.
II) De la Reduction des coGits unitaires de construction et de l'Elargissement de l'acces a
l'Enseignement Primaire
Initialement, il etait prevu la construction de 750 salles de classe et la remise en etat de 3.000
salles de classe existantes. A la date du 31 decembre 1995, date de cl6ture du projet, ce dernier a pu
realiser la construction de 982 classes et la rehabilitation de 1.913 classes existantes. II a en outre dote
chacune des nouvelles classes de 25 tables-bancs, I armoire, un bureau du maitre, et deux chaises. Les
classes renovees ont egalement vu leur mobilier remplace. II faut souligner que ces ralisations ont
permis, malgre un taux de scolarisation qui demeure faible, d'elargir l'acces A l'enseignement primaire.
C'est ainsi que le nombre d'eleves du premier degre est passe de 293.511 eleves en 1986-87 A 377.502
elves en 1991-92, soit une augmentation de 83.991 du nombre inscrit (5,16%). Pour I'annee scolaire
1994-95 ces effectifs sont de 417.925 eleves, soit une augmentation de 124.414 du nombre d'inscrits
(5,25%). Ce resultat est largement superieur a l'objectif initial du projet qui est du reste d'augmenter
le nombre d'eleves de 34.000. Il faut par ailleurs noter que les 150 classes construites en novembre-
decembre 1995 on permis d'accueillir pres de 7.500 eleves A la rentree 1995-1996.
Les succes enregistres par le Projet dans le domaines des constructions de classes n'ont
toutefois pas permis de reduire les disparites d'acces a l'enseignement primaire (disparitds entre zones
rurales/zones urbaines d'une part et garcons/filles d'autre part).



Par rapport au cofit unitaire de construction, le Projet a reussi A le reduire de moitie, le coit de
construction d'une classe etant passe de 4.370.000 F CFA en 1984 a 2.178.000 F CFA en 1994. Ce
couit est remonte a environ 3.000.000 F CFA apres la devaluation du franc CFA.
Enfin, il faut relever que le Projet n'a pas pu mettre en place un syst&me communautaire
d'entretien des classes, de meme quil n'a pas pu mettre en place un systeme pernettant un inventaire
aise de ses classes et de leur mobilier.
M) De la Promotion de l'utilisation rationnelle des ressources affectees au Secteur
educatif
3.1 Renforcement des Moyens du MEN
Dans le cadre du renforcement des ressources du MEN, les directions centrales on e  dotees
de mobilier, de materiel de reprographie, de climatiseurs, de vehicules et de materiel informatique. Le
personnel a egalement beneficie de diverses formnations dont entre autres, le Management des
ressources humaines, la Passation des marches, la Carte scolaire, la Planification de F'Education, la
Gestion des Projets, la Production du materiel didactique, I'Edition, l'Utilisation efficiente de l'outil
informatique, etc...
3.2 Renforcement des capacites de planification et de contr6le
Par rapport au renforcement de la planification, des locaux ont e  construits pour abriter le
BCP et le BIES devenus aujourd'hui la Direction des Projets Education. Le personnel de ces deux
structures de meme que celui de la DEP on beneficie de voyages d'etude et de formation dans les
domaines de la Planificaiton de l'Education, des construction et de la Gestion des Projets. Enfin, le
Projet a finance le recrutement de consultants aux fins d'appuyer le Ministere dans le domaine de la
planification de la carte scolaire et des constructions scolaires. Quant au renforcement des inspections,
onze (11) inspections et 5 ateliers ont 6te construits. Sur les 11 inspections, sept (7) ont ete 6quipees.
Les inspections on ete dotees de 24 vehicules tout terrain, de 8 Peugeot 504 bachees, d'une pirogue A
moteur et de 34 machines a ecrire.
II faut par ailleurs noter que le Bureau de Coordination du Proj et a beneficie de l'assistance
d'un administrateur gestionnaire pendant 7 ans, de 5 vehicules dont 3 tout terrain. Vers la fin du
Projet, du materiel informatique et audiovisuel ainsi que trois vehicules supplementaires dont deux tout
terrain affectes au BIES ont ete acquis pour renforcer les moyens d'action de la Direction des Projets
Education.
Enfin le Projet a finance l'informatisation du Minsitere de l'Education, de l'Enseignement
Superieur et de la Recherche qui constituent aujourd'hui deux Minsiteres distincts. Ce financement a
permis de doter les deux Ministeres et les Directions Regionales de l'Education de 23 micro-
ordinateurs, 23 imprirnantes et accessoires, de mobilier pour la salle informatique, de splits et de
climatiseurs. La formation de 34 operateurs des deux Ministeres et des 8 departemetns du pays a ete
egalement prise en charge par le Projet.
Le Service informatique du MEN/ESR avait pour tache de saisir toutes les donnees statistiques
afferentes (i) au personnel du Ministee, (ii) aux effectifs des etudiants et aux bourses et (iii) au
patrimoine du Ministere. A la date du 25 decembre 1995 le Service informatique a codifid et saisi
toutes les fiches du Personnel que la Direction des Affaires Administratives et du Personnel (DAAP)
lui a transmises soit 9.933 fiches. II reste encore au niveau de la DAAP environ 9.000 fiches.



La Direction des Projets Education se propose de remettre A chaque Direction la part de micro
qui lui revient aux fins d'impliquer pleinement les differents responsables. En effet, il faut le souligner,
malgre les moyens importants deployes pour doter la Ministere d'un systeme informatique les resultats
sont en deca des attentes.
IV) De l'Execution du projet par categorie
Le Credit IDA 1740 NIR a et realloue deux fois et le Don Norvegien une fois. Quant au Don
Allemand de la KFW, il a e  enti&rement consomm&. II en est de meme du Don Norvegien pour lequel
le reliquat de I'avance au compte special este a justifier. Hormis les categories IA et 8 du Credit IDA
1740, toutes les autres categories ont ete consommees A plus de 80%.
V) Du Personnel du Projet
Structure principale de coordination des activites des composantes, le BCP a connu un
changement relatif au niveau du personnel. Suite au deces du Directeur, M. Saadou Galadima, un
nouveau directeur a ete nomme. Ce dernier sera remplace par un Directeur des Projets Education.
L'administrateur-Gestionnaire expatrie sera remplace par le Comptable. Malherueusement, ce demier
pour des raisons de sante demandera a etre decharge de ses fonctions en novembre 1995. Son interim
sera assure par le Responsable des passations de march6 cumulativement avec ses fonctions.
11 faut egalement noter que sur les trois chauffeurs dont disposait le Projet Education II, un
seul a ete retenu pendant la deuxieme prorogation du Projet. Trois agents du Ministere de l'Education
Nationale detaches au Projet ont e  remis a la disposition dudit ministere a la date du 29 d6cembre
1995.
VI) Des ProblImes pendants du PRODEP
Deux problemes demeurent en suspend A la cl6ture du PRODEP. II s'agit (i) de la cotrepartie
nigerienne qui n'a pas ete versee au Projet depuis 1993 et (ii) du remboursement de l'avance de
demarrage (29.575.740 FCFA) consentie au GIE Albassa adjudicataire du marche relatif au ciment des
150 classes A construire.
Pour ce qui est du premier point le montant qui doit etre verse au Projet s'eleve A 15.000.000.
Cette somme aurait penmis au Projet de d'sint6resser les foumisseurs auxquels il doit les 10% de la
contrepartie. Malheureusement, toutes les demarches entreprises par le Projet sont demeurees vaines.
Quant au demier point, il a e  retenu que le Tresor National rembourse le Projet (CF Lettre
No. 001767 du 23 novembre 1995 du Credit du Niger au Tresorier General), ce qui n'a toujours pas
ete effectif malgre les multiples interventions des autorites du MEN.
Conclusion
Au regard des objectifs assignes au Projet de Developpement de l'Enseignement Primaire et
des resultats obtenus, l'on peut affirmer que dans l'ensemble le Projet a e  un succes. Les quelques
d'faillances enregistrees lors de l'execution de ce projet on permis de prendre les dispositions idoines
qui A n'en point douter faciliteront le bon deroulement du Projet Sectoriel de l'Enseignement
Fondamental (PROSEF).






IMAGINCG
Report No:        15748
Type: ICR



