Document of                    fI
The World Bank                     FILE Copy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2613-AL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
SOCIETE NATIONALE DE CONSTRUCTIONS METALLIQUES
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
October 23, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENEY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:      Dinars Algeriens (DA)
US$1.00 = DA 3.79
DA 1.00 = US$0.2639
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
ABBREVIATIONS USED
BNA        - Banque Nationale Algerienne
BAD        - Banque Algerienne de Developpement
Oran III   - New production units of SN Metal to be brought
Annaba II    into production under proposed technical assistance
program.
PCD        - Plans Communaux deDeveloppement (Programs for Communal
Development)
PMU        - Programmes de Modernisation Urbaine (Programs for
Urban Development)
SN Metal   - Socifte Nationale de Constructions Metalliques
SNC        - Socifte Nationale de Comptabilite
SNMC       - Societg Nationale des Materiaux de Construction
SONACOME   - Socifte Nationale de Constructions Mecaniques
SONELEC    - La Societe Nationale de Montage et de Construction
de Materiel Electrique et Electronique
TA         - Technical Assistance
tpy        - tons per year
UEC        - USS Engineers and Consultants, Inc.



FOR OFFICIAL LUSE ONLY
ALGERIA
SN METAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Societe Nationale de Constructions Metalliques 'SN Metal)
Guarantor:        Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Amount:           US$20 million equivalent
Terms:            10 years, including 4 years of grace at 7.95 percent p.a.
interest, plus a guarantee fee of 2.05 percent p.a. payable
to the Guarantor, bringing the total interest cost t:o SN
Metal to 10 percent.
Project           The project consists of a program of technical assisatance
Description:    to SN Metal to strengthen the company's overall effective-
ness through the attainment of three basic objectives:
Part A full capacity operation at SN Metal's new production
units, Oran III and Annaba II, through appropriate start-up
and operating assistance; Part B evaluation of SN Metal's
medium- and long-term investment program to establish priori-
ties and prepare feasibility studies for two high-priority
projects; and Part C elaboration of a master plan for SN
Metal to determine its proper role in the Algerian economy,
define its appropriate overall organization and, in partic-
ular, to allocate production among its units manufacturing
structural steel work, plate work and mechanical equipment
in an optimal fashion. The program, which will take about
four years, will involve some 2,900 man-months of technical
assistance at an average foreign exchange cost per man-month
of $8,700 in 1979 prices, plus about $2,900 per man-month for
local subsistence. The Bank loan would finance a first phase
of the program only. Risks relate to the complexity of the
tasks involved, problems of logistics and the "human factor",
which is of considerable importance to the successful execu-
tion of technical assistance.
Estimated Costs:
$ Million
Local /a Foreign   Total      %
Personnel /b - Part A             11.7        24.2     35.9      87
- Parts B and C      0.2         1.8      2.0       5
Training     - Part A              0.5        2.6       3.1       8
12.4       28.6      41.0    lOt)
Price Contingencies                2.9        5.8       8.7      21
15.3       34.4      49.7    121
/a   Excludes local taxes and duties payable by SN Metal.
/b   For details see para. 48.
Thi document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dicklosd without World Bank uthorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:                                $ Million
Local   Foreign   Total       %
IBRD (Phase I)                      -       20.0      20.0      40
SN Metal                          15.3      14.4      29.7      60
15.3     34.4      49.7      100
Estimated
Disbursements:                                 $ Million
FY                1980         1981         1982
Annual             0.8          8.7         10.5
Cumulative         0.8          9.5         20.0
Consultant:       USS Engineers and Consultants, Inc. (UEC), for Part A of
the project, already selected in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for Selection of Consultants.
Rate of Return:  Not applicable
Appraisal
Report:          None.  Relevant technical and financial details are provided
in this President's Report.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
SOCIETE NATIONALE DE CONSTRUCTIONS METALLIQUES (SN METAL),
WITH THYF CUARANTEE OF THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Societe Nationale de Constructions Metalliques (SN Metal), for the equiva-
lent of US$20 million, with the guarantee of the Democratic and Popular
Republic of Algeria (the Guarantor), to help finance a Technical Assistance
Project. The loan would have a term of 10 years including 4 years of grace,
with interest at 7.95 percent per annum. The Government would charge SN Metal
a fee of 2.05 percent per annum on the outstanding amount of the Bank loan,
bringing the cost of the loan to SN Metal to 10 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on the Economic Situation and Pros-
pects of Algeria" (1816-AL) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
February 17, 1978. Updating economic missions visited Algeria in May 1978 and
March 1979.  The main conclusions of the missions are given in the following
paragraphs. Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        In 1966, Algeria's Revolutionary Council defined the fundamental
objectives which the country intended to pursue during the period ending 1980.
These were reaffirmed in detail in the National Charter approved by referendum
in June 1976. In brief, these objectives are (i) to expand and organize the
production base, enabling the economy to reach a stage of self-sustained
growth with full employment; (ii) to achieve economic independence, which
implies that the country would rely first on its own resources for develop-
ment, although international economic relations would be expanded and diversi-
fied; and (iii) to improve income distribution, particularly among regions.
These objectives, and the strategy which has evolved towards their implementa-
tion, take into account the country's physical and socio-economic potential;
the country's leadership is deeply committed to them. Political developments
following the illness and death of President Boumediene have not affected
Algeria's prevailing economic policies. A smooth transfer and wider sharing
of power among political institutions have characterized the transition
leading to the election of President Chadli Bendjedid and the appointment
of a new Government in March 1979. The strategy of the new development plan
is expected to be discussed and the Plan approved early in 1980.
4.        The rapid establishment of a diversified and highly integrated
industrial base, the education and training of all Algerians for the require-
ments of modern tasks, and austerity in consumption are the main elements
of Algeria's long-term development strategy. The National Charter, introduced
in 1976, places emphasis more particularly, however, on the following aspects
of the strategy. Whereas priority goes to hydrocarbon development as a means



-2-
of accumulating financial resources, investments in other industries must
henceforth be tailored more closely to the national capacity to prepare and
implement projects, to the availability of financial resources, and to the
rates of development in non-industrial sectors. The National Charter specif-
ically underscores the importance of agriculture for creating jobs, for
increasing incomes and improving their distribution, and for substituting
agricultural imports. Decentralization is to be implemented in all areas of
economic and social life so as to achieve the country's development objectives
with maximum efficiency, while the principle of central planning of the econ-
omy will be maintained. Workers' participation in the new management struc-
tures, introduced in 1971, is to be progressively expanded. The control of
people's assemblies over economic planning and management, which was already
effective at local government level, has been introduced at the national level
by the new constitution approved in November 1976. The President and the
new Government have reaffirmed their commitment to the basic principles of
Algeria's long-term development objectives and strategy and implementation of
the National Charter. Emphasis has been put, in particular, on the need for
better utilization of existing capacities and increased efficiency in manage-
ment and production, on the importance of agriculture and training, and on
satisfying the basic material and social needs of the population, including
housing and education.
5.        Taking into account the improved financial prospects resulting from
increased hydrocarbon prices at the end of 1973, the objectives of the 1974-77
Plan were: (i) to increase the level of investment in order to speed up the
construction of the country's productive base and economic infrastructure and
the expansion of community and social services; (ii) to restructure the in-
vestment program in favor of non-industrial sectors and less developed regions
outside the coastal plains and Northern valleys, and (iii) to increase the
number of unskilled jobs and improve individual consumption levels and the
distribution of growth benefits. The Plan also called for vigorous imple-
mentation of the measures aimed at decentralizing and improving economic
management introduced by the Government since 1971.
6.        Several strong elements emerged from Algeria's economic performance
during the 1974-77 Plan. The growth of fixed investment averaged 15 percent
per year in real terms and its ratio to GDP at current prices rose to 48
percent of GDP in 1977 from 41 percent in 1973. While hydrocarbon production
was uneven during 1974-77, depending on technical and external market circum-
stances, GDP growth accelerated in the non-hydrocarbon sectors where it aver-
aged 8.5 percent per year. A high rate of national savings, averaging 39
percent of GDY (Gross Domestic Income), was achieved, and national savings
financed 84 percent of total investment. The marginal savings rate was 34
percent, thanks in large part to the sizeable improvement in the terms of
trade in 1974, which was only partly eroded thereafter. Employment creation
was substantial with more than half a million jobs created in industry and
services. Consumption growth is estimated to have averaged 9-10 percent per
annum, reflecting the increases in income levels, especially for the least
favored groups in rural and urban areas. Finally, Algeria's performance
concerning regional development has been impressive during the Plan (see
para. 12).



-3-
7.        Developments were not as positive in several areas.  The impLementa-
tion of the Plan generated imbalances between the high level of investment and
Algeria's financial and human resources and in the distribution of investment
between industry and other sectors. This led to pressures on the external and
domestic financial situation, and increased development lags in nZ -L-industrial
sectors and other constraints on efficiency in industry. Such constraints
included in particular skilled manpower shortages, limited management capac-
ity, and insufficient intersectoral and intrasectoral coordination. In 1976,
the Government introduced a program aimed at correcting sectoral imbalances
and overcoming efficiency constraints.   Real investment in non-hydrocarbon
industry was reduced while it was increased significantly in other sectors.
This trend was further emphasized in the 1977 budget law and annual plan.
Actual spending in industry in that year, however, exceeded budget appropria-
tions while investment targets in other sectors, except transportation and
housing, were not achieved.
8.        As a result of the high level of investment in industry and despite
an increase in current receipts from hydrocarbon exports of close to 16 per-
cent, the external financial situation deteriorated in 1977, following an
improvement in 1976; the current account deficit widened to $2.3 billion
from $0.9 billion in 1976. Despite large disbursements on external loans,
committed through 1977 mostly from commercial sources, net foreign reserves
decreased by $300 million to two months of 1977 imports. Following a marked
improvement in 1974, resulting from higher oil revenues., the situation of the
Treasury also deteriorated in subsequent years. Despite its large surpluses
on current operations (budgetary savings), which have been the country's main
source of savings during the Plan, the Treasury showed large and growing over-
all deficits because of the considerable appropriations for public enterprise
investments and to cover their operating deficits. For the same reasons,
credit to the economy and money supply increased sharply, especially in 1975
and 1976. The growth of Central Bank advances to the Treasury remained
limited, however, owing to the mobilization by the Treasury of institutional
savings of public agencies and its correspondent's current surpluses.
9.        Decentralization of economic management has been pursued with vigor,
especially in agriculture and industry. All agricultural units of the
Socialist and Agrarian Revolution Sectors are now responsible for their pro-
duction and investment plans, under the supervision of the local authorities
and the agricultural credit bank (BNA). These decentralization measures have
begun to have a beneficial impact on the output and financial results of
these units. In industry, most of the public enterprises are now under the
"socialist management" system, which should have a beneficial effect on
efficiency since it encourages decentralization of financial and technical
management from the enterprise level to the more manageable production unit.
Decentralization of the financial system, as well as decentralization in other
sectors in general, requires, however, revision of credit policy and f-inancial
management procedures for which initial measures were taken under the 1976
and 1977 Finance Laws. It also requires increased financial and accounting
discipline in the enterprises, and enough experienced staff to strenglhen
the banks, which will be a difficult and slow process. DecentralizatLon and
strengthening of the distribution (marketing) system, especially for agricul-
tural products, still call for important measures to be fully efficient.



-4-
10.       Social development during the Plan continued rapidly, in favor
especially of the most disadvantaged groups. Policy measures which contri-
bute to raising the living standards of those groups have included increases
in the guaranteed minimum wages, tax relief measures, increases in producer
prices for agricultural products and subsidization of basic commodities.
Further large salary increases (35 percent) were decided by the Government
in 1978. The disadvantaged groups have also benefited from the creation
of non-agricultural employment, implementation of the Agrarian Revolution,
multiplication of small- and medium-scale enterprises at the regional and
local levels, construction of public housing and rapid development of free
health care, education, training and other social services. Overall, Govern-
ment current and capital expenditure having a direct impact on social develop-
ment increased to 53 percent of total direct Government expenditure in 1977
from 44 percent in 1973.
11.       According to the 1977 Census, Algeria's resident population was 17.3
million at the end of 1977, and 1 million Algerians were living abroad, mainly
in Europe. Between 1966 and 1977 annual population growth was estimated at
3.2 percent, and the urban population increased from 33 percent to 41 percent
of total resident population. Some 58 percent of the population is now under
20 years old. Together with the high rates of urban growth (6 percent), this
factor is causing an extremely rapid growth in the demand for housing, social
services, urban facilities and employment. Despite the priority given to
modern and capital-intensive industries in the development strategy, employ-
ment creation has been impressive during 1974-77. The unemployment rate in
non-agricultural sectors is estimated to have dropped from 17 percent in
1973 to about 10 percent in 1977. Considerable efforts to create employment
will be needed, however, in coming years to cope with existing unemployment
and underemployment and absorb the additional labor force. In agriculture,
despite implementation of the Agrarian Revolution, the underemployment rate
has remained very high at an estimated 60 percent of the work force. This is
due to the seasonal nature and the low productivity of Algerian agriculture.
The labor surplus in rural areas is being steadily reduced by the large
regional development programs and by rural/urban migration. The other problem
facing Algeria is the acute shortage of skilled labor in many sectors. This
shortage is likely to persist for many years despite the considerable training
efforts which are pursued, often at very high cost, and the steady returns of
skilled workers from abroad.
12.       Algeria has been pursuing an active regional development policy
which aims at providing equal opportunity in education, employment and living
standards in all regions and thus limiting internal migration. Regional
decentralization of administrative, economic and financial responsibilities
is very advanced at the wilaya (province) and commune (municipality) levels
and is a major determinant of the country's regional development. In addi-
tion to the systematic location of heavy industrial investments in the
interior of the country under the national Plan, special programs for the
least favored wilayate, urban development (PMU) and commune development (PCD)
programs have been implemented since 1974 as part of the Four Year Plan to
build the economic and social infrastructure needed by secondary cities and
rural communes. At the end of the 1974-77 Plan, a total amount of DA 11 bil-
lion had been budgeted for projects under the PMU and PCD programs, represent-
ing 40 percent of Government direct investment and 10 percent of the country's



total fixed investment. The establishment of local enterprises (PMI) in con-
struction materials and other small-scale industries and in services ha,s been
successful in creating employment, using local resources, and satisfying local
demand. Implementation of the regional programs suffered initial delays due
to insufficient -.pacity at the local level for the identification, prepara-
tion and execution of projects but has accelerated since 1976 in most of the
wilayate. The decentralized locations of several large-scale projects bear
little relation to market and factor availabilities and may be expected to
result in high investment and operating costs. The Government is aware of
this, and considers these additional costs as the price to pay for developing
outlying regions.
13.       The Government decided that 1978 and 1979 would be transitional
years devoted to the completion of projects initiated under the 1974-77 Plan;
the introduction of a new multi-annual plan was postponed. Based on prelim-
inary estimates, real GDP growth was about 9 percent in 1978, propelled by
further increases in non-hydrocarbon sector output and an acceleration in
hydrocarbon output growth (8.2 percent). Agricultural production benefitted
from better weather conditions which permitted somewhat larger cereal harvests
than in 1977. Although low capacity utilization continued to plague many
plants, relative improvements in operating levels of existing plants and
start-up of new plants allowed manufacturing growth to increase (about 12
percent). Reflecting large increases in investment, the construction mnd
public work sector continued to expand rapidly. Total hydrocarbon exports
increased by 8 percent in quantity, thanks to a recovery in refined product
output and large increases in liquified gas output following the start up of
LNG1 in Arzew. They increased, however, by 6.4 percent only in currenlt value,
as Algerian oil prices diminished in the first half of 1978 because of an
unfavorable market situation for light petroleum. The continuing cause for
concern in 1978 was the size of the investment program and the consequences it
had on the country's financial situation and the imbalances between industry
and other sectors. Total public investment increased by 28 percent in current
terms in 1978. Public investment in industry alone increased by about 35
percent. The latter increase was due to a large extent to the investmient
requirements of the hydrocarbon development plan; investment spending in
non-hydrocarbon industry, however, still increased some 15 percent in 1978.
14.       The large import requirements of the 1978 investment program caused
a further widening of the current account deficit to $3.5 billion, although
there was drawdown on stocks of capital goods accumulated in 1977 and strict
restrictions in other imports. Despite growing debt amortization obligations
($1.1 billion), net reserves were nonetheless estimated at some $400 million
above their 1977 level at the end of 1978. Net reserves were equivalent to
2.2 months of 1978 imports. This was made possible by large drawings made
before the end of the year on the new loans contracted by Algeria in 1978 to
finance its investment program, especially for gas development. The new loan
commitments (about $5 billion) and disbursements ($4.7 billion) that Algeria
made in 1978 in a favorable international financial market, would have seemed
excessive based on earlier Bank projections. Recent developments in world oil
supply, however, considerably improved Algeria's export prospects and debt
servicing capacity. On the domestic side, because of the large investment



- 6 -
appropriations from Treasury to public enterprises ($6.3 billion), the overall
Treasury financing needs from the Central Bank more than doubled from $0.9
billion in 1977 to $2.3 billion in 1978. Money supply increased by 28 percent
in 1978, and bank credit to the economy rose by some 25 percent. In addition,
the large salary increases effected during the year have exerted further
pressures on domestic prices.  The consumer price index for the Algiers area
increased by 17 percent in 1978.
15.       In view of the oil price increases this year and favorable market
conditions for Algerian light crude, average price of crude oil for 1979 is
projected at about 42 percent above the average price for 1978. This will
bring substantial additional financial resources estimated at $2.5 billion
in 1979. The economic situation should also benefit, following the smooth
political transition, from the increased emphasis put by the Government on
efficiency in management and production. The postponement of introduction of
a new multi-annual plan will allow completing projects and programs undertaken
under the Second Four-Year Plan, consolidating achievements in the productive
sectors, and further progress in eliminating sectoral lags and bottlenecks.
Production in agriculture is expected to be high after two bad years, and
growth in other sectors should accelerate, especially in manufacturing and in
gas liquefaction. The 1979 Government budget and investment plan for public
enterprises provides for a timely slowdown in total capital expenditure
growth. While the emphasis on social sectors, economic infrastructure and
regional development continues in the investment budget, investment appropria-
tions in industry are restrained and mainly concern on-going projects. With
the combination of increased revenue from the hydrocarbon sector, larger
cereal crops, and limitations on industrial investment the resource gap in the
balance of payments should be reduced to about $1.6 billion from $3.2 billion
in 1978. The current account deficit, despite growing interest payments on
external debt, is projected at about $2 billion. External capital require-
ments could thus be reduced in 1979 to an amount compatible with future debt
servicing capacity. Because of a substantial increase in the Government
current operations surplus,the overall financing needs of the Treasury should
also be reduced in 1979. The pressures on the domestic financial situation
which developed in 1978 are likely to be eased.
16.       Algeria's economic and financial prospects beyond 1979 will be
reflected in the next Plan, which is being prepared. The Plan is expected
to start in 1980, and to cover the period 1980-84. The investment strategy,
which will be adopted by a special congress of the National Party (FLN) early
in 1980, should be consonant with the country's long-term objectives and
strategy. It is expected to increase the relative emphasis on social sectors,
especially housing, agriculture and water development, and to foster regional
development. Priority will continue to be given to hydrocarbon development as
a means of accumulating financial resources. In contrast, investment in non-
hydrocarbon industry will probably be moderated and more strictly allocated,
in order to complete ongoing projects, to achieve forward and backward link-
ages with existing industries, and to relieve constraints on better utiliza-
tion of existing capacities. It should, in addition, be adjusted more closely
to the rates of development in non-industrial sectors and to the availability
of financial and human resources. The next Plan will probably also give



-7-
special attention to measures and programs aimed at improving economic and
financial management, eliminating sectoral deficiencies and bottleneclks and,
generally, making the economic system more efficient. The decentralization
policy, which will be pursued, should help greatly to improve the economic
system--provided it is supported by reinforcement of planning an: supervision
at the central level, revision of price and credit policies and strengthening
of the financial system. Algeria will still count on external technical
assistance in its efforts to relieve existing constraints on efficiency.
17.       Algeria's prospects depend on four main factors:  the growth of
hydrocarbon exports; the level and composition of the country's investment;
its capacity for future borrowing; and the pace of improvement in the effi-
ciency of the economic system. Based on a careful assessment of these
factors, Bank staff projections show that a relatively rapid economic growth
in all sectors (about 8 percent yearly) can be maintained during 1980-84.
The growth of gross domestic income, which incorporates the effect of terms
of trade changes, should be above 9 percent during that period because of
the expected rise in both the real price and the relative importance of gas.
During 1985-1989, GDP growth would remain high in non-hydrocarbon sectors,
while it would decelerate in the hydrocarbon sector because of the projected
decline in crude oil output. The decline in crude oil output after 1981
would, however, be offset to a large extent by expected increases in con-
densate and natural gas output until the end of the 80s. The resource gap of
the economy is projected to turn into a significant surplus by 1982 when the
large condensate and gas projects, presently underway or planned, begin to
generate increasing export revenues. Commercial loans and credits with short
maturities in relation to the gestation periods of investments will, however,
induce rapidly increasing debt repayment obligations. The country thus faces
borrowing requirements well into the 1980s.
18.       Based on the above projections, during 1980-84 external borrowing
requirements are projected to average about $2.9 billion annually in terms
of commitments. The projected commitments are large but would be within
Algeria's debt-carrying capacity, which has been considerably strengthened by
the recent oil price increases. In terms of access to external sources of
financing, these amounts appear manageable since the gas contracts into which
Algeria has entered provide for partial financing of gas treatment and lique-
faction plants and suppliers' credits should be available to finance other
industrial investments, most of which will probably be implemented by foreign
contractors.  Borrowing from official sources would remain relatively small.
These include the African Development Bank, the World Bank, and the EEC;
Algeria signed a financial and trade agreement with the EEC in April 1976.
The experience Algeria has acquired on the international financial markets
should enable it to manage its external borrowing requirements, and lpossibly
also to improve the conditions of future external commercial loans, as has
been the case in 1978.
19.       At the end of 1977, Algeria's total external debt outstanding and
disbursed was estimated at $8.2 billion ($13.8 billion including undisbursed),
equivalent to about 42 percent of GDP. Debt service increased from 14 percent
of goods and non-factor services exports in 1975 to 16 percent in 1976, 18



- 8 -
percent in 1977, and an estimated 24 percent in 1978. Based on borrowings and
disbursements up to 1978 and the projected new borrowings, debt service should
remain around 22 percent until 1982. Thereafter it should decline rapidly in
relation to exports when the large condensate and gas projects come on stream.
By 1984, the likely receipts from gas exports alone would exceed projected
total debt service payments. Bank lending, past and projected, represents
only a small fraction of the country's external financing requirements. At
the end of 1978, the portion of Algeria's total debt outstanding and disbursed
owed to the Bank was estimated at 1.7 percent; this share would rise over the
next years, to some 7 percent by 1984. Algeria's external borrowing needs
will remain large in the next few years, but can be accommodated in view
of the considerably enhanced capacity to carry debt which the country has
acquired as a result of the new relationship between the prices of hydro-
carbons and other commodities in world markets, the long-term prospects for
gas exports, and general economic performance. Algeria is creditworthy for
continued Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
20.       After an interval of about nine years, lending to Algeria resumed in
FY1973. Since then, seventeen loans have been approved totalling $888 million.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of June 30, 1979 and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.  While the physical execution of
most projects is progressing well, disbursements for some loans have been
slow. This is particularly the case for the loan to the Algerian Development
Bank (BAD), the technical assistance loan for rural development, the third
loan for education and the loan for the port of Jijel. For the project with
BAD, slow progress in improving institutional arrangements, an important
objective of the project, has hampered disbursements. The rural development
project has suffered from delays in selection of consultants. Both projects
are now advancing satisfactorily and disbursements are expected to pick up
shortly. Delays in awarding the main construction contract are the cause for
slow disbursements under the third loan for education. As for the Jijel Port
Project, the Government has informed us that it is considering an increase in
capacity of the adjacent steel complex from 800,000 tpy to 2 million tpy,
which, although entailing a delay in implementation of the port project,
should enhance its economic justification.
21.       The provision of technical assistance and institution-building
support is a major objective of the Bank's strategy in Algeria, to which the
Government attaches special importance. The aim is to assist the Government
in improving economic and sector management, project preparation, implementa-
tion and financial control. Economic efficiency and financial management have
been prominent in our economic dialogue with the Government. At its request,
we are currently engaging in a study of enterprise financing and the role of
the banking system. Previous projects have included technical assistance to
enhance the financial system's appraisal capability and improve auditing of
national companies. A technical assistance loan for rural development was
made in FY1975. The present project would address itself to an area which



constitutes one of the most serious problems affecting economic growth in
Algeria:  the difficulty to start up new plants and reach satisfactory capac-
ity utilization because of the shortage of the necessary management and work
organization skills. As in the past, most projects contemplated for the
coming years aLL expected to have one or more technical assistance co]nponents.
22.       Sectorwise, Bank lending since 1973 has aimed at relieving develop-
mental bottlenecks in lagging sectors, with the main emphasis on support in
education and infrastructure. Lending for education (4 projects so far) has
accounted for 26 percent of Bank commitments in Algeria, and was mainly
focused on meeting the urgent demand for technical skills. Loans for trans-
portation (highways, railways, ports), contributing to the country's economic
integration and regional development objectives, accounted for 46 percent of
total Bank lending, and two loans for power, for 11 percent. In industry, two
projects (including a loan to the Algerian Development Bank, BAD) represent
about 12 percent.
23.       Bank lending activity is also extending to new sectors.  Following
the approval last year of the first sewerage project, engineering studies are
being financed under the loan to prepare similar projects for Bank financing
in two other major Algerian cities. Also last fiscal year, the Government
requested the Bank to prepare an agricultural sector survey and projects
eligible for Bank financing. The Bank is acting as executing agency for UNDP
in the preparation of several of these projects, the first of which, a Meat
Industry Project, was approved by the Executive Directors last June . Finally,
project preparation is underway for a first Urban Development Project in
Annaba, one of the cities where Algeria's acute housing shortage is most
pronounced.
24.       The proposed project would be the first to be presented to the
Board in this fiscal year, in which we also expect to submit projects; for
irrigation rehabilitation, education, water supply and telecommunications.
Projects planned for subsequent years include education, water supply/
sewerage, agriculture and rural development, industry, highways, and urban
development. This lending program, by stressing objectives going beyrond the
simple transfer of resources, responds to Algeria's efforts for rapid socio-
economic development.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND THE BORROWER
General
25.       The Government sees industrial development as the foundation of
national economic development. The industrialization policy was launched in
the early years of independence, when the economy, oriented toward agriculture
and services and strongly dependent on the French market, could create only a
small number of new jobs (a maximum of 30,000 a year, against several hundred
thousand unemployed and a 70,000 annual expansion of the work force). Its
aim is to radically transform the country's economic and social structure by



- 10 -
establishing a modern, diversified and integrated industry capable by the
1980s of totally absorbing unemployment, in a work-force which is expected to
increase by about 140,000 a year.
26.       Industrialization is directed primarily at raising the value added
of exported hydrocarbons, and the production of goods for the domestic market.
It aims to set up basic steel and petrochemical industries for the manufacture
of intermediate products essential to industry (e.g. foundry products, steel,
plastics) and agriculture (fertilizers); to develop the mechanical and elec-
trical industries for the supply of capital goods to all sectors of the econ-
omy (e.g. tractors and agricultural implements, tubes and piping, boilers,
machine tools, transport equipment, construction equipment); and to equip
light industry for the production of consumer goods (including food products,
textiles, footwear, furniture, detergents). Industrial development is also
intended to spread over the country, with a view to helping correct regional
imbalances. Algeria's industrial investment record testifies to the impor-
tance of industry in the country's economic development strategy. Average
annual public industrial investment rose from $1.2 billion or 56 percent of
total investment in the 1970-73 period to $3.8 billion or 57 percent of total
investment in the 1974-77 period. In these, hydrocarbons received the
dominant share (about 45 percent of investment in industry), followed by
basic metals and the engineering industries (about 12 percent each), with
the remainder evenly divided among seven other industrial branches (averag-
ing 4 percent of investment each).
27.       Basic organizational changes were conceived as an integral part of
industrial policy and included the nationalization of large foreign compa-
nies, the organization of the public sector into state corporations in the
main branches of industry and the introduction of new methods of management
of public enterprises (the "socialist charter" of the enterprises). The
industrial development effort also included the development of technical and
vocational training at all skill levels; however, substantial gaps still exist
in the availability of skilled labor and middle management personnel in the
country. The Bank's lending in education in Algeria thus far has, therefore,
placed main emphasis on the development and reform of technical education so
as to assist Algeria in meeting urgent manpower needs to fill key management
and high level technical posts, and supply the much needed middle level
technicians and skilled workers. In particular, the Fourth Education Project
(FY1978) is designed to assist in the supply of engineers and higher techni-
cians in mechanical engineering, workshop instructors for the vocational
training centers and technical/workshop teachers for technicums.
28.       The country's ambitious industrialization policy has made signif-
icant progress in creating a base of large-size, technologically advanced
production complexes. Achievements have been most notable in the fields of
energy, iron and steel, and mechanical engineering. The policy, however, has
also met with serious problems: (i) substantial cost overruns and delays in
project implementation, often due to organizational difficulties including
coordination, supply, and complex administrative procedures; (ii) low capacity
utilization of projects, due to the large past investment programs in the
sector which did not take fully into account the shortages of executives and



- 11 -
skilled workers (despite massive training programs) and the limited industrial
experience of the enterprises responsible for implementing and operating the
new facilities; (iii) lagging investment in such supporting sectors as trans-
portation, housing, public utilities and other economic and social infrastruc-
ture; (iv) difficulty in completely reconciling the objective of rapid indus-
trialization with that of correcting regional imbalances. As a conseqjuence of
all these factors, production is not progressing at a pace commensurate with
investment, though this is partly due to the long gestation period of many
large investments. From 1971 to 1976, the incremental capital output ratio of
the manufacturing sector (excluding hydrocarbons), estimated with a three year
lag between investment and output, was about 7, which is extremely high. The
very large foreign exchange content of the capital intensive projects, operat-
ing inefficiencies and underutilized capacity have also placed a heavy burden
on the country's financial resources.
29.       Recognizing these problems, the next Plan (1980-84), currently under
preparation, is expected to slow the rate of industrial investment and multi-
ply efforts to upgrade management and increase efficiency in those operations
launched under the previous investment strategy. The projected growth rate
for industrial output through 1985 (about 10 percent per annum) is higher
than that achieved over recent years. This acceleration in output growth
would result from completion and start-up of a large number of projects
from the 1974-77 Plan; an improvement in capacity utilization, to which the
proposed project would contribute, as managerial and technical skills in-
crease; and finally, from the Government's policy to reduce development lags
in other sectors to ease the intersectoral bottlenecks which currently con-
strain industrial output.
The Engineering Industry
30.       Three National Companies (Societes Nationales) account for about 80
percent of Algeria's engineering industry; namely SONACOME, SONELEC, and SN
Metal. SONACOME, the largest company, manufactures non-electrical machinery
and transport equipment, including buses, trucks, tractors, motorcyclets and
bicycles, in several manufacturing plants employing some 20,000 people.
SONELEC produces electrical machinery, apparatus and appliances, and employs
about 7,000 people. SN Metal is the second largest of the three compaLnies,
employs about 13,700 and produces structural metal products and mechanical
equipment. Besides these three companies, there are small workshops operated
by the Army and local authorities.
31.       The engineering industry plays a key role in Algeria's economic
development. It accounts for about one-third of gross capital formation in
industry, and together with construction, continues to create the new produc-
tive capacity required for the growth of national output. Equally important,
it contributes possibly more than any other industry to the training cf labor
in technical and management skills, to the upgrading of indigenous technology
and design, and to the improvement of organizational methods.
32.       Algeria's engineering industry is currently at a relatively early
stage of development where: (i) the share of fabricated metal products within
the total domestic output of the sector is relatively high at between 35 and



- 12 -
40 percent; (ii) manufacture of machinery and equipment remains limited to the
simpler products, including some electrical and transport equipment; (iii) the
production methods are relatively simple; and (iv) between 80 and 90 percent
of domestic consumption of engineering goods continues to be imported, whiL,
exports are practically non-existent. Algeria's engineering industry has
undergone rapid change during the last decade through the creation of sub-
stantial new production capacity. However, as is the case for many other
industries within the country, output growth, when evaluated on the basis of
the size of the investments made and the increases in employment generated,
has been disappointing. The Government's increased emphasis on efficient
management is particularly significant to the engineering industry, where
important new production capacity has been created, but due to a lack of
adequate management and technical skills, has been only marginally exploited.
It will not, however, be possible for the requisite improvement in management
and operations to come about in a reasonable time span without substantial
technical assistance.
33.       Algeria's rapid development program assures the engineering sector
of a large market in the future. Local manufacture of such goods is currently
estimated to provide not more than 10-20 percent of domestic requirements,
with relatively larger shares concentrated in the simpler product ranges.
Development patterns of other countries at comparable levels of development
show that the consumption of engineering goods can be expected to grow at a
rate of more than one and one half times the growth rate of per capita income.
Also, during this development process, important changes take place in the
industry as a country is able to introduce products of increasingly complex
technology. Algeria's engineering industry can, therefore, be expected to
continue to grow rapidly, although the shortage of skilled labor will, for
some time to come, keep the growth rate below that which the market would
otherwise justify.
The Borrower
34.       Company Background:  SN Metal was established in 1967 through the
nationalization of privately-owned production units. Its head office is in
Algiers. It has 15 production units, the most important of which are located
in Algeria's three principal cities Algiers, Oran, and Annaba, and 4 service
units for engineering design, civil works, erection, and railroad wagon main-
tenance (Map IBRD 13212). Total employment numbered about 13,700 at the end
of the first quarter of 1979. Details on SN Metal's existing facilities
(location, employment, capacity and production) are provided in Technical
Annex A.
35.       SN Metal has a vital role to play in the Algerian economy through
the supply of fabricated structural steel and plate products, handling and
lifting equipment, railway rolling stock, and plant equipment for all sectors
of industry, construction and public works. Its immediate goal is to increase
its productivity and the output of the goods and services in which it is
already specialized through the start-up of the new production units at Oran
III and Annaba II, two very large production units for fabricated structural
steel and boiler shop products. For the longer term, however, SN Metal hopes



- 13 -
to become Algeria's general planner and contractor for the development and
construction of new industrial facilities, including the design of new plant,
execution of civil works and fabrication and erection of new installations.
The determination of appropriate corporate goals for SN Metal, and the devel-
opment of a master plan for its future operations form an important part of
the proposed technical assistance program.
36.       SN Metal operates under the direction of the Ministry of Heavy
Industry which defines policy guidelines for the enterprise, sees to their
implementation, approves major organizational changes, appoints the General
Manager, and approves annual investment programs. Day to day management of SN
Metal is the responsibility of the Management Committee headed by the General
Manager and composed of seven department directors and two trade union repre-
sentatives. SN Metal's organization chart is provided in Technical Anlex E.
37.       SN Metal's top management team is generally competent.  It is
aware of the Company's operating problems and the need to find approprLate
solutions. On the other hand, many middle management staff lack trainLng
and experience. The problem is most acute at the shop floor level where SN
Metal is faced with a shortage of qualified managers, technicians and workers
to carry out its operations. Improving this situation through an appropriate
training program will constitute an important component of the proposed
project.
38.       Operating hesults:  Since its creation the Company's overall per-
formance has been poor. Although some of the smaller, older, and well-
established units operate quite successfully, losses have been repeatedly
incurred by 5 of the 15 units, namely: Allelick (railway wagons), Forge, El
Harrach (equipment for civil works), Hussein Dey (fabricated structural steel
products) and the newly completed Oran III plant (due to its very low capacity
utilization - 4,800 tons in 1978 on a capacity of 50,000 tons per year (tpy)).
So far, no losses are being shown for Annaba II which is still being treated
as a project under construction. The poor operating performance in these units
can be attributed to the following, in order of importance: underutilization
of capacity due to inadequate skills, excessive staffing of units in relation
to output achieved, a heavy burden of financial charges caused by extensive
debt financing, and lack of cost control.
39.       As is the case with most other state enterprises in Algeria, SN
Metal's performance is measured more by its success in meeting output goals
than by financial results. Budgets and annual financial statements are
prepared on a unit-by-unit basis but SN Metal has insufficient data with which
to set standards, control costs, measure performance and set prices. Assis-
tance in this area forms an essential part of the proposed technical assistance
program.
40.       Investment:  Since 1970, SN Metal has invested DA 1.7 billion ($450
million) in the expansion of existing and construction of new production
facilities, the bulk of which has been concentrated in the two new production
units, Oran III and Annaba II, on. which work began in 1969 and 1972 respec-
tively. Their combined capacity for structural steel fabrication, plate work



- 14 -
and plant equipment of 80,000 tpy nearly triples SN Metal's existing capacity
for such products of about 50,000 tpy. Start-up and operation of these facil-
ities has, however, been delayed due to poor planning, lack of appropriate
organizational systems and operating procedures, and inexperienced plant
management and labor. The proposed technical assistance program will provide
start-up and operating assistance to these two plants. Technical Annex A
provides further details on Oran III and Annaba II.
41.       Besides Oran III and Annaba II, SN Metal currently has seven proj-
ects under implementation (Map IBRD 13212): a cast-iron and steel foundry of
20,000 tpy at Tiaret, a plant for boilers and heat exchangers at Relizane; a
plant for metal stamping and enamelling at Miliana; a plant each for metal
furniture and for radiators at Saida; a structural steel and standard building
plant at Ain-Delfa and a 3,500 tpy plant for industrial piping at Relizane.
Of these projects, those at Ain-Defla, Miliana and Saida are all scheduled to
start-up in 1979. SN Metal has spent about DA 670 million ($178 million) on
these seven projects, and it is estimated that substantial additional amounts
will have to be spent before they are completed. The exact status of the
projects and their further implementation will be reviewed as part of the
proposed technical assistance program.
42.       The Market for SN Metal's Products:  For the simpler goods that
SN Metal produces, such as concrete mixers, containers, wheelbarrows, etc.,
the company already has a significant share of the domestic market and could
easily increase it further through better utilization of existing capacity.
For the two main product lines, structural steel work and sheet metal work/
boiler-shop products total demand is about 210,000 tpy, while domestic produc-
tion is about 50,000 tpy of which SN Metal manufactures about 40,000 tpy and
has a current capacity, including that of Oran III and Annaba II, of about
130,000 tpy. Demand is not, therefore, expected to be a constraint on the
company's full use of its production capacity. Information on other product
lines is provided in Technical Annex A.
43.       Financial Situation:  SN Metal's present financial situation is poor
(Technical Annex C). At the end of 1978 the Company had incurred cumulative
losses of roughly DA 228 million ($60 million), and outstanding debt of DA
2,415 million ($637 million), about half of which was short-term credits.
These losses have reduced the Company's equity base to a negative DA 132
million ($35 million). This situation is common to many state enterprises
in Algeria. Their equity is generally limited to the value of assets at the
time of nationalization plus cumulative retained earnings, while investments
are almost entirely debt-financed by state credits. In the past, the Govern-
ment ignored the underlying financial structure of the companies and auto-
matically extended short-term credits to cover the resultant cash short-
falls. Companies like SN Metal have, therefore, never been made accountable
for financial performance. The Government now wishes to gradually reverse
this situation and is refinancing all outstanding loans for investment with
a mixture of grants and long-term loans.
44.       The proposed technical assistance program will make a major con-
tribution to the effort to enable SN Metal to achieve financial viability,
through the generation of improved operating results which will be combined



- 15 -
with financial restructuring as follows:  SN Metal, in conjunction with assis-
tance from the consultants to be appointed under the technical assistance
program, will submit to the Bank by June 1, 1982 a plan for financial restruc-
turing, together with detailed financial projections to evaluate the adequacy
of the proposed plan; these will be discussed with the Bank, and after review
by the Government, implemented by the company (Section 3.06, Loan Agreement).
The plan, aiming at financial self-sufficiency, will be based on the following
three objectives, representing minimum, but ambitious, targets for t:he company
that SN Metal shall (i) cover its manufacturing costs and operating expenses,
(ii) cover net fixed assets with the sum of equity and long- and medium-term
debt (which would have the same effect as maintaining a 1.0 current ratio),
and (iii) service its debt with its cash flow. Given the Company's present
financial predicament, which stems mainly from the combination of its produc-
tion problems and the Algerian financial system, and the key objective of
increasing SN Metal's low productivity before it can meet more conventional
criteria of financial viability, these initial objectives are considered
appropriate. They will help lay the foundations of its financial viability
and form the basis of a continuous dialogue between the Company and the Bank.
Audits
45.       SN Metal's accounts are reviewed by a Commissaire aux Comptes, an
official state auditor. To help upgrade the auditing standards in the country,
the Bank, in 1976, made a technical assistance loan to Societe Nationale de
Comptabilite (SNC), with the objective that SNC should conduct a thorough and
independent audit of all state enterprises in Algeria. SNC will, therefore,
be expected to audit the accounts of SN Metal, but should SNC be unable to
meet the auditing requirements, the Bank and SN Metal will agree on appro-
priate alternative arrangements (Section 5.02, Loan Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Description
46.       The project consists of a program of technical assistance to SN
Metal to improve its management and operations in the context of the Govern-
ment's increased emphasis on improved productivity in the public sector. The
engineering industry plays a key role in the country's development, and with-
in the sector SN Metal is in greatest need of assistance. Firstly, SN Metal,
as a multi-product-oriented manufacturing facility concentrating on the
fabrication of custom-designed structural steel and boiler-shop products,
requires substantially more in work organization, production planning, work
preparation, scheduling, etc. than the assembly-line operations of the other
national companies in the sector with their narrower product range. Secondly,
SN Metal has built Oran III and Annaba II--two very large production units for
fabricated structural steel and boiler-shop products--which were designed to
triple SN Metal's existing capacity in these fields. The two units are
virtually completed but, because of the absence of the necessary management
and work organization skills, are facing great difficulties in starting up



- 16 -
production and attaining satisfactory levels of capacity utilization. The
proposed technical assistance program described below will, therefore, con-
centrate on these two units.  In addition, SN Metal has recently signed a
technical assistance contract with Pullman-Swindell (USA) to help solve the
specific problems encountered at Allelick (railway-wagons) and Forge (designed
to supply heavy forged pieces to Allelick). The other units will benefit
indirectly from the organizational and management improvements recommended by
both the proposed and existing technical assistance programs.
47.       The project was identified in June 1977, and appraised in September/
October 1977. Negotiations were held in March 1978. The Algerian delegation
was led by Mr. Hassam, Director General of the Ministry of Finance, and also
included Messrs. El Lemdani and Mouaci of SN Metal, and Mr. Mili of the
Ministry of Heavy Industry. Contrary to expectations, however, SN Metal and
the firm originally selected were not able to conclude a contract acceptable
to both parties (para 50). SN Metal then entered into discussions with
another firm; an initial contract was drawn up in March 1979, and a follow-up
appraisal mission visited Algeria in April. The final contract has been
initialled and will be signed, once the proposed loan has been approved.
As this is a technical assistance project, no separate appraisal report has
been prepared, and relevant technical information is provided in Technical
Annexes A to F. A Loan and Project Summary is provided in the beginning of
this report; a Supplementary Data Sheet, Annex III, and a map (IBRD 13212)
are also provided.
48.       The proposed technical assistance project as detailed in Technical
Annex D consists of three parts. It is estimated that these will involve
about 2,900 man-months as follows:
Part A:   Start-up and operating assistance for Oran III and Annaba II to
achieve their full potential.
Task 1 -  Technical survey of the Oran III and Annaba II units
(about 10 man-months);
Task 2 -  Planning the production start-up of Oran III and
Annaba II (about 32 man-months);
Task 3 -  Designing the organizational structure and operating
procedures (including cost accounting and budgeting
systems) at Oran III and Annaba II (about 100 man-months);
Task 4 -  Executing in-plant start-up and operating assistance
in Oran III and Annaba II including the implementation
of any specific product market surveys that might be
required (about 2,540 man-months);
Part B:   Preparing SN Metal's medium and long-term investment program,
including preparation of feasibility studies for two %elected
projects (about 80 man-months);



- 17 -
Part C:   Elaborating a master plan for SN Metal to determine its role in the
Algerian economy, define its appropriate overall organization, and,
in particular, to allocate production among the units manufacturing
structural steelwork, platework and mechanical equipment in an
optimal fashion (about 100 man-months).
Selection of Technical Assistance (TA) Partner and Project Implementation
49.       In October 1977, invitations were sent out to 21 firms from 7 coun-
tries to submit proposals on the implementation of the technical assistance
program. Four firms responded. SN Metal formed an evaluation committee which
presented its recommendations in late January 1978. Among the criteria used
for ranking the firms, the most important were its operating experience in
metal fabrication, its access to relevant manufacturing technology, and its
capacity to provide facilities for the training of Algerian staff. Two
proposals were found acceptable and two were rejected. Bank staff agreed
with the committee's evaluation.
50.       Negotiations were then initiated between SN Metal and the chosen
technical partner, but failed, principally because agreement could not be
reached on a contract price, and secondarily, due to disagreement on produc-
tion targets and associated penalties. SN Metal, therefore, entered negotia-
tions in early 1979 with the second evaluated bidder--USS Engineers and
Consultants, Inc. (UEC), the engineering subsidiary of US Steel (USA). 1/
During these negotiations the company was represented by a team led by Mr.
Hamdan, the newly appointed head of the Division for Boilershop and Structural
Steel Activities, under whose responsibility the operating units of Ciran III
and Annaba II fall. An initial contract on Part A of the program was agreed
upon in March 1979.  This contract does not include any penalty clauses linked
to production targets since SN Metal now recognizes that, although these
targets are relevant and indicative of performance in the manufacture! of
homogenous products, they are of limited value in jobbing units such as Oran
III and Annaba II, which produce a wide and varying mix of heterogeneous
products. In order to implement Parts B and C of the program, which require
a different type of expertise, SN Metal will employ consultants on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, by December 1, 1980 at the latest (Section
3.02, draft Loan Agreement).
51.       A tentative implementation schedule is presented in Technical
Annex B. The bulk of the program in Part A (para 48) will be directed to-
wards upgrading both the manufacturing and the management methods and systems
in Oran III and Annaba II. At these two plants, the personnel appointed by
the technical assistance partner will be fully integrated with the staff of
SN Metal and will assume line responsibilities and authority for specified
manufacturing operations. They will also be responsible for training, which
will be carried out primarily in SN Metal's production units, but which will
be supplemented by some 240 man-months of specialized training in the! US Steel
1/ UEC will draw on the personnel and training facilities of other company
subsidiaries, notably American Bridge.



- 18 -
group's manufacturing units in the U.S.A. On SN Metal's side, overall control
and monitoring of the TA program, as well as the application of the lessons
learned therein to other operating units within the company, will be the
responsibility of a specialized Project Implementation Unit. SN Metal has
already designated a manager to head this unit, which will report directly
to the chief of the Division for Boilershop and Structural Steel Activities.
The Project Implementation Unit will also be responsible for the submission of
progress reports to the Bank (Section 3.05, Loan Agreement), covering such
aspects as (i) progress in TA manpower utilization and costs; (ii) management
of the contracts--difficulties experienced, etc.; (iii) production, in terms
of output, productivity and problems encountered; (iv) training; (v) develop-
ment of the organizational and management system for Oran III and Annaba II;
and (vi) evaluation of the impact of the TA Program.
Cost of the TA Program
52.       The estimated total cost of the TA program over four years is about
$49.7 million equivalent, including $34.4 million in foreign exchange. This
estimate is based on the contract for Part A of the program, under which the
average foreign exchange cost per man-month, in 1979 prices, is about $8,700,
to which must be added a local subsistence component per man-month of about
$2,900 equivalent in 1979 terms. The last item may, however be scaled down at
a later date, if SN Metal finds it both possible and desirable to provide the
TA staff with housing directly, rather than to lodge them through the local
private market where rents are in the order of $2,200 per month. Escalation
on local costs has been calculated on the basis of an inflation rate of 10
percent p.a. for 1980, and 9 percent thereafter. Foreign exchange costs have
been escalated as per the contract clause, at an estimated constant 7 percent
p.a. from 1980 onwards.
Estimated Cost of the TA Program
DA '000,000                   $'000,000
Local /a  Foreign  Total   Local /a  Foreign  Local   %
Part A
Personnel              44.1        91.8   135.9    11.7          24.2    35.9  87
Training                 1.9        10.0    11.9      0.5         2.6      3.1   8
Parts B and C
Personnel               0.8         6.8      7.6      0.2         1.8      2.0   5
Base Cost               46.8      108.6   155.4    12.4          28.6    41.0 100
Price Contingencies   11.1         21.8    32.9       2.9         5.8      8.7  21
Total                  57.9       130.4   188.3    15.3          34.4    49.7 121
/a   Excludes local taxes and duties payable by SN Metal.



- 19 -
Financing
53.       Despite the substantial effort that has been put into the prepara-
tion of the TA contract for Part A, the estimated cost of the program includes
a significant element of uncertainty with respect to the rate oi absorption
of technology by the Algerian workers and technicians; the rate of turnover
of both management and labor at Oran III and Annaba II; the domestic market
and the technology of the optimal product mix; and the general economic and
social environment in Algeria, which will affect the total need for TA. All
these elements of uncertainty are particularly relevant to the last two years
of the program. Hence, in view of these considerations, as well as the size
of the TA program involved, it is proposed that financing be underta'ken in two
stages. The Project consists of the full 4-year TA program, but the proposed
$20 million Bank loan under consideration here will only finance the foreign
exchange costs of some two and a half years of the consultants and training
required for the TA program. At the end of the first two years the diagnostic
studies of both the plant and management systems at Oran III and Annaba II
(Tasks 1, 2 and 3 of Part A of the program, para 48), as well as the organiza-
tion and investment plans for SN Metal as a whole (Parts B and C), will have
been completed, and about 1,100 man-months of consultant time will have been
expended on operational assistance and training.  This should enable the units
to operate at about 60% of capacity, i.e. produce about 50,000 tpy of products
of medium complexity.  On such a basis it will be possible to evaluate the
performance of the technical partner, and to make appropriate modifications
in the estimated TA requirement for completion of the program. The Bank will
then be in a position to consider participating in financing without interrup-
tion the remainder of the TA program, as well as any viable projects that
might have been identified within SN Metal's investment plan.
54.       The Bank loan would be made directly to SN Metal, and finance 100
percent of the foreign exchange costs of the first phase. The local currency
component of $9.0 million equivalent would be financed by SN Metal. SN Metal
and the Government have agreed to make available any additional funds needed
both to complete Oran III and Annaba II (which are not expected to be signifi-
cant), and to complete the TA program (Sections 3.01 and 4.03, Loan Agreement
and Section 2.03, Guarantee Agreement). The loan would be for 10 years, the
maturity applied by the Bank to TA loans, including 4 years' grace. A 2.05
percent fee to be paid by SN Metal to the Government would be added to the
Bank's interest rate of 7.95 percent, so as to bring the effective cost of Bank
monies to SN Metal to 10 percent p.a. (Sections 5.04, Loan Agreement, and
2.02, Guarantee Agreement).
Disbursements
55.       Disbursements will be made against 100 percent of the foreign
exchange expenditure, as billed by the consultants and approved by SN Metal.
A schedule of estimated disbursements is provided in Technical Annex F.



- 20 -
Benefits and Risks
56.       The immediate benefit expected from the technical assistance program
is the advancement of the start-up and efficient operation of the two produc-
tion units, Oran III and Annaba II. It is expected that full capacity of
these new units will be achieved towards the end of the technical assistance
program (four years); however, even before full capacity is reached, the
program can be expected to increase the production, sales volume and cash
generation of SN Metal by a substantial amount. The size and importance of
the units is such that their start-up and proper operation will have strong
repercussions on the entire company. Management techniques and operating
procedures to be established and applied under the programs in Oran III and
Annaba II will eventually be introduced elsewhere in SN Metal, particularly
for the structural steel and sheet metal work product lines. Furthermore, once
Oran III and Annaba II have been properly launched and are making a positive
contribution to SN Metal's cash generation, the management will be in a
position to prepare and implement a plan of financial rehabilitation which, in
line with national objectives should lead to financial viability and self-
sufficiency for the company as a whole.
57.       Oran III and Annaba II represent a total investment of close to
$260 million, of which the cost of the proposed technical assistance program
for the two units of $46 million, represents 20 percent. While the cost of
the program might seem high in absolute and relative terms, without the
program these two important plants would not attain satisfactory levels of
capacity utilization. To attain full capacity, the engineering industry,
more than process industries such as the chemical or cement industries,
requires substantial efforts in work organization, production planning, work
preparation, scheduling, quality control, etc., which in this particular case
can be achieved only with assistance from experienced outside firms. At full
capacity, expected towards the end of the technical assistance program (four
years), Oran III and Annaba II will generate annual sales revenues of approxi-
mately $120 million or $1,500 per ton in 1979 international prices. This
would gradually increase as products of more complex technology are introduced.
Value added would be equivalent to about one half of this amount. Without the
program, it is unlikely that the units could achieve more than 50 percent
capacity utilization within the four-year period. Hence, starting in 1984,
the technical assistance program is expected to result in a net additional
value added of at least $30 million annually in 1979 prices, resulting in a
payback period of less than 2 years.
58.       The program is expected to substantially improve SN Metal's orga-
nizational and management abilities, and enable the company to enhance its
contribution to the country's development. In the past SN Metal's investments
were not generally subjected to feasibility studies. Under Part B of the
program (para 48), and during Phase I, a detailed investment plan will be
prepared for the company as a whole, and one or two high priority projects
thus identified will be subjected to feasibility studies, possibly to be
considered for Bank financing under Phase II. Moreover, as a supplier of
structural steel work for factory buildings, of plate work for tanks, boilers
and pressure vessels and of mechnical equipment for lifting and handling, SN
Metal contributes to industrialization in an important field. There is a



- 21 -
strong domestic demand for the company's products which also enjoy a certain
natural protection through their relatively high transport costs. IDL addi-
tion, the industry of metal fabrication, which is relatively labor-irLtensive,
permits the work force to "graduate" from products of relatively easy tech-
nology (e.g. transmission towers) to those of a somewhat more sophisticated
level (e.g. pressure vessels).
59.       The Bank's experience with technical assistance in Algeria has not
been easy. Programs have been generally plagued by insufficient support from
company management, shifts in policies and problems of logistics. The program
faces two main risks. First, logistics: the importance of making appropriate
arrangements for housing, the most serious of such problems, has been empha-
sized to SN Metal. The latter has agreed to provide the technical assistance
experts with appropriate housing including, if necessary, imported prefabri-
cated or mobile homes (Section 3.07, Loan Agreement). Second, the tasks
will be very demanding and their implementation will require harmonious coop-
eration between the staff of SN Metal and the consultants. Thus, thie "human
factor" will be important in the successful execution of the technical assis-
tance program. The prospects are, however, good as SN Metal's management has
expressed both a keen interest in the project, and a thorough appreciation of
what is required and of the problems.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between SN Metal and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article 3,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
61.       Features of the Agreements of special interest are described in
Section III of Annex III.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with thbe
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
October 23, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-22-                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
TABLZ 3A
ALGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SREET
UrIRzuCz SlOUPS (ADJUSTED AV*AY IS
ALGERIA                                               a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. DK)                                               - MOST RICZr ESYT7ITE)
TOTAL.         2381.7                                                 SAME        SAME    NEXT Ric=U
AGRICULTURAL    454.5                               MOST UCENT      CZOGRAPDIC   INCOE        INCOME
1960  ,    1970 Lb *STmITE lb       UGION 0     GROUP g   mOUP la
GNP PEk CAPITA (US$)                500.0       560.0   1110.0          1438.5       67.2      1746.4
ENERGY CONSSPTION Pn CAPITA
(XILOGRANS O COL-   DSUIVALWT)    252.0      342.0    754.0            816.7      578.3      1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, uID-TEA
(ILLIONS)                        10.1       13.7     17.1 In
URBA  POPULATION (PnCwr OP TOTAL) 30.7        35.6     39.9             45.J       U6.         52.2
POPUIATION DENSITY
PER SQ. T.N                       4.0 o       .        7.             23.2       50.S        27.6
PER SQ. Di. AGRICULTURAL LAND    23.0       30.1      37.4           112.4       93.3       116.4
POPUIATION ACE STRUCTURE (PECENT)
0-14 TIS.                        44.0       41.2 /f  47.9             46.0       42.9        34.8
15-64 YS.                         52.0       48.4 #1  48.1             50 6       53 5       56 0
65 iRS. AND ABOVE                  4.0        4.4  f     .03.3                     3.5        5.7
POPULATIOU GROWl! RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.1         3.2       3.2            2.9        2.5         1.6
uRSm                             7.2        4.4        5.6            5.0        4.7         3.4
CRUDZ BIRTE RATE (PEI TEOUSAND)    50.9        50.0      46.0           45.0       37.8        27.0
CRUDE DEAT4 RATE (m  THOUSAND)    22.6        18.4       14.0           13.7       10.8         9.9
GROSS RPRODUCTO  RAT                 ..        3.5        3.6            3.4        2.5         1.9
FAmaLY P*ANlNC
A5CETORS  ANNAL (TDODSANDS)        ..         ..        ..
usERs (PECExT of HARUD  W)    ..              ..        ..            14.7       20.0        19.3
OOD AND NUTlITION
INDEX OF 700D PRODOCTIO
PER CAPITA (1970-LOO)           L43.9       100.0    101.1           107.1      107.3       103.8
PER CAPITA SUPLY or
CALORZES (PERCENT Or
REQUD78NTS)                    73.0       78.0      8J.0            99.2      105.3       110.4
PROTEINS (GRAs PEl DAY)          47.0       45.0      57.2            63.4       63.0        77.7
o0 WEIC5A MIAL AND PULSE       14.0 l       9.0     13.7            16.4       21.7        22.2
CHILD (AGES  1-4) MORITY             ..        12.0 a     ..              ..        *.0         1.9
GlALTII
LITZ ECRCTANCY AT BIRTH (TEM)    45.6         50.7      53.3            53.7       57.2       63.0
INFANT HDRTLITY RAZE (PU
THOUSAND)                          56.0 e        ..       ..            77.7       53.9       38.2
ACCEss To sAon IATz  (PZECZET or
POPULATION)
MOTAL                              ..         ..      77.0            59.1       56.8        67.7
ZUR                                ..       54.0    100.0             85.9       79.0       83.5
RURAL                              ..         ..      61.0            38.0       31.8        41.5
AOCESS ro ICRUTA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        9.0      67.0            64.3       30.9        70.3
URBAN                              ..       13.0    100.0             94.5       45.4       90.7
RURAL                              ..        6.0      50.0            27.7       16.1        38.3
POPULATlON PER PRYSICIA          79 30.0  .  7860.0   7400.0          4271.6    2706.8       1310.8
POPuLAZIGI PYR NUSlY    Ps           ..     2730.0   1320.0           2077.4    1462.0       849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL SDD
MOTAL                           280.0 lb   340.0    370.0            580.2      493.9       275.4
UR                                 ..         ..        ..           310.0      229.6       129.9
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..    2947.9        965.9
AMaSSIONS PER SDSPITAL SZD           ..        14.3     18.4            22.0       22.1       18.9
Dose
AVERE SIZE Of HOUSEOLD
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..              .4        5.2         3.9
IBAS                               ..         ..        ..              ..        5.0
RUAL                               ..         ..        ..              ..        5.4
AVERAGE nUIEL OP PERSONS PER ROOM
MTAL                               ..         ..        ..              ..        2.0         0.9
uRAN                               ..         2.8  .    ..             1.8        1.5         0.8
LAL                                ..          ..       ..              ..        2.7         1.0
ACCESS M ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
MTAL                               *-        34.0 L      ..           40.3       64.1        59.2
tUBaN                              ..         ..        ..              ..       67.8        78.0
WURAL                              ..        12.0 LI    ..            12.2       34.1        12.5



-23 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
TAILS 3A
ALGIRLA- SOCAL XUCASOI 2 SMsm
lrsfuNcl   0107s (ADJUSTED AE1-475
- MOST UCD6T ZSSTSTZ)S A
SAE         SANE      S   ashcu
MOST UCUSST     GZOO*S1C    tUcoNi        n4COICz
196O/b      1970 A  18T ss?  /_b     ucsoll I     lc u       GROUP
ZDUCAT7.ON
ADJUSTID =550LUEV 6720S
FR1DtU      TOTAL                 46.0        73.0      77.0 /          90.8        99.8        97.6
131*2.1              37.0        58.0      72.0      *      L.8        93.3        87.4
SECONDAR:   TOTAL                  8.0        11.0      26.0 a          23.6        33.8        47.8
fALZ                  6.0         6.0      13.0             18.2       29.8        42.6
SOCAUOWL (1S115  0  S1co1DAiT) 29.0          20.0       2.0             5.7        12.8        22.7
FWZL-T5&AC91 RATIO
PR1UIL4                           38.0        40.0      41.0            31.5        34.9        25.4
SWONDAR                           1h.0        21.0      26.0            22.3        22.2        24.9
ADiT LSTSS    SLa  (713               ..        26.0      35.0 h          50.1        71.8        96-3
CONMSUPTION
PASSENGER CAS  FE  n0oo
POPUtLATON                        17.0        11.0      12.0            14.5        12.4        32.3
DLOL ascsss u PER TSSD
POPtATI1N                         54.0          ..     198.0           125.8       L04.5       201.1'
TV IUECUVUS P1 T 0SAID
F0PlutXTI                          5.0         8.0      25.0            34.5       28.1         97.7
NZWSFAX5S O"LIiLY 01E1L
NTIS6") CSlC       Tt SSCII M
TSUSAND POP'ATiOR                   28.0        15.0      17.3             17.4       45.2        70.9
CISN   ANMUAL ATTUSSA   FE CAPtU   2.0           6.0       3.0              1.6       4*6          4.
TOTAL LAPO  101C! (IS0OCS0 DS)    2700.0    3019.0  zj 3820.0
*F1A1 (PERCENT)                    3.2        4.1         7.6 In          9.3       23.7        17.4
AucUL?UU (111I05)                 67.0       so.0       35.0            42.0       46.2        36. 
FMT7CsI   (PIT M)                 121 11.6 13.0.
PA& SCzpkSS0o uTz (Pncm)s
TOTAL                               26.7        22.7      22.3            26.9        33.8        33.1
KALA                                51.3        4.4       43.4            4A.6        48.1        50.8
FzUAL1 1.7                                       1.8       1.9             5.3        17.3        12.5
zOc1aC  oEZDlcT tSSO                   1.4         2.6       2.4             1.9         1.4         1.4
sCgm a_sT1l3UStOII
U1XC11 015711107101
PERCU7l Of 1R2VATS 010065
RIG%= 5  PSC131  OF a005r0LDS      ..          ..        ..              ..        23.6        20.2
1s18sss 20 ntC  0T or  05ssaL5 s.                         ..              .         52.3        47.9
LOwtO s 20 91CD0S 0 0 IIWSD0LDS     ..          ..        ..              ..        4.3          3.2
LOWCST 40 FUcDS o0  oODsnWLWS    ..             ..        ..               .        13.1        13.7
povanT TMCZTT ctour5
1575T7TD ASSOLDTS PoV21  SCoN
LEVL (CuS FrE CAPITA)
nun811                              ..          ..        ..              ..       191.9
32                                  ..          ..        ..           142.0       193.1       157.9
ESTOATED R.ATrn POVT!  rCOI
LEVEL (USS PM CAPIA)
all"36                              ..          ..        *-           236.1      319.8        4S4.8
11                                  ..          ..       -             14.         197.7       313.1
155D1  1OP1OLAT1C  8310  POrn1
COIC  UVSL (pUcriT)
02341                               ..          ..       ..             21.5        19.8        23.2
92MAL               *     -   **                                        37.A        35.1        54.5
.Noc available
Not applicabl.
o    Th  adjusted grusp ""raees to: Aem _   ndIcator are popjLaLACIO.Wlihted geomttic means, excluding the extram
values of thde idic'tor and the mt popu"lated country LA ech group. Coerage of countries =mg the
lodicators depend on e valablitty of data and is tot uollos.
ib   Doi.uu otherwise notad, data for 1960 rafer to ay yer  beteed  1959 and 1961- for 1970, bcveeva  1969
and 1971; nd for Kout leceant Estiate, bsctvas 1973 and 1977.
/o   Worth Africa * Middle Zast;  Id  Inrtermdiate Middle Taco_ (5551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /a  Upppsr
'tiddlo Iacom ($1116-2500 per capIta. 1976);               JA  1954.60;  /b  1962;   /i  1965, Algaeia
population only; Li  1963; Lk  1977; /1  Certain fiside of study previously claeitfsd  inder other
second Level education ot a vocational, or t chnical a tue  Mp row reported under general educatio;
tbersfors data not coparable with thoe of earllir I'eer;.  /m  in  non  agricultural  sectors
/n based on the 1977 Population Census.
May 1979
Preliminary



- 24 -                                                                        ANNEX I
Page 3 of 7
KeY TO COLNtTRIES BY REGION AND INCOME CROUP/c
Rsgions/IconO  Group               Loxs Incxne/b                      Lowr Middle                  Ixtx.- diate Middle                    Upper Middle            High Io-ne/f                 Co. .triec
I-COe/C                       Ixco,d                               Ixxx_/e                                          oil exporters
B niM                     Mclxxi           Angol                    Ch..a                                    Djibo-ti                   Cabon
M-rundi                 Mali               Betcvwan                  Ivory Coast                              Reunion
Centr.l African  erp.   Mo--biqo.          Canrexo                   Mauritio
Chod                    Ni gr              Cape Verde                N yibil
C- xxaR-ed.                                Ceugo, P.R.               S.ychell.s
Ethiopia                 Sierra Leon       Eqoateria1 Exiesa
AFRICA SGtIT          rabi, The                So-slia     *      Lib.ria
OF SAHARA             Goi.e.                   Taxc:xia           Mouritania
FuixOc--iaa..            Togo              Nigeria
Kexyc                    Uganda            Rhedecia
Lesothe                  Upper Volta       Sax To- & Prixcipe
Madcga..cr               Zaire             Sen el
Sedan
Seas ilaod
Znhbia
NORTH AFRICA           EgYtR                                      MAoroc                      lgeria o                              Ir oOLi
Y-ne  A.R.                                                           Jorde                                    Iran                       O-a                         Lib-a
EANST    DE              - PDR                                                              Syrian A.R.                             Ir.q                                                    Qatar
EAST                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tonie                   Lahbnxn                                                 Saudi Arabi. 
United Ar.b ERir.
Afgh.oist.n             Meldi-xa
SOUtH ASIA            Bongladeah               Nepal
Bur                     Sri Lanka
Indil
C-bodia                                    Nev  hebridee             China.  Rep. of                         Fiji                        AD ricac Semo
Ind-neia                                   P.p.. Ne. G.inaa          Gilhart Island.                         Song  ong                   Strnc
EAST ASIA             Lax P.DR.                                   Philippi--                Korea. Sep. of                          hrogh Poly .. Is
Solonon Islands                            Thailand                  Mac-x                                                               C.-
Vint No                                    Toog                      Malaysia                                                            Ne.  Caledoni
W'stccn S-O-             TIst Tarritory of the Pacific                                        Ringapcr.
Haiti                                      Bolivi                    Aotigua            G.t.seal              Argectin                   B.ah-a
El Slvador               BSoiee             Jnica                 Barbadoe B   uda
LATIN AMERICA                                                     Gr-ada                    Chile             Mexico                Brasil                      Canal Foon
tANDS AMERICeAN                                                    oyaG                     Colo.1bi          Nicaragux             French loi.na              Martiniu
AINS CARIBBEAN                                                    Hoodnr.a                  Coto  Rica        Paraguay              C-ad.loupe V.enpul-
St. Vincet                Do:inica          Paer                  Nteherl nds   ntilles      Virgin  sl-lnd- (U.S.)
D-AiniIan Rep.   St. Kitt-N.vi          Pan
Ecuador           St. Ltcia             P..". Ric
Trinidad & Tobago
Turk.y                                  Cyprua                     Chanol lelend
Isle of Man                Fasrxa Islanda
E UHOPE                                                                                                                             PorMta                      Gibraltar
Port.galCr1c
RananL ia                  Grasaland
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_i
Au-trali-         Finl.nd                        Italy               Norway                  United Sta.st
INDUSTRIALIZED        Aostria            Fra.ce                        Japa                 H wth Africe
COUNTRIES             BMlgia             G sany F.d. RIp. of           Lnbhourg             Svad-
Canada            Iceland                       Netherl.nda          Svit.rlaod
Dle-Iark          Ireland                       Nv EZ alod           Uited Krngd
Albania           CeMan D". RMp.             USSR
Mol1gri           Hunogry
CENtRALLY PLANNRD    ChiN  P.R. of    Korea D-. RIP. Of
ECONOMIES             C.ba               Mng.olia
Cs.choslaovkia   Poland
/a  Baaed on 1976 GNP per capita in 1976 US dollar.
7- $S2d0 or Ie.. par cpita.
/c 5121-550 per capita.
7i $551-1135 per capita.
/s  $1136-25D0 per cpita.                                                                                                                                                                                 EPDFS
cof ovr $2500 per capit.



- 25-                                                                              ANEXI
Page 4 of 7
DUmTIRONS CP SOCIAL. DhDICATONS
Noes;  Although the date ant drown from  ach,cs geneally Judged cbs    t martuthoitattve and reliobia, it sbould aso. ba noted that they mey car bo later.
2cotionoll, comparobie bacous of tn. lack of staodardlinod dafinttiom 0.4 eomopts us.4 by differoen ceuntrisa is nollocciag tbs dota. mae data ae. scathbeless.
afu1 to d ...rib. ord.r. of osgnitud., indicate trends, and oksretortsei certain m )or diffoerenes betamon cas.trim .
Th a diust.4 groun ever-las for eacb indicator ane populotise-weigbt.d *momstric Imesa, excluding the extreme values of the imdiestot ouA the moot
Populated tnotory in .t,c group.  Cororage of countries snomg tbs indicetoOt 4595045 55 Osilsbilitr Of dota tsed is not unitfffi.  Duo to lock of dots.
group s"ron9, for Capital Surplus Oil Exporter. and indicators of access to water .0d encrot. diopoosi, basIng, iwam distrtbutis mand Poverty are
simople populatco0-weightsd Isometric Mans, withm,t tbe excinsien of ancroma lLos..
LAnD ARLA (thousand sq. lea)                                                             lOmal,tig. oar boonttal bad - total. urban. sod rural - Plopulation (total,
Total - Total saurtact area coorprislas lend arts end lsale  watoTO.                      Urban, and rural) d1.1.40d by their rsspsttiVo  ember of hospital bado
Agricultural - Most recat aotisat& of agriculturel ares used tumprt.ly                    avAilAbl* la public asd private gseWral and apeetialged hospital and t.-
0r peratOOstly for crope. pastures, markot and hitch., gardoos or to                    habilitation  coators.  lospitaos4s, ar    stablisamtem  porossnatly  staf fed by
Lis fallow,                                                                             at le.t Ome Pbyoici.n.  Istabli.shns  Pt. v001.41.  priacip5.Lly cuatodis.l
tare art not included. Rura hospitals. however, includ. besIth and asdi-
CM? PER CAPITA (US9) - OF? per capitsa sciaatto at current market price.,                   cal cotcrs aft pormaaosotly staffed by a physican (but by a aedical sp-
calculated by soem coxveralto method u World &ook AUa. (1975 -77 beass);                oloanI. ours.. Si4.1f . etc.) IwhLic  offe sln-patient accemoadatiog snd
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                              provide a limIted range of oWical facilities.
AdmIssion. Doa hoatal bed - TotaLl rambsr of udmiesioug to or discharges
zqnor COwSg,PTIOvT PU CITA - Aonoal cnmOiptlon of colsarcial soargy                        ftcobaptl  divdad by cbs number of lbode.
(coal and ligolta, patroloun, naturaLl gao and bydro-, outleast and kso-
thereal alactricity) Luk kilogo.ssa of coal equivalant par caita.           ~       IwoDG
Averass esie of housohold (saronne Pe, hoab  fd     ttl rban  LU rural-
POPm..AT109 Ant  VITAL STATISTICS                                                          A household consista of a group  Wfihii         o.l   b  obr  ILivn   quartars
Total DO ulatio.. ald-,sAt (millions) - As of July 1; if not ava"lohl,                    sod their main stas.  A boarder or lod         sr ay or saty Dot be included im
&,onr* t o  t     m ad-year astimatas; 1960, 1970, sod 2377 data.                       tbs bousehold for statistical poop."..  Statistclcsl dafimltio,a of boaae-
UIrbae opulatino (psercnt of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                     bold vary.
tin , 4ff stoat deftlotiono of ucham arsaa may affect caosWbiUity                    Avtc    aa   fnrsoo por room - total  -ra.a    ua     Average oum-
of data ameg cosocrisa.                                                                 boro   ets ar   .    room  in &.1, urban. adftlocpa   ovnfo
Population density                                                                        daslliaga, respectively.  DualLIog  exclude moo.-pernant Structutes  and
p   k.- Mid-yest populatift pot oquara kiloster (100 bactaras)                    un ccupied parts.
of total -ara.                                                                        Accaso o alatricty  (percent of  Wasllina)-tal  urban. sod rural -
Pa o..h. asricultuLre lAnd - CaMuted aa abort for agricultuaLI land                  Cvsto.ldlling* with electricity in liv:ingqacr   optetg
only.                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of total, urban. ead rurral dwellings respecttively.
opuplmtion ass otracturo (rcezt) - Cbildraa (0-lb y"ts), wrking-gep
(15-64 ysara), Ldrtie   (65 y"s arood "ar) as poocamtage  of mi-    * DEATIOOI
Popuocio. ooychOtt (pecoo) -  ota, an  uran -Com amalPirythl-ttl,sdf male - Total tad famale enrollment of all mass
grovth raco of Itoa  en   rban ai-ya  putisua for 1930-40,                              at the primary level as pordantagat of reapectivelr primary stbool-egs
1960.-70, sod 1970-75.                                                                  population.; oormally includes chf.ldrs aged 6-U  pasta but adjusted for
Crnde birtb rate (por thousan) - Annual live births per tbosueod of                       different lsugthe of primary education; for tountrlas with usivekrsal ado-
mid-yes: populacloo  coo-year aritbmtic averagas endiog ia 1960 man                     tation auroLlasot nty exceed ID0 percent since some pupils art balsa or
1970 adfe-year avarage endiog in 1975 for amast recant eatimugto.                       abova tbe official scoeol age.
C'Ad dth rats (D.. thousand) -  s ldeaths par tboumaasd of mid-                        Soatodary school - toa. sod f male - Coniputad as aboot; secoadary aduca-
yearfpopulation. tea-yeAr etitboatit "stsages endi   in1. 1960 sod 1970                 cion requires at les   orya,of approved priesry insartrcien  pro-
and fi've-pa  averago audiog in 1975 for met recant eatimota.                           vidAs ganeral vacatieseal. or taachsr tra-sen instructioaa  for pupils
Cr000 reProduction rata - Average aoabec of daughters a mean will best                     "ussy of 12 to 17 year. of aga; corestpoadsmc. toureea art gamarally
in, bet wroral reproductive period if  beb  ospsraoncea present age-                     cantludd.
specif ic fertility rates; uaaaLly fiveyear Averages endi"g in 1960.                   oainlsvlao  (portent of secondary) - Vocatioal toatitutiona ie-
1970, and 1975.                                                                         co.tenbboical  industrial. or other prWorm  abitch operate izdapsodantly
Psoll, plannino - eccaotrs, nna  (tbousando) - -anual nwaboc of                           or as dapartmenta of Pocoedary Leatitutioms.
atcaptors of birth-coutrol devices under asupites of national tinily                 Puoll-tsacher ratig - ortasrY. sod  ecndaryr - Total students enrolled in
planning progran.                                                                       primary and sfendar   evedIvded by numbersa of toachera in the torre-
P0.1l,r Olawnino - usere foarcont of_mridwmn   Percentaga of                              spondiag levels.
married womno of chi.ld-boarin    g   1-iys    abs aaa birtb-control                 Adult literacy rate (percent) -Litersto adults (skJis to rand sod writ.) as
dev-ices to all married  oA  in assm age group.*                                        a percentae of total adult population aged 15 ykour  and over.
Ml'0 AND O ITIO9                             0-10)-  aw9?TIOI er(D
LIndMo  food Production per capill (197010)                                                         reda  abeaosprsasener care (a  huadpnlto)-Poegccr  conprise motor cars
capita annual productio  of al  foo  Iomaditita.                                      seating lose thaneigt pt..excludes ambulance.s * bsree  00d military
Per cupita supply of calories (percent of rotuirensnts) - Computed fom                  vehicles.
anargfy ouvl    of oat food sopplios available in country por capita                 Radio rsceivare (per chousaad nuti)- All typos of receivors for rsdio
pot day.  AkailAble supplies temprisa domastic production, Imports loe*               broadcasto to leealt       uli er   tbbuaan  of popuaetion; excludes unlicenaed
export., and chargea in stock.  Not supplies excluds animal food,  oeads,             raceivers ia cooutriosw andt  years whan reuietratien. of radio ests  ate in
quantities uDead in food processing. sand losses In distribution.  Re-                effect; dala for recant yaara way met ha comparablo  lutse most touotrios
q.ulcostn  er"totlaetietd by ?AO baeed on physilolgical osada for nor-                abolishod licanaing.
maI  .ctivity and baalth considering ensvironoantal tmpsraturo. body                 TV aavr  nrtoan  poulactin) - TV receivers for bro.adtat to Sesurd.
waishts, ato and sa" discrbutionw of population. had all1owing 10 per-                 pubicpe  tb and population; excludes utlitenoed TV rettivera in Down-
cent for  utoc  at household level,                                                     trios end in years whan registration of TV sets wass in effect.
Pe.r cait  supl  of vrot.ic (transa Per day) - Protain content of Perawporcrusln(r                                   toon   OPulatlon) - SbowO lb. average crua
capita cat supply of food par day.  Net supply of food is def ined aso                  tie   o'dily gaaa  Iteret nowsppapr". defined aso a periodical publi-
abu.~.   Saqu1rananets for all countries ostablisbod by USDA provide for                cation devoted primarily to reaording general noes.- It is considered to
aoflninuse allowance of 60 greams of total protein per day, and 20 grmam                be 'daily" if it appears at least four cl..as   weesk,
of solnal end pulsa Protein, of mhilh 10 gromo should be animmal protein.            Cina-ma annal attendanco par .&.ics net Year - Based on the nuaher of tickets
ahse tandards are lower tban clost of 75 grwm  of total protein and                   sol  durin  lb  year, including  "di-eloao cto dr va-in  ilnena  and eabils
23 graas of anmlprotein as so awe-ag  for tbs aotld. propoaod by                        units.
PAO In the  hr   odPn   uvy
Per  .&Pit. protei nuonl,Fftoa% anIm   sad oulsa - Protein opply of food              EKQL0Y  WI
dariva  from  anioal  and pulses in grass pet day.                                   Total labor forts  thou,x5de) - lEconoically active persons, including aread
Cid(os1-4)   rtlalit, rote  (per thnueaod) - Aonua.l dostho pat thoua-              frean    tploy.d but excluding housevives. students, etc.  Dofloi-
and It ago group i-4 yearo. to childoso in thie age group.                              clons in various councries ars our coipar.ble.
female (portent) - Feawl. labor forte aso percentage of tonal labor fort..
tRAILTS                                                                                  articultura (percent) - labor force in farming. forestry. bunting sad! fishing
Life expectancy at birth (Years) - Average Dunbar of years of life                        aso percentaga of total labor forts.
teasoino  at birth; ueually fiv-yost averaga. ondin  in 1960, 1970,                 Indusrro (Verrent) - Labor forte in mining, touotrurtion. manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                               electricity, wetar and geas as p.rteotege of total labor force.
Infant mortalit, tate (per thousand) - Annual death  of infants under                  Parlticivtinn raet  (percent) - local,."mals  sod toafmtl. - Total, male., aod
on   oa   f ago per thouoand live birhts.                                          'amal* labor force as psrcez   pe fthi    aspctsvs Populations.
Acro:.or osaf. wsatr fpeccant of popul.ti.z) - total, urban, end rural -                  Th..o nst 10', sd5usred partiolpationtoe ret.-fioctiog Aee
., mb*r of people (total. urban. and rural) wilh tsasoneb1e access to                   strrcrrur  of the population. end long  ima trend.
safa uater supply (includes treated surfae  voters or untre.ted but                I ..onoic dtp.5depcY ratio - katio of population under 15 and 65 end over to
un.cotaminated watar euch as that from  prtectted boreholas, springs,                  the labor fort. in  S ageroup of 15-6- ysare.
and tantltey wall.) as porcentag.. of thsic respective populatcin.
In an urban atrea a public fountain or standpost located not more                   INCOME I ISTRIBl3CTiOf
than 1)00 macare from a houseo may ha. considered an being within tOa-               F#rcencasa  of privat. 1ot5(both in  "ohe LUd  int) received by rtcheast
sonable stress of that hotos.  In rural stoas reasonable access mould                   percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 10 percent,  and poorest 40 percent
imply hat tha bhousewif. or sumbero of -hs household do not haer  to                    of households.
spond . disproportionate Part Of rha Is- in fetching the fassly's
eatw  *.odr. .dspslPOVERTY TPROET G90tCPS_tyi
Accee t  oucaladIspsal(percent of population) - totls  urban, and              Etat   bsleportino   level (U'S$ par cuolts) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by sacT.ta                       Absoluto po-rty incom  le-el is chat Incoma 10',o1 balow which a M-Inimal
disposal as percentages of their rospoctiva populations.  Excretta                      nutritionally adequste diet plus essential non-fond requiromeols Is not
disroeal my include ths cnllectinn and disposa...   with or without                     affordable.
1traslmntI of baman  sotrete and ws-otrby water-born. systesa                        taCinatad rolaco- poarty intco. l.vs' IUSS Par tapita) - urban and rural -
or to. use of pit privias and elalar iv-callationn.                                     Relaltive poverty ico.M. leVel ie that incase . lc1.1 es  than 000-third
opaulotior nor physician - Population Aivid.d by number of praccicing                      per capoto personal inttona of the country.
pysvnclans, qualified fron a medical school at university level.                     totinot.d population below ,overty Incme , - lve  (yettrnt) - urbsoandI rural 
.ppulotio .. D-ursinooroa       Popularino divided by number of                            Percent of population (urban and rural) whn are' tither  aoutport" or
Practicing nob  and female erdnest              p nuse .prctical n5t50. "A              "ra1ativo poor` w,hichever is greacer.
tronosit and Social Sacs Division
itonomic Aoalyeisoand Projections Departmant



- 26 -                                                          ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 7
ALGERIA                                                   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Actual           Prelim.          Projected 1/                 Growth Rates               1977
1973      1975       1977     1978        1979      1984     19B9        1974   197B   1980  1985   Share of GDP
1977   1979   1984  1989
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(DA millions: 1974 constant prices)
1.   Gross domestic product                 50,435    54,305    62,665   68,169        74,577   109,750  149,108       5.5    9.1    8.0   6.3        100.0
2.   Gains from terms of trade             -10,766    -3,399    -2,910   -5,348          -149      5,636   11,090       .       .      .      .        -4.7
3.   Gross domestic income (1+2)            39,669    50,906    59,755   62,821        74,428   115,386  160,198    10.6   11.6    9.2   6.8           95.3
4.   Imports                                14,500    22,870    25,800   26,956        29,544    38,459   49,527    15.5    7.0    5.4   5.2           41.4
5.   Exports - volume                       21,390    20,226    22,121   23,686        25,655    37,190   37,523       0.9    7.7    7.7   0.2         35.5
6.   Exports - TT adjusted                   10,624    16,827    19,211   18,337       25,507   42,826    48,613    16.0   15.2   10.9   2.6           30.9
7.   Resource gap - TT adjusted (4-6)        3,876      6,043      6,589    8,619       4,037    4,367        914       .       .      .      .        10.6
8.   Total consumption                      25,810    32,466    37,610   40,117        43,484   66,025   103,061       9.9    7.5    8.7   9.3         60.4
Public onsumption                 5,720     6,770      7,760    8,476       9,312   15,349    24,013       7.9    9.5   10.5   9.4         12.5
Private consumption              20,090    25,696    29,850   31,641       34,172   50,676    79,048    10.4    7.0    8.2   9.3           47.9
9.   Total investment                        17,735    24,483    28,734   31,323       34,980   44,994    58,051    12.4   10.3    5.2   5.2           45.5
Fixed investment                 15,770    21,153    27,564   31,500       33,600   43,600    57,100    15.0   10.4    5.3   5.6           44.3
10.  National savings                       14,574    18,690    21,610   21,815        29,610   48,005    56,616       9.8   17.1   10.1   3.4         34.1
11.  Domestic savings                       13,859    18,440    22,145   22,704        30,943   49,361    57,137    11.9   18.2    9.8   3.0           34.9
12.  GDP at curr. prices (USS millions)    8,723    14,370    19,737   24,341          32,730   76,276   140,555    22.5   29.0   18.4  13.0
13.  Fixed invest. at curr. pr. (US$ M)    3,582        6,219     9,486   12,469       15,115   29,735    51,135    27.0   26.0   14.5  11.5
14.  Fixed investment/GDP (current)           41.1       43.3       48.1     51.2        46.2      39.0      36.4
8. SECTOR OUTPUT
(Distribution in percentages; 1974 constant prices)
1.   Agriculture                               7.2        9.3        6.4      6.0         5.7        4.6      4.0      2.7    4.0    3.6   3.5
2.   Hydrocarbons                             40.5       34.3       33.2     32.3        32.0       30.6     19.9      0.3    8.3    7.2  -2.4
3.   Other Industry                           20.8       25.2       28.9     29.0        29.2       30.3     34.3    13.9   12.0    8.9   9.0
4.   Services                                 31.5       31.2       32.1     32.7        33.1       34.5     41.7      5.4   12.0    9.0  10.5
5.   Non-hydrocarbon output                   59.5       65.7       66.8     67.7        68.0       69.4     80.1      8.5   11.4    8.6   9.4
c.   PRICES  (1974=100 in US dollars)
1.   Export price index (incl. NFS)           39.6      102.0      121.0    119.9       169.8      286.9    415.3      32.5  18.5   11.1   7.7
2.   Import price index (incl. NFS)           79.7      122.5      139.4    154.9       170.8      249.2    320.6      15.0  10.7    7.9   5.2
3.   Terms of trade index                     49.7       83.3       86.8     77.4        99.4      115.1    129.5      15.2   7.0    3.0   2.4
4.   GDP deflator (in dinars)                 72.4      110.7      130.6    141.6       170.1      269.4    365.4      15.8  14.1    9.6   6.3
Hydrocarbon value added deflator       35.3      94.2      114.3    112.7        163.1     282.1    415.7      34.5  19.5   11.6   8.1
5.   Average exchange rate                     3.959      3.949      4.147    3.966       3.876    -
D.   SELECTED INDICATORS
(Computed at 1974 constant prices)       1974-77   1978-79   1988-84   1985-89
1.   ICOR 2/                                     4.0        4.0        4.7      5.4
1.1   ICOR non-hydrocarbon economy          5.3        4.4       5.7       5.2
2.   Total import elasticity                     2.82       0.77       0.67     0.82
2.1   Non-capital import elasticity         1.33       0.76      0.70      0.85
3.   Average national savings rate/GDY          38.5       37.5       42.3     38.0
4.   Marginal national savings rate/GDY          33.7      54.5       44.9      19.2
5.   Imports/GDY                                41.2       41.2       35.1     31.6
6.   Investment/GOY                             45.9       48.3       41.7     37.0
7.   Resource gap/GDY                            6.7        9.2       -2.1     -1.5
E.   PUBLIC FINANCE  (Central Government)                                      Prelim.    Provis.
(as S of GOP at current prices)
1973      1975       1977     1978        1979
1.   Current revenue                            31.9       44.5       43.1     40.0        38.6
1.1 hydrocarbon revenue                    11.9       23.7      22.0      18.0        18.9
2.   Current expenditure                        18.6       22.6       18.7     18.2        16.3
3.   Government savings                         13.3       21.9       24.4     21.8        22.4
4.   Capital expenditure                         10.8      10.0       13.0     13.0        12.8
5.   Loans and advances (net)                    12.1      21.8       24.0     24.7        23.2
6.   Overall treasury balance                     3.7      -7.1       -6.2     -9.3        -6.5
F.   LABOR FORCE (in thousands)
1966      1973       1977 3/
1.   Agricultural, total                        1,270      1,480      1,330
- permanently employed                     (450)      (520)      (570)
- seasonally employed                      (B20)      (960)      (760)
- percentage of underemployed                65         65         57
2.   Non-agricultural, total                     1,180     1,700      2,490
- active                                   (860)    (1,407)   (2,240)
- unemployed                               (320)      (293)      (250)
- percentage of unemployed                   27         17         10
1/   Staff estimates.                                                                        . not applicable                               EMENA CPIIB
2/   Computed to GDY with one year lag between investment and output.                       - nil or less than half of unit shown           October   1979.
3/   Based on the 1977 Population Census, preliminary.                                      .. not projected



27 -
ALGERIA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Millio.s of US dollars:  current prices)                                               ANNE X
Actual                           Prelim                       Pro.erted 1/
1969     1973      1974      1975      1976      1977       1978       1979       1980      1982        1984       1989
A. SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1. Exports (including NFS)                   1,010    2,016    4,935    4,869    5,569    6,331          6,793    10,419    13,791    20,218         25,525    37,275
2. Imports (inrluding NFS)                   1,225    2,712    4,477    6,598    6,432    8,475          9,986    12,068    14,625    18,572         22,922    37,976
3. Resource 8alasce                           -215      -696      458   -1,729       -863   -2,144      -3,193    -1,649        -834      1,645       2,603       -701
4, Net factor service income                   -62       112        87       38      -107      -206       -391       -576       -745       -970        -H09       -446
interest payments                       -11       -83      -218     -235      -381      -454        -570       -837    -1,041    -1,334       -1,213       -821
2. Interest receipts                         25       20       148        72        83       86          53         84        116        220         292       553
3. Direct Investment income                -241         -        -         1         2         1        -15        -19        -22        -32        -X6        -96
4. Workers' remittances                     166      226       202       265       254      246         277        305        332        356         356       356
-            5. Other factor services (net)               -1       -51       -45      -65       -65       -85       -136       -109       -130       -180        -239      -438
5. Current transfers (net)                      48        89       43        32        41        28          40        50         50         50          50         50
6. 8slasce on current account                 -229      -495       588   -1,659      -929   -2,322      -3,544    -2,175    -1,529          725       1,804    -1,097
7. Private direct investment                    41        51      360        97       179       173         136       150        150        160         IBO        200
8. Official capital grants                      23       -39     -427         -         -         -           -         6          6          8           8         10
Public M&LT loans
9. Disbursements                                87    1,597       631    1,705    2,157    2,670         4,705      3,808      4,015      2,430       2,[137    4,439
10. Amortization                                -54     -234      -467      -433      -517     -713      -1,070    -1,389    -2,042    -2,945        -3,tl72    -3,284
11. Net disbursements                            33    1,363       164    2,262    1,640    1,957         3,635      2,419      1,973       -515     -1,435      1,155
16. Short-term  capital                           -         -         -        -         -         -           -         -          -
17. Capital transactions n.e.i.                 111     -277      -525        72      -262     -124        -614          -          -          -           -          -
18. Changes in reserves (- = increases)          21     -603      -160       218      -628       316       -387       -400       -600       -378        -'56      -268
19. Net foreign eschange resernes               476    1,096    1,315    1,066    1,608    1,413          1,800      2,200      2,800      3,882       5,554     7,937
B. GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
1. Official grants                              23         3        -         -         -         -          -
2. Total public MS6LT loans                     ..    2,305      1,453    4,125   2,642    2,543         4,262
2.1  0BRD                                     _       25        158        48     151       170         172
2.3  Other multilateral                      ..        -          -         -        -        -           -
2.4  Governments                             ..      375        169       244      244      193
2.5  of which centrally planned              ,.      (4)        (27)    (112)       (1)     (1l)          -
2.6  Suppliers                               ..      290        666    2,116   1,002        925       2,000
2.7  Finan,cial instit.tions                 ..    1,544        399    1,717   1,245    1,187         2,030
2.8  Bonds                                   ..       71         61         -        -       68          60
C. MEMORANOUM ITEMS
1. Grant element of total commit-ents           ..      6.1       16.8      10.5     6.8       8.4         5.9
2. Average interest (percent)                   ..      8.9        6.7       7.7      8.2      7.8         8.2
3. Average maturity (years)                             14.1      13.1      10.4      9.8      9.3        10.9
1/  Staff Estimates                                                                       -  Nil or les than half of unit shown.
Not available.
EMENA CP1I8
October 1979



28 -
ALGERIA                                                                                            ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 7
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
Actual                                    Prelim.
1969      1973      1974       1975      1976      1977               1978
A. MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM DEBT
(millions of US dollars)
1. Total debt outstanding
2  (DOD; end of period)                 678    2,932    3,304        4,477      5,855   8,165              11,801
2. Including undisbursed                1,210    4,916    6,002        9,591    11,440  13,785               16,977
3. Public debt service                     65       317       685        668         898   1,167              1,640
1. Interest                             11        83       218        235        381      454                570
B. DEBT BURDEN (percentage)
1. Debt service ratio                    6.4       15.7      13.9       13.7       16.1    18.4                24.1
2. Debt service and direct
investment income ratio               ..      15.7      13.9        13.7       16.1    18.4                24.4
3. Debt service/GDP                      1.6        3.6       5.5        4.6         5.4     6.0                 6.7
4. Public debt service/
Government revenue                  5.4        11.4      12.2       10.4       13.9    13.7                16.8
5. Total DOD/GDP                        16.1       33.7      26.4       31.1       35.5    42.1                48.5
C. TERMS (percentage)
1. Interest on total DOD/
total DOD 1/                        2.3        5.6       7.4         7.1        8.5      7.8                7.0
2. Total debt service/total
DOD 1/                             13.7       21.3      23.4        20.2       20.1    19.9                20.1
D. DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M&LT DEBT (%)
1. Gross disbursements/imports
(including NFS)                      7.1      58.9      14.1       25.8        33.5    31.5                 47.1
2. Net transfer/imports
(including NFS)                      1.8      47.2      -1.2       15.7        19.6    15.0                 30.7
3. Net transfer/gross
disbursements                       25.3      80.2      -8.6       60.8        58.4    47.6                 65.1
E. EXPOSURE (percentage)
1. IBRD disbursements/Total
disbursements                         -        -         0.3         2.2        2.6      2.0                 1.5
2. IBRD DOD/Total DOD                     2.7       0.3       0.2        0.8         1.5     1.7                  1.7
3. IBRD debt service/Total
debt service                         5.5       1.2       0.5         1.3        0.8      0.8                 1.2
F. EXTERNAL DEBT (disbursed only)                                Outstanding, Dec. 31, 1977
(millions of US dollars)                                       Amount         Percent
1. IBRD                                                          138              1.7
2. Other multilateral                                               3              -
3. Goveernments                                                1,279             15.7
4. Suppliers                                                   2,439             29.9
5. Financial institutions                                      4,102             50.2
6. Bonds                                                         204              2.5
7. Total public M&LT debt                                      8,165            100.0
8. Total public M&LT debt
including undisbursed                                   13,785            168.8
G. DEBT/PROFILE
1. Total debt service 1978-1982/Total DOD end of 1977 (percent): 183
1/ DOD at the end of previous year.          - Nil or less than half of unit shown                          EMENA CPIIB
October 1979



ANNEX II
page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK .-OUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA 1/
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of June 30, 1979)
Loan or                                                          USSmillion
Credit                                                    Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year    Borrower                Purpose         Bank      IDA      Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed and repaid                    80.5
912 AL    1973    The Democratic and    Highways          18.5               1.6
Popular Republic of
Algeria
913 AL    1973    The Democratic and    Education          3.5               2.1
Popular Republic of
Algeria
995 AL    1974    The Democratic and    Ports             70.0               2 .5
Popular Republic of
Algeria
996 AL    1974    Railways-SNTF            Railways       49.0                7.1
997 AL    1974    Power-SONELGAZ          Power           38.5                4.6
1158 AL   1975    Banque Alg6rienne        Industrial    40.0                29.6
de Ddveloppement       Credit
1159 AL   1975    The Democratic and    Tech.Asst.        8.0                 6.3
Popular Republic of   Rural Dev.
Algeria
1185 AL   1976    Socidte Nationale       SNMC           46.                 27.0
des Materiaux de       Expansion
Construction
1209 AL   1976    The Democratic and    Education        47.0                43.1
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1293 AL   1976    Power-SONELGAZ          Power           57.5               16.1
1378 AL   1977    The Democratic and    Education        48.5                48.5
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1407 AL   1977    The Democratic ana    Highways         41.5                41.4
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1427 AL   1977    The Democratic and    Ports            80.0                80.0
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1545 AL   1978    The Democratic and    Sewerage         82.0                81.9
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1595 AL   1978    The Democratic and    Education        90.0                89.4
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1683 AL   1979    The Democratic and    Highways        126.0               126.0
Popular Republic of
Algeria
TOTAL                                         926.5 2/           628.2
of which hae been repaid                87.1 3/
Total now outstanding                        839.4
Amount sold                      34.81
of which has been repaid 34.81
Total now held by Bank                       839.4
Total undisbursed                                                628.2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS - None (not a member)
1/ To be updated.
2/ In addition, a $42 million Loan for a Meat Industry Project was approved on June 21, 1979
an a $20 million for technical assistance to SN Metal on November 15, 1979.
3/ An of May 31, 1979.



30 -                      ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan 995-AL  Port Project: US$70.0 million Loan of June 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date: (Original) June 30,
1978; (Current) December 31, 1979.
The project is physically completed. Due to claims still pending,
disbursements are behind schedule but are expected to be completed by December
31, 1979. There has been a delay of about 18 months in provision of LNG
facilities and equipment but 2 LNG berths are operational. Total project
cost, based on contracts received, is about $56 million less than the appraisal
estimates of May 1974.
Loan 996-AL Railway Project; US$49.0 million Loan of June 10, 1974; Effective
Date: November 11, 1974; Closing Date: (Original) December 31,
1978; (Current) December 31, 1980.
The physical execution of the project, which supports the railway's
rehabilitation program, is nearing satisfactory completion and procurement has
proceeded on schedule. Several important studies, however, could not be com-
pleted by December 31, 1978 and the Closing Date has been extended to permit
their completion.
Loan 997-AL First Power Project; US$38.5 milion Loan of June 10, 1974; Effec-
tive Date:  December 20, 1974; Closing Date:  (Original) June 30,
1979; (Current) October 31, 1979.
The project comprises high voltage substations, gas turbine plants,
dispatch facilities, and consulting services for management and engineering
services. All physical facilities have been completed with the exception of
the dispatch center, which is over a year behind schedule, necessitating a
postponement of the Closing Date to October 31, 1979. SONELGAZ has not yet
submitted to the Bank a financial plan indicating how the financial covenants
will be achieved, but appropriate decisions in this respect are now expected
by the end of this year. We expect the Government to request a further
postponement of the Closing Date.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



-31 -                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
Loan 1158-AL Development Finance Company Project; US$40 million Loan to
Banque Algerienne de Developpement of September 4, 1975;
Effective Date: January 5, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Because of delays in setting up the Appraisal Unit in BAD, disburse-
ments amount to $10 million compared with an appraisal estimate of $38.5
million. Following several partial and total cancellations of already
approved projects, $5.5 million remain uncommitted. To permit BAD to replace
in part the cancelled projects with newly submitted ones, the final date
for subproject submission has been extended to December 31, 1979. Performance
remains disappointing as regards institutional arrangements for BAD to' partici-
pate as a decision-maker in the investment decision process, the improvement
of which was an important project objective. At the request and with the full
cooperation of the Government, the Bank is currently undertaking a study of
the Algerian financial system, the recommendations of which may contribute to
remedy the present situation.
Loan 1159-AL Technical Assistance (Rural Development) Project; US$8.() million
Loan of September 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, ]L976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The credit subproject has been completed. The extension subproject
is now proceeding satisfactorily following important initial delays. Following
completion of the first phase of studies on the mountain sub-project, the
possibility of reformulating the project concept before proceeding with the
second phase is under discussion with Government. Consultants are exlpected to
start work on the steppe subproject by December 1979.
Loan 1185-AL SNMC Expansion Project: US$46 million Loan of January 7, 1976;
Effective Date: April 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction of the cement plant is approximately six months behind
schedule but is now proceeding satisfactorily and completion is scheduled for
March 1980.   Arrangements for technical assistance are being made to com-
pensate for delays in recruiting and training staff for plant operations.
Capital costs are expected to be about 20% higher than anticipated but finan-
cing appears assured. Important measures have been taken to restore SNMC's
financial viability. The SNC technical assistance program is not running
effectively and the Government has been requested to take appropriate action.
Loan 1209-AL Second Education Project: US$47 million Loan of March 9, 1976;
Effective Date: June 4, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Implementation of this project is progressing satisfactorily although
disbursements are behind schedule. Following initial delays in prepaLration of
construction documents for Phase I due to administrative problems, construction
is now expected to start in November and bidding procedures for Phase II are
underway. Equipment procurement is now proceeding satisfactorily. Implementa-
tion of the technical assistance program is also proceeding satisfactorily,
although about one year behind schedule.



ANNEX II
- 32 -                     Page 4 of 5 pages
Loan 1293-AL  Second Power Project;  US$57.5 million Loan of July 8, 1976;
Effective Date: December 2, 1976; Closing Date: December 30,
1980.
The Project consists of the transmission/substation component of
SONELGAZ's 1976-1980 program comprising about 3,300 km of transmission lines
and 4,000 MVA of substation capacity, and studies of SONELGAZ's organization
and management methods. Overall physical progress is satisfactory. Procure-
ment for substations to be financed from the loan has been approved by the
Bank, but some delays have occurred in construction. SONELGAZ has not yet
submitted to the Bank a financial plan indicating how the financial covenants
agreed upon will be achieved, but appropriate decisions in this respect are
now expected by the end of this year.
Loan 1378-AL Third Education Project: US$48.5 million, Loan of May 15, 1977;
Effective Date: October 5, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
This project started well but has fallen over 2 years behind sched-
ule due mainly to changes in personnel at the Ministries of Education and
Labor at the end of 1977 and a prolonged bidding period for civil works for
the technicums. The Government is re-examining the low bid for technicums
construction and is expected to decide shortly either to award the contract to
that bidder or, if necessary, repeat ICB. The Ministry of Labor decided in
March 1979 to proceed with implementation of the two vocational training
centers under ICB (also 2 years behind schedule) and bidding documents for
civil works are expected by end November 1979.
Loan 1407-AL Second Highways Project: US$41.5 million, Loan of May 15, 1977;
Effective Date: October 5, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Implementation has been slow, due mainly to an unsuccessful first
round of bidding for the sole construction component. Bidding on this $100
million contract was declared unsuccessful on the basis of lack of competition
(one unresponsive bid was received) and unacceptably high unit prices. Nine
new bids were received in January 1979, of which five bids are responsive and
confirm the cost estimates. After supplementary delays at the post evaluation
stage, the Government is expected to award the contract by September 1979.
The Government is also negotiating with consultants provision of technical
assistance to help in construction supervision. Training of maintenance per-
sonnel, both in Algeria and abroad, has started early in 1979 and consultants
services for assistance to the Ministry of Public Works is being provided.
With the above award the entire project will be under implementation, but is
expected to be about one year behind schedule because of the tender problems.
Loan 1427-AL  Jijel Port Project:  US$80.0 million, Loan of September 30, 1977;
Effective Date: January 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The project is over one and one half years behind schedule due to
delays in bid evaluation but also because the Ministry of Heavy Industry



- 33 -                         ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
decided to propose to the Government an increase in the capacity of the steel
plant to be built adjacent to the port. A final decision on this increase is
expected to be made by the end of the year.
Loan 1545-AL First Sewerage Project: US$82 million, Loan of September 26,
1978; Effective Date: November 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project consists of the construction of combined sewer inter-
ceptors, the first stage of a sewage treatment plant, and technical assistance
to the Societe des Eaux de l'Agglomeration d'Alger (SEDAL), with a view to
creating a sound institutional basis for its operations and establishing new
water tariffs to enable SEDAL to ensure its financial independence. P'roject
implementation, after some delay partly due to the changes in Government,
is now underway. Engineering consultants for project construction have been
appointed, and the management consultants to SEDAL have submitted a first
draft report.
Loan 1595-AL Fourth Education Project: US$90 million, Loan of Septenmber 26,
1978; Effective Date: February 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily for the mechanical
engineering institutes (NIME and NIMET) and the teacher training school for
technicums (ENSEP). The institute for vocational instructor training (IVIT,
Annaba) is delayed because of site problems. Construction on NIME, NIMET and
ENSEP is expected to start in July 1979. Implementation of equipment procure-
ment is now proceeding satisfactorily and the technical assistance program is
scheduled to start in September 1979.
Loan 1683-AL Third Highway Project: US$126 million, Loan of May 16, 1979;
Effective Date:  September 13, 1979; Closing Date:  Junie 30,
1983.
Project implementation is in its early stages but is proceeding
satisfactorily. Tender documents for maintenance equipment and for a first
tranche of pavement strengthening have been prepared and proposed to the Bank
for approval. Bidding is expected to start in June 1979. Prequalification to
select contractors is being conducted for bidding for the construction of the
La Chiffa-Berrouaghia road section, and a short list of consultants for
studies is under preparation.
Loan 1739-AL Meat Industry Project: US$42 million, Loan of October 3, 1979;
Effective Date:  not yet effecive; Closing Date:  April 30, 1984.
The loan is expected to be effective by early February 1980. Project
implementation is in its early stages but is proceeding satisfactorily. Tender
documents for meat complexes are under preparation. A five-man team has been
appointed for the fattening component.



- 34 -                      ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SN METAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken by the Borrower
to prepare project:                             2 years
(b)  Agency which prepared project:                   SN Metal/IBRD
(c)  Date of first presentation to Bank:              June 1977
(d)  Bank missions:  (i) preparation                  June 1977
(ii) appraisal                  September/October 1977
(iii) follow-up appraisal        April/May 1979
(e)  Date of completing negotiations:            (1) March 18, 1978 (principal
negotiations)
(2) July 19, 1979 (update follow-
ing agreement between SN
Metal and firm supplying
Technical Assistance)
(f)  Planned terminal date of effectiveness:          February 29, 1980
(g)  Special condition of effectiveness:              None
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions:
None
Section III - Special Conditions:
The following assurances were obtained during negotiations:
(a) SN Metal to submit to the Bank by June 1, 1982 a plan for
financial restructuring aiming at financial self-sufficiency
(para. 44);
(b) SN Metal to have its accounts audited by SNC or through
alternative arrangements acceptable to the Bank (para. 45);
(c) SN Metal to hire consultants by December 1, 1980 to implement
Parts B and C of the project (para. 50);        1



- 35 -                      ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d)  SN Metal and Government to provide funds as needed to complete
both Oran III and Annaba II and the remainder of the TA program
(para. 54); and
(e) SN Metal to provide TA staff with adequate housing including, if
necessary, imported prefabricated or mobile homes (para. 59).



TECHNICAL ANNEX A
- 36-                  Page I of 7
ALGERIA
SN METAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF SN METAL
Production Program
1.        SN Metal (Societe Nationale de Constructions Metalliques) is the
state company for metal fabrication based on steel profiles and plates, and
for the production of miscellaneous other industrial products such as railroad
wagons, equipment for civil works and plastic containers. SN Metal's head
office is in Algiers (Map IBRD 13212). It has 15 production units and four
units selling services (one for engineering, one for civil works, one for
erection and one for the maintenance of railroad wagons). In the company's
metal fabrication plants. The main products are heavy, medium and light
structural steel work, plate work and boiler-shop products, tower and mobile
cranes, overhead cranes, other lifting and handling equipment, hydro-mechanical
equipment, metal joinery, silos, and tanks. It is planned that this product
range, although already broad, should be further increased through the intro-
duction of more complex technologies (e.g. boilers, pressure vessels). SN
Metal has already contributed to many of Algeria's industrial projects in the
iron, steel and non-ferrous metal industry, in the chemical and petrochemical
industry, food-processing, building-material, energy, mechanical and other
manufacturing industries.
Production and Employment
2.        The name, location, main products, employment and capacity of
SN Metal's 19 units are listed in Table 1. SN Metal's activities are concen-
trated in Algeria's three main cities: Algiers, Annaba and Oran (Map IBRD
13212). Output of main products in the years 1974 through 1978 is shown
in Table 2. SN Metal's employment for the years 1974 through March 1979 is
shown in Table 3. About 70 percent of SN Metal's raw materials (primarily
steel profiles and plates) are imported. SN Metal's products can be classi-
fied in seven groups:
(i) Structural steel work
Total domestic demand is estimated to be about 125,000 tpy.
Total domestic production is about 50,000 tpy, of which SN
Metal manufactures 35-40,000 tpy. The remainder is produced
in small workshops belonging to the Army and local authorities.
(ii) Sheet-metal work and boiler-shop products
Total domestic demand is estimated to be about 85,000 tpy, while
production, exclusively from SN Metal, is only about 5,000 tpy.
SN Metal's two new production units Oran III and Annaba II



TECHNICAL ANNEX A
- 37 -                Page 2 of 7
which will be brought into production under the proposed tech-
nical assistance program will add a production capacity fcr
structural steel work and for sheet-metal work/boiler-shop
products of about 80,000 tpy in total.
(iii) Foundry products
Total domestic demand is estimated to be about 180,000 tpy. No
figures are available on domestic production. There are some
small foundries run by local authorities, and SONACOME has a
large foundry integrated with its tractor plant. SN Metal has
a 20,000 tpy foundry under construction but this is not expected
to start production before 1981. SONACOME will be responsible
for castings made in long production runs (largely for transport
equipment), while SN Metal will specialize in custom-made foundry
products.
(iv) Forged products
No accurate figures are available on total domestic demand.
Forged products consist of small hand-tools and large indivi-
dually forged pieces. SN Metal has a forge for about 4,500 tpy.
The plant was originally designed to forge heavy pieces for
railway wagons. This however involves complex technology
and the unit is, therefore, now also used to manufacture
small light weight hand-tools. As a result, and because of
the low skill level of labor, the plant has been running at
well below capacity--355 tons in 1976, 1,505 in 1977 and
2,535 tons in 1978. Even at full capacity, the plant wou]d
not be able to satisfy more than a fraction of local demand.
(v) Handling and lifting equipment
Handling and lifting equipment manufactured by SN Metal con-
sists primarily of overhead cranes, quay cranes and mechanical
and pneumatical conveyance equipment. This equipment is mcanu-
factured by SN Metal to designs provided by foreign companies.
Here too, SN Metal's capacity meets only a fraction of dormestic
demand.
(vi) Equipment for civil works
SN Metal manufactures construction cranes, concrete mixers,
dumpers and wheelbarrows, but again meets only a fraction
of the total demand for these products. As an example, thle
annual demand for construction cranes is about 500, whilst
SN Metal has a total capacity of only 220.
(vii) Railway rolling stock
SN Metal has a theoretical capacity of 1,000 freight cars per
year, but actual production has so far reached only 625 (in



TECHNICAL ANNEX A
- 38 -                Page 3 of 7
1976, 489 in 1978). Annual domestic demand has totalled about
2,000 wagons in the past. There is no local production of
passenger cars.
Production Units Oran III and Annaba II
3.        SN Metal's two new large production units for structural steel
work and plate work--Oran III and Annaba II--are virtually complete, and will
be brought into production under the proposed technical assistance program.
Their combined production capacity of 80,000 tpy nearly triples SN Metal's
capacity in these products. Decision to implement the Oran III project was
taken in 1969, but actual site work did not begin until 1972. Production
start-up was planned for 1974. The project has a capacity of 50,000 tpy of
structural steel work, plate work and mechanical equipment and was expected
to cost DA 120 million. For a number of reasons, the project has not yet
properly started production, although an output of about 4,500 tons was
attained in 1978. The actual cost of the project, upon completion, is now
estimated to be about DA 500 million (US$132 million). Poor planning is
the main reason for the significant delay and cost overrun. The design
and engineering was undertaken by SN Metal itself, implementation was not
coordinated and start-up was ill prepared. SN Metal has already received
supplementary financing to complete the project, and proper production start-
up will be prepared under the proposed technical assistance program. At
full capacity operation, the plant is expected to employ 1,300 people.
4.        Decision to implement the Annaba II project was taken in 1972,
and site work began in 1974. Production start-up was scheduled for 1976. The
project has a capacity of 30,000 tpy of structural steel work and plate work,
and was originally estimated to cost DA 87 million (US$23 million). The
official estimate is now DA 383 million (US$101 million). Due to the serious
delays that resulted from poor planning of project implementation, production
start-up, which will be prepared under the technical assistance program, is
not likely until early 1980. At full capacity utilization the plant is
expected to employ about 1,200 people.
Projects Under Implementation
5.        In addition to Oran III and Annaba II, both projects from Algeria's
first plan (1970-73), there are seven projects under implementation from the
second plan (1974-77). These are (Map IBRD 13212):
(i) a 20,000 tpy cast-iron and steel foundry at Tiaret;
(ii) a plant for boilers and heat exchangers at Relizane;
(iii) a plant for standard structural steel work for buildings
at Ain Defla;
(iv) a plant for metal stamping and enamelling at Miliana;
(v) a plant for metal furniture at Saida;



TECHNICAL ANNEX A
Page 4 of 7
- 39 -
(vi) a plant for radiators at Saida; and
(vii) a plant for industrial piping at Relizane.
Of these projects, those at Ain-Defla, Miliana and Saida are scheduled for
start-up in 1979. So far, SN Metal has spent about DA 600 million (US$158
million) on these seven projects, and it is estimated that additional amounts
will be required for completion. However, it is currently Government's
intention to slow the rate of industrial investment. This is to be reflected
in the next plan (1980-84) which is currently under preparation. The status
of all these projects will therefore be investigated as part of the technical
assistance program under Part B--review of SN Metal's medium and long-term
investment program.



- 40 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX A
Table 1
Page 5 of 7
ALGERIA
SN METAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SN METAL UNITS
Name of Unit           Location         Employment        Capacity                  Production Program
(tons)
Direction Generale         Algiers             300               -             head office
Engineering                Algiers             400               -             design, engineering, project
management
Genie Civil                Algiers           2,500               -             execution of  civil works
Montage                    Algiers           1,500               -             site erection and assembly services
Cote Rouge                 Algiers             540           5,000             heavy plate work, mechanical and
hydro-mechanical equipment, overhead
and quay cranes
Hussein-Dey                Algiers             520          12,000             structural steel work
Oued-Smar                  Algiers             570          10,000             structural steel work, continuous
handling equipment, plate work
Rouiba                     Algiers             440          10,000             transmission towers, galvanization
Oran I                     Oran                210           3,500             structural steel work, light plate
work, continuous handling equipment
Oran II                    Oran                100           1,000             light structural steel works, locks
and metal joinery
Annaba I                   Annaba              380          10,000             structural steel work, plate work
Blida                      Blida               340           2,500             light structural steel work and
plate work
Oran III                   Oran                500          50,000             heavy structural steel work,
(under            sections for shipbuilding, heavy
start-up)             plate work, storage tanks
Annaba II                  Annaba              400          30,000             heavy structural steel work,
(under            plate work, equipment for iron
start-up)             and steel industry
Allelick                   Annaba            1,000           1,000             railroad wagons of all types,hand-
units             ling equipment, speed reducers,
points and crossings, couplings
Forge                      Annaba              200           4,500             ancillary railroad equipment,
hand tools
Grues                      Bejaia              250             200             tower and mobile cranes for
units             construction
El Harrach                 Algiers             500               -             equipment for civil works (concrete
mixers, dumpers, wheelbarrows)
Plastique                  Algiers             200           4,500             packing cases, containers,
pleasure-boat hulls
Entretiens Wagons          Annaba              150               -             maintenance of railroad wagons



_ 41 _
TECHNICAL ANNEX A
Table 2
Page 6 of 7
ALGERIA
SN METAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ANNUAL PRODUCTION VOLUMES OF PRIMARY PRODUCTS
AT SN METAL 1974 - 1978
Item                 Unit    1974       1975      1976       1977       1978
Structural Steel,
Steel Plate Work,
& Metal Joinery
Products                    tons   25,894    33,793    38,617    34,574    53,401
Forge Products                tons       911     1,186        355      1,505     2,535
Girders                       No.         22         59        48      n.a.      n.a.
Beams                         No.          5        -          10      n.a.      n.a.
Cranes                        No.      n.a.        108        258         35       297
Overhead Cranes               No.         26         85         8        -          22
Railroad Wagons               No.        236        349       652        391       489
Axle Systems                  No.        370        378       753      n.a.       nha 
Wheelbarrows                  No.    12,090    38,,106    24,562    38,462    58,474
Concrete Mixers               No.         -         570       137        314       575
Concrete Tanks &
Containers                  No.         -        150        545         72       115
Dumpers                       No.         -         150       317        383       898
Panels for Concrete Work      No.         -         300       809         -      1,013
Molds for Concrete Bricks    No.          -          70       250         83        498
Looms                         No.         -         150      na,       n.a.       n.a.
Rollers                       No.       n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       2,686    15,424
Pondeuses                     No.       n.a.      n.a.       n.a.         88          5
Grating                       tons      n.a.      n.a.        276      n.a.       n.a.
Galvanized Products           tons      n.a.                4,143      n.a.       n.a.
Plastic Products              tons    2,084       3,829     4,185      4,095     2,795
Plus unclassified
output of Cote Rouge
(see Technical Annex A
Table 4)                   tons        -         -          -       2,117     2,118



ALGERIA
SN METAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TOTAL EMPLOYMENT AT SN METAL AS OF:
December 31      December 31      December 31      December 31      December 31       March 31
1974             1975             1976             1977             1978             1979
Professionals          258              391              545               358              435             480
Technicians            538              844            1,001             1,621            1,785           1,870
Employees &
Workers            6,679            8,326            9,221            9,958            11,213          11,301
7,475            9,561           10,767           11,937           13,433          13,651
X X M
F-
M x
x4 
0



ALGERIA
SN METAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TENTATIVE IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
MONTHS           3     6      9     12    15    18    21   24    27    30    33    36    39   42    45   48
MOBILIZATION OF TA STAFF                                                                                                                                 ESTIMATE OF FOREIGN ASSISTANCE
by Program Objective and Task                                                                                                                                REQUIRED IN MAN-MONTHS
Assignment of Consultant Staff to
Prepare Detailed Program of Implementation                                                                                                          Phase I    Phase 11  Total
TASK 1:  Technical Survey of o f
Annaba II and Oran Ill
TASK 2:  Planning the Production
and Start-up of Annaba II                                                                                                                   32                   32                        1
o                and Oran II
Z
>~  TASK 3.  Designing the Organizational
Structure and Operating                                                                                                                                -        100
O                 Procedures at Annaba lI and
Oran IlIl
TASK 4:  Executing In-plant Start-up
and Operating Assistance at                                                                                                              1,350       1,190   2,540
Annaba II and Oran IlIl
TASK 5:  Preparing an Investment Plan
for SN Metal as a whole
Do z  )including Feasibility Studies                                                                             l08
      t            two high priority Projects.                                                                   l                                                                                           t
>,    (  TASK 6:  Elaborating a Masterplan of
the Management and Organizahi.| 100                                                                                                                    -        100
Z                 of SN Metal as a whole                                                                                                                   1             1      28
|                         |     ~~~~~~~~~~~1.672  1,190   2,862 
End of Phase I Financing
World Bank - 20458



ALGERIA
SN METAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SN METAL CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS 1972 - 1978
(DA 000's)
1972          1973           1974           1975           1976           1977           1978
Sales                                     224,934        286,972       273,846        456,828        611,151        817,789         933,513
Increase in Inventory                     (45,838)       (39,202)      (155,899)      (168,854)       (29,299)        20,970        (49,826)
Purchases                                  85,352        108,926        165,353        280,917        172,319        250,007        273,073
Labor                                     107,730        124,861        134,790        177,493       227,597        272,484         341,809
Taxes and Duties                           29,680         35,885         36,273         66,126         91,478        122,842        124,339
Miscellaneous Overheads                    20,078         23,393         32,821         45,803         53,482         76,451         88,469
Transport                                   7,251          5,360         10,302         20,250         25,386         37,284         34,808
Cost of Goods Sold                  204,253        259,223        223,640        421,735        540,963        780,038        812,672               1
Gross Profit                         20,681         27,749         50,206         35,093         70,188         37,751        120,841
Administrative Costs                        2,803          3,264          4,246          5,568          7,224          7,867         10,499
Financial Costs                             8,540         14,441         23,618         28,746         51,941         53,889         52,719
Depreciation                               14,200         17,588         24,817         35,183         37,032         38,148         57,594
Miscellaneous Provisions                       988              -              -             -             68            753               -
Operating Costs                      26,531         35,293         52,681         69,497         96,265        100,657        120,812
Operating Loss                        (5,850)       (7,544)        (2,475)       (34,404)       (26,077)       (62,906)             29
Losses from Previous Years                  1,668          4,936            610          5,030         10,720         (8,667)       (14,722)
Other Charges                                 484              51            75            887            115            631          2,276
Income Taxesl/                              1,500          1,125          4,485          5,650         20,036         16,903         26,260
Net Loss                              (9,502)      (13,656)        (7,645)       (45,971)       (56,948)       (70,773)       (13,783)
1/   Income taxes are charged on profitable units despite the fact                                                                                      o
that SN Metal operates at a loss overall.                                                                                                            |
S S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 45 -
TECHNICAI. ANNEX C
Pmge 2 of 2
ALGERIA
SN METAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SN METAL CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS   1972 - 1978
(DA 1.000)
1972         1973          1974          1975         1976         1]977         1978
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash, Banks, Marketable Securities            18,049       34,256         122,686       83,837       178,480      269,897      218,884
Receivables, Advances Made                   106,767      140,582         196,116      347,875       404,058      528,592       687,282
Inventory                                    176,913      216,115         362,502      552,535       581,834      560,864       614,370
Total Current Assets                    301,729      390,953         681,304      984,247    1,164,372    1,359,353    1,520,536
Investments                                      741          991             951        1,571         1,840        2,628         2,791
Fixed Assets
Land                                           5,621        5,718           5,728        5,728         5,728        5,728         6,062
Civil Works                                   45,957       69,778          72,802       90,446        93,123       96,431       197,292
Machinery and Equipment                      124,347      159,415         199,455      234,287       260,707      278,959       420,628
Work in Progress                              51,929       90,809         151,875      292,862       505,599      619,086       919,653
Gross Fixed Assets                      227,854      325,720         429,860      623,323       865,157    1,200,203    1,543,635
Less:  Accumulated Depreciation               79,907       96,557         117,813      150,180       182,478      216,168       267,797
Net Fixed Assets                        147,947      229,163         312,047      473,143       682,679      984,034    1,275,839
Pre-operating Costs (Net Value)                2,077       17,226          25,986       33,080        47,514       54,152       85,371
Loss of the Year                               9,502       13,656           7,645       45,971        56,948    _ 70,773        13,783
TOTAL ASSETS                                 461,997      651,990       1,027,933    1,538.012    1,953,353    2.470 .941    2.898.320
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Payables to Suppliers, Advances Received      82,265      104,495         274,709      306,804       319,824      297,394       345,543
Other Payables                                37,408       35,332          41,294       74,374       119,203      146,552       168,209
Short-term Credit (BNA)                      101,686      169,924         229,561      421,392       619,219      817,022      821,833
Current Portion of Long and Medium Debt       18,964       30,768          47,842       82,542       124,315      206,150       269,685
Other                                         18,934       20,500          28,022       37,978        37.682    _146,553        177.156
Total Current Liabilities               259,257      361,019         621,428      923,090    1,220,243    11613,671    1,782,426
Medium-term Debt
BNA                                           48,404      106,858         154,070      245,526       318,025      292,679       241,620
BAD                                           37,934       96,914          19,459         -             -            -             -
Suppliers and other                            6,156        3,580          22,217        3,922         1,279           23         3,806
Total Medium-term Debt                   92,494      207,352         195,746      249,448       319,304      292,702      245,426
Long-term Debt
BAD                                           17,000         -            138,490      300,743       397,442      610,394       984,620
Treasury                                      28,394       23,490          25,904       24,048        22,131       20,153        18,111
Other                                           -           4,211                         -             -            -             -
Total Long-term Debt                     45,394       27,701         164,394      324,791       419,573      630,947    1,002,731
Net Worth
Paid-in Equity                                37,558       38,128          36,829       37,700        37,700       37,700        37,700
Equity Contribution in Kind                   43,700       43,700          42,600       44,243        44,243       44,243        44,243
Retained Earnings                            (16,407)      (25,909)       (33,062)      (41,261)     (87,710)    (147,924)    (214,206)
Total Net Worth                          64,851       55,919          46,367       40,682        (5,767)     (99,931)    (132,263)
TOTAL LIABILITIES                            461,997      651,990       1,027,933    1,538,012    1,953,353    2,470,941    2,898,320
Current Ratio                                  1.2          1.1            1.1          1.1           1.0          0.8           0.8
Ratio of Equity plus Long-term Debt
to Net Fixed Assets                          0.75         0.36           0.68         0.77          0.61         0.54         0.68
Average Days Outstanding of:
Accounts Receivable                        173          179            261          278           241          236           269
Inventory                                  287          275            483          441           347          250           240



- 46                   TECHNICAL ANNEX D
Page 1 of 7
ALGERIA
SN METAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
DETAILED PROGRAM OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
The detailed program of technical assistance is described in the
following pages. The order in which the tasks will be completed by the con-
sultants is not necessarily that given here, since some tasks will be performed
in parallel with others.
Part A
Start-up and Operating Assistance in the Production Units
Oran III and Annaba II
Task No. 1  -   Technical Survey of the Units Oran III and Annaba II
(about 10 man-months)
An analysis of the entire engineering of the two new production
units--Oran III and Annaba II--will be carried out, and the measures required
to accelerate the production start-up, and enable a rapid increase in the level
of capacity utilization in all production departments, will be defined.
Amongst others, the consultant should carry out the following activities:
(i) evaluate on the basis of the production program, the plant
layout, flow of materials and manpower, lifting and handling
equipment and store-keeping facilities;
(ii) evaluate, on the basis of the production program, the machinery
and equipment of the different departments;
(iii) prepare a detailed draft catalog of the gaps identified in the
two preceding steps (physical inventory of additional invest-
ment required in machinery, equipment and installations);
(iv) study the possibility and cost of redistributing machinery and
equipment between the production units;
(v) prepare cost-benefit estimates and establish the definitive
needs in terms of adjustment of plant layout and installation
of additional machinery and equipment.
Task No. 2  -   Planning the Production Start-up of the Units Oran III
and Annaba II (about 32 man-months)
The consultants will evaluate the results of Task No. 1 with SN
Metal's project unit, and so with the company's general management, and will
assist the company in the reallocation of existing machinery and equipment and



TECHNICAL ANNEX D
- 47 -                Page 2 of 7
implementation of new investments, as required. They will then devise a
schedule for the start-up of production at both units, in an optimal and
orderly fitt3hiLon, through the preparation of:
(i)  overall programs for production start-up in each department
and in the entire plant (setting start-up priorities, time-
schedule, network plan to permit follow-up);
(ii)  a long-range plan of production capacity, and of the gradual
increase in the level of capacity utilization, both in each
department and in the two plants as wholes, allowing for the
gradual introduction of increasingly complex technologies;
(iii)  organizational principles for the two production units;
(iv)  material planning, requisitioning, purchasing and control
procedures (parts list, specifications, part-number system,
definition of required quantities, etc.);
(v)  procedures for short-range planning of production (work
preparation, scheduling, dispatching, etc.);
(vi)  a plan for the provision of socio-economic infrastructure (i.e.
transportation of personnel, cafeteria, housing, communa:L
facilities, etc.) in accordance with the plan for production
start-up;
(vii) an overall program of implementation.
Task No. 3  -   Design of the Organizational Structure and Operating
Procedures in the Oran III and Annaba II Units (100 man-
months)
The objective of this task is to establish appropriate organizational
structures, operating and management procedures in Oran III and Anmnaba II, as
well as their interrelationship with other units within SN Metal.
Here the consultants will:
(i)  work out in detail the organizational structure for each of
the two units and their main departments, as well as their
interface with other units within the company;
(ii)  prepare exact definitions of the main functions, together with
job descriptions;
(iii)  define the basic linear responsibilities;
(iv)  design information systems, procedures and reporting forms;
(v) design cost accounting and budgeting systems appropriate
for the needs of the two units;



TECHNICAL ANNEX D
- 48 -                   Page 3 of 7
(vi) assist in the step-by-step recruitment of managers and
supervisors, shop personnel and administrative staff;
(vii) assist the managerial staff in implementing the organizational
structure prescribed.
Task No. 4  -   Execution of in-plant start-up and operating assistance
in the Oran III and Annaba II Units (about 2,540 man-months)
The diagnostic study described in the preceding sections will
make it possible to identify the areas in which in-plant technical assistance
is needed, to set up a training program for the skills required in the two
units and to identifiy potentially profitable market areas. The technical
assistance will aim at enabling Algerian personnel to take over responsibility
for all operations as soon as possible. The consultant will make available
experts with the experience needed to achieve the production objectives as
previously defined (the length of the experts' stay should be determined for
each activity). Amongst other areas, assistance will be given in the follow-
ing activities:
(i) support in production scheduling and control, and design;
(ii) translation of basic information concerning the product
being manufactured into useable production and purchasing
information;
(iii) determination of scheduled time required at each point in the
manufacturing process, to ensure that the finished product is
ready as and when required;
(iv) direct assistance in establishing manuals and actually carry-
ing out repair and maintenance work;
(v) implementation of specific product market studies as required.
Training needs will be defined for each activity. These will
largely be satisfied through on-the-job training within Algeria, but specialized
programs will also be provided in the consultant's manufacturing facilities.
The training program will include:
(i)  training of shop personnel in technical skills and in team
work at various plant levels (e.g. welders, assemblers,
machinists, quality controllers, crew and shop foremen,
floor inspectors, production managers, manufacturing
support personnel);
(ii) training of managerial and administrative personnel in such
areas as the introduction and use of appropriate cost account-
ing and budgeting systems. Introduction of these systems should
permit the planning of production and marketing and production
control, the setting of appropriate prices and the preparation
of regular reports to management as a basis for follow-up and
future planning and budgetary activity.



TECHNICAL ANNEX D
Page 4 of 7
- 49 -
Part B
Preparation of SN Metal's Medium and Long-Term Investment Program
(about 80 man-months)
This task will be devoted to general and detailed analysis relating to the
following aspects:
(a)  Range of products in SN Metal's field of interest
In order to determine the future structure and investment
program for SN Metal which would be best suited to its
development over the medium and long term, the consultant
should examine each of the following product lines with
respect to the aspects listed further below:
(i)  plate work;
(ii)  equipment for public works and the steel industry;
(iii) structural steel work;
(iv)  railway rolling stock;
(v)  lifting and handling equipment;
(vi)  castings;
(vii) forgings.
1.  Definition of the product or group of products
-    description;
-    function;
-    use -- customers;
-    substitute products (if any).
2.   Production process and technological constraints
-    description of process;
-    economic production unit, production units in various
countries;
-    choice of production unit for Algeria.
3.   Evolution of demand in Algeria
-    main trends in demand for the period 1973-79, with
projections up to 1990;
-    regional breakdown of demand (where possible).



TECHNICAL ANNEX D
- 50 -                Page 5 of 7
4.   Relation of supply and demand
-    domestic supply from factories in production or in
course of construction in 1980 (taking account of
start-up dates and increasing output levels), belonging
both to SN Metal and to other companies;
-    current level of imports;
-    gap between domestic supply and demand (with regional
breakdown where possible);
(b) Analysis of the main factors to be considered in the choice of
alternatives designed to equate supply with demand: launching
of new projects or integration of new products into existing
industrial units
The data collected for the different groups of products should
be analyzed by the consultant to determine the advantages and
disadvantages of possible alternatives, on the basis inter alia
of the technological possibilities and problems, the factors of
production required and the supply of basic materials (domestic
production or imports).
(c) Screening of necessary investments and determination of
priorities among projects
The consultant should prepare a comparative evaluation of
national requirements by product or product range, in relation
to planned manufacture in existing and future plants, in order
to determine the scope of investment required (order of magni-
tude, manufacturing capacity to be installed, and programming)
and establish the order of priority among the projects.
(d) Feasibility study of two projects
In the context of the development program based on the analyses
referred to above, the consultant should prepare feasibility
studies, covering all technical, financial and economic aspects,
of two selected projects, allowing their possible presentation
to the Bank.



TECHNICAL ANNEX D
51-                 Page 6 of 7
Part C
Elaboration of a Master Plan for SN Metal (about 100 man-months)
The consultant should:
(a) Work out a general master plan
The master plan should present an idea of what SN Metal's
role should be as an instrument for the industrialization of
Algeria. This "conceptual framework" would serve as a manage-
ment tool for SN Metal, both in establishing realistic
*                     goals and in achieving them.  The master plan should:
(i) define the fundamental purpose of SN Metal's organiza-
tional structure;
(ii) present projections of SN Metal's medium and long-range
objectives and its guiding principles and strategies;
(iii) define production program objectives: examination of
the program and current production lines; search for
means of achieving these objectives through improved
operation of existing manufacturing units; examination
of short-term and long-term alternatives; choice of
alternatives to be followed;
(iv) identify the necessary activities and group these activi-
ties under separate functions, design the organizational
structure of SN Metal in the light of its basic purpose,
objectives and present and future potential;
(v)  provide lines of authority and communication and establish
a linear responsibility chart, assign tasks to the main
departments of the General Management and positions;
define authority and accountability; discuss the appro-
priate degree of decentralization.
(b) Develop the Organization of SN Metal's units producing structural
steel work, plate work and mechanical equipment
Methods and means of fully exploiting SN Metal's capabilities
*                     and resources in the areas of structural steel work, plate
work and mechanical equipment should be determined. The role
of the consultant will be to identify weaknesses and submit
recommendations, delineating clearly the tasks and responsi-
bilities of the principal manufacturing units. To this end,
the following points should be examined:



TECHNICAL ANNEX D
- 52 -                Page 7 of 7
(i) elaboration of long-range production plans, with chrono-
logically increasing emphasis on the production of
products of more sophisticated technology;
(ii)  setting of rationalized production programs for each plant
and choice of production goals;
(iii) adjustment of SN Metal's objectives in line with the short
and long-range production programs for the various plants;
(iv)  identification of areas requiring improvement, and discussion
of courses of action designed to bring about the improve-
ments desired;
(v) elaboration of an overall coordinating structure in the
light of the long-term objectives;
(vi)  definition of lines of authority and communication and
preparation of a basic linear responsibility chart;
(vii) development of basic work procedures to ensure that
repetitive work is done in an optimal and uniform
manner;
(viii)  preparation of long-term job descriptions, which allow
for growth and are designed to stimulate personnel efforts
so as to improve business results;
(ix)  identification of improvements needed in the general
system of collecting and using essential management data;
(x) preparation of a timetable for introduction of the new
organizational structure and the.new management system.



ALGERIA
SN METAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
BASIC ORGANIZATION OF SN METAL
(WITH DETAILED BREAKDOWN FOR STRUCTURAL STEEL
AND PLATE WORK ACTIVITIES)
MINISTRY OF HEAVY INDUSTRY
GENERAL MANAGER
OF SN METAL
ADMINiSTRATiVE DIAFlEM
Composed of.
.General Manager
7 Department Directors
L2 Trade Union Representatives
DEPARTMENOEDEPARTMENT                    STEEL AND
DEPARTMENT                   D~~~~~EPARTMENT      PAEOKDEPARTMENT                         STANDARDIZED           DEPARTMENT
PLATEWORK                     ~~~~~~~PRODUCTS       fUnd-, Creation)
UNIT                           -PUCAIGDEPAR TMENT (DADi|
tUnder Creationl
_ SLS DEPARTMENT tDtC)                                              t
(PRODUCTION UNITS'                                                                         z
-4
World Ba k  20459



- 54 -
TECHNICAL ANNEX F
Page 1 of 1
ALGERIA
SN METAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE FOR IBRD LOAN
(US$ Millions)
IBRD Fiscal Year               Quarterly             Cumulative
and Quarter              Disbursements           Disbursements
FY 80
III                       0.2                     0.2
IV                       0.6                     0.8
FY 81
I                        1.5                     2.3
II                        1.9                     4.2
III                        2.1                     6.3
IV                        3.2                     9.5
FY 82
I                        3.9                    13.4
II                        2.9                    16.3
III                        1.9                    18.2
IV                        1.8                    20.0



I B R D 13212
4                                 ,
lv~ ~ ~ ~~~~B0  -d 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
tn* ctu,vl'Stv c Anor                                                                     /3.
t   4  61 1   t '    ' 4  t    t                        N;tN  '                              
M  __ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
; ~  ~        ~       ~       LCTO   OF SN  MEA_SRDUTO   UNITS,TO ADNME(FEXSIt;LN
t--      I '   ,      SERVIL CETO                FS            E A       'P O         U    TO UNITS AND PLA1,*
.'  .  SERVICE UNITS AND PLNTS UNDER CONSTRUCTIONR
' t; vv >~ - f PLANT S  UNDF=   _   ONSTRUCTION  D Arlr thaL11'IUNDR  ;,NrTRCTIO
, N , <s z ~~~~~~~~~~~PRODUCT'ON UNITI(STR UCTURAL STEELVfORK, PLA EWfO*RK MECHANICAL EQUIP AENTI                                                               2 ANNABA    A  111111,,
I  v                                     ^  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRODUCTIt)N UNIT (MISCELLAilEOUS P90DUCTS)                                                                           Frp
SERVICE "'NIT                                                                                                                       lt..sfr]
I --I  STANDARD) GAUGE RAILWAYS_L                                                                                                         JtI
NARROW GAUGE RAILWAYS                                                                                             30RAN              I rnTT
MAIN NATIONAL ROADS                                                                                                            zZd I  Uee tr P
MAIN PORTS
0    10~~~~~~ 
4 INT,ERNA7TIONAL APOUARIS                                                              K        SLIOA                           NE  Bl      I
'I ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~r                  SEODR  IPRSO                                                                           5         1d        10      SEAA tvrg
_z_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E  CU'REIA  BONDRESKIOETR
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3-o m  b'dvl



