Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13052-BO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOLIVIA
JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
MARCH 24, 1995
Public Sector Modernization and
Private Sector Development Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Boliviano (Bs)
Exchange Rate Effective February 1995
US$1.00 = Bs 4.73
Bs 1.00 = US$0.21
GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIF                 -     Cost, Insurance and Freight
CCP                 -     Code of Civil Procedures
CPAC                -     Capitalization Program Adjustment Credit
GDP                 -     Gross Domestic Product
1BRD                -     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                 -     International Competitive Bidding
[DA                 -     International Development Association
ILANUD              -     In.sti/u to Lwainoamericano de las Naciones .fUidas para la
lrev enc i(n del )elito y Tralamiento del Delincuente
LCB                 -     Local Competitive Bidding
LIB                 -     Limited International Bidding
PPF                 -     Project Preparation Facility
SDR                 -     Special Drawing Rights
SOEs                -     Statements of Expenditures
USAID               -     United States Agency for International Development



of                                         -----------------------------------'--------..---------.. -.. -..................SNOI13V   G33H9 V                  IA
6Z.S1LIdI3Ng IYDIfOHc
6Z                                     .IN9WA1OANI XNVE SnOIAgHd NOHd GHNNXV5V SNOSSSQ
6Z.-*                                                                                                                                                 NI LIUlV
8Z                                     .9NI LOdE (NV ONIMOIINOW
.zw- *S LN3z3E1InSa 1VIN3NOHLANg
.ZSJLN 3DNV3RPV NOI LVIN3N31dNI
.ZNV1d ONIcMVNIJ UNIV S LSOJ .lC)fOHd
.Z JNfl NoLLvN[UHOOJ IY3IfOad *D
.Z------ ----                    ------  --           -                 s? nrfio  tqsiuq.y aU,JfO  Xu:uatpluaiJs 1Jonlnmlsuz   j-
.g-    --                                                              --  ------   --                uoi,nbosaŽI arnds:u    tyvlu.iayl    Z' 
...........................* -a.. .. .   ..pn.   uo sw.o.a..                                           uon.. ..f. u1?1..u....d. .
.z *....................................................NOd.                                                           .O. 3.ILSf..       JO  MI.LSININ    a
.oZ ..........................      .       .       .       ...                      .       .au.    .      .    Saaa                 d loN:w       NpO £ 'bfl
og.K.w--.------------  ---------  -----?zxpnr aijifio BuiuatijBuajls IIuO!Jni!1s"uI gVZ
91. - -s'wJofdi s'a'o'd /n?flPflJfl IJ
91.- --                 ------            -      -     -----              --------               -           ----SINgNOdVWO3 K3VI3IUf1f  .
El, ............................................. a-  *-* -*  -fo-  *- -* -*--!*-   --  --  *  *  --u-* >O^ ua ANOIvuoLlnl!SujN-
£1'. '' '                                                                                                                                          A3IVHIrS
01.*-            --     --             ------   --- -   -               --       -   --                      -SISDIJ 3H.l JO  S LOO)J 3Hj
S.)''*                                                                                                                      PI*'*   OM3NV1I 3A1.LVlSIOal
8----------------------------------------------------N 3ISAS                                                             I3DISfIr IlIA              IHI    111
9   -   * --     *  -*    *-  -  *            *- --  -  -- -- **  -  -* -*    *  -lNIgW S9VVN  UNIV  9NINNIV  d   IC1SfIlf2
.i                *-*-*-----------*-                                                                           NITiR9VNVW   RDUifOSiE)  NThRlH
E L    .. . . . . . . . . . . . .   ....................................... ...................................................... ......... *- - .-.- ..*- .*.*-   *   *  *-   *  A z O N O lv.1 V I D IC Ir
£.S3C)NXflO)SNO3 'TIVIOS UNIV DI)ON0N03
Z. ............................................................................NIOIlVU                                                                ZINV  OH
nio~ax 'vsivuav auvis
..............saao V      p       s        oa     v   uI
I.A.of.
oz  ......................................................................   un4                 ;   dt do    dA   (j   v.o!    nr   f -



ii
FIGURES
FIGURE 1: POPULATION/JUDGE RATIOS IN SELECTED COUNTRIES .................................................................5
FIGURE 2: POPULATION/JUDGE RATIOS BY DEPARTMENT .............................................................................7
FIGURE 3: CASELOADS IN SELECTED DEPARTMENTS             ..................................................7
FIGuRE 4: CASE TIME ALLOCATIONS PER CCP .........................................9................ ...........9
FIGURE 5: REAL CASE TIME ALLOCATIONS .                                                         10
TABLES
TABLE 1: ESTIMATED PROJECT COST .                                                              24
TABLE 2: PROJECTED FINANCING PLAN .                                                            24
TABLE 3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS .                                                            27
TABLE 4: DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS .                                                           28
TABLE 5: PROJECTED DISBURSEMENTS .                                                             28
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: STRUCTURE OF TIIE JUDICIARY .                                                        32
ANNEX 2: EXECUTIVE AND ORDINARY PROCEDURES: LEGAL AND REAL DURATIONS .                        34
ANNEX 3: LETrER OF UNDERSTANDING .                                                            40
ANNEX 4: IMPLEMENTATION PLAN .                                                                46
ANNEX 5: AGREED IMPLEMENTATION TARGETS .                                                      52
ANNEx 6: SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE .                              58
This report is based on the findings of identification, preparation and appraisal missions that visited
Bolivia during 1993-1994, led by Mr. Felipe Saez (LA3PS). The workshops on reform strategies and
judicial administration conducted with representatives of the Bolivian Judiciary were critical elements for
the appraisal mission's findings and recommendations. Key participants in the missions and contributors
to the report were Ms. Lisette Price and Mr. Andres Cuneo. Valuable support in the production of the
report was provided by Mmes. Martha Gonzalez, Mayela Rojas and Sharon Spriggs (LA3PS).
Messrs. Krishna Challa and Yoshiaki Abe are, respectively, the Division Chief and Department Director
for this operation.



iii
BOLIVIA
JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Bolivia
Beneficiaries:     Judicial Branch
Ministry of Justice
Poverty:           Not applicable.
Amount:             SDR 7.6 million (US$11.0 million equivalent).
Terms:             Standard IDA terms, with an amortization period of 40 years and a
grace period of 10 years.
Commitment Fee:  One-half of one percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning
60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:  Proceeds of the credit destined for the Judiciary will be transferred
by the Government on a grant basis.
Financing Plan:    See Table 2.
Net Present Value:  Not applicable.
Map:               IBRD 20516






BOLIVIA
JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.    Bolivia has made substantial progress toward establishing a basis for accelerated
and efficient economic growth. The economic adjustment program implemented since the
mid-1980's has succeeded in restoring macroeconomic stability and stimulating moderate
growth. Inflation has declined steadily, reaching an estimated 8% per annum in 1994.
Growth averaged 3.8% during 1991-1993 and is estimated to have reached 4.2% in 1994.
Despite recent improvements, however, growth rates must be accelerated in order to
improve the welfare of Bolivia's people, especially of those at low-income levels. A major
determinant of the slow pace of growth has been the low level of private investment,
averaging just 5% of GDP in 1991-1993 and estimated at 6.3% in 1994.
2.    Two main factors explain these low levels of private investment: (i) the
predominance of public enterprises in key sectors with strong growth potential; and (ii) the
lack of a legal and institutional framework to guarantee private agents the consistent and
predictable enforcement of their rights. These two factors are related; since major sectors
of the economy were effectively closed to private participation, the framework for
enforcement of private contracts was of secondary importance. On the other hand, the
real dimension of the inefficiencies derived from the poor legal and institutional structure
has been disguised, thus reducing the impetus for reform.
3.    To address the first issue, the new administration has launched a bold program of
privatization, using a process called capitalization, aimed at rationalizing the role of the
state in sectors where private investment and management could improve efficiency and
accelerate growth. It is supported by the Bank Group through a proposed Capitalization
Program Adjustment Credit and accompanying technical assistance operations. Important
improvements in the investment environment are expected from the program. Its success
and further development of the private sector, however, would be reinforced by reform of
the institutions that guarantee the rules of the game for private sector activity. Judicial
reform is a central priority within this agenda.
4.    Widespread public discontent with the justice system has given rise to a number of
recent reform measures. Until now, these reform initiatives have been mainly legislative
and have been driven by the other branches of government, the Executive and Congress.
In early 1993, a new Law of Judicial Organization was approved which reformed the
procedures for appointment of Supreme Court justices. It also called for the establishment
of specialized courts in tax, mining, labor and social security law. In September of that
year, a Ministry of Justice was created. Most recently, the new administration introduced
reforms to the Constitution that included an institutional restructuring of the Judiciary
through the introduction of a specialized Constitutional Tribunal and a Judicial Council
responsible for the sector's administration. In a notable cooperative effort, the Judiciary



2
and the Executive, represented by the Ministry of Justice, have now agreed to embark on a
far-reaching Judicial Reform Program to include institutional and administrative, as well as
legislative measures.
I. THE JUDICIAL SECTOR
PERFORMANCE
5.     Public confidence in the Bolivian justice system is very low, as evidenced by the
results of a 1991 survey.' Litigants face inordinate delays in obtaining adjudication of
disputes, leading to generalized public disinclination to seek judicial enforcement of legal
rights. Court decisions are not based on uniform and predictable standards, generating
uncertainty about the application of legal provisions and the terms under which judicial
disputes are adjudicated. In addition, major groups in the society have very limited access
to the formal system of justice, yet alternative dispute resolution mechanisms are not well
developed.
6.     These problems stem from a variety of causes, discussed in more detail below.
Structural problems include weak judicial autonomy - the result of a history of executive
supremacy and political patronage - and perverse incentives caused by inadequate human
resource management. In addition, specific problems at the court level, as identified by
participants in workshops conducted during project preparation, include: (i) the passive
role assumed by judges in managing judicial processes; (ii) judges' weak professional skills,
(iii) the absence of standards and information for case management; and (iv) deficient
court organization and administrative support.
ORGANIZATION
7.     The Constitution of Bolivia and the 1993 Law of Judicial Organization provide the
basic legal framework defining the structure, authority and functions of the judicial branch
(see Annex 1). Until recently, the structure has been relatively simple in terms of
functional diversity and hierarchical levels. An expanding share of social and economic
activity has been left without recourse to effective dispute resolution mechanisms,
generating increasing pressure on the judiciary to deal with complex and specialized
matters. In response to this pressure, recent legislative initiatives have tried to compel
specialization within the judiciary. The new Law of Judicial Organization mandates the
establishment of specialized courts in various fields of law, while the reforms to the
Constitution call for the establishment of a specialized constitutional court as well as a
council that would assume responsibility for management of the judicial branch. The
judiciary's capacity to implement these reforms, however, has been limited.
8.     At the head of the sector is the Supreme Court, in theory a court of cassation - a
tribunal of last resort that annuls lower courts' decisions if the principles of due process
have been violated. In practice, however, cases brought before the Court are not filtered
1.     The 1991 ILANUD-Bolivia survey of litigants, lawyers, law students, prosecutors, and judges
found that 84% of respondents believed the process of justice was too slow, while 74% thought it was
politically influenced. Of lawyers, 92% agreed that corruption existed, as did 53% of judges; 48% of
litigants claimed to have made illegal payments to court personnel.



3
according to their precedent-setting relevance. The Court therefore invests a substantial
share of its resources in routine review of decisions by the District Courts, leading to an
overlap of functions and causing the Court to neglect its responsibility for setting policies
and precedents for the sector.
9.    The Judicial Branch faces the dual challenge of improving the quality of its
traditional dispute resolution services and at the same time developing specialized tribunals
for emerging judicial needs. The strategy agreed with the Executive allows the Judiciary
to concentrate on improving traditional services of civil and commercial dispute resolution
as its immediate objective, while developing in-house institutional capacity to formulate
plans for further strengthening justice administration. The Executive will assume
responsibility for implementing the constitutional reforms, and will encourage the
development of commercial arbitration as a short-term response to the needs for
specialized dispute resolution. In the medium term, it is expected that the build-up of
institutional capacity will enable the Judiciary to formulate and implement programs to
cope with the rising need for specialized dispute resolution.
ECONOMICAND SOCIAL CONSEQUENCES
10.   The weakness of the judicial system in Bolivia has reduced investment by adding to
perceived risk and to the cost of market transactions. Public faith in the courts is so low,
and the cost of using them so high, that parties often forgo legitimate claims and shoulder
substantial losses rather than submit a dispute to judicial adjudication. Equity and social
welfare are also negatively affected.
11.   The poor performance of the courts has reduced the volume and efficiency of
market transactions. One example is the reduced number of loans made by banks because
of problems with debt collection through the courts. Because of the uncertainty caused by
inadequate enforcement mechanisms in Bolivia, economic activity has been biased towards
short-term ventures, with investors favoring quick-return financial and trading activities to
investments in fixed assets.
12.   In the absence of effective formal enforcement, economic agents have come to rely
on informal factors, such as long-standing family or personal ties, in doing business. This
oflen leads to an inefficient allocation of resources. Banks in Bolivia, for example, tend to
be part of financial groups that control companies in one or more sectors. In the past,
insider firms have had preferential access to credit, in particular to cheaper longer-term
credit, so that investment was not always undertaken by those with the most promising
opportunities. The importance of maintaining business reputation has encouraged the
continued operation of loss-making operations, deterring the reallocation of assets
towards more profitable ventures.
13.   The reputation-based system that prevails in Bolivia also has significant equity
consequences. It is biased against new entrants, such as small-scale entrepreneurs and
foreign investors. Since it is based on existing social structures, it tends to magnify
existing inequities in the society. It leads to growth that benefits mainly the rich and
worsens income distribution. The courts as they function at present also contribute to this
inequity. A system driven by bribes favors the party better able to afford these payments.



4
It also creates a bias in favor of the wrongdoer, for whom the marginal benefit of
influencing the judicial outcome is always higher.
14.   The ineffectiveness of civil courts has also led to the abuse of criminal procedures
as a means to achieve enforcement of commercial obligations. A review of criminal cases
brought before the courts in La Paz during the period 1990-92 shows that over 67% of
new criminal claims (6,243 cases) arise from commercial disputes. The conversion of
commercial obligations into criminal cases, however, further inhibits the willingness of
economic agen.s to incur legitimate commercial risks, since criminal responsibility may
ensue.
JUDICIAL A UTONOMY
15.   The Supreme Court has overall responsibility for governing the Judiciary, including
relations with the Executive and Legislative Branches. Bolivian Constitutions have
invariably recognized the independence of the Judiciary, including the explicit recognition
of its economic autonomy since the 1965 Constitution. However, the Judicial Branch was
severely affected by the institutional and political instability that prevailed in Bolivia until
the last decade. Aside from a period of stability in the first part of this century, the
Judiciary has been periodically subjected to overt intervention by the political
establishment or the military. During 1950-1982, the membership of the Supreme Court
was renewed seventeen times. This history of instability has contributed to the weak
institutional culture that has prevailed in the Judicial Branch. Conditions changed notably
with the advent of democracy in 1982. The legislative and executive branches adhered to
constitutional provisions governing the appointment and permanence of judges.
Nevertheless, judicial appointments continued to be based more on partisan and regional
patronage than professional excellence. The effect on the quality of leadership and social
prestige of the judiciary has been marked.
16.   Despite widespread public insistence on the need for judicial reform, the lack of
leadership within the judiciary meant that until recently it was making little progress
towards improving justice administration. Responding to public pressure, the political
establishment embarked on the first of a series of legislative attempts to improve the
situation. In February 1993, Congress approved a new Judicial Organization Law,
including a provision designed to check the importance of political patronage in the
appointment of justices to the Supreme Court. The law now requires that a two-thirds
majority (formerly a simple majority) of the Senate nominate Supreme Court candidates,
effectively limiting the power of any one party to dominate the Court. Another provision
of the law curbed the Supreme Court's right to levy taxes or user charges, but safeguarded
the judiciary's economic autonomy by earmarking a minimum of three percent of the
national budget for the judicial branch.
17.   In early 1993, five new justices, chosen according to the recently approved
procedures, took seats on the Supreme Court. There was overall consensus that the new
voting requirements had resulted in a far more transparent and constructive selection
process. Public perception is that the new justices meet higher professional and personal
integrity standards. This partial renewal of the Court's membership has resulted in a Court
more willing and able to undertake a comprehensive reform program, thus decreasing the



5
likelihood of confrontations between a reform-mind  ±dministration and defensive
judiciary.
18.   It is expected that the nominees to four positions on the court that remain vacant
would be chosen in the coming weeks. This will further contribute to the renovation of
the Court's membership, and should improve the prospects for a sustained commitment to
judicial reform.
19.   Continuing its legislative initiatives, Congress approved in August 1994 a
constitutional reform law that included an institutional remodelling of the judiciary. One
of the most important changes is the introduction of a Judicial Council, headed by the
President of the Supreme Court and including four other counselors appointed by
Congress. This Council will assume responsibility for administration of the judicial
branch, including formulation of the budget. Most importantly, it is charged with
preparing the lists for the appointment of judges at all levels, another step forward in
removing the delicate matter ofjudicial appointments from the political domain.
HUMAN RESOURCE MANA GEMENT
20.   Until the recent constitutional reform, the Supreme Court had exclusive
responsibility for handling personnel management issues within the judiciary. With the
introduction of the Judicial Council, an institutional niche has been created for personnel
--___                           matters within the
JUDGES PER 100,000 PEOPLE                       judiciary, the
(Selected Countries)                     expectation being that
increased attention will
Mexico              -T              . ___           be given to them as a
Chileo 91_         l          r    ~   n           result. Despite the
Chile sn    t    i1           .                    autonomy the Court
Peru
Venezuela                                              enjoyed in the
Bolivia                                             management of
Costa Rica                                             personnel matters, it
Colombia                              - _y----       failed to develop a
0    2    4    6    8   10  12  14  16          career system aimed at
_____________________________  __         __   ___   .__  promoting  professional
Figure 1: Population/Judge Ratios in Selected Countries    excellence. It did,
however, avoid
becoming a bloated bureaucracy (see Figure 1). In Bolivia, the population:judge ratio
compares favorably with other countries in the region, while its support staff:judge ratio is
2.5 to 1, indicating a rather lean bureaucracy.
21.   Regional considerations played an important role in the Supreme Court's decisions
on personnel matters. Decisions on recruitment and career advancement were handled by
the justice(s) from the relevant region. There were no established policies guiding
personnel-related decisions. In the last year, some of the newly appointed justices have
initiated implementation of a basic performance evaluation system to assess the
qualifications of judges up for reappointment. While the system has some shortcomings, it
marks the first attempt to introduce guidelines for personnel management.



6
22.   The absence of sound practices for personnel management, combined with the low
prestige of the judiciary, has resulted in low quality and effectiveness of staff. At all levels
of the system, a significant number of judges have poor proficiency and skills. As is the
case with the judiciary's operational performance, no institutional data were available on
the profile and basic characteristics (educational background, performance record) of
judicial personnel, despite the fact that the law mandates the operation of such a system.
23.   The deficiencies in human resource management described above give rise to an
incentive framework that thwarts professionalism and, at the very least, discourages
efficient and principled performance of staff working in the judicial branch. Recruitment,
promotion and performance evaluation in the judiciary have been undertaken in an ad hoc
and discretionary manner. Political patronage and regional interests are the main forces
driving personnel decisions, outweighing consideration of professional excellence, probity
and administrative effectiveness. Compensation does not seem to be a decisive factor
contributing to poor performance. Salaries in Bolivia, although relatively low by
international standards, seem at least competitive and possibly higher than comparable
public sector salaries.
24.   The 1993 Judicial Organization Law has already contributed to mitigating political
control of senior judicial appointments. The legislative changes, including the creation of
the Judicial Council, provide a window of opportunity to improve human resource
management in the judiciary. The establishment of a judicial career system, designed to
recruit professionals who possess judicial-grade skills and to promote performance at the
highest standards of professionalism and honesty, would constitute a key element of the
proposed judicial reform program. It is expected that implementation of the judicial career
system, especially the introduction of competitive recruitment and promotion practices,
would lead to a replacement over a period of four years (the regular term for judicial
appointments) of a substantial share of incumbent judges.
JUSTICE PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
25.   The judiciary in Bolivia is a highly rigid bureaucracy, lacking institutional capacity
in planning and strategic management. The prevailing managerial culture is a reactive one,
with no well defined corporate strategy or objectives that would guide the allocation of
institutional resources. Budgets are prepared from year to year based on past resource
allocation, with marginal changes derived from political and regional pressures.
26.   The Judicial Branch has developed very limited organizational structures for
planning and administering its operations. These structures are concentrated at the
Supreme Court level. The main policy-making body on these matters is the Administrative
Council, composed of the Chief Justice and three other justices. In practice, however, the
Council does not seem to play an important role. The Judicial Treasury, which in theory
reports to the Administrative Council, in practice holds most decision-making authority
regarding budget and financial matters, with limited scrutiny from the Administrative
Council. This situation is expected to change with the establishment of the Judicial
Council whose main function will be to manage the resources of the Judicial Branch. The



7
Council will also have direct authority over the Judicial Treasury, and will be responsible
for formulation of the budget of the Judicial Branch.
27.   The historical lack
JUDGES PER 100,000 PEOPLE                      of planning has resulted in
(by department)                       an apparent asymmetry in
the allocation of judicial
La Paz                                         resources among
Santa Cruz                                        departments on the basis of
Cochabarria                                         poulation and caseload.
PotDsi                                         POP
Chuquisaca                                         The ratio between judges
Oruro                                         and department populations
Beni                                          shows that judicial
Tanrja                                        resources are allocated in
0 2  4  6  8  10  12  1416   1         inverse proportion to
National Average =6              population (see Figure 2).
In the extreme, the ratio of
judges to population in the
Figure 2: Population/Judge Ratios by Department         Department of Pando is
four times higher than in the Department of La Paz.
28.   There is also a strong bias against rural areas in the allocation ofjudicial resources
in virtually every department. On average, urban judges serve a population of 14,517
person, whereas rural judges attend a population of 19,882 persons, despite the wider
dispersion of their client populations. This confirms the inaccessibility of the judicial
branch to low-income rural communities. The judiciary has no institutional initiative to
improve responsiveness to these groups. This should constitute a high priority among
future institutional strategies.
ANNUAL CASELOADS                         29.   Data on caseloads and
backlogs are sparse and
somewhat unreliable.
Beri t                                        Nevertheless, the information
available on four departments
Tarija  .  _.                                  shows a wide fluctuation in
La Paz                    ;                    caseloads, reflecting the
l.  l  l  l  l         labsence of any deliberate
Oruro                                         resource allocation policies
0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 20      (see Figure 3). Partial data
Average = 148                   from three departments (Beni,
La Paz and Oruro) indicate
Figure 3: Caseloads in Selected Departments           that first instance courts only
finalized about 42% of the
cases initiated during the year. These figures point to the build-up of a sizable backlog,
which will contribute to further delays in justice administration. A system must be
designed for resource allocation decisions that would take into account backlogs and the
need to assign resources based on demand for services. Future institutional strategies to



8
be supported under the proposed credit would treat development of such a system as a
priority.
III. THE CIVIL JUSTICE SYSTEM
LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORx
30.   The Bolivian Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) largely reflects modern principles of
judicial management. Its driving postulate is that judges have primary responsibility for
ensuring that cases are concluded within legally mandated deadlines. This basic principle
of the CCP -in contrast with traditional theories that place the primary initiative on the
parties and assign the judge a passive role- has been reinforced by granting judges the
power to, inter alia: (i) cut off any incidental proceedings deemed by the judge to be aimed
primarily at delaying proceedings; (ii) play an active role in fact-gathering and in weighing
the evidence produced; (iii) promote the shortening of cases through the concentration of
proceedings; (iv) seek settlement of the dispute through active conciliation; and
(v) interpret procedural rules so as to guarantee the legal rights of the parties.
31.   The CCP also regulates in detail the sequencing and timing of each stage of the
judicial process. Annex 2 provides time flows of the two main judicial proceedings, the
ordinary and executive processes. These time flows are based on the duration assigned by
law for each of the judicial stages. They show that if the legally mandated deadlines were
to be followed, the first instance of an ordinary process would not last more than 167
days. Case reviews by the District Courts and Supreme Court would not exceed 97 days
and 147 days respectively. The first instance for an executive case would not last more
than 42 days.
32.   The CCP establishes penalties for judges who do not meet these legally mandated
deadlines, such as negation of their authority to decide a case and adverse performance
evaluations. These sanctions were made harsher by the 1993 Law of Judicial
Organization. Despite legislative intentions, however, actual application of any sanction is
very rare. This is in part a result of the failure to monitor compliance and, mostly, of the
low priority given to enforcing these deadlines within the judiciary.
33.   Attempts by the legislator to regulate the judicial process in detail reflect public
dissatisfaction with the judiciary's performance. By the time the CCP was elaborated in
the early 1 970s, there was consensus in the drafting commission that the only way to
increase the swiftness of justice administration was to give judges greater responsibility for
case management. On the other hand, the commission was fully aware of the risks of
increasing judges' authority with the deficiencies in professionalism prevailing in the
Bolivian judiciary. As discussed below, it is clear that the attempt to reach a purely
legislative solution to this dilemma did not succeed.
34.   Despite its overall modernity, the Bolivian CCP does depart from more progressive
procedural systems in two aspects: a heavy reliance on written proceedings and a
digressive nature. This is in contrast to the modem tendency to make the judicial process
hearing-based and issues-oriented. Although orality and process concentration are



9
envisaged in the CCP for purposes of fact-finding and conciliation, these are seen as
anomalies in an otherwise dispersed and written procedure. Nevertheless, if these two
oral opportunities were exploited, they could have a substantial impact on the quality and
celerity of case adjudication. A more assertive interpretation of the CCP regarding judges'
authority in managing the judicial process would permit the Supreme Court to instruct
judges as a matter of policy to concentrate various stages of the proceedings in hearings,
instead of relying on written presentations. Such adjustments to the judicial process
within the prevailing legislative framework would constitute a priority activity in the
implementation of the reform program.
REALITY
35.   The day-to-day reality of civil cases bears little relation to the normative ideals of
the legislators of the CCP. The average civil procedure extends well beyond the CCP's
standards. A time flow study2 conducted in La Paz shows that on average, the first
instance of an executive process (a collection procedure) lasts ten times longer than the
CCP guideline (519 vs. 42 days). In the same way, the first instance of an ordinary
procedure lasts more than 3.5 times the period established in the CCP. Appeals before
District Courts and before the Supreme Court on ordinary procedures are 568% and
466% longer than envisaged under the CCP. An ordinary process that goes through the
three instances of judicial review lasts on average 2,616 days, or more than 7 years.
O RDINARY P RO C E DU RE              <    36.   A comparison of the
CCP and actual civil
CCP Time Allocations                     proceedings in the allocation
of case processing time
Supreme   Official                         confirms that, among the
Court      2%      Tribunal               actors in a judicial
22%                 22%                  proceeding, judges are the
major contributors to delay.
District                                    Litigants under the CCP
Court                                      ordinary procedure are
12%               Litigants               assigned 42% of the case
42%                    processing time and the
tribunal is assigned 22%.
According to the study,
Figure 4: Case Time Allocations per CCP                 however, the first instance
tribunal uses 34% of the
time, while the time attributable to litigants is reduced to 7% of the total case processing
time (see Figures 4 and 5). The two appellate levels -assigned by the CCP 34% of
processing time- use 54% of real processing time. Similar disparities arise in the executive
procedure.
2.     The study was financed by the Bank Group and carried out by the Universidad Cat6lica de
Bolivia as part of the preparation effort. It reviewed a random sample of 155 civil cases (83 executive and
73 ordinary) in the District of La Paz and focused on determining the average processing time of the main
stages of cases.



10
37.   According to the time
flow study, justice delay is           ORDINARY PROCEDURE
mainly a result ofjudges'                Real Time Allocations
passivity in condoning                         Summons
litigants' delaying tactics. In                 Official
the case of first instance                        5%
executive proceedings, about         Supreme                Tribunal
30% of the first instance             Court                  34%
review was spent in dealing            29%
with incidental matters raised
by the litigants. Another                   District      Litigants
26% of the case processing                   Court           7%
time was spent in                            25%
certifications by the court's
secretary, at the request of    Figure 5: Real Case Time Allocations
the judge, of matters already documented in the case file. This practice is widespread
among judges as a device to postpone judicial decision-making despite its explicit
prohibition in the law. Similar allocation of the case processing time applied in the case of
ordinary proceedings.
38.   The study also indicates that only a small fraction of cases end with a court-
mandated payment to the claimant. The high level of desertion of judicial claims is one
indication of plaintiffs' disappointment with judicial procedures. The moral hazard
incentives provided by courts to defendants lead claimants to a handicapped settlement or
abandonment of the claim in a high percentage of cases.
39.   Judges also systematically relinquish to the parties the fact-gathering
responsibilities assigned to them in the CCP. The time flow study indicates an average of
six months of the ordinary proceeding is spent in the fact-finding stage (as opposed to the
50-day maximum prescribed in the CCP). Judges remain removed from the fact-gathering
process. They do not examine witnesses or request the production of additional evidence
for analysis of the facts. Most of the fact-gathering activities are delegated to clerks who
lack the training and ability to ensure that these are carried out in a technically sound and
fair manner.
THE ROOTS OF THE CRISIS
40.   During a workshop sponsored by the Supreme Court and held in Cochabamba in
March 1994, the conclusions of the time flow study were reviewed. Workshop
participants, consisting of fourteen leading representatives of the judiciary and legal
profession, identified five main factors explaining the dismal performance of the judiciary
in managing civil proceedings.
41.   The Role of the Judge. The judicial branch has failed to define institutional
objectives and appropriate judicial standards for implementation of the CCP mandate.
Junior judges receive no clear policy signals from senior courts on this matter. In fact,
senior tribunals are often themselves poor performers.



I1
42.   By default, the judiciary has continued to embrace a ritualistic and passive
approach to the judicial process, the model prevailing prior to the introduction of the CCP.
Instead of directing the proceedings with the objective of achieving an early adjudication
of the dispute, judges have retained a passive and distant role in the management of the
judicial process. By and large, they permit dilatory motions put forward by the parties
without any regard to their merits or relevance; do not seek or promote conciliation; and
have delegated to court clerks the phases of the process where the issues of controversy
and evidence are defined. The distant role played by judges in the conduct of the process -
stemming in part from the fact that judicial proceedings are conducted almost exclusively
in writing- has implied that judges acquire direct knowledge of the case only when it has
reached the stage of final decision. The environment in which judicial processes are
conducted has become unproductive and conducive to filibuster by the parties. Due
process principles have been construed by judges so as to condone the delaying tactics of
the delinquent party. The high transaction costs imposed by the judiciary on the party
attempting to enforce his/her rights create a systemic bias in favor of the delinquent party.
43.   The workshop concluded that the judiciary needed to define policies related to the
handling of the judicial process that would seek an adequate balance between formal due
process requirements (giving the defendant adequate defense opportunities), substantive
due process objectives (ensuring that judges have early and first-hand knowledge of the
substantive issues in dispute and provide both parties equal treatment in the protection of
their substantive rights) and the timely resolution of disputes.
44.   Professional Education and Skills. The judiciary has carried out very limited
initiatives aimed at providing judges with adequate training to perform their duties. A
1991 survey conducted by ILANUTD provides some relevant insights regarding the
personal and professional profile of Bolivian judges3, including in the area of judicial
education. The survey covered a total of ninety-five judges4 (equivalent to 23% of judges,
excluding Supreme Court Justices) from the nine regional jurisdictions. The picture
presented in the area of judicial educational is disappointing. Over 92% of judges
surveyed completed their law degree and had no further exposure to university-level
studies. The remaining 8% had completed studies in Philosophy and Literature. Most
judges had not participated in any form of training activities. Those that had participated
(less than 4%) had done so on sporadic and limited occasions.
45.   Despite the recent establishment by the Judicial Organization Law of a Judiciary
Institute to provide judicial training, no plans have been agreed for putting it into
operation. It is the judiciary's position, as reflected in the program, that in the medium
term, judicial training efforts should be directed primarily at strengthening the judges'
professional know-how and skills in judicial process reform. Judicial training would
3.    "Sondeo de Necesidades de Capacitaci6n en Cortes Superiores de Distrito, Juzgados de Partido e
Instrucci6n de la Repuiblica de Bolivia", ILANUD, February 1992.
4.     The sample included 15 District Court judges, 41 Circuit Court judges and 39 Junior Circuit
Court judges. It provided adequate coverage of urban and rural, criminal, civil and general jurisdiction
judges.



12
constitute a critical instrument for implementing the judicial process reforms mandated by
the Supreme Court.
46.   Judicial Incentives. A major cause of judges' poor performance is the perverse
incentive structure created by haphazard selection and promotion mechanisms. Judicial
appointments and career advancement seem to be a function mostly of political or personal
connections. No mechanisms are in place to track or reward professional excellence or
outstanding performance. The only differentiated compensation incentive is linked to
years of service, with no reference to performance during those years.
47.   The ILANUD survey referred to above found an average duration of employment
ofjudges, including clerical and judicial functions, of 10.5 years. Stability on the job
seems more fragile, however, when the issue of permanence of judges in individual
assignments was assessed. Only 40% of judges interviewed had been in their current
positions over four years (thus, beyond their original appointment) and only 10% remained
in their positions over eight years. Again there was no explicit link between permanence
and professional excellence.
48.   The survey also provided some insights on recruitment and career advancement
patterns prevailing in the judiciary. Over 46% of judges surveyed had become judges after
serving an initial period as clerks. The same pattern did not hold, however, with regard to
further advancement within the judicial ranks. Only 22% of the judges surveyed had
previously worked as judges in a lower-level court.
49.   The lack of a career pattern in the judiciary is further reflected in the significant
asymmetry between age and seniority. In career-oriented organizations, a match between
age group and seniority is normal. In the Bolivian judiciary, there is a significant mismatch
between these variables. Age of incumbents is systematically higher than warranted by the
respective positions. These results coincide with anecdotal references that the judicial
branch is an attractive retirement alternative for public sector legal professionals. The
workshop concluded that the design of a performance evaluation system aimed at
rewarding or penalizing staff based on performance would be a necessary factor for
promoting professional competence.
50.   Institutional Feedback. Information gathered by the courts is fragmented and
irrelevant for purposes of allowing judges to monitor individual case progress and overall
court performance. There are also serious doubts about the reliability of data as there are
no special personnel or specific guidelines for maintaining court statistics. Data collected
at the tribunal level are rarely aggregated at the District Court and Supreme Court levels.
Thus, the judicial leadership does not incorporate into its planning process any form of
feedback regarding quality and opportunity in the provision of justice services or the
judiciary's ability to cope with demands for justice.
51.   Courtroom Management Capacity. Weak administrative support to the tribunal's
judicial adjudication function was identified as another element contributing to poor
judicial performance. The workshop found three main factors that contributed to
administrative malfunctioning, namely: the lack of professional staff, the failure to define



13
the tribunal's administrative functions, organization and staffing; and serious shortcomings
in the process-serving function.
52.   Recruitment and career advancement in the clerical ranks is shaped by the
preferential access to those positions given to law students. When this preference was
granted, it was believed that students could contribute to efficient court administration
while reinforcing their academic training. In practice, however, the indiscriminate use of
law students to fill administrative positions and the lenient selection and supervision
practices of the courts have led to an unfortunate situation: law students have become
major contributors to the inefficient administrative performance of courts. This is in part
the result of the temporary nature of their assignments (one to two years), the lack of
training and managerial guidance of court clerks and the perverse incentives that govern
court administration. The 1993 Law of Judicial Organization requires that the principal
clerical position in each tribunal be filled by a lawyer. This initiative is being partially
implemented by the Supreme Court. It would, by incorporating the role of administrator
into the professional career stream within the judiciary, constitute an important step
towards improved standards for the judicial administration function.
53.   Another critical element is the failure to define the functions, organization and
staffing for courtrooms at the different levels. A study of courtroom organization could
provide the basis for an efficient division of functions and definition of minimum
requirements for each position. Workshop participants recommended that reorganization
of the courtroom should include a redefinition of the process server function, since
existing incentives are completely perverse. Currently the server is expected to finance
from his/her own resources the transportation costs related to the service, thus, creating a
strong incentive for deferral of a key judicial function or, as is repeatedly the case, an
incentive for seeking illegal economic retribution.
IV. JUDICIAL REFORM PROGRAM
OBJECTIVES
54.   The overarching goal is to create a judicial system that contributes to economic
growth by facilitating private sector activity, and to social welfare by guaranteeing the
basic rights of all citizens. In order to achieve this goal, the existing bureaucracy must be
transformed into a modern, service-driven organization capable of:
* resolving disputes expeditiously;
* issuing decisions based on sound interpretation of legislation, jurisprudence and
recognized principles of equity; and
* responding to the society's evolving needs for justice administration.
STRATEGY
55.   The agreed reform strategy takes into account the particular circumstances of the
Bolivian judicial sector, as well as the experience with judicial reform in other countries.
Judiciaries in Latin America have been wont to ascribe deficiencies in justice
administration to the shortage of resources assigned to the judicial branches. Experience



14
in the region has shown, however, that an increase in resources does not necessarily
generate improvements in the quality and celerity of judicial services. In the United
States, reform strategies have focused on providing judges with the technology and
specialized personnel needed to permit "managerial judging".
56.   The difficulties faced by the Judicial Branch in Bolivia will require a comprehensive
and paced reform strategy. As in the case of the "managerial judging" initiatives, the
strategy would aim to increase efficiency through improved courtroom administration.
However, the strategy also takes into account the need to seek improvements in the
quality of the justice provided by the present system. Thus, its foundation is reform of the
judicial incentive framework and of the judicial process itself, thereby striking the
necessary balance between quality and efficiency issues.
57.   To achieve the objectives set out above, the reform effort will need to be sustained
over several years and phases. The first phase, to be supported by the proposed credit,
will last three years and will focus on establishing the institutional and policy framework
for reform. Within this phase, activities will aim at establishment and strengthening of
judicial institutions, improvements in human resource management and courtroom
administration, and quality improvements in judicial procedures. IDA's support of reform
efforts in civil law areas will work in conjunction with an ongoing USAID project focused
on criminal justice. Subsequent phases would expand quality improvement efforts,
building on changes introduced in the first phase, but reinforced by an overhaul of
procedural codes. Later efforts would aim to increase the level of specialization of
Bolivian courts in areas such as mining, tax and administrative law.
INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
58.   Interest in this comprehensive reform program as well as the responsibility for its
implementation, are shared between the Executive and Judiciary. The Executive views
judicial reform as an integral component of its plan of government, supporting its
economic reform objectives as well as its aim to modernize state institutions. The recent
partial renewal of the Supreme Court has resulted in a Judiciary more willing and able to
undertake comprehensive reform. Together the Executive and Judiciary have agreed on a
reform strategy that defines their respective roles based on the constitutional separation of
powers and their comparative advantages.
59.   Consequently, the Judiciary will take the lead on all issues involving the daily work
of the courts, including judicial management systems. The Executive will assume
responsibility for implementation of the recent constitutional reforms, for seeking
legislative reforms complementary to the Judiciary's efforts, and for establishing and
promoting extra-judicial mechanisms for dispute resolution.
60.   The recent creation of a Ministry of Justice with direct responsibility for
coordinating relations with the Judiciary is expected to facilitate communication between
the two branches of government. The Supreme Court, for its part, has established an
Executive Council5 with responsibility for policy matters related to the reform program,
5.    The Council includes two Justices of the Supreme Court, the Minister of Justice or his
representative, three District Court judges and the President of the National Bar Association.



15
and has included the Minister of Justice or his representative as a full member of the
Council. In addition to these measures, which are expected to improve coordination
between the two branches, the most important step has been reaching full agreement on
the activities that each will pursue independently. Based on this accord, the Executive has
agreed to take on an IDA credit and transfer approximately 70% of the proceeds to the
Judicial Branch in the form of a grant.
61.   The Executive Council inaugurated its activities with a three-day workshop on
Strategies for Judicial Reform, in March 1994. The workshop aimed at reaching
consensus among Council members on the issues facing the judiciary and defining a
judicial reform strategy. The event was highly successful. The Council's Report
containing the objectives, components and priorities for judicial reform has been endorsed
by the Supreme Court and provides the basis for the proposed judicial reform program.
The Supreme Court has delegated to the Committee broad policy setting and investment
authority. The functions, membership and powers of the Committee are described in an
Internal Resolution approved by the Supreme Court.
62.   A Program Directorate was also established and made responsible for day-to-day
implementation of program activities under the guidance of the Council. It is headed by a
Director and includes two heads of program charged with responsibility for managing the
training and career components of the program. In addition, the Information Department
of the Court will report to the Program Directorate for purposes of the information system
components of the program.
63.   The Ministry of Justice has undertaken to hire a Project Coordinator who will be
responsible for implementation of the Ministry of Justice components of the program.
This coordinator would be expected to have extensive international experience in the
management of judicial reform programs, and would advise the Ministry and Judiciary on
project implementation. The Coordinator would be responsible for monitoring project
execution, including administrative aspects.
V. THE CREDIT
64.   Through support for the first phase of a comprehensive Judicial Reform Program,
the project aims to improve the quality and effectiveness of civil justice administration,
strengthen the capacity of the Judiciary to provide judicial services, and of the Ministry of
Justice to prepare, review and implement laws and programs related to the country's
constitutional, judicial, economic and social reforms. Institutional reforms under the
program would benefit the justice system as a whole, but specific interventions would
focus exclusively on civil justice.
65.   The project would support two main sets of activities. Those directly related to
the daily operations of the courts would be managed by the Judiciary and would include:
(i) judicial process reforms, designed to improve the quality and swiftness of civil dispute
resolution within the current legislative framework; (ii) human resource management
reforms, aimed at restructuring the incentives under which judges and clerical personnel
operate, in order to promote professional excellence and administrative efficiency; and



16
(iii) institutional strengthening programs, to develop the strategic management capacity of
the Judiciary. Parallel to these initiatives, activities not directly related to day-to-day court
functions would be managed by the Ministry of Justice and focus on: (i) implementation of
constitutional reforms, to establish the new institutions of the modem Bolivian judiciary;
(ii) alternative dispute resolution to improve access to dispute-resolution services,
particularly for marginalized social groups; (iii) legislative reforms designed to improve
the legal environment for private sector activity; and (iv) institutional strengthening, in
support of the Ministry.
A. JUDICIARY COMPONENTS
A. 1 JUDICIAL PROCESS REFORMS
66.   This component would constitute the driving element of the strategy aimed at
improving the delivery of civil justice administration services in Bolivia. It focuses entirely
on civil justice, and within the prevailing legislative framework seeks to introduce changes
in the handling of disputes through the issuance and implementation of new policies on
civil proceedings. The policy initiatives would be bolstered through training activities and
reform of courtroom administration.
67.   Judicial Process Policies. A key finding of the strategic planning exercises
undertaken to develop the reform program was the need for clear standards for managing
civil proceedings. The Supreme Court has agreed to define such policies to guide judges,
which will aim at ensuring an adequate balance between formal due process requirements
(giving the defendant adequate defense opportunities), substantive due process objectives
(providing both parties equal treatment in ensuring the effectiveness of their substantive
rights) and the timely resolution of disputes.
68.   In the field of formal due process requirements, the Court would issue guidelines
aimed at: (i) introducing conciliation in civil proceedings; (ii) direct and early participation
of judges in the management of the process; and (iii) other initiatives consistent with the
CCP's vision of assigning the judge a leading role in the conduct of judicial proceedings,
including restraining the parties' abuse of incidental matters for dilatory purposes.
69.   In the field of substantive due process, the Supreme Court would define policies
that clarify the degree of independence judges enjoy in adjudicating disputes, relative to
legislation, other branches of government and the judicial hierarchy. It would address the
methods of interpretation to be followed by judges in deciding disputes. The aim would
be to change the narrow view that judges seem to have of their roles - mainly as strict
interpreters of statutes - and to emphasize the social responsibility and autonomy that
judges should exercise in the resolution of disputes. In addition, specific regulations
would be issued on the production and weighing of evidence, interpretation of procedural
regulations, and the management of mandatory conciliation hearings.
70.   To ensure the timely resolution of disputes, the Supreme Court would establish
guidelines for the average duration of judicial procedures. Judges would be required to
manage their court workload to ensure that the average duration of cases in a court of first
instance would not exceed 200 days for ordinary procedures and 100 days for executive



17
procedures. The guidelines have been set taking into account the legal deadlines
established in the CCP. In addition, caseload level and the complexity of cases will affect
the individual guidelines to be set for each judicial district. Although the proposed
guidelines would imply a substantial reduction from prevailing levels, participants in the
strategic planning exercises agreed they could be achieved. Compliance with the duration
guidelines will be one criterion in the performance evaluation system proposed under the
program. A manual information system designed to measure average case duration will be
implemented early in the program to ensure adequate monitoring of judges' compliance
with the guidelines.
71.   The implementation plan requires that these policies on judicial process reform be
set as a matter of priority in the initial phases of the program. The process of formulation
of these new policies will be highly participatory, involving key leaders of the judiciary and
local and foreign experts in the field. The final recommendations stemming from this
process would be submitted to the Supreme Court for consideration and approval. During
negotiations the Supreme Court agreed to issue the policy guidelines in the areas referred
to above, not later than December 31, 1995.
72.   Training Program for Judicial Process Reform   Critical to the success of the
new policies will be the implementation of an intensive training program, designed to
improve judges' ability to carry out the proposed procedural reforms. Four basic training
topics have been identified:
*  clarifying the role of the judge in terms of his/her social responsibilities and authority,
particularly in relation to the management of judicial proceedings;
*  development of specific skills to allow judges a more active role in managing cases, in
particular strengthening the judges' proficiency in due process issues, management of
conciliation and ensuring equal treatment of litigants;
* strengthening the skills of judges in managing the fact-finding stage of cases and in
assessing evidence; and
* strengthening judges' skills in planning, formulating and drafting judicial decisions.
73.   Training will initially be targeted at thirty judges selected on the basis of
professional ability and leadership in improving justice administration. This same group
would lead the activities on information systems and courtroom administration. Training
would be conducted through workshops that would allow ample trainee participation. An
in-depth evaluation of the initial training exercise would be carried out before expanding
training to all civil judges. For this second phase, it is envisaged that trainers could be
drawn from the initial group of civil judges.
74.   Judicial Information Systems. A two-stage approach is proposed for developing
courtroom information systems. The first stage will consist of developing a manual
information system. This would enable tribunals to integrate information that is currently
recorded in separate books, thus not generating useful data. This manual information
system will be designed to enable monitoring of court workloads and mandatory process
duration guidelines.



18
75.   The second stage, to be implemented once an appropriate organizational design
has been established for civil courts, would involve development of a computerized court
information system to enable tribunals to monitor their operations. In the case of higher
level courts, the system would also enable the monitoring of key aspects of the tribunals
under their jurisdiction. This second phase would be implemented on a pilot basis in the
thirty lead courts of first instance. Information systems would also be established in some
District Courts and in the Supreme Court. It was agreed, however, that the level of
disaggregation of data received by the higher courts should be limited in order to
safeguard the independence of junior judges.
76.   Courtroom Administration. The first step under this component would be a study
that would include: (i) a diagnosis of the human resource inventory and prevailing
personnel policies at both the professional and support levels of the judiciary; (ii) a
diagnosis of the skills mix and job descriptions of incumbent judges and clerical personnel;
(iii) the development of alternative administrative structures to improve efficiency in
courtroom administration, together with proposed staffing requirements, job descriptions
and operational policies for the efficient operation of tribunals. The new structures would
take account of the proposed changes to judicial process management, particularly the
increased involvement of the judge in management of the process. The specific products
of this study will be organizational and personnel management manuals for court
administration. The second stage would involve implementation of the policies defined
under the study and would start with a pilot program in the thirty lead courts. The project
would finance the training requirements derived from the new organizational
arrangements.
A.2 HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
77.   This component would seek to restructure the incentives influencing the
performance of judges and clerical personnel, in order to encourage increased
professionalism and independence. It consists of the development of a judicial career
system and training and ethics initiatives. Of these, the career and ethics systems would be
of general application within the Judiciary, while training programs financed by the project
will encompass only civil judges.
78.   Judicial Career System. The project will support the introduction of transparent
policies for recruitment, performance evaluation and promotion, as well as the
development of appropriate institutional arrangements for their implementation. The
Supreme Court, in a Letter of Understanding signed by the Presidents of the three
branches of government (see Annex 3) has already stated that it intends to: (i) guarantee
stability through the automatic renewal of judges with satisfactory performance as
determined by a transparent performance evaluation system; (ii) undertake recruitment of
judges through open and competitive procedures; and(iii) adopt transparent promotion
procedures based on objective criteria of professional competence, experience and
performance.
79.   A two-stage approach has been designed to phase in the judicial career system.
The first phase will entail the introduction of streamlined personnel management guidelines
in the areas of recruitment, performance evaluation and career advancement, aimed at



19
providing an immediate inventory of the qualifications and performance rating of
incumbents. These would be critical for decisions on renewals, recruitment and access to
training programs in the near term. The initial procedures would rely mostly on peer
reviews of judicial performance. As defined in the implementation targets it is expected
that the interim evaluation and recruitment guidelines would have been issued and their
implementation initiated by December 31, 1995.
80.   The second stage of the career system would be initiated upon the completion of
the proposed organizational and human resource study included under the Courtroom
Administration component. At that point, the Supreme Court would launch a
comprehensive study for the design of the components of the judicial career system and
define a strategy for its implementation. The study would be expected to produce:
*  a personnel selection system using competitive recruitment based on professional
merits, and a strategy for phasing out under-performing personnel;
*  a performance evaluation system focused on efficiency factors (i.e., caseload
discharge rates, adherence to process duration guidelines and decision reversal
rates) and quality factors (i.e., depth and caliber of decisions and effectiveness in
the management of proceedings);
*  a career advancement system based on specific job competencies for the various
judgeship positions and the results of performance evaluations; and
*  a review of prevailing compensation practices and definition of new policies to
reward professional excellence and administrative efficiency.
81.   The proposed project will also support the provision of technical assistance,
training and institution-building requirements (including the acquisition of equipment) to
implement the proposed personnel systems.
82.   Judicial Training Program. A priority activity will be the development of a
training program designed to support improvements in judicial process reform. In
addition, the training function within the judiciary will be more generally developed. To
this end, the reform program would include three initiatives:
* establishment of a training coordination unit within the Program Directorate;
* development of an on-the-job training program for newly appointed judges based
on tutorial services provided by prestigious retired judges; and
* development of a series of semi-annual seminars dealing with specific topics of
general interest for the judiciary.
83.   A participatory approach will be taken in the preparation of training materials and
instruction of trainers. The formulation of these materials will be the result of workshops,
with task groups composed of stakeholders (judges, lawyers, professors) and assisted by
external experts on methodology and specific legal or judicial issues.
84.   Judicial Ethics Program. The shortcomings of the incentive framework under
which judges operate, including the lack of mechanisms to ensure accountability, have



20
resulted in a tendency towards corruption. The judicial reform program will introduce
significant measures aimed at redressing poor incentives in general. Because of the
magnitude of the problem, however, and the judiciary's particular interest in increasing its
responsiveness to the public, special attention will be given to mechanisms that promote
ethical conduct.
85.   The program includes an initiative to define the ethical standards applicable to
judges in the performance of their duties, and develop mechanisms for the enforcement of
these standards, including recourses available to the public. Some of these proposals may
require legislative approval before implementation. The program will include activities for
dissemination of the standards, procedures and recourses.
A. 3 INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING OF THE JUDICIARY
86.   The judicial reform program is expected to make a substantial contribution
towards development of the judiciary's strategic management capacity. The approach
proposed for the development of such capacity is a gradual build-up based on the demand
arising from the design and implementation of the activities included in the first phase of
the judicial reform program. The project would finance the strengthening and operation of
the Executive Council and the Program Directorate.
87.   Planning System and Legal Studies Office. As part of the institutional
strengthening efforts, the judiciary would establish a permanent planning system, which
will assume responsibility for preparation of the next phase of the reform, and an office of
legal studies to advise the Court on judicial policies. These two initiatives will start in the
medium term. The proposed project would finance technical assistance to define the
scope, staffing and operational characteristics of these offices.
A. 4 JUDICIAL DEVELOPMENTFUND
88.   The various components of the reform program described above reflect a
deliberate effort by the judicial leadership to tackle the major shortcomings that have been
identified as affecting civil justice administration. As such, these components are the result
of a top-down planning process. Since the level of initiative and leadership can vary
greatly from one judicial district to the next, however, the program will include
establishment of a Judicial Development Fund aimed at promoting demand-driven
solutions to judicial administration issues and cultivating a healthy competitive
environment for innovation among judicial districts.
89.   The proposed credit would provide funds to be administered by the Executive
Council to finance subprojects sponsored by a judicial district. Proposals could cover a
complete judicial district, a set of civil courts or individual courts. To ensure balanced
allocation of resources, the operational manual of the Fund will provide that aggregate
project initiatives financed to any large (La Paz, Santa Cruz, Cochabamba) intermediate
(Tarija, Oruro, Chuquisaca) or small (Pando, Beni, Potosi) district shall not exceed 25%,
15% or 5% of the resources assigned to the Fund, respectively.
90.   Subprojects eligible for financing under the credit would consist of initiatives
which are complementary or incremental to the reform activities included in the program



21
or which, although not included in the program, would provide a specific and monitorable
improvement in civil justice administration. Items eligible for financing would be specific
investments (goods or civil works) or technical assistance activities. The Fund would not
finance recurrent costs. Successful subprojects would be evaluated upon completion to
assess their replicability.
91.   The proposed project would finance technical assistance to develop an operational
manual for the identification, appraisal, approval and supervision of subprojects.
Consultants would be hired to help define eligibility criteria and financial and appraisal
policies to be adopted by the Executive Council, as well the institutional and staffing
arrangements for operation of the Fund. In addition, the credit would finance subprojects
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$500,000. As a condition of disbursement of
the funds under this component, the Supreme Court would approve the Operational
Manual and set up the institutional arrangements for handling the proceeds of the credit
allocated for these purposes.
B. MINISTRY OF JUSTICE COMPONENTS
B.] IMPLEMENTATION OF COVSTITLTIONAL REFORMS ON JUDICIAL MATTERS
92.   In order to establish the institutional basis for a modern system of justice in Bolivia
as mandated by the Constitution, this component would include activities to ensure the
proper organization and functioning of the Judicial Council and Constitutional Tribunal.
The project would support the drafting of a law and regulations for both institutions, as
well as preparation of an administrative design and implementation plan. For the Judicial
Council, which will administer the budget and personnel systems of the judiciary, the
component will also support the provision of technical assistance, training and institution-
building requirements (including the acquisition of equipment) for these systems.
93.   In the case of the Constitutional Tribunal, a specialized court with exclusive
jurisdiction over cases involving constitutional challenges, the project will support a series
of seminars aimed at training the new justices as well as the general legal community in the
specialized proceedings of this court. The component will also help to establish a basic
reference library and to design a system of public information that would ensure that
decisions of the court are widely known and publicly available.
B. 2 ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION
94.   Present legislation in this field deals only with arbitration and has some significant
shortcomings: it unduly limits the parties that can accede to arbitration and the type of
disputes that can be subjected to it; the rules on selecting arbitrators and the conduct of
proceedings are vague and fragmentary; it allows a high degree of intervention by the
courts at various stages of the process; and it does not provide for effective enforcement
of arbitral awards. A draft bill that would also authorize and regulate the utilization of
mediation and conciliation mechanisms and deal with all the shortcomings faced by the
present legislation is undergoing final revisions before its presentation to Congress.
95.   The project will support the Ministry's leadership role in the promotion and
implementation of legislation dealing with the strengthening of alternative dispute



22
resolution mechanisms. This component would support the introduction of a system of
justices of the peace as a complementary initiative aimed at marginalized urban, rural and
indigenous communities. The initial step would consist of a study of modalities of dispute
resolution prevailing among these groups, drawing on traditional practices in order to
define the justices' functions accordingly.
96.   Drawing on the results of the study, the Ministry would then prepare a draft law
goveming the functions of justices of the peace. A one-year pilot program would be
designed and carried out in representative sample of communities throughout Bolivia. The
results of the pilot phase in different types of communities and regions would be evaluated
to assess the potential for expansion of the program. The project would also finance the
preparation of an expansion plan based on the outcome of the evaluation. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations, that the Ministry would submit not later than
June 30, 1996 for review and approval by the Association, the specific proposal for the
establishment and operation of the system of justices of the peace.
B. 3 LEGISLATIVE REFORMS
97.   The Ministry has defined as one of its priorities the promotion of legislative
reforms to improve both the rules governing private sector activity and the mechanisms
for their enforcement. In particular, the Ministry proposes reforms to two Codes - the
Commercial and Civil Procedures Codes - and the introduction of laws on alternative
dispute resolution mechanisms, secured transactions and administrative procedures.
98.   Amendments would be made to the existing Commercial Code in order to
introduce features of modem commercial practice absent from the present law. Reform of
the Civil Procedures Code would entail introduction of an entirely new code, thus this
initiative is regarded as the most complex of the planned legislative reforms. The process
would involve the establishment of a drafting commission consisting of several sub-groups
with some full-time and some part-time members, who would be expected to produce a
draft code by the end of the project's second year. The component would finance short-
term technical assistance needs derived from these initiatives.
B. 4 INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING OF THEMINISTRY OF JUSTICE
99.   The Ministry of Justice is a new institution, created in September 1993 and
charged with responsibility for modernizing Bolivia's laws, and coordinating relations with
the Judiciary, amongst other tasks. The assistance to the Ministry under this component
would focus on strengthening its capacity to improve the quality of primary and secondary
legislation in Bolivia. It would permit the Ministry to provide a quality-control function,
based on the provision of research and advisory services to those responsible for
preparation of rules.
100.  The component would help to establish a Technical Office in the Ministry that
would provide services to the rest of the Executive, and eventually to any member of the
public, to assist with the formulation of legislative proposals. The proposed credit would
finance a long-term advisor for the Office, who would also be responsible for preparation
of a manual, to be distributed throughout the government, setting out basic guidelines for
the formulation of draft laws and regulations. The office would be outfitted with



23
equipment linking it to comparative law sources, and would have an information system to
allow analysis of legislation aimed at eliminating inconsistencies that give rise to
uncertainty and litigation. Also included would be establishment of a law library and a
series of training seminars for government lawyers.
101.  It is a medium-term objective of the Ministry to develop an information system
that would provide on-line access to the laws of Bolivia. Since development and
maintenance of such a system would be costly, the Ministry will undertake a study of
alternatives for its establishment and operation, including the possibility of private
provision of the service. This study would be financed by the credit.
C PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
102.  Experience ofjudicial reform activities is very limited in Bolivia. The Ministry of
Justice and Executive Council of the Supreme Court have therefore identified a need for a
project office that would be headed by a Coordinator with international experience of
judicial reform programs. This office would have direct responsibility for implementation
of the Ministry of Justice components, and would monitor and support the reform process
in general, including through the provision of advice on the Judiciary components of the
project. It would play a central role in the project implementation reviews to be carried
out on an annual basis.
PROJECT COSTS AND FiNANCING PLAN
103.  The total project cost is estimated at US$12.75 million equivalent, including about
US$4.0 million in local costs. The proposed credit in an amount of SDR 7.6 million
(US$11.0 million equivalent) would finance 86% percent of the total project cost. The
balance would be financed by the Judiciary and Ministry of Justice through budgetary
appropriations.



24
Table 1: Estimated Project Cost
($US equivalent)
Item                               Local Costs  Foreign Costs      Total
A. Supreme Court                    3,070,000     4,810,000    7,880,000
A. 1 Judicial Process Reforms      1,500,000    3,400,000    4,900,000
A.2 Human Resource Management      1,060,000      865,000    1,925,000
A.3 Institutional Strengthening     260,000       225,000     485,000
A. 4 Judicial Development Fund      250,000       320,000     570,000
B Ministry of Justice               1,350,000     1,470,000    2,820,000
B. 1 Constitutional Reforms         260,000       390,000     650,000
B.2 Alternative Dispute Resolution  225,000       195,000     420,000
B.3 Legislative Reforms             535,000       295,000     830,000
B.4 Institutional Strengthening     330,000       590,000     920,000
C Project Coordination Unit          120,000       380,000      500,000
D. Refinancing of PPF                              500,000      500,000
Total Base Costs                    4,540,000     7,160,000   11,700,000
Physical Contingencies                315,000      505,000      820,000
Price Contingencies                    90,000       140,000     230,000
Totals                        4,945,000    7,805,000   12,750,000
Table 2: Projected Financing Plan
($US equivalent)
Source of Finance                 Local Costs  Foreign Costs      Totall
Government of Bolivia                685,000      1,065,000    1,750,000
IDA                                 4,260,000     6,740,000   11,000,000 l
Totals                       4,945,000      7,805,000   12,750,000]
IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS
104.  The proposed project would have two executing entities: the Judiciary, responsible
for execution of the judiciary subproject, and the Ministry of Justice, responsible for
execution of the Ministry of Justice subproject. The Supreme Court has already
established the Executive Council and Program Directorate as the main bodies within the
judiciary in charge of program activities. In addition, the Judicial Council, once it is
deemed operational to IDA's satisfaction, will assume primary responsibility for



25
implementation of relevant components. The Ministry of Justice will rely on the Project
Coordinator for implementation of its component.
105.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Supreme Court would
maintain both the Council and Program Directorate with an organizational structure,
powers and functions acceptable to IDA, and continue to assign to those entities personnel
with qualifications and experience also acceptable to IDA, while the Ministry of Justice
would hire and maintain a Project Coordinator with qualifications and functions acceptable
to IDA.
106.  Implementation will be paced to match a gradual build-up of institutional capacity.
Interventions related to reform of civil procedures would be implemented initially on a
pilot basis and would be extended to other civil courts gradually as experience is gained in
managing the reform program. As a result of the project, it is expected that civil process
reforms would have been introduced in about 50% of the civil first instance courts, 40%
of the District Courts and the Supreme Court. Interventions aimed at the introduction of
adequate career incentives (i.e. judicial career, judicial ethics and permanent judicial
training activities) and institutional strengthening (i.e. planning system and Legal Studies
Office) would be introduced on a system-wide basis. Institutional measures included
under the constitutional reform component are priorities for early action.
107.  Key outputs of the proposed implementation plan have been singled out as
progress indicators to be evaluated during the annual project reviews proposed under the
credit (see Annex 5). The major features of the proposed implementation plan are as
follows:
* The first phase of the judicial reform program to be supported under the project
would last approximately three-and-a-half years.
*  Institutional reforms designed to establish the new entities of the judicial branch
would be tackled during the first year of the program.
*  Other central activities during the first year will consist of process reforms in civil
justice administration. This includes formulation of policies on civil process
reforms by the Supreme Court, development of training materials based on these
policies and implementation of reform initiatives on a pilot basis in thirty leading
courts.
*  These activities would be complemented by initial changes in the performance
incentives for judges through the introduction of streamlined personnel
management guidelines on performance evaluation, career advancement and
recruitment, the development and implementation of a manual information system
and an organization and human resource inventory study.
*  The second year of the program would focus on development of other institutional
strengthening initiatives, such as the judicial ethics program, training for new
judges, introduction of the comprehensive career system, and initial
implementation of the computerized information system. In addition, judicial
process reforms would be extended to another fifty civil courts.



26
* The third year of the program would extend coverage of the judicial process
reforms to an additional group of fifty courts and consolidate the initiatives in the
areas of training, judicial ethics, automated information systems and judicial career
108.  The use of specialized software applications for monitoring program
implementation will facilitate dialogue between the executing agencies and the Bank
Group. Annex 4 contains the detailed implementation plan for the program. This annex is
a working document and would be modified from time to time to reflect progress and, if
needed, adjustments in the project's implementation modalities and schedule. During
negotiations, assurances were provided that the Supreme Court and Ministry of Justice
would (i) carry out the project in accordance with the respective performance indicators
set forth in Annex 5; (ii) carry out reviews on progress in the implementation of the
program on an annual basis; and (iii) make in a timely manner the adjustments that may be
required from time to time to ensure the achievement of the objectives of the project.
ENVIRONMENTAL REQUIREMENTS
109.  The proposed operation aims to improve the enforceability of legal and contractual
rights through improved judicial administration and increased access to alternative dispute
resolution mechanisms. As such, the project is not expected to adversely affect the
environment. In the medium term, the project could have a positive impact on the
environment as it reinforces, the effectiveness of legal regulation over social and economic
activities. An effective legal framework is a key instrument for deterring environmentally
damaging activities or seeking remedies.
PROCUREMENT
110.  Consultants financed under the credit would be employed in accordance with
procedures and criteria set forth in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981, and with terms of reference and conditions of employment satisfactory to
IDA. All consultant contracts will be subject to prior review.
111.  Contracts for computer and office equipment will be grouped to the extent
possible in packages estimated to cost at least US$150,000. Contracts estimated to cost
more than US$150,000 would be procured in accordance with ICB procedures. Contracts
estimated to cost US$150,000 or less could be procured in accordance with Limited
International Bidding (LIB) procedures, providing manufacturers and suppliers with
established maintenance services in Bolivia an opportunity to bid for these contracts.
Contracts estimated to cost US$25,000 or less, up to an agreggate amount of $500,000,
could be procured through shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank, requiring at least
three quotations from eligible suppliers. IDA would require prior review of contracts for
all LIB and ICB procurement. Small works and rehabilitation contracts under the Judicial
Development Fund (each estimated to cost less than US$50,000) will be procured through
shopping procedures acceptable to IDA.



27
Table 3: Procurement Arrangements
($US equivalent)
Procurement Category       ICB        LCB         Other          Total
Consultant services,         -          -       8,115,000      8,115,000
training and related                           (7,130,000)    (7,130,000)
expenses
Goods/Equipment          1,110,000      -      3,325,000 a/    4,435,000
(900,000)             (2,770,000)    (3,670,000)
Minor Works                  -          -       200,000 b/       200,000
(200,000)     (200,000)
TOTAL                    1,110,000     -        11,640,000     12,750,000
(900,000)            (10,100,000)   (11,000,000)
Notes: Figures in parentheses indicate IDA financing.
a/ Includes LIB and Shopping procedures
b/ Shopping procedures
112.  In view of the limited experience in managing procurement, the Supreme Court
will engage a procurement specialist to assist it in implementing procurement, preparing
procurement manuals and strengthening the capacity of the Program Directorate as the
entity that will be directly responsible for managing procurement activities. It is estimated
that IDA will review about 85% of the estimated expenditures on goods and equipment
envisaged under the project. The table above summarizes the procurement arrangements
for the project.
DISBURSEMENTS
113.  To facilitate project execution, separate dollar Special Accounts would be
established for the Ministry of Justice and the Judiciary in the Central Bank of Bolivia.
IDA would make initial deposits of US$150,000 and US$300,000 respectively to these
accounts, to be increased to a maximum of US$300,000 and US$600,000 when
disbursements to the accounts have reached US$450,000 and US$900,000 respectively.
The minimum size of disbursement applications will be US$60,000 and US$120,000 for
the Ministry of Justice and Judiciary respectively, when the full amount of the authorized
allocation is disbursed.
114.  The credit would finance 100% of consultant services, training and related
expenses, 100% of foreign costs and local ex-factory costs for equipment purchases and
85% of other local equipment purchases. Disbursements to the Judicial Development
Fund will finance 100% of the cost of subprojects. Contracts for equipment valued at less
than US$25,000 and contracts for works would be disbursed against Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs). Detailed supporting documentation for expenditures would be
retained by the Program Directorate or the Ministry of Justice, as the case may be, and
would be made available for the required audits and for the review of Bank supervision



28
missions. The proposed credit is expected to take three-and-a-half years to disburse. The
Closing Date would be September 30, 1999. Disbursement arrangements are described in
the tables below.
Table 4: Disbursement Arrangements
($US equivalent)
Category                            Amount    Percentage
Consultant services, training and              100% (net of taxes)
related expenses
Judiciary Subproject             3,650,000
Ministry of Justice Subproject   2,330,000
Goods, equipment and related                   100% of foreign expenditures;-
services                                       100% of local ex-factory
Judiciary Subproject             2,505,000   expenditures and 85% of other
Ministry of Justice Subproject    465,000   local expenditures
Judicial Development Subprojects    500,000    100%
PPF Refinancing                     500,000    100%
Unallocated                       1,050,000
TOTAL                            11,000,000
Table 5: Projected Disbursements
($US equivalent)
FY95       FY96         FY97        FY98        FY99
Annual            500,000   2,500,000    3,000,000   3,000,000    2,000,000
Cumulative        500,000   3,000,000    3,000,000   9,000,000   11,000,000
MONITORING AND REPORTING
115.  Based on inputs from the Executive Council of the Supreme Court and from the
Ministry of the Justice, the Project Coordinator would provide to IDA semi-annual reports
on progress in implementation. Such reports shall include the level of commitments and
disbursements under the credit. In addition, the Ministry of Justice, Executive Council
and IDA will carry out Annual Reviews to assess progress in the implementation of the
project. This review would specifically assess progress towards meeting the
implementation targets set forth in Annex 5, the impact on the judiciary's performance of
the initiatives supported by the project and the adjustments that may be required in order
to achieve the desired impact in justice administration.



29
AUDiTING
116.  The Program Directorate and the Ministry of Justice would maintain separate
accounts to record and monitor expenditures under the respective project components
financed under the credit. These accounts would be audited in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles by a single firm of independent auditors acceptable to the
Association and would be submitted to IEDA not later than four months after the end of
each fiscal year. In the case of expenditures submitted for Association financing through
SOEs, the auditors' opinion would explicitly cover the existence and acceptability of the
supporting documentation for the SOEs.
LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREvious BANK INVOL VEMENT
117. The Bank Group's experience in the justice sector is limited. A previous operation
approved for Venezuela (Judicial Infrastructure Project) emphasized the infrastructure
aspects ofjustice administration. Based on institutional reform experiences in other
sectors, the proposed project has attempted to strike a balance between the policy,
organizational and infrastructure aspects of justice administration. A strong
complementary relationship has been developed among the various components, with
judicial policy reforms supported by changes in personnel incentives and improved
information and courtroom administration.
118.  Bank experience in Bolivia, as reflected in recent project Completion Reports and
a project Performance Audit Report, has identified the need for: (i) developing clear
understanding on policy objectives; (ii) building up ownership and project implementation
capacity; and (iii) periodic evaluations to permit adjustments in design and implementation
arrangements.
119.  In the design of the proposed operation, these lessons have been .aken into
account. The development of a direct and frank dialogue with the Ministry of Justice,
Supreme Court and leaders within the judiciary has contributed to strong ownership of the
reform strategy. Institutional arrangements to ensure project implementation capacity
have been introduced up front during project preparation. Finally, annual implementation
reviews will be carried out to permit any necessary adjustments to the project design and
implementation plan.
PROJECT BENEFITS
120.  The proposed operation would support the first step in a process of reform that
would generate substantive benefits in the medium term by helping to establish an
institutional framework that ensures private agents' consistency and predictability in the
enforcement of their rights. The reforms would remove the serious distortions in Bolivia's
business environment that inhibit private investment and an efficient allocation of
resources. By levelling the playing field for investors, regardless of size or status, the
project would encourage private-sector-led development in a way that both raises growth
and improves equity. It would help to alleviate the economic and social costs imposed on
low-income groups by the prevailing justice system.



30
RISKS
121.  The design of the operation is complicated by the need for coordination between
two branches of government. During preparation, this issue was addressed by engaging in
joint policy dialogue with the Executive and Judiciary. For implementation of the
proposed project, permanent channels of communication have been established between
the two branches. Most important, in the design of the project, care has been taken to
define clearly the tasks of each, so that the lines of responsibility are distinctly drawn.
122.  Other main risks are related to the institutional capacity of the judiciary, which has
limited experience in dealing with the challenges involved in implementing a
comprehensive reform initiative. The proposed project is dealing with these risks by using
a highly participatory approach to ensure commitment to the reform program, and by early
identification of the institutional needs derived from the program. It has required up-front
establishment of the main institutional and policy elements that would enable its successful
implementation and is directly supporting further institutional strengthening initiatives.
The judiciary's willingness to move decisively in the field of institutional strengthening
provides a clear indication of the priority assigned to the reform program.
VI. AGREED ACTIONS
123.  The following agreements regarding the terms and conditions of project
implementation were reached during negotiations:
(a) the Supreme Court would issue not later than December 31, 1995 the Judicial
Procedures Guidelines on the following subjects: conciliation, oral procedures,
direct and active involvement of judges in the handling of the judicial process,
and the expected average duration of judicial procedures;
(b) the Ministry of Justice would submit not later than June 30, 1996, for review
by the Association, the specific proposal for the establishment and operation of
a system of Justices of the Peace;
(c) the Judiciary and Ministry of Justice would carry out their respective
components in accordance with the implementation targets set forth in Annex
5;
(a) the Judiciary and Ministry of Justice would carry out annual project
implementation reviews to assess progress in the implementation of the project
and in achieving the implementation targets set forth in Annex 5.
124.  As a condition of disbursements for subprojects under the Judicial Development
Fund, the Supreme Court would approve the Operational Manual for the processing,
approval and supervision of these subprojects and would set up the institutional
arrangements for handling the funds. Disbursements for activities related to the operation
of the Judicial Council and Constitutional Tribunal would be conditioned in each case on



31
IDA's approval of an implementation plan, and on satisfactory progress in the program for
establishment and operation of these entities.



Annex I
32                              Page I of 2
STRUCTURE OF THE BOLIVIAN JUDICIARY
1.    The Supreme Court is the maximum judicial authority of Bolivia. It is
composed of twelve justices appointed to their positions for ten-year periods. Based on
the procedures defined in the 1993 Law of Judicial Organization, recently named
justices have been appointed by a simple majority of the Chamber of Deputies, from
lists approved by a two-thirds majority of the Senate. In future, justices will be
appointed by a two-thirds majority of the full Congress from lists prepared by the new
Judicial Council. Court positions are informally allocated to ensure proportionate
representation of the country's departments. The Supreme Court has ultimate
jurisdiction on disputes regarding civil, commercial and criminal matters. It has been
granted exclusive powers to rule on adminstrative disputes between the state and
private parties. Until August 1994, when the Constitution was reformed, the Supreme
Court also ruled on cases involving interpretation of constitutional rights and powers.
2.    The recent reforms to the Constitution narrowed the Supreme Court's range of
powers through the establishment of two new institutions in the Judiciary: a specialized
Constitutional Tribunal and a Judicial Council responsible for the sector's
administration. The Supreme Court has retained its power to represent the Judicial
Branch and thus effectively remains at the head of the sector. Although the new
Constitution is already in effect, the Court continues to function as before, until the
new institutions begin operations.
3.    The Constitutional Tribunal will consist of five justices appointed under the
same procedures and conditions as Supreme Court Justices. The Tribunal is
independent, subject only to the Constitution. It enjoys exclusive jurisdiction over
cases involving constitutional rights and powers, including challenges to the
constitutionality of laws, executive decrees and other governmental acts. Traditional
constitutional appeals, such as that of habeas corpus, are also heard by the Tribunal. It
also responds to queries from the Presidents of the three branches of government
regarding the constitutionality of draft legislation or of legislation applied to a specific
case. The Constitutional Tribunal has not yet begun to operate; the Congress must
appoint its first five justices and pass a law defining in detail the Tribunal's powers and
functions for it to begin to operate.
4.    The Judicial Council is in a similar situation. Although legally established, it
will not start to function until a law is approved setting out in detail its responsibilities.
The Judicial Council is headed the President of the Supreme Court and includes four
councillors chosen by the Congress under the same procedures and conditions as
Supreme Court justices. The Council is the administrative and disciplinary body of the
Judicial Branch. It prepares the lists from which all judicial personnel are chosen,
including Supreme Court justices, Superior Court judges, circuit court judges, notaries
and registrars. It is responsible for administering the judicial career system and for
preparing and executing the judicial budget.



Annex I
Page 2 of 2
33
5.    Below the Supreme Court are the nine Superior District Courts which exercise
jurisdiction over a departments. Superior Court judges are appointed by the Supreme
Court for renewable six-year periods. Membership ranges from three judges in the
smallest department (Pando) to twelve judges in the largest (La Paz). For judicial
purposes, the Superior Courts operate as collegiate bodies (salas), which in the larger
departments specialize in either civil or criminal law. District Courts exercise
considerable management control within their departments. Although subject to
oversight from the Supreme Court, they administer their operations in a fairly
decentralized way.
6.    Cases begin either in a circuit court or a junior circuit court, depending on the
value of the claim (in civil cases) or the gravity of the offense (in criminal cases).
Circuit judges are appointed by the Supreme Court whilst junior circuit judges are
named by the Superior Courts, both for renewable four-year terms. Courts in urban
areas tend to specialize in civil, criminal or family law. Rural courts exercise
jurisdiction on all matters. Decisions of junior circuit courts are subject to review by
circuit courts, whose decisions are reviewed in turn by the Superior Court concerned.
7-.    The lowest-level courts are small claims courts. Small claims judges are not
personnel of the Judiciary. They are appointed by Superior Courts and usually operate
both as small claims judges and notaries. They receive no funding from the Judicial
Branch, and are expected to fund themselves from fees they are authorized to levy.
Their jurisdiction is limited to cases involving minimal sums, defined in bolivianos.
Inflation has overtaken the sum presently defining their jurisdiction, so that their
importance is severely limited. Scant information exists on the number of small claims
courts in operation.



BOLIVIA: JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
ORDINARY PROCEDURE - DURATION PER CCP
.... _ } . .. _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Year 1                                                                                            --YeF
ID  Name    _____                              Duration    Quarter 1 I      Quarter 2         Quarter 3    | Quarter 4          Quarter 5        Quarter 6
1  DURACION TOTAL PROCESO                        466d
2      PRIMERA INSTANCIA                         i67d
3          Demanda ordinaria                       Od
4          Citacion al demandado (art. 119)         id
5          Excepciones previas(art. 337)            5d
6          Notificacion demandante                  3d 9
7          Defensa excepciones previas (art. 338   1 5d  1
8          Resolucion excepciones (art. 338)        3d     B
9          Contestacion demanda y reconv. (art.34  15d                                                                     I
10         Traslado reconvencion (art.351)         i5d
11         Periodo prueba (art. 370)               50d
12         Proceso para autos                      20d
13         Sentencia (art.204)                     40d
14     SEGUNDA INSTANCIA                           97d                                __i__
15         Recurso apelacion                       l Od
16         Traslado parte apelada                   1 d
17         Notificacion partes                      3d
18         Respuesta apelada (art.227)             10d                                   a
19         Remision proceso (art.230)               5d
20         Radicatoria (art.231)                    2d
21         Notificacion partes                1     3d                                      9
22         Nuevos antecedentes partes (art. 232j    5d d
23         Apertura perodo probatorio         I     2d             
F24       FPenodo probatono (art. 233:
75         Autos para resolucion (art 234A          3
1 26         Resolucion (art. 204j                  .iOd
27        ziotificacion Resolucion (art. 238)      3d
28       ..                                       -.                                                                              
29     RECURSO CASACION                           147d                                                  ____5____                                                 -
30         Interposicion recurso (art.257)          8d                                                                                                        3
31         Traslado parte recurrida (Art. 259)      8d
32         Decfaracion procedencia (art. 260)       2d
Page 1



BOLIVIA: JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
ORDINARY PROCEDURE - DURATION PER CCP
Yew I                                                                ye
ID  Name                                       Duration    Quarter I        Quarter 2         Quarter 3        Quarter 4        Quarter 5         Q quarter 6
33         RwIbn e rpedent (art.260)               15d
34         Exmen p.wede    (art.262)                2d
35         VOa a Fbcal (L264)                      20d
36         Auho reoluklon y sorteo (at265)          2d                                                             I
37         Causs en aorto pb relacien              6Cd
38         Vm  Caus                                 3d
39         R     _eluklen (as 204)                 27d                                                                          ____
40     EJECUCION SENTENCIA                         5S 
41         Uquidacon del DiAe (art 519)            2Cd
42   M__dr_:ud pa (*ut52                            3d                                                                                   I
43         Dsne_d_n de pre ldr                      5d
44         k_om _ Wedw ((*rL525)                    3d                                                                                    I
45         Av_ bedee Uws(asl.525)                  13d
46         Pep h,eb de dAb  (aitSr2)                3d
47         D        hpoeft   p    Idbi (aLS3)       2d                                                                                       l
48  Pap (utS S31)                       Gd
Page 2



BOLIVIA: JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
ORDINARY PROCEDURE - REAL DURATION
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3      Year 4       Year 5   |  Year 6   |  Year 7         Year 8
ID  Name                                                Duration  1 02 Q3 04 01 02 03 Q4 01 Q2 03 04 01 02 03 04 01 02 03 04 Q1 02 03 Q4 Q1 02 03 04 01 Q2 Q3
1  DURACION PROCESO ORDINARIO                            2616d                  . I      I                                            -        _
2      PRIMERA INSTANCIA                                   771d d
3          Citacion demanda-Contestacion demanda            55d
4          Contestacion Demanda-Fijacion Relacion Proce    188d
5          Fijacion Relacion Procesal- Notificacion Rel. Pr  54d
6          Apertura-Clausura Periodo de Prueba             181 d
7          Clausura Periodo de Prueba-Decreto de Autos     139d
8          Decreto de Autos-Dictacion de Sentencia          78d
9          Presentacion Apelacion-Concesion Recurso         76d
10      SEGUNDA INSTANCIA                                  648d
11          Recurso de Apelacion-Auto de Vista             524d
12          Auto de Vista-Devolucion Juzgado Origen         78d
13          Presentacion Casac_on-Concesion Casacion        46d
14      RECURSO DE CASACION                                833d                                                   U
15          Rernsion Expediente Corte Suprema               47d
16          Rerrision Expediente-Decreto Radicatoria       104d                                                       3 
17          Decreto Radicatoria-Auto Supremo               598d
18          Auto Supremo-Devolucion Tribunal Inferior       84d
19      EJECUCION SENTENCIA                                364d
20          Solicitud Liquidacion-Pago (2 casos)           364d
21
22  ELEMENTOS PROCESALES ACCESORIOS                       1158d                                        'U
23     Incidentes (23 casos)                               456d
24      nfms (71 casos)                                            _                     1                _                                    I 
Pp
Page 1



BOLIVIA: JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
EXECUTIVE PROCEDURE - DURAlION PER CCP
_                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Year 1
ID  Nwne                                     Dutation       Quarter 1             Quarter 2             Quarter 3             Quarter 4
1  DURACION TOTAL PROCESO                       341d
2      PRIMERA INSTANCIA                         42d
3          Demand. Ejecutiva                      Od
4          Intimacion Pago (art 491)              3d
5         Citacion l ejecutado (arts.493 y 119)   ld I
6         Oposicon de Excepclones (art.509)       5d a
7          Noixcadon apertur prueba (art.1 35)    3d  8
8         Periodo Prueba (art. 510)              10d   1
9         Sentencia (art.204)                    2        0d 
10     SEGUNDA INSTANCIA                         97d
11         Rectuo apelacion                       1Od
12         Traslado parte apelada                  Id
13         Norificadon panes                      3d              0
14         Respuesta apelada (art.227)            10d
15         Remisbon proceso (art.230)             5d
16         Radicatoria (art.231)                  2d                  O
17         Notificaion panes                      3d                  2
18         Nuevos antecedentes panes (art. 232)   5d
19         Apertura periodo probatorio            2d
20         Periodo probatorio (art. 233)         20d
21         Autos para resolucion (art. 234)       3d                          2
22         Resolucion (art. 204)                 30d
23         Notilicacion Resolucdon (art. 238)     3d                                  0
24     RECURSO CASACION                          147d
25         Interposicion rerurso (art.257)        8d
26         Traslado parte recurrida (ArL 259)     8d
27         Decdaracbon procedencia (art. 260)     2d
28         Remision expedient. (art.260)         15d
29         Examen procedencia (art.262)           2d
30         Vistas al Fiscal (art.264)            20d                                                                                                            .. s
31         Autos resolucbon y sorteo (art.265)    2d
0% j
32         Causa en sorteo p/a relacion          60d
Page 1



BOLIVIA: JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
EXECUTIVE PROCEDURE - DURATION PER CCP
Yea 1
ID  Name                                        Duraion         Quarter 1              Quarter 2              Quarter 3               Quarer 4
33          Vista Causa                               3d                                                                  a
34          Rasokudon (art 204)                      27d
35      EJECUCION SENTENCIA                  _       55d
36          Uquidadon del caedilo (gat 519)          20d
37 LJndweento page (art520)                           3d                                                                               O
38          D eOl con de WM tsdor                     5d                                                                               12
39         Inform  tsador ((wt525)                    3d                                                                                 O
40          Avlmo de substs (atL52G)                 13d                                                                                  a 
41          PagO kipofl de su*aaas (arLS28)           3d
42          Depaso hqaerpe isbunal (ut.530)           2d
43          Pago(wu 531l)                       I      d
Page 2



BOLIVIA: JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
EXECUTIVE PROCEDURE - REAL DURATION
Year I             Year 2             Year 3             Year 4             Year 5             Year 6
ID  Name                                          Duration  01 2  Q3  Q4  Q1  Q2  Q3  Q4  Q1 02 03 04 01  Q2  Q3  Q4  Q1  Q2  Q3  Q4  Q1 02  Q3
1   PROCESO EJECUTIVO - DURACION TOTAL             1770d                    _  _                             _
2      PRIMERA INSTANCIA                             519d .
3          Demanda-Auto Intimatorio (82 casos)       27d
4          Auto intimatorio- Citacion                79d
5          Apertura prueba-notificacion              47d        1
6          Solicitud sentencia-Sentencia (70 casos  102d
7          Sentencia-Ejecutona de Sentencia         190d
8          Ejercutoria sentencia-notificacion (42 ca  44d
9          Etapas no individuali7adas                30d                           0
10      SEGUNDA INSTANCIA (8 casos)                  671d              _
11          Presentaaon Apelacion-Concesion           47d
12          Concesion- Auto de vista                 475d _
13              Concesion- Remision expediente        94d
14              Remision expediente-Auto de Vista    381d
15          Auto de vista- devolucion tribunal inferio    149d
16              Auto de vista- notificacion auto      34d                                                       0
17              Notiricacion-devolucion expediente   lend
18      EJECUCION SENTENCIA                          580d                                                              -
19          Solicitud liquidacion-liquidacion obligaci  87d
20          Liquidadon obligacion- Aprobacion liqui    301 d
21          Aprobacion Uquidacion -pago (7 casos     192d
22
23
24  ELEMENTOS PROCESALES ACCESORIOS                  302d
25      Incidents (42 casos)                         162d
26      lnfomes (65 casos)                           140d
Page 1



40
Annex 3
Page I of 6
B O L I V I A
ACTA DE ENTENDIMIENTO
Los Presidentes de los tres Poderes del Estado de la Republica de
Bolivia, han acordado las siguientes bases de cooperacion y
entendimiento a fin de apoyar los esfuerzos tendientes a resolver las
dificultades por las que atraviesa la administracion de justicia en el
pais.
ANTECEDENTES
1.   Ha sido preocupacion constante de las autoridades nacionales,
superar la crisis del Estado que afecta a los Poderes Publicos y
entre ellos al Poder Judicial.
2.   En atenci6n a estas circunstancias, se ha logrado un consenso en
torno a la necesidad de fortalecer la Judicatura armonizando
polticas y entendimientos encaminados a su modernizaci6n y
eficiencia, como una garantia para consolidar -1 desarrollo
econ6mico del Estado.
3.   Coadyuvar a los esfuerzos realizados hasta el presente por la
Corte Suprema para lograr mayor eficiencia profesional y
administrativa acordes con los requerimientos actuales de la
sociedad boliviana, adoptando un programa integral de
fortalecimiento de la Judicatura, en acci6n conjunta y coordinada
de los 6rganos del Estado que reconocen al Poder Judicial
autonomia funcional: econ6mica, administrativa y jurisdiccional.
Programa de Reforma Judicial
4.   Las autoridades signatarias acuerdan en que este Programa
constituira el documento de entendimiento para resolver las
dificultades que enfrenta el sector judicial, cuya ejecuci6n tendra
a la Corte Suprema como 6rgano maximo de decisi6n. Los
componentes y objetivos principales de dicho programa serdn los
siguientes:



41
Annex 3
Page 2 of 6
B O L I V I A
Establecimiento de un programa de desarrollo de mediano
plazo (periodo 1994-1998) que establezea las prioridades
estrategicas del sector, conjuntamente con los recursos
presupuestales demandados para su cumplimiento.
5.   El objetivo del programa de desarrollo es establecer las bases
para el consenso entre los Poderes del Estado en torno a la
estrategia de mediano plazo para la modernizaci6n y reforma del
Poder Judicial. Los Poderes garantizaran, los recursos
econ6micos para el cumplimiento de las metas que se definan. Las
partes signatarias acuerdan iniciar en el corto plazo los estudios
necesarios para determinar las condiciones prevalecientes en el
sector judicial y las prioridades para su desarrollo, entre estos,
mejoras salariales consistentes, implantaci6n de un sistema de
carrera judicial, mejoras en infraestructura y equipamiento de los
tribunales y necesidades de capacitaci6n. Los recursos para el
financiamiento de la estrategia provendrdn directamente del
presupuesto o de la contrataci6n de financiamiento externo. Se
preve que el programa de desarrollo se completaria en un periodo
de seis meses.
Establecihniento de un sistema de carrera judicial orientado
a promover la calidad tecnico - profesional de los miembros
de la Judicatura y crear mecanismos eficientes para
garantizar la independencia del sector.
6.   Este componente buscara desarrollar sistemas administrativos y
politicas sobre manejo de recursos humanos que permitan hacer
efectivos a todos los niveles de la Judicatura los objetivos de
profesionalismo, eficiencia administrativa y probidad e implantar
mecanismos id6neos para sancionar la retardacion de justicia.
7.   Los mecanismos administrativos basicos seran el establecimiertz
de un sistema de escalaf6n judicial y el desarrollo del Instituto ue
la Judicatura y Ministerio Piublico. El sistema de escalafj5
contendrd una clasificaci6n y calificaciun de los funcionarios
judiciales basada en criterios de idoneidad profesional y
eficiencia funcionaria.
2



42
Annex 3
Page 3 of 6
BOLIVIA
El lnstituto serd el Centro academico para la profesionalizaci6n de
nuevos jueces por especialidades y capacitaci6n de los que se
encuentren en ejercicio para poner en vigor la Carrera Judicial
apolitica, y, en general, fortalecer en forma sostenida la
capacidad tecnico-profesional de los miembros de la Judicatura.
8.   Las politicas a ser implementadas a fin de desarrollar la carrera
judicial serdn las siguientes:
*    el establecimiento de un sistema que consista en: (i)
garantizar la estabilidad en sus cargos de los funcionarios
que tengan un desempefho satisfactorio; y (ii) permitir la
promoci6rn dentro de los diversos niveles de la judicatura
a los magistrados que cumplan con los requerimientos de
idoneidad profesional y experiencia funcionaria que se
establezcan para cada caso.
*    la creaci6n de un Consejo Supremo de la Magistratura
Judicial como 6rgano mdximo de gobierno del Poder
Judicial, facultado para nombrar a todos los funcionarios
con jurisdicci6n (magistrados, vocales y jueces); defender
la independencia judicial, mantener tuici6n sobre el
Instituto de Profesionalizaci6n de jueces para garantizar la
estabilidad de los magistrados en sus cargos y, por tanto,
la independencia en el ejercicio de sus funciones. Ademas
de  otras  facultades  de  caracter  jurisdiccional,
administrativo y econ6mico-financiero;
*    el establecimiento de mecanismos transparentes y publicos
para la selecci6n de nuevos magistrados a la carrera
judicial;
*    el establecmiento de normas sobre promoci6n que otorguen
prioridad a los funcionarios de carrera basadas en
criterios de idoneidad profesional y funcionaria.
Establecimiento de un programa de reforma de las politicas
judiciales destinado a lograr celeridad y probidad en la
administraci6n de justicia, y predictibilidad y uniformidad
en los criterios jurisprudenciales que aplican los
tribunales.
3



43
Annex3
Page4of 6
BOLIVIA
9.   Serd un objetivo inmediato desarrollar los medios efectivos para
la implementaci6n de estas politicas, incluyendo programas de
entrenamiento de los jueces y el diseno de recursos efectivos que
permitan corregir en forma expedita dilaciones, debiendo
implementarse para erradicarla el programa de informdtica
juridica nacional.
10   No obstante lo anterior, serd actividad privativa de la Corte
Suprema en uso de sus facultades constitucionales indelegables
formular y aplicar nuevas politicas de administraci6n de justicia
que persigan los siguientes objetivos:
*    asegurar un rol mas dinadmco del juez en el manejo del
proceso civil destinado a obtener una resoluci6n expedita
de los conflictos que se sometan a su consideraci6n sin
perjuicio de dar la protecci6n debida - los derechos
legitimos de la parte afectada.
11   Los mecanismos que se analizarian a fin de promover este nuevo
rol comprenden: (i) la utilizaci6n de procedimientos orales que
permita,, al juez conocer los tdrminos y circunstancias de >'
contraversia directamente de las partes; (ii) sujeto a lai
complejidad y cuantia de la materia en disputa, las audiencias
orales podrian permitir concentrar el andlisis, ---ueba y decisi6n
judicial en una sola audiencia; (iii) la busqueda activa de la
conciliacion entre las partes; (iv) el establecimiento de criterios
que permitan el rechazo de los incidentes de defensas que
arguyan las partes con animo dilatorio
o de mala fe; y (v) la utilizaci6n de audiencias orales part al
conocimiento de las causas en los tribunales colegiados. Tales
prop6sitos s6lo seran posibles con la modificaci6n de los C6digos
procesales en una activa labor de transformaci6n que compromete
una permanente labor legislativa, compatible con los principios
sustentados de la Constituci6n.
*    desarrollar medios de caracter judicial o administrativo que
otorguen protecci6n efectiva y expedita contra abusos en
las decisiones judiciales.
4



44
Annex 3
Page 5 of 6
64( a la
BOLIVIA
12.  Los medios a ser consideradios comprenden: (i) el desarrollo de
sistemas de informaci6n eficientes que permitan conocer a nivel
de cada tribunal la eficiencia administrativa en el manejo de los
procesos; y (ii) el desarrollo o perfeccionamiento de recursos
procesales que permitan corregir en forma expedita las decisiones
judiciales que generen retardaci6n indebida o abuso manifiesto en
la interpretaci6n de la legislaci6n, en cuyo caso se buscard
dinanmizar la difuci6n de la jurisdisprudencia de la Corte Suprema
para uniformar criterios de magistrados y jueces en la
interpretaci6n de la ley.
*    desarrollar metodos modernos para el procesamiento y
documentaci6n de la informaci6n relativa al proceso. Dichos
metodos deberan garantizar la integridad y fidelidad de la
informaci6n y reducir los costos de producci6n,
reproducci6n y conservaci6n que plantea el actual sistema
de expediertes.
:    desarrollar normas y m6todos de notificaci6n de los actos
procesales y comunicaci6n del tribunal con agentes
externos (oficios, exhortos, etc.) mas expeditos y menos
vulnerables al abuso dilatorio.
13   La implementacion de este componente se llevara a cabo en dos
etapas. La primelt± etapa comprende poner en vigencia aquellas
politicas que son consistentes con el marco legislativo y
administrativo vigente e iniciar el andlisis de las reformas
requeridas para la implantaci6n de la totalidad del programa. La
segunda etapa se emprenderd una vez se hubieran completado los
cambios legislativos o administrativos identificados en la etapa
preliminar.
14   Los Poderes Ejecutivo y Legislativo en estricto cumplimiento del
articulo 119 de la Constituci6n Politica del Estado haran cuanto
este a su alcance para asegurar efectivamente la autonomia
econ6mica del Poder Judicial en el marco de la ley, la
independencia y coordinaci6n de los tres Poderes del Estado a
que se refiere el articulo 2o. de la carta fundamental dela
Naci6n. .
5



45
Annex 3
Page 6 of 6
BOLIVIA
CONCLUSION
Las partes signatarias acuerdan coordinar sus esfuerzos, en el
ambito de sus respectivos poderes, a fin de asegurar la efectiva
implementaci6n de las politicas y objetivos institucionales que han sido
resei'jados en este documento. El Poder Judicial tendra el liderazgo en
el desarrollo e implementaci6n del Programa para lo cual establecera los
mecanicmos de manejo y coordinaci6n pertinentes. El Poder Ejecutivo
iniciard las negociaiones tendientes a atraer los recursos de
financiauldento externo necesarios para la puesta en marcha del
Programa de Reforma Judicial. El Poder Legislativo se avocara al estudio
de la reformas de caracter legislativo que se estimen necesarias para la
implementaci6n del Programa.
ORIGINAL FIRMADO
Lic. Jaime Paz Zamora
PRESIDENTE CONSTITUCIONAL DE LA REPUBLICA
Dr. Luis Ossio Sanjines
PRESIDENTE NATO DEL H. CONGRESO NACIONAL
Dr. Edgar Oblitas
PRESIDENTE DE LA CORTE SUPREMA DE JUSTICIA
S



BOLIVIA: JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
DETAILED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Yeaw              Yeu 2             Year3             Yew 4             Year 5
ID  Name                                                               01 02  Q3  Q4 01  02  Q3  Q4  Q1   02 Q3  Q4  Q1  02 03 04 01 02  Q3 04
1  PROGRAMAS EN RECURSOS HUMANOS
2      Desarrollo Carrera Judicial
3          Slstema Transitoro de Evaluacion y Seleccion de Jueces
4              Alcance Trabapo y Establedmiento Grupo de Trabajo               6
5              Contratacion Expertos                                            13
6              Elaboracion Reglamento                                            1
7              Plan de Estableckmninto Oficina Carrera Judicial                   1
8              Aprobaclon Reglamento y Plan
9              Implementacion Plan Establecimiento y Operacion Oficdna
10          Sistema Pemianente de Carrera Judidal                              -                   -
11              Preparacion TDR's Y Lisbt Corta 
12             Invitadon, Evaluacion y Selecion de Firma
13              Elaboracdon del estudio
14                  Evaluar status recursos humanos
15                  Definir cargos profesionales judicatura
16                  Disenar sistema sleccion personal
17                  Disenar sistema evaluacion personal
18                  Disenar sistema de remuneracdones
19                  Estrategia implem. sistemas
20              Taller sobre caffera judicial
21                  Preparar documento discusion
22                  Invitar participantes
23                  Implementacion taller
24                  Redactar conclusiones y recomendaciones                               a
25              Aprobacion del Programa de Carrera                                         1
26              Plan Fortalecimiento Operativo Ofidna Cafrera
27              Preparacdon Regulaciones sobre cargos judidales
28              Preparacion Reguladones sobre sistern.a sekccion
29              Preparaclon Regulaciones sisteffm evaluacion
30              Preparacion Regulaciones sistema remuneradon
31              lImpbentacon Fortalecimiento Institucdonal
32          Canerra Administrativa de Personal Auxil_ar
Page 1



BOLIVIA: JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
DETAILED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year I            Yer 2             Year 3            Yew 4              Yew 5
ID  Name                                                               Ql Q2  Q3  04 01 Q2  Q3  Q4  Q1 02  Q3 04  Q1  Q2 03 04 01 02  Q3 04
33              Preparacion TDR's y Lista Corta                                            9
34             lnvitacion, Evaluacion y Seleccion de Firma                                 E1
35              Elaboracion del estudio                                                       -
36                  Disenar sistema seleccion personal                                         ES
37                  Disenar sistema evaluacion personal                                        E3
38                  Disenar sistema de remuneraciones                                          9
39              Aprobacion Sistemas
40              Operacion Carrera Administrativa
41      Programa de Formacion Judicial                                                           *
42          Formacion de Nuevos Jueces
43              Preparacion de Actividades y Materiales
44                  TDR's y Seleccion de Equipo de Trabajo                                        A
45                  Contratacion Expertos
46                  Elaboracion de Contenidos, Metodos y Materales
47                      Adaptacion Materiales Programa Mejoramiento
48                      Rol Social del Juez
49              Desarrollo Del Programa de Formacion                                                   _
50                  Seleccion de Tutores
51                  Entrenamiento de Tutores
52                  Realizacion de Actividades de ForTnacion                                           E\
53          Actualizacion y Perfeccionamiento de Jueces
54              Seminario 1
55              Seminario 2
56              Seminario 3
57              Seminario 4
58          Programa de Becas y Visitas
59      Programa de Etica Judicial
60          Alcance Trabajo y Estableimiento Grupo de Trabajo
61          Contratacion Expertos
62          Elaboracion Reglmento
63          Plan de Estabeciniento Comision Etica Judicial                                                                                                              Q
64          Aprobacion Reglamento y Plan                                                 _                 _                  _
Page 2



BOLIVIA: JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
DETAILED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year I            Yew 2             Yew 3             Year 4             Year 5
ID  Name                                                               Q1 02  03  04  01  02  03 04 Q1  02  03  04 01  02  03 04 01  Q2 03 04
65         Implementaclon Plan Establkmiento y Operacion Comision
66  PROGRAMA DE MEJORAMIENTO DE LA ADMINISTRACION DE JUSTICI
67      Programs Politicas Judidales 
68          Elaboracion Terminos de ReferendaI
69          Fomnacion de Grupo de Trabajo
70          Elaboracion de Documento de Politica y Circulares
71          Evento Discusmion de Circulares (Patrocinbo Corte Suprema)             m
72              Definirion do Agenda
73              Invaciones                                                          g
74              Realizacion del evento
75          Elaboracion de Inforfne Final
76          Aprobadon do Circulares por Corte Suprema                                 3
77      Selecion de 30 Juzgados Pilotos
78      Programa Fornacion Profeuional                                             -
79          Preparacion de Cursos y Achvidades                                                                                                                            c
80              Seleccion de Equipo de Trabajo                                     S
81              Contratacdon Expertos                                                9
82              Ebaboracion TDR detallados                                           O
83              Elaboracdon de Contenidos, Metodos y Materiales
84                  Etica judicial                                                     E
85                  Funcion jurisdiccional y Gestion prooeso                          E
86                  Conciiacion                                                       ES s
87                  Apreclacion de Pnreba                                             1
88         Impementacion del Programa de Formacion
89              Experkenclas Photos (12 Tallres)
90              Evaluacion de exponencla piloto
91              Revision y Actualzacion de Materiales
92              Entrenamiento de Instructores                                                       3
93              Realizacdon de Eventos do Cobertura Global
94                  Seguimiento y Evaluacbon de Eventos de Cobertura Glob
95                      Evaluacion 1
96                      Evaluadon 2
Page 3



BOLIVIA: JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
DETAILED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Yow               Year 2            Yew 3             Year4              Yea 5
ID  Name                                                               01  Q2  03  Q4 01 02  Q3 04 01 02  Q3  04 01  Q2  Q3  04  Q     2 0 0304
97                      Evaluadon 3                                                                                        _
98                      Evakacion 4
99      Sistemas Infonadcion Judicial                 _
100         Sisterna infofmacion manual: duracion y nivel de carga judicial
101             Diseno de Sistemna
102             Elaboacbon de manuales
103             Impmeneacxon del Sistna                                          E9
104         Sistema de Infonnacion Comnputarizado _
105             Diseno de Sistemas para cortes y juzgados                                       _
106                 Preparacion TDlRs y Lista Corta
107                 Invftacdon y Evaluacion de Propuestas
108                 Desarrodb del Diseno15
109             Impmentdacona- o
110                 Experiencias Piltos  
Ill                     30 Juzgados Pilotos 
112                         Adquisicion do Equipos
113                         Capacitacion                                                                   ____
114                     3 Cores Super_oresCot  Su _oo
115                         Adquisicion de Equipos
116                         Capacitacion
117                     Corte Suprema
118                         Adquisir;on de Equios1
119                         Capacitacbon                                                                     S
120                 Cobertura Global                                                                                                             _
121                     Jzuzgados de Partido e Instruccion                                                          -  _
1221                        Primer Etapa (50 Tribunales)
1231                            Adquisicion de Equipos                                                               _ _
1241                            Capacitacbon
125                         Segunda Etapa (50 Tribunales)                                                                                        _                  
126                             Adquslcbon de Equlpos                                                                               e___
127                             Capabdokn
128                     CrtCeb Superl_                                                                                                                   __
Page 4



BOLIVIA: JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
DETAILED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Yer 1             Yer 2              Yw 3              Yewr4              Year 
ID  Name                                                                Q10 2  03  04 01 Q2  Q3  Q4  Q1 02 03 04 01 02 03  Q4  Q1 02  Q3  Q4
129                          Primer Etapa (3 Cortes)
130                              Adquisicion de Equipos
131                              Capactacion
132                          Segunda Etapa (3 Cortts)
133                              Adquisicion de Equipos
134                              Capaciackon                                                                                        ___
135     Programa de Gerencia Judicial
136         Definicion de Organizacion y Funciones Auxiliares
137              Preparscion TDR's y Lista Corta                                 0
138              Invitacion, Evoluacion y Adjudcacion 
139             Elaboracion del Estudio                                                    w
140                  Etapa Diagnostico                                                a
141                  Etapa Formulacion de Propuestas
142             Taller sobre Organizacion Judicial y Funciones Auxiliares                  U
143                 Invitar participantes                                                  a
144                  Realizacion taller
145              Elaboracion Recomendaciones Finales
146             Aprobacion de Recomendaciones
147             Elaboracion Manual de Organizacion y Funciones
148         Capacitacion en Gerencia Judicial
149             Preparacion de Cursos y Actividades
150                  Contratacion Expertos
151                 Elaboracion TDR detallados
152                  Elaboracion de Contenidos. Metodos y Mateiales
153             Implementacion
154                  Fase Piloto (30 tribunales)
155                      Nivel Jueces y Secretarios (6 tallerers)
156                      Capacitacion Personal Auxiliar (3 Seminarios)
157                 Evaluacion de experiencia piloto
158                 Revision, Actualizacion y Produccion de Materiales                                1
159                 Realizacion de Eventos de Cobertura Global
160                      Nivel Jueces y Secretarios                                                           __
Page 5



BOLIVIA: JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
DETAILED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year I            Yer 2              Yw 3         |     Ye.r4              Yew r
ID  Name                                                                 Q1  02 03  Q4  Q1  Q2  Q3 Q4 01  Q2 Q3  Q4  Q1  Q2 Q3 04  Q1  Q2 Q3  Q4
161                          Primer Etapa (50 tribunales/4 seminarios)
162                          Segunda Etapa (50 tribunales/4 seminarios)
163                      Nivel Personal Auxiliar
164                          Primera Etapa (50 tribunales/4 seminarios)
165                          Segunda Etapa (50 tribunales/4 seminaros)
166 DESARROLLO DE CAPACIDAD GERENCIAL ESTRATEGICA                                                                     _
167     Comite Consultivo
168          Preparacion Reglamento Intemo
169         Aprobacion del Reglamento
170     Direccion del Programa
171          Manual de Adquisiciones y Contratacions;
172          Manual de Organizacion y Funciones
173              Coordinacon del Programa
174             Informatica
175              Admnistracion de Carrera Judicial
176                  Dehinicion de Funclone e Identihcacion de Candidatos
177                  Contratacion
178              Capacitadon
179                  Definicon de Funciones e Identifcacon de Candidatos
180                  Contratacion
181                  Establecimiento y Operacion Oficina CapaCtacion
182     Sistema Planeacion
183         Preparacion TDRs y List. Corta
184         Invitacion, Evahuacion y Adjudicacion
185         Ebboracion del Estudio
186         Aprobacion
187     Unidad de Estudbos Legales y Cientificos                                                     __
188     Fondo de Iniciativa Judicial                                              -
189         Elaboracon Terminos de Referencia
190          Ebboracion do Docuwento de Politica y Procedimientos                  ES
191          Discusion de Pfopuwta con Conil. Consulivo
192            obacp on de Re_gmnto del Fondo por Corl. Suprema                       61
Page 6



BOLIVIA: JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
Project Implementation Targets
Judiciary Subproject
Component         Project       Expected Progress     Expected Progress    Expected Progress
Activities     by end-June 1996      by end-June 1997     by end-June 1998
Judicial Process  Training on   Teaching materials     Training of at least    Training of the
Reforms         Judicial        have been prepared    50% of civil judges    totality of civil judges
Process         and training of an    on new judicial      on new judicial                   O
Reforms         initial group of 30   processes.           processes.
judges has been
completed.
Judicial        Full operation of a   Implementation of the  Implementation of the
Information     manual information    computerized         computerized
Systems         system to monitor     information system in  information system in
mandatory process     3 District Courts and  the Supreme Court, 6
duration guidelines   30 courts.           additional District
and completion of                          Courts and 100
design for                                 courts.
computerized
information system.



2
Component         Project      Expected Progress     Expected Progress    Expected Progress
Activities     by end-June 1996     by end-June 1997     by end-June 1998
Courtroom      Completion of an      Completion of        Training of judges
Administration   organizational and  training on courtroom   and clerical personnel
human resource       administration in 30   in 100 civil courts.
inventory study and  pilot courts.
issuance of an       Assessment of pilot
Organizational and   training program.
Courtroom
Administration
Manual. Preparation
of training program on
Courtroom
Admnistration.
Human           Judicial Career  Establishment of a   Issuance of          Satisfactory
Resource                       transitional           regulations on       implementation of the
Management                      performance           recritment,          regulations on
Improvements                    evaluation system for   performance        Judicial Career in the
judges. Completion of  evaluation and      areas of recruitment,
study to develop the    compensation and   performance
permanent Judicial   establishment of      evaluation and
Career System.       institutional capacity   compensation.
to administer the
system.              _    __         _
t.j  :5



3
Component         Project      Expected Progress     Expected Progress    Expected Progress
Activities     by end-June 1996     by end-June 1997     by end-June 1998
Judicial                             Completion of the     Continued training of
Training                             training materials and  all newly appointed
Program for                          programs for the     civil judges.
Newly                                education of new
Appointed                            judges and provision
Judges                               of training to all civil
judges entering the
Judiciary starting
October 1, 1996.          |__
Judicial                             Two nation-wide      Two nation-wide
Training for                         seminars held        seminars held
Incumbent Civil                      (covering at least   (covering at least
Judges                               50% of civil judges)   50% of civil judges)
on issues relevant for  on issues relevant for
incumbent judges.    incumbent judges.
Judicial Ethics   Completion of study    The Supreme Court
Program        for establishment of a   would have presented
Judicial Ethics      to Congress a detailed
Commission and the    legislative proposal
setting of ethical   for the establishment
standards for judges.   of the Ethics
Commission and
issuance of Judicial
Ethics standards.         A_       _



4
Component         Project       Expected Progress    Expected Progress    Expected Progress
Activities     by end-June 1996      by end-June 1997     by end-June 1998
Judicial                                              Establishment of a    Establishment of a
Strategic                                             Division on Legal     Strategic Planning
Management                                            and Interdisciplinary    Division as an
Development                                           Studies as an advisory  advisory body to the
body to the Supreme   Supreme Court and
Court.               development of a
strategic planuning
process for the
Judiciary.
Judicial                        Establishment and                                                           @
Development                     initial operation of a
Fund                            fund for the financing
of JD Subprojects.



BOLIVIA: JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
Project Implementation Targets
Ministry of Justice Subproject
Component           Project      Expected progress by    Expected progress by      Expected Progress by
Activities       end-June 1996           end-June 1997             end-June 1998
Implementation of   Judicial Council  Presentation to      Subject to enactment of the
Constitutional                      Congress of draft law.   Judicial Council law, the
Reforms on                          Preparation of         Judicial Council would be
Judicial Matters                    organizational design    fully operational.
and implementation
plan for the Council.
t-n
Constitutional    Presentation to      Subject to the enactment of  The program of seminars
Tribunal        Congress of draft law.   the Constitutional Tribunal   would be completed, and
Preparation of        law, the Constitutional    would have included at
organizational design    Tribunal would be fully  least 200 participants in
and implementation    operational and would be    total.
plan for the Tribunal.   equipped with a suitable
library.
At least two seminars
would have been held (each
for at least 40 members of
the legal community) on
the Court's functions and
procedures.
All decisions of the
Tribunal would be
published within a month
of their issuance.



2
Component           Project      Expected progress by    Expected progress by     Expected Progress by
Activities       end-June 1996           end-June 1997             end-June 1998
Alternative Dispute  Justices of the    Completion of initial    One-year pilot phase  Evaluation of pilot phase
Resolution          Peace           study to develop the  completed in six          completed. Presentation
system. Preparation of  municipalities.         to IDA of plan for
draft law or other legal                        expansion of system to at
instrument completed.                           least 40% of the country's
municipalities.
Legislative Reforms                 Presentation to       Completion of proposal for  Presentation to Congress
Congress of law for   comprehensive             of new Code of Civil
alternative dispute   modifications to the Code    Procedures.
resolution mechanisms.  of Civil Procedures.    Presentation to Congress
of amendments to
Commercial Code,
including treatment of
secured transactions.
Preparation of law on
administrative procedures.
Institutional                       Establishment of      Seminars held for at least    Completion of program of
Strengthening                       Oficina de Tecnicas   50% of public sector      seminars for government
Normativas, equipped   lawyers on preparation of   lawyers, covering totality.
with database for     laws, decrees and
legislative analysis.  resolutions.
Production of
handbook for
preparation of laws,
decrees and
resolutions.



58                             Annex 6
Page I of 2
BOLIVIA
JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Documents Relating to the Sector
1.    The System of Justice in Bolivia: An Institutional Analysis. Eduardo
A. Gamarra. San Jose, Costa Rica. 1991.
2.    Sondeo de Necesidades de Capacitaci6n en Cortes Superiores de
Distrito, Juzgados de Partido e Instrucci6n de la Repuiblica de Bolivia.
Ilanud, February 1992.
3.    Primer Seminario de Reforma Judicial: Aspectos Bdsicos de la Reforma
Judicial. Supreme Court. Sucre, Bolivia. September 1993.
4.    Ley de Organizaci6n Judicial. Official Gazette of Bolivia.
February 1993.
5.    Ley de Enmiendas a la Constituci6n Politica del Estado. Official
Gazette of Bolivia. August 1994.
B.   Selected Documents and Working Papers Relating to the Project
1.   Informe Final del Taller sobre Estrategias para la Reforma Judicial.
Sucre, Bolivia. March 1994.
2.   Informe Final del Taller Retardo Judicial. Cochabamba, Bolivia.
March 1994.
3.    Back-to-Office-Report - Identification Mission. Felipe Saez. World
Bank. Washington D.C. May 1993.
4.    Back-to-Office-Report - First Preparation Mission. Felipe Saez. World
Bank. Washington D.C. July 1993.
5.    Back-to-Office-Report - Second Preparation Mission. Felipe Saez.
World Bank. Washington D.C. October 1993.
6.    Back-to-Office-Report - Appraisal Mission. Felipe Saez and Lisette
Price. World Bank. Washington D.C. March 1994.



59                             Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
7.    Terminos de Referencia: Estudio para el Establecimiento del Sistema de
Carrera Judicial
8.    Terminos de Referencia: Estudio sobre Organizaci6n y Recursos
Humanos del Poder Judicial Boliviano
9.    Terminos de Referencia para una Asesoria al Poder Judicial Boliviano
en el Area de Reformal al Proceso Comercial/Civil






IBRD 20516
To . ON ,                                                                                                             T-kuoo
Ferry Line
- - _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
National CaPitol
/                           -     -In~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eaternaRnt  ol3undaries                11
-ir
-Pro  e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p>"7'  7 7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Altipla.o
A      sa&          ~         ' y       ;          4"                7>                          (        50  090  ISO  200  250
4    AZ  P  A                son Rand            2                                              4artsThsY7   5j0 )                0        IO I;
..,E
L  lo 4 PD   AF                                n                        s                                  .j  < x     L X     B A I
MZ-          co        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     7          ,     75-.
OCoAv'0  r'                                                                    -    7,             ,        '      -
P AR'    GU'               Y   T' NN,'
UYUNI                                                                                                                         .t., u  ' A  P GR-4
B pants                                       21 ~~~~~~~~~~~BOLl VtA
p.m. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~LBRAZIL
CCI    H ICHIE  kPo0TC)S IT~t                                           onRaAtc
OCEA                                                                                             j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'  PARAGUAY
xl~~~~~~                                                                I4~~~~  ARGENTINA /
AR  GE  N' T~~~I N  A    N _                                                      (RUGUAY
/        6\           abN s8ro. RoqEmaroaosnJn                                                                1988
IANUARY I ONS












