Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21162
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-27050; PPFI-P825 1)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF USS 11.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR A JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
October 31, 2000
LCSPR
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfoniance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 31 March, 2000)
Currency Unit = Boliviano (Bs)
Bs 1.00 = US$ 0.16
US$ 1.00 = Bs 6.09
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADR           Alternative Dispute Resolution
ILANUD        Instituto Latinoamericano de las Naciones Unidas para la Prevencion del Delito y
Tratamiento del Delincuente
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
MOJ           Ministry of Justice
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PSR           Project Status Report
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:    David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:    Emesto May
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    David F. Varela



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                            1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                           1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                    5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    13
6. Sustainability                                                                         14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                        17
9. Partner Comments                                                                       19
10. Additional Inforrnation                                                              19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                      20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                      26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                        27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P006205                                        Proj ect Name: Judicial Reforn Project
Team Leader: David F. Varela                               T TL Unit: LACPR
ICR T,vpe: Core ICR                                        Report Date: October 31, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Judicial Reform Project                        LIC/TF Number: IDA-27050;
PPFI-P8251
Cointry/Department: BOLIVIA                                               Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: BY - Other Public Sector Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/21/93                                 Effective:                    07/24/95
Appraisal:  11/15/93                                  MTR: 04/15/98               03/28/98
Approval:  04/13/95                                 Closing: 09/30/99            03/31/2000
BorrowerlImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA/JUDICIARY; MINISTRY OF JUSTICE
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:       David De Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country M4'anager:    Isabel M. Guerrero                        Yoshiaki Abe
Sector Manager:       Ernesto May                               Krishna Challa
Team Leader at ICR:   David F. Varela                           Felipe Saez
ICR Primary Author:   David F. Varela; Veena Mayani;
Sati Achath
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatsfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome. S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project was the World Bank'sfirst judicial operation in Bolivia, and one of thefirst in LAC Region.
It was designed to improve the quality and effectiveness of civil justice administration, as a first phase of a
comprehensive judicial reform. This program sought to create a justice system that contributed to



economic growth and social welfare by facilitating private sector activity and guaranteeing basic citizen
rights.
The project was responsive to the Government's developnment priorities and was consistent with the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The Bolivian Government (1992-1997) recognized that, for
an ambitious privatization program to succeed, judicial enforcement of contractual and property rights had
to improve. Similarly, the Bank recognized that Bolivia's "poorly functioning judicial system created an
unpredictable environment and constrained private sector development". As a result, the Bank included
judicial reform as part of its overall program to strengthen and deepen the Government's modernization
program. However, the project design components came together rather loosely and not all were directly
related to achieving project objectives. A brief historical account of the evolution of project design is
given below to clarify the inclusion of certain components.
*      First Iteration: Private Sector Institutional Infrastructure Project
In 1993, the Governnent introduced a bold and innovative capitalization program designed to enhance
GDP, increase employment opportunities, and improve public sector efficiency by attracting private
investment and management to sectors traditionally dominated by State enterprises. To support the
Government's capitalization program, the Bank organized a broad program of assistance that comprised,
among others, the proposed Private Sector Institutional Infrastructure Reform project. The project
focused on four strategic objectives, of which one was to improve judicial enforcement of contractual and
property rights. The Bank quickly (and correctly) recognized that to improve the judiciary's enforcement
capacity, underlying institutional issues had to be addressed first. This recognition helped justify the
project's internally driven approach as an appropriate strategy to improve the provision of judicial services.
*      Second Iteration: Reaulatorv and Judicial Reform Project
As preparation activities advanced, the project was renamed Regulatory and Judicial Reform project.
From this point onward, two sets of components were in practice managed as separate operations; that is,
separate task teams worked on the preparation and appraisal phase of each set. Dialogue on project
objectives and components were coordinated, but managed separately-one task team interfaced primarily
with executive agencies, and the other with the Supreme Court, the highest authority of the Judiciary at that
time. While the objective of the regulatory components remained essentially the same, the objective of the
Judiciary Component broadened to improve the judicial system's effectiveness in handling disputes of civil
and commercial nature.
*      Third Iteration: Judicial Reform Project
In April 1994, the project was officially divided into two separate operations, at the Borrower's request.
These emerged as the Regulatory Reform and Capitalization TA Project and the Judicial Reform Project.
The former regulatory components included a small amount (USS300,000) designed to support the newly
created Ministry of Justice by improving its capacity to review new laws and related regulations deemed
necessary to implement the Capitalization Program. The component also sought to improve the Ministry's
capacity to implement forthcoming legislation on arbitration, conciliation, and mediation, especially in
terms of resolving financial and commercial disputes. This capitalization-oriented aspect of the former
Regulatory Component was integrated into the Judicial Reform Project withotit an analysis of the role of
.Ministry of Justice in a long-term judicial reform program. Furthermore, as the Ministry's constitutional
mandate expanded (after the 1994 Constitutional Amendment), the Minister lobbied for a more active
-2-



participation in the project and successfully introduced its expanded program of action into project design.
Alongside these events, a vision for judicial reform was emerging within the context of project preparation
in country workshops with Judiciary officials. Consensus was built around the need to transform the
Judiciary into a modem, service-driven institution that resolved disputes expeditiously, issued decisions
based on sound interpretation of legislation and jurisprudence, recognized principles of equity, and
responded to society's evolving needs for justice administration. As a result, the project's objective was
refined to "creating a justice system that contributed to economic growth and social welfare". This
consensus within the leadership of the judiciary, however, did not take into account the role of other
institutions, in particular, the Ministry of Justice, in judicial reform.
As a result, there was a fundamental disconnect between the instrument and the underlying purposes.
The Ministry of Justice focused on short-term legislative reforms to facilitate the capitalization program
and implement constitutional mandates; the Judiciary focused on long terrn structural reform to transform
the judicial system; and the Bank (via the CAS) focused on short and medium term improvements to
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the courts to build private sector confidence and stimulate
investment. In fact, throughout the project's several incarnations, the Bank's underlying rationale for
investing in the judicial reform continued to be narrowly based on the judiciary's role in facilitating
economic growth.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable
3.3 Original Components:
The project adopted a three-pronged strategy to meet project objectives. First, the project aimed to reform
judicial policies and procedures to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of civil proceedings. Second,
the project focused on the establishment of appropriate human resource, information, and administration
systems. Third, the project focused on capacity building through training. In other words, the project
adopted a strategy that focused on procedures, systems, and people, as reflected in the project components
described below.
A.     Judiciary Component.
The Judiciary Component consisted of a set of activities designed to: (i) reform and improve civil
procedures on two levels-effectiveness (measures used to reach correct decisions) and efficiency
(measures to reduce case duration); (ii) develop a human resource management system that would
restructure the incentives influencing the performance ofjudges and clerical personnel; (iii) develop and
implement case tracking systems; (iv) identify altematives to improve courtroom administration; and (v)
strengthen the Judiciary's strategic planning and management capacity. Capacity building (training) was a
central and integral aspect of the Judiciary Component and addressed procedural, technical, managerial,
professional and ethical dimensions.
B.     Ministry of Justice Component
This Component consisted of a set of activities designed to: (i) establish the Judicial Council and the
Constitutional Tribunal pursuant to the Constitutional Amendment of 1994; (ii) promote and implement
legislation on altemative dispute resolution mechanisms; (iii) develop and implement a pilot system to
improve access to justice for marginal and indigenous communities; (iv) draft and implement other
- 3 -



legislative reforms such as a new Civil Procedures Code and amendments to the existing Commercial Code;
and (v) establish a Technical Office within the Ministry to provide legal-related technical
3.4 ReWised Components:
Not applicable
3.5 Quality at Entry:
While the project was very responsive to the Government's development priorities, it was not as
responsive to Borrower circumstances, in terms ofpolitical and institutional realities. Some examples
illustrate the point. The Executive and the Judiciary had no prior experience in the joint execution of
internationally funded projects and, consequently, lacked of an established culture of coordination and
mutual respect. This was of particular relevance for the project siiice it called for co-implementation and
counted on the establishment of new relationships between the Ministry of Justice and the Judiciary. As
discussed below, the lack of institutional coordination created significant obstacles for project
implementation. The range and complexity of project activities were also clearly beyond the capacity of the
implementing entities. The Ministry of Justice was itself a newly formed ministry, and preparatory work
explicitly recognized the prevailing weak institutional capacity of the Judiciary. Moreover, the Judiciary
had no previous experience at all in the execution of donor-financed projects.
Given the sharp differences between the two project components, the implementation timeframe was
overly ambitious, if not somewhat unrealistic. The activities that comprised the Ministry of Justice
Component were primarily short term in nature and could realistically be implemented in the planned 3-l/2
years. However, the activities included in the Judiciary Component required significant attitudinal and
behavioral changes and included deep institutional reforms such as the restructuring of incentives and the
incorporation of radically different professional skills. These types of changes in any sector would require
long-term implementation strategies.
The most critical weakness in project design was that it failed to adequately assess and respond to
project and sector risk, in light of new country developments. The establishment (via constitutional
reform) of two new judicial institutions, the Constitutional Tribunal and the Judicial Council, radically
shifted the power base within the Judiciary. In retrospect, it seems that the Bank significantly
underestimated the implications of these changes on project implementation. The Bank's public sector
group, at that time, was also only beginning to shift from a purely technical approach to one that also
considered the political and institutional environment. In other words, the Bank did not have the types of
tools that could improve decision-making during project preparation. These factors combined help to
explain why the Bank failed to make appropriate changes in project approach and design. Some specific
issues that should have been considered are listed below.
*   First, the recently created Judicial Council would replace the Supreme Court in project implementation,
and as a consequence the Supreme Court's commitment to the project could fall significantly. In fact,
commitment and ownership for the project had emerged from extensive discussions with the Supreme
Court, and soon after project effectiveness, the Court was asked to support a reform agenda under"
different rules of the game".
*   Second, given the weak institutional capacity that characterized the entire Bolivian public sector,
including the Judiciary, it is puzzling that the Bank expected the Judicial Council to be sufficiently
operational upon creation and fully able to implement relevant project components.
*   Third, given the common delays in passage of legislation, the Bank's expectation in terms of swift
passage of the Judicial Council legislation seemed questionable. Consequently, the expectation that the
- 4 -



Judicial Council would quickly replace the Supreme Court as the executing agency of the Judiciary
component of the project seemed unrealistic.
*   Fourth, the transfer of implementation responsibilities from the Supreme Court to the Judicial Council
was not defined in project design and was also not reflected in project implementation targets.
Weaknesses in project design can be largely explained by the Bank's limited (although emerging)
technical capacity in terms ofpolitical, institutional, and operational aspects ofjudicial reform. In
particular, the Bank was preparing the Bolivian project at a time when its understanding of justice issues
and the role of the justice sector in national development was incipient. The Bank also had very little
experience working with projects that required two branches of government to play lead implementing
roles. The Bank's general inexperience coupled with the fact that the Bolivian government was also new
to judicial reform placed the project at considerable risk.
Nevertheless, the quality at entry safeguards were partially satisfactory. Specific actions could have been
taken to strengthen project design and improve project quality. These include risk assessment of external
political factors, inclusion of clear monitoring indicators and a reduction in the scope of the project (i.e.
exclusion of some of the legislative proposals sponsored by the Ministry of Justice). Conditionalities of
effectiveness or disbursements could have been explored (for example, the passage of implementing
legislation for the Judicial Council and the Constitutional Tribunal).
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4. 1 Outcomne/achievement of objective:
Changes in the organizational and power structure within the Judiciary had a dramatic impact on
implementation on all of the Judiciary Components. The Supreme Court's sense of ownership for the
project and its commitment to a long term and comprehensive reform agenda was built around the explicit
assumption that the project would be implemented within the prevailing legislative framework. However,
with the promulgation of Law No. 1615 on February 6, 1995, significant organizational changes were
introduced into the Constitution, thereby drastically altering the legislative framework. The Supreme
Court, once the sole and legitimate guardian of the judicial system, was forced to concede judicial review
powers to the newly created Constitutional Tribunal, and administrative, financial, and disciplinary
responsibilities to another new organization, the Judicial Council. This reshuffle of power overshadowed
the implementation ofjudicial policies, weakened project ownership (by the Supreme Court), placed an
incredible implementation burden on new institutions with nonexistent capacity, and raised the political
stakes of judicial reform.
Within the context of the political scenario described above, the project did not fully achieve its
objectives. Original project objectives were too ambitious, and therefore, would have been difficult to
achieve even under ideal circumstances. Given the pioneering nature of the project, the advances that
were made, the critical issues that were raised, and the valuable lessons that were learned deserve some
recognition.
The project made some strides towards strengthening the Judiciary's capacitv to provide judicial
services. Progress was made in strengthening the Judiciary's policy formulation capacity. Further reform
efforts, however, will have to focus more strongly on the Judiciary's policy implementation capacity. To
improve the Judiciary's planning and monitoring functions, the project helped develop and implement a
manual information system that provides court load and case duration information. Implementation will
need to be improved, however, to ensure the accuracy and timeliness of information. A computerized
- 5 -



case-tracking system has been installed in all nine judicial districts-implementation, on a pilot basis, has
begun. Personnel management criteria in the areas of recruitment, performance evaluation and career
advancement have been developed and implementation should commence in the near future.
The project made some progress in terms of improving the quality and effectiveness of civil proceedings by
introducing a structured training program for judges, focusing on the skills required for proactive
case-management, management of the fact-finding stage of the judicial process, and formulation and
drafting of judicial decisions. Yet without an enabling institutional environment and institutional
commitment to training, it is unlikely that new skills and recent learning would be sustained over time.
The project adopted a strategy to improve services that had three fundamental characteristics-first, it
focused squarely on strengthening the institutional environment of the Judiciary; second, it embraced an
institutional strengthening strategy that focused on procedures, systems, and people; third, it implemented
the approach through a centralized, top-down approach. Did this strategy work? At first glance, it seems
clearly that it did not. However, the strategy itself has merit but was hindered by the project's centralized
and top-down approach.
There is sufficient anecdotal evidence to suggest that the project may have missed important opportunities
for institutional strengthening at lower level jurisdictions. They also call greater attention to opportunities
that exist at the point of contact between the agent (the judge) and the client (citizens, groups). For
example, supervision reports consistently made observations about the high level of interest and
commitment for improved training that existed among district-level superior courts and lower level courts.
Ongoing monitoring reports by the Judiciary's PIU discussed similar favorable assessments by lower
courts. Interviews with legal-related NGOs revealed that, in some departments, there was an active
dialogue between the judges and community representatives on access to justice issues.
The project made significant progress in strengthening the Ministry of Justice's capacity to prepare,
review, and implement legislation. The project, in spite of significant delays, facilitated the enabling
legislation and the effective establishment of new institutions like the Constitutional Tribunal and the
Judicial Council. The development of a normative techniques manual, the establishment of a legal
database, and the creation of a law library strengthened the Ministry's capacity to control and improve the
quality of primary and secondary legislation. Several smaller pieces of legislation (to allow incremental
improvements while the larger codes were being designed) were introduced and approved. A draft
Community Indigenous Law has been prepared, but will need further community consultation and revision
prior to Congressional approval. The Ley de Abreviaci6n Procesal, facilitating handling of civil and
family cases, is particularly notable, not only for its impact on the reduction of the time to resolution of
cases but also because the Judiciary benefited from the training provided for its implementation. However,
from the user perspective, it appears that the Ley de Abreviacion Procesal has created obstacles in the
resolution of family-related cases. This points to weaknesses in the Ministry's capacity to seek public
comment and provide adequate consultation mechanisms. More importantly, it raises the issue of what
constitutes successful legislative preparation.
It is difficult to determine whether pending reforms would facilitate private sector activity. The
Commercial and Civil Code and the Law of Administrative Procedures will have positive impact; however,
private sector stakeholders report that the proposed Commercial Code remains incomplete. There is also
insufficient data to determine if private sector actors are using ADR mechanisms. The 1998 Bolivia CAS
perhaps provides the best indication of progress (or lack of it): "further improvements are needed in the
efficiency and effectiveness of the courts to build private sector confidence and to stimulate investment".
Moreover, given the project's focus on processes and procedures, intemal systems, and human resources,
- 6 -



little attention has been placed on achieving outcomes as defined by citizens, especially in terms of citizen
rights or access to justice.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Judiciary Components
A. 1   Judicial Process Reforms
New judicial policy and procedural guidelines were drafted, however implementation was delayed. The
draft policies and implementation guidelines (a total of 22) that were developed were contained in a policy
document that was discussed and validated in a national seminar. Supreme Court justices, Superior Court
presidents, judges, law association presidents, and representatives of the Public Ministry participated in the
seminar. Important revisions were recommended and these were incorporated into a revised policy
document, which the PIU formally submitted to the Supreme Court for further internal discussion. While a
member of the Supreme Court has been designated to coordinate internal review, the review process has not
taken place.
A.2   Human Resource Management
(i)    Judicial Training Program
The Judiciary embarked on a joint venture with the Escuela Judicial de Costa Rica and ILANUD and
developed and implemented a two-year judicial training program. The training program focused on
familiarizing judges with new judicial procedures and improving judicial skills in civil, commercial, and
family matters. A total of 370 training activities took place through two modalities: in-class (seminars,
workshops) and on-site (tutorials, individual training, and study tours). A total of 1,235 legal-related
professionals were trained (judges, court administrative staff, lawyers, law professors).
As part of a pilot training program, forty pilot judges were selected, from a pool of 150 candidates, through
a rigorous, transparent, and merit based process that integrated issues of personal and professional
character and respect of peers. After undergoing classroom and on-site training, pilot judges were divided
inlto two categories: (i) tutors to provide hands-on training to individual judges in their own judicial
district; and (ii) advisors to visit courts on a continued basis to monitor progress, and provide advice and
suggestions to improve court management. An exemplary feature of the training program was its focus on
the continuous and explicit monitoring of changes in the quality and content of judicial sentences and
resolutions.
The project helped produce a critical group of reform minded, highly skilled, and committed judicial
professionals. In the complex and difficult process of changing attitudes and behaviors, the training
program made significant inroads in overcoming important cultural barriers at the level of individual
judges. Verifiable progress was made in capacity building, which can be witnessed in the increased
demand for specialized training. Knowledge was effectively transferred from international experts to local
professionals. Specific curricula and instructional packages were developed and disseminated to all judicial
districts. However, the issue of sustainability overshadows these positive outcomes. Without an enabling
institutional environment and institutional commitment to training, it is unlikely that the skill and
commitment level among reform minded judges would be sustained over time.
(ii) Judicial Development Fund
-7 -



More than 75 proposals from the nine judicial districts of Bolivia were approved. Subprojects, for the most
part, financed communication, reference material, and training needs of the judicial districts. In general
terms, it is not clear how these subprojects contributed to the objectives of the project. There are, however,
two subprojects that merit further discussion. The fund financed the publication of a guidebook authored
by one of the pilot judges (of the training program) entitled Tramitacion Basica del Proceso Civil. This
work illustrates altemative ways to build confidence in local knowledge and capacity, and increase the
sense of professionalism of individual judges. The fund also financed a proposal to consolidate and
improve district court libraries and raised a rather perplexing unresolved debate over the value of
purchasing textbooks and reference materials (in paper form) versus implementing a completely
electronic-based library. Underlying the debate was the assumption that "electronic" equaled "modem".
In summary, the idea of a fund is appealing, but implementation guidelines should have been revisited to
make the Fund a more useful tool to encourage local innovation.
A.3   Judicial Information Systems
The development of an information system was largely perceived, at the individual court level, as a
control mechanism and data collection exercise rather than as an essential tool to improve courtroom
management. This perception partly stemmed from project design where the manual system was conceived
as a means to enable immediate monitoring of court workloads and compliance with mandatory process
duration guidelines.
Implementation of the manual system (SISMAN) provided important information on case duration, court
workload, and system bottlenecks. This in turn, provided the basis of the draft judicial policy on case
duration. The project had also hoped to develop a judicial statistical database based on case data captured
through the standard manual one-page form (for eventual automation). In reality, court personnel viewed
filling out the forms as extra work and of limited utility, and therefore, most of the courts captured the
information on a sporadic basis.
While the hardware for the automated case-tracking system (SIJAC) was put in place by project closing,
the case-tracking system has only been tested in the judicial district of Chuquisaca. The Supreme Court,
the Judicial Council, and all nine District Courts received a total of 453 computers, 426 printers and 15
servers. Basic training on computer usage, Windows operating system, and Microsoft word processing
was imparted to 371 court personnel. Without actual usage of the system, however, training will most
probably have to be repeated and without sufficient resources for system maintenance, future investments
to expand usage of the automated case-tracking systems would be ill-advised.
Increasing the expertise ofpeople who are selecting, collecting, and analyzing data must be a central
goal if the case-tracking system does move forward. The project's experience with the manual system
provided some important insights that need to be fully examined. For example, the data collection itself did
not prove to be a catalyst for change, primarily because it was mandated through a top-down approach.
Court personnel collected data only as a signal of compliance with regulations, not as a basis for informed
court administration and case management. Court personnel also had limited (if at all) experience with the
use of data to manage or improve operational effectiveness. To address these issues, the Judiciary must
recognize that producing case data (performance data) does not guarantee that such data will be used
effectively. Provisions must be made to help court personnel for using the information in the most effective
way.
The needs of multiple users must be considered in the design of information infrastructure. The project's
- 8-



experience with the manual system also revealed that an appropriate information infrastructure should
respond to the needs of multiple users, including court users, court personnel, district judges, and judicial
policy makers. This, in tum, immediately points to the need for active involvement of users in the
infrastructure design process.
A.4   Institutional Strengthening
(i) Judicial Career System
The analytical technical basis of the proposed Judicial Career System has been developed, however,
implementation of a career system is uncertain. The level of detail of the proposals-- personnel selection,
perfonnance evaluation, and career advancement systems--perhaps surpassed the readiness of the
Judiciary. Moreover, very little attention was placed on identifying the types of behaviors that had to be
changed and assessing the level of cultural changes that were involved in promoting new thinking and the
use of new skills. It is important to note, however, that the Judicial Council launched the first open
competition for judgeship positions in April 1999, thereby signaling an important move forward in terrns of
implementing a judicial career.
(ii) Judicial Ethics Program
The project made some progress towards the development of a Judicial Ethics Program via the
preparation of a draft Code of Judicial Ethics. The draft was based on a diagnostic study of corruption
issues within the judicial branch, cross-sectoral opinion surveys, and extensive discussions with members
of the legal community. The draft document contained ethical standards, implementation strategies, an
organizational framework, a disciplinary regime and preventive measures, and a cormmunication strategy on
the purpose and contents of the draft code. The PIU delivered the draft document to the Supreme Court,
the Judicial Council, and the Constitutional Tribunal for review and further analysis; however, judicial
feedback has been limited and follow-up actions have not taken place.
(iii)   Courtroom Administration
A team of local and intemational consultants completed an in-depth study on the Judiciary's organization
and produced: (a) an inventory of human resources and a diagnosis of prevailing personnel policies at the
professional and support levels; (b) a diagnosis of skills mix and job descriptions of incumbent judges and
clerical personnel; and (c) recommendations for alternative organizational structures to improve efficiency
in courtroom administration. Outputs included the study itself (the three elements above), organizational
and personnel manuals covering staffmg requirements, job descriptions, and operational policies, and
corresponding implementation guidelines.
While the study was quite comprehensive, and the operational manuals fairly detailed and ambitious, the
impact of the study's outputs remains ambiguous. The voluminous study and the proposed organizational
and personnel manuals were given to the Judicial Council immediately after the Council was formed. An
issue of "timing" and "too much information at once" may partially explain why the Council has not
carefully analyzed the study and its recommendations. The fact that the Judicial Council was not involved
in the preparation and review of the study's termns of reference (since it did not exist at that time) may also
contribute to the Council's perceived lack of interest in the study's results.
B. Ministry of Justice Components
-9-



B. 1   Implementation of Constitutional Reforms on Judicial Matters
The draft Constitutional Tribunal Law was prepared and submitted to the Presidency near the end of 1996,
but was essentially "dead on arrival" because of the upcoming presidential elections. When the Banzer
Administration came into power, the Ministry of Justice resubmitted the draft law. However, only after
considerable revision did Congress pass the Constitutional Tribunal Law. The Tribunal became
operational in early 1998.
The Judicial Council Law was promulgated on December 22, 1997. The Supreme Court participated
during the drafting stage, and the finalized version of the draft law was reviewed in a joint meeting of the
executive, legislative, and Judiciary branches of government. While the Ministry did not assume functional
implementation of the Constitutional Tribunal (other than provision of office and computer equipment), it
did for the Judicial Council. Further actions included: (i) preparation of the regulatory framework for the
Council's organizational structure, human resource system, and financial and administrative systems; (ii)
establishment of a Judicial Council library; and (iii) provision of office and computer equipment. The
Council became operational in early 1998.
B.2    Alternative Dispute Resolution
The institutional framework for the development and application of ADR was developed; the Registro de
Conciliadores (ADR Facilitating Office) has been established; and an information campaign promoting the
utilization of ADR methods and the legitimate role of conciliators has been implemented. It is hard,
however, to determine if the information campaign achieved its objectives. An information system was
designed to monitor the work of conciliation centers, to supervise the work of conciliators, and to collect
data on ADR usage. Nevertheless, implementation of the information system has not taken place.
Insufficient attention was placed on assessing the potential demandfor ADR services. For example, little
time was devoted to identifying and addressing the specific needs, challenges, and opportunities facing
potential users; addressing the financial and professional sustainability of ADR services; and ensuring
judicial support during implementation. In addition, USAID's recent and extensive experience with
commercial arbitration in Bolivia was not adequately analyzed.
B.3    Community/Traditional Justice
The project's focus on indigenous access to justice radically changed when the Constitution
acknowledged the social, economic, and cultural rights of indigenous peoples (Article 17l). Article 171
also recognized the right of indigenous communities to apply their customs and justice practices (derecho
consuetudinario) to adjudicate conflicts within their own communities, as long as they did not contradict
the Constitution.
Project objectives expanded beyond improving access to justice to include providing legal force to Article
171 through the development and promulgation of a Community Justice Law, and harrnonizing the
application of traditional and formal justice systems. The Ministry of Justice put in place a two-phased
strategy. In phase one (Proyecto de Justicia Comunitaria I),four socio-judicial field studies were
commissioned and implemented as originally planned. In addition, three thematic studies were conducted
on intra-household violence, indigenous perceptions on human rights, and the influence of indigenous
mysticism on traditional justice practices. The second phase (Proyecto de Justicia Comunitaria II)
incorporated the results of phase one and initiated a process of awareness-raising, training, and consultation
on Article 171 of the Constitution, the role of the State authorities, and the proposed Community Justice
- 10 -



Law. During this phase, workshops were conducted with community leaders and local government
authorities, in particular with those involved in traditional and State justice systems. Further consultation
and consensus building is programmed in the near future. Training activities have also been programmed
for both indigenous and non-indigenous peoples to build mutual knowledge on the principles and
application of formal and traditional justice systems.
The studies produced under this component represent a first deliberate and serious attempt to create a
comprehensive knowledge base on indigenous justice systems in Bolivia. Given Bolivia's multi-ethnicity
and cultural pluralism, the value of these studies extends beyond the project. Important, albeit preliminary,
advances have been made on the recognition and respect for indigenous knowledge and customs, and the
meaning of indigenous rights. As an example., the research process helped to validate the recently created
Masters program on indigenous rights at the Los Andes University. In terms of the project, the studies
provided substantial information on contemporary indigenous and peasant attitudes toward the formal
justice system; on the interrelationships between indigenous law, community practice, and Bolivian law; on
h1ow indigenous peoples chose to address conflict and the variables that affect indigenous peoples' options
to use the formal legal and judicial system; and on how both traditional and official authorities interact to
resolve conflicts. In general, the studies collectively provided valuable information and analysis on
customary and indigenous law, including legal norms, jurisdictional levels, and the administration of
justice.
Clearly the advances to date should be viewed as a first phase of a long-term endeavor, and political
pressures to move forward with the promulgation of the draft Community Justice Law should be resisted.
First and foremost, beneficiaries must be more directly involved in the preparation of the draft law.
Second, the studies are not "the final analytical base", they are only first, albeit substantial,
approximations. To make them operationally useful and to encourage further analysis and discussion, they
need to be widely disseminated in multiple user-friendly formats. Third, a top-down approach is not only
inadequate but also inappropriate. District judges, community representatives, and other legal and judicial
professionals must be involved. Fourth, a focus on civil justice hinders a comprehensive analysis of the
issues-the Community Justice Law addresses all types of cases, criminal, civil, commercial, and family.
Fifth, harmonizing traditional and formal justice systems also includes developing the appropriate
implementation arrangements and mechanisms. This requires time, experimentation, and a willingness to
learn. Sixth, the underlying issues are complex and include issues of social exclusion, poverty, rights, and
inequality. Hence, a multi-disciplinary approach must be adopted.
B.4   Legislative Reforms
In order to improve the rules goveming private sector activities and related enforcement mechanisms, the
Ministry prepared: (i) a new Code of Civil Procedure; (ii) substantial amendments to the Civil and
Commercial Codes; and (iii) a new Law of Administrative Procedures. The proposals for a Law of
Administrative Procedures and the Code of Civil Procedure were finalized and ready for Congressional
discussion at project closing. While consultation and dissemination activities with civil society and the legal
community were conducted for the Civil Code and the Commercial Code, these could have been
substantially improved. In particular, the legislative drafting process could have been improved by
intensifying consultation with those affected by or charged with its implementation, by explicitly
assessing potential impacts, and by carefully examining operationalfeasibility.
B.5   Institutional Strengthening of the Ministry of Justice
(i)    Technical Norms
- 11 -



This subcomponent delivered its two main products-a Technical Norms Application Manual and a
Formulation of Laws and Regulations Manual. The Technical Norms Application Manual provides a
technical instrument for the Executive branch to improve the formulation of judicial norms, guide the
editing process, and eliminate contradictions within and between norms. The Formulation of Laws and
Regulations Manual created a methodology to develop the consolidated statutes of Bolivia in a way that
addresses the complexities of past abrogation and derogation practices. The methodology facilitates quality
control of legal norns to ensure that Bolivia's legal system remains coherent and to provide legal security
to Bolivian citizens, public institutions, and private investors.
The methodology was tested and validated during a pilot project where a legislative cleanup of laws and
regulations promulgated during 1960-1998 was completed. Those charged with the development of legal
norms have responded positively to the technical instruments and self-report that the quality of their work
has improved significantly. In fact, GTZ plans to implement the Manual in their work with the legislative
branch. Recent regulations, however, continue to be weak and did not seem to apply the nonnative
techniques. Therefore, to adequately assess the impact of the technical instruments, the Ministry of
Justice must take active measures, including broader dissemination, to ensure systematic application of the
guidelines and monitor progress to refine the guidelines, as needed.
(ii)   Legal Library at the Ministry of Justice
Investing in the establishment of a legal library proved to be a sound decision given the fact that few
libraries in the country provide adequate legal and judicial reference materials or modem textbooks. The
library has already gathered more than 3,000 reference materials and provided information to more than
6,000 users. Its economic sustainability, however, is uncertain. At various points during project
implementation, consultant reports had recommended a system of user fees, the development of
inter-institutional agreements with private universities, and contracting arrangements with private sector
providers to maintain a high standard of materials and provide on-line access to its information database.
These recommendations were not taken into consideration, and therefore, the library, after project closing,
will depend strictly on the Ministry's limited resources.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Vot applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
With extensive training given to more than 250 civil judges, the development of personnel management
criteria in recruitment, performance evaluation, and career advancement, and judicial information systems
in place, the project made some positive impact on institutional development.
The technical aspects were developed under the project but implementation challenges remain. For
example, the Judicial Council still faces major challenges in the implementation of the career system,
starting with the evaluation of incumbent judicial officials. Initial support is now envisaged under the
ongoing Institutional Reform Project (Cr. No. 3245). An effective judicial career would enhance the
institutional development impact since it would help to limit the discretionality of sector authorities in the
selection, evaluation, and removal of judges and judicial staff.
- 12 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Not applicable
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The division of the project into two distinct parts, with one under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Justice and the other under the Judiciary was not conducive to a smooth project implementation. Even
though the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court were dealing with separate components and were
working independently, their components had some correlation in particular at the level of drafting the
Procedural Guidelines and the new Code of Civil Procedure. The lack of coordination between them at the
policy and technical levels was a major obstacle for the execution of the project.
Constitutional changes introduced new institutions to the Judiciary-the Judicial Council and the
Constitutional Tribunal. The creation of the Judicial Council, in particular, affected project
implementation. The Supreme Court was originally responsible for implementing the Judiciary component
and, therefore, was in charge of reorganizing and modernizing its own structure and operations. Key
elements of the Court's program -- the design and implementation of a judicial career, the reorganization of
its administrative offices, and the automation of basic services -- were eventually, however, transferred
wholly or partially to the Judicial Council after the latter was established in spite of the Court's strong
opposition. Thus, the Supreme Court, a body notably short on planning and organizational skills, was
being asked to plan the organization of a new institution whose creation it still resisted.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control.
Since the Supreme Court was against the Judicial Council being the executing agency for the Judiciary
component of the project, it initially opposed the establishment of such institution and later on was not
supportive of the Council. Constant fighting and rivalry between them generated several institutional crises
that put the project on hold quite frequently, leading to substantial delays in implementation.
To make things worse, political bickering and personal animosity among members of the Judicial Council
often escalated to national level crises and severely hampered project implementation. The problem could
only be mitigated with the intervention of high officials of the Executive and Legislative branches, but that
action set dangerous precedents in terms of the constitutional principle of separation of powers.
An inordinate delay of three years on the part of Congress to approve the Judicial Council legislation
critically affected the implementation schedule of key project activities such as the judicial career system,
court organization, information system, and training. In addition to continued debates over the vacatio legis
(period between approval and entry into effect) for each Law, there were also delays due to political battles
over the naming of the first incumbents. The Judicial Council's law was finally approved in late 1997 only
after the Bank conveyed its intentions to restructure the project and eliminate the Judiciary component if the
Council Law was not approved.
In the early stages of the project, implementation of the Judiciary component suffered from the weak
management capacity of the PIU, including insufficient attention to budget programming and accounting
issues, slow decision-making, and lack of prioritization of key activities. There was also lack of
coordination between Bank-financed consultants and the consultant financed by the Spanish Cooperation
- 13-



Agency for assisting in the preparation of the by-laws of the Judicial School. Efforts to coordinate with
USAID were also limited to the automated case-tracking system component and not completely successful.
A major delay occurred in the implementation of the automated case-tracking system for civil courts. In
February 1999 a member of the Judicial Council publicized serious allegations about improprieties in
connection with a Bank-financed contract for such subcomponent. The Bank conducted the usual inquiries
and determined that the contracts had been awarded following prescribed procedures and the allegations
were part of the personal and political infighting in the Council. Finally, the Council endorsed the
procurement process and the new Councilor-in-charge signed the contracts in April 1999. Nevertheless, the
negative impact of the delay could not be avoided. For almost six months the contractors were not able to
initiate activities, pending the signing of the contracts and the outcome of the investigation.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The project cost was estimated unrealistically. While the financing of hardware and software was
overestimated, other components such as the normative technical activities under the Ministry rapidly
exceeded the original budget. However, reallocation among expenditure categories was able to cover the
shortfalls.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Some of the project's achievements are likely to be sustained beyond project closing, while most are
uncertain. The Banzer Administration, together with the heads of the Judicial Power and the Public
Ministry have renewed their commitment with the people of Bolivia and the intemational development
community to carry on judicial reforms. Recently the media has evaluated the achievements of this
Administration and considered the judicial reforms as the second best policy developed by the government
after the drug enforcement policy. The President of the Supreme Court and Judicial Council has also
sought the Bank's financial assistance for implementing a second Judicial Reform project-however, Bank
financing is being reconsidered as discussed below.
The political environment is not congenial to the Government in the absence of a solid majority required in
the national parliament for approving new laws or amending the existing laws. Therefore, the passage in
the near future of laws prepared with project financing is highly uncertain. The creation of a training
institution or the institutionalization of a training program is essential to sustain the project's advances in
the area of training. While the Spanish Cooperation Agency has demonstrated interest in supporting such
an institution (the Judicial Academy), financing sources, to date, are uncertain.
Diagnostic studies financed under the Bank project may assist in the design of any further intervention in
the sector. To that end, they should be widely disseminated and debated to provide the necessary
information for the proposed Judicial Academy. Sustainability of the investments in computer hardware
and software, as well as buildings, is more uncertain; the Bank was not able to get the Judicial Council
commitment to appoint the minimal staff required to operate the new system and make the budget
allocations essential to that end.
The institutional weakness of the sector institutions, specially of the Judiciary Council and the permanent
confrontation of the three powers of the State with the Judiciary Council, have placed at risk the viability of
continued Bank work on judicial reform in Bolivia.
- 14 -



Local participation has taken a back seat in judicial reforms thereby weakening citizen ownership, and
diminishing the sustainability and social impact of judicial refonns. A first significant step to address these
issues came in the form of a national event, the Dialogue for the New Justice in Bolivia. The Dialogue
made possible an encounter between the legislative, judicial and executive powers and included
representatives of civil society and international cooperation agencies. The Dialogue also established the
basis for future participation of civil society in the development of the judicial reforms. The demand for
community participation has been expressed and the Government, together with the international agencies,
is committed to support it.
6.2 Tiransition arrangement to regular operations:
Sector institutions and the World Bank had agreed to establish a Steering Committee to lead the second
reform project. This Committee was conformed by the President of the Supreme Court and the Judicial
Council, the Attorney General, and the Minister of Justice and Human Rights. This body has not been
effective in decision making and the preparation of the second reform project has been indefinitely
postponed. In the near future, any assistance for the Judiciary will be channeled through the ongoing
Institutional Reform Program, a major initiative within the portfolio of the Institutionality Pillar established
as a result of the Comprehensive Development Framework for Bolivia.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lendin-g:
The Bank's performance in the identification of the project was satisfactory. It was consistent with the
Government's development strategy and the Bank's assistance strategy for Bolivia. The Bank was
proactive in initiating the dialogue with the Government and the Judiciary for sector reform. Project
preparation was satisfactory. However, during project appraisal, the Bank's assessment of the project's
risks and benefits, and the implementing agencies' commitment to the objectives of the project were overly
optimistic.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was also satisfactory. At the beginning,
no task manager was formally appointed for about one year and project supervision was seriously affected.
With the appointment of a regular task manager, implementation and supervision picked up momentum.
Over the four years of project implementation, there were 11 supervision missions, about 3 missions per
year. Supervision teams included the Bank's legal expert and specialists in financial management,
communications, and computer technology. Outside consultants were used for specific aspects of certain
project components. Bank staff worked closely with the Government and the implementing agencies. Their
working relationship was cordial and productive. Aide-Memoires were regularly prepared and transmitted,
which flagged issues of project execution and suggested remedies in conformity with Bank procedures. The
Bank provided comments to the studies conducted under the project. The Form 590s and PSRs realistically
rated the performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project
implementation. There were almost no delays on the part of the Bank in issuing 'No Objections' to the
Borrower.
The Bank took a firm and dynamic role in the supervision of the project implementation. For instance, the
Bank was instrumental in the passage of the Judicial Council Act. When prominent members of the
- 15 -



Supreme Court, including the Justice responsible for the supervision of the Bank's project, were advancing
initiatives to revise the 1994 Constitutional Amenidments and restore the Supreme Court role as head of the
Judiciary, Bank management sent a letter to the Government and the Supreme Court indicating that if the
Act was not passed by the beginning of 1998, the Bank would consider substantial restructuring of the
ongoing operation, including cancellation of various components that would not be feasible unless the
Judicial Council became operational. Likewise, in order to reach understanding on project management
issues, the Bank also organized several meetings with project coordinators, members of the Judicial
Council, the Minister and Vice-Minister of Justice, and the technical staff of both project units. However,
the Bank failed to enforce the one-project concept; instead the project was converted in practice into two
autonomous subprojects with minimal coordination between the two implementing agencies.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and implementation.
Hlowever, effective coordination with other donors was insufficient and a project restructuring could have
improved the chances of success of critical components through elimination of the ancillary ones (for
instance, focusing on judicial career rather than on uncertain legislative reforms).
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. During the preparation
stage, the Borrower displayed an adequate level of commitment to the objectives of the project. Government
officials and staff of implementing agencies worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continual
basis.
7.5 Government implementation perforinance:
Govenu-nent's performance was satisfactory. Even though the Government's comrmitment wavered during
implementation (in particular because of frustration with the delays in passage of key legislation), the
Ministry of Finance generally extended full cooperation and assistance to the Bank. Although delays in the
availability of counterpart funding were common due to fiscal constraints, the Government complied with
project covenants under its responsibility.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Neither the Supreme Court nor the Judicial Council were fully committed to the objectives of the project
and lacked the vision of overall reformn of the sector. With an autocratic approach, both failed to get the
involvement of the Judicial Districts and win the support of lower level officials. The Supreme Court in
particular was slow in getting started and was pushed into action by the Bank. The Supreme Court was
unable to select a regular Chief Justice for several years, and the Interim President did not coordinate
properly with the Justice-in-charge of the project.
The Ministry's performance, on the other hand, was satisfactory. The Ministry executed its components in
time, especially under the first Minister of Justice, who by the time he left office in August 1997, had most
of the draft legislation prepared and ready for presentation to Congress.
- 16-



There was a lack of coordination between the implementing agencies; each agency was too involved in the
implementation of its own components and, as a result, an overall project vision was conspicuous by its
absence. The location of Supreme Court in Sucre and the Ministry in La Paz also created logistical
problems, which became an additional source of inadequate coordination.
Performance of the coordinating units of the Judiciary and the Ministry was generally satisfactory. Loan
covenants and conditions were duly complied with and audit reports were submitted in a timely fashion. All
.audit reports were acceptable, and the auditor's minor observations were promptly taken into account.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Considering the fact that in spite of long delays most of the project components were completed before
project closing, the Borrower's overall performance is deemed satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Several lessons can be drawn and recommendations made in terms of judicial reform operations and the
Bank's own intemal capacity to manage judicial operations. While this section lists lessons separately, it is
important to emphasize that the underlying issues and challenges raised by each point are closely
intertwined.
a Preparation teams must clearly define a limited scope for the judicial reform projects. A holistic
approach should be balanced with the complexity of the sector and the variety of the stakeholders.
The scope of this project was too broad. This in tum led to the inclusion of too many components;
some were tightly related, others only loosely related, and yet others were clearly peripheral. Instead of
addressing several issues at the same time, a set of priorities and implementation strategies should
identified and agreed with major stakeholders (including civil society).
*   Political economy and institutional assessments are essentialfor the design of a judicial reform
project with chances of success. The Bank's experience with the project strongly supports the use of
socio-political institutional assessments as a tool for assessing altemative reform options and designing
appropriate strategies. Such an assessment can facilitate frank analysis of the political environment
and its likely impact on proposed changes; identify political hurdles and help develop viable strategies
for effective risk management; assess the degree and costs of institutional change; and evaluate the
capabilities and weaknesses of the institutions charged with program implementation and set program
goals accordingly.
*   Coordination is much more than a technical or management issue. In spite of the Bank's acute
awareness of inadequate coordination between the Judiciary and the Ministry of Justice components
and its explicit and repeated efforts to improve coordination, inadequate coordination persisted
throughout implementation. Several preliminary lessons can be drawn. First, coordination (or lack
thereof) has political dimensions that do not respond well to technical or managerial solutions. Second,
if institutional capacity is weak, coordination will most likely be weak as well. Third, similar projects
may consider finding ways to minimize coordination requirements. In retrospect, had the Judiciary and
the Ministry of Justice shared the same commitment to the same project objectives, the fact that they
operated fairly independently probably would not have been an issue.
*   Project management structures should reflect the conclusions of the political economy and
- 17 -



institutional assessments. Throughout project implementation, the existence of two separate project
units (Ministry of Justice and the Judiciary) was continuously questioned. From an administrative and
political perspective, two units made sense since the project involved two institutional beneficiaries that
represented different public powers, each of which administered independent budgets. On the other
hand, in the particular case of Bolivia, having two units reinforced institutional divisions and played off
political power struggles. While it is not clear what project management arrangement was the most
appropriate, it is clear that these kind of issues need to be better analyzed in similar reform projects.
*   A flexible judicial reform strategy is essentialfor a project to survive recurrent crises in the sector.
The project demonstrated the validity of viewing the initial design as a departure point, albeit, one that
is well developed. Given the project's highly complex political and power-based implementation
environment, new developments during implementation were perhaps bound to happen, thus requiring
adaptation and redesign. Hence, future projects should consider adopting the simplest possible design
(scale down project objectives) given the Borrower's circumstances, and embark on an iterative
process. Such an approach also makes learning essential (through action research, monitoring and
evaluation, and other ways of structured learning). A more flexible approach must be accompanied
with adequate resources for heavier supervision and more operational support to respond to change.
*   A results-based management approach is critical to ensure impact. The Bank is moving away from
activities-based management to practicing results-based management. Within this context, judicial
reform projects should focus all project activities on the final objectives-seeing intermediate steps as
really intermediate, rather than as ends in themselves. Specific attention must be placed on identifying
short-term outputs, medium-term outcomes, and long-term impacts. A results-oriented approach,
however, may pull attention from processes, and this may not be appropriate in all cases. As an
example, two cases stand out in the Bolivia project where process was equally as important-
consultation procedures on new legislation, and consultation with indigenous communities on the
proposed Community Justice Law. Similarly, judicial reform projects should include built-in incentives
for reform. Financing of "popular" components (new laws, computers, buildings) should be
conditioned to progress in the implementation of the "unpopular" ones (judicial career,
institution-building).
v   Tailor-made participatory approaches are required in the design and implementation ofjudicial
reform projects. Stakeholder participation (including civil society) is essential at all stages of the
program or project cycle, including identification and preparation, to achieve ownership and
commitment. Developing appropriate participation methodologies is key; otherwise, "participation"
will probably take that form of occasional workshops and seminars. Consultation activities will
probably reflect the views of only a few stakeholders. Organizational changes also need to take place
to support stakeholder participation-this requires new skills, new procedures for joint
decision-making, new patterns of information sharing and communication, and new ways of resource
mobilization. To integrate participation, therefore, the Bank needs to better define what participation
means for judicial reform, how results will be measured, and what detenmines success. Participation
takes time, and hence, participation specialists argue for programming which assumes low levels of
disbursement in the early stages of project implementation. These kinds of issues (disbursement and
project sequencing) should also be integrated in Bank discussions on judicial refonn.
* Basic assumptions on judicial reform may need to be revisited through additional sector work. The
Bolivia project held some underlying assumptions that may need to be revised. These include the
assumption that judicial councils are primary instrumen.ts for enhancing judicial accountability and
independence. By contrast, the establishment of a judicial career system emerged as a critical measure
- 18-



for judicial depolitization, and therefore an immediate priority issue for reform projects.
*   Appropriate monitoring and evaluation devices are required to measure the impact of training.
Given the central role of training, the Bank needs to make a concerted effort to assess the impact of its
training investments. Results of the Bank's assessment should be shared with future projects and
potential Borrowers. More generally, the Bank should make an effort to identify and provide the best
global knowledge on training to operational staff. The following types of questions need to be
considered as well-what are the specific issues or problems facing training programs? Are there
generic solutions? Are regional or cross-national approaches more appropriate in terms of
sustainability?
* The Bank should pay more than lip service to donor coordination. Isolation of the project from other
donors and failure to coordinate with them or use their findings and experience caused duplication of
efforts and slow implementation. The Bank should benefit from activities and studies conducted by
other donors through increased communication and exchange of information.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Judiciary reports that significant progress has been made in terms of institutional strengthening,
judicial administration and case management, and human resource capacity. The Judiciary has identified
the following priorities for further reform: (i) strengthening of the managerial, organizational, and
administrative capacity of the Judicial Council; (ii) full-fledged implementation of the computerized
information system; and (iii) continued process of capacity building (judicial education/training.
A lack of consensus exists on how judicial reforms should proceed. Judicial policy officials argue for
increased emphasis on human resource management and administrative strengthening; other stakeholders
emphasize increased attention to access to justice issues from a gender and ethnic perspective.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector).
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
- 19-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
tndicatortMatrix                    Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
Performance Indicators were not given in the
SAR
Output Indicators:
Indicator/matrix                    Projected in last PSR                  ActuallLatest Estimate
Performance Indicators were not given in t~he
SAR
End of project
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuaULatest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ milliQn
A. Supreme Court
A. 1 Judicial Process Reforms                        4.90            3.74          76.3
A.2 Human Resource Management                         1.92           1.35          70.3
A.3 Institutional Strengthening                      0.48            0.82         170.3
A.4 Judicial Development Fund                         0.57           0.62         108.8
B. Ministry of Justice
B. 1 Constitutional Reforms                          0.65            0.65           100
B.2 Alternative Dispute Resolution                   0.42            0.42           100
B.3 Legislative Refonns                              0.83            0.83           100
B.4 Institutional Strengthening                      0.92            0.92           100
C. Project Coordination Unit                         0.50            0.50           100
D. Refinancing of PPF                                0.50            0.50           100
Total Baseline Cost                                  11.69          10.35
Physical Contingencies                              0.82
Price Contingencies                                 0.23
Total Project Costs             12.74          10.35
Total Financing Required             12.74           10.35
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
f              Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB          NC:          Other        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.20         0.00         0.20
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.20)       (0.00)        (0.20)
2. Goods                     1.11          0.00         3.32         0.00         4.43
(0.90)       (0.00)       (2.77)       (0.00)        (3.67)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         8.11         0.00         8.11
(0.00)       (0.00)       (7.13)       (0.00)        (7.13)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      1.11         0.00         11.63         0.00        12.74
(0.90)       (0.00)       (10.10)       (0.00)      (11.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
- 21 -



I           ~~~Procuremnt ~Method
Expenditurei Category                       NNth                                       Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                         0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Figures not received from the MOJ and PJ
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in USS million equi alent)           _ _            -
| Component   L <!           f5nate            v     ActuLats   s  Estiteoi
__________________    Bank  Govt.  Co.   Banik i; v. CpkF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Judiciary Component       7.87       0.40                 4.48      0.39               56.9   97.5
Ministry of Justice       3.12       1.35                3.12        1.35              100.0  100.0
Component
- 22 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of ProjectCycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                Perforan   Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    - Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count         Specialty                        IProgress          (Objective
i Identification/Preparation
May/93                          2    Task Manager, Consultant
October/93                      I   Task Manager
Appraisal/Negotiation
March/95                        3    Task Manager, 2 consultants
Supervision
February-March/96               2   Task Manager, Legal                    S                   S
Counsel
Oct.-Nov./96                    3   Task Manager, Legal Counsel,           S                   S
Info. Systems Specialist
May/97                          3   Task Manager, Legal Counsel,           S                   S
Info. Systems Specialist
October/97                      4   Task Manager, Legal Counsel,           S                   S
Info. Systems Specialist, Legal
Reform Specialist
April/98                        3   Task Manager, Info. Systems            S                   S
Specialist, Legal Reforrn
Specialist
July/98                         4   Task Manager, Judicial Reform          S                   S
Specialist, Info. Systems
Specialist, Legal Reform
Specialist
November/98                     5   Task Manager, Judicial Reform          S                   S
Specialist, Info. Systems
Specialist, Legal Reform
Specialist, Judicial Training
April/99                        4   Task Manager, Judicial Reform          S                   S
Specialist, Info. Systems
Specialist, Legal Reform
Specialist
June-July/99                    6   Task Manager, Judicial Reform          S                   S
Specialist, Info. Systems
Specialist, Legal Reform
Specialist, Economist, Judicial
Capacity Specialist
November/99                     4   Task Manager, Judicial Reform          S                   S
Specialist, Info. Systems
Specialist, Legal Reform
Specialist
January/2000                    4   Task Manager, Judicial Reform          S                   S
Specialist, Info. Systems
Specialist, Legal Reform
Specialist
- 24 -



ICR
January/2000                   4   Task Manager, Judicial
Reform Specialist, Info.
Systems Specialist, Legal
Reform Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No, Staff weeks              US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                49.3                        121.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                     43.6                        105.7
Supervision                              118.2                        442.8
ICR                                        9.0                           28
Total                                    220.1                        698.0
- 25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Sector Policies                          OH  O SU * M  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Financial                               O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
X Institutional Development               0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
X Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
I Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Gender                           O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
0 Other (Please specify)           0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
I Private sector development              0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
1 Public sector management                0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
X Other (Please specify)                  0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  * NA
- 26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
E Lending                                            OHS*S OU OHU
Z Supervision                                        O HS * s   OU   OHU
N Overall                                            OHS*S O u O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
N Preparation                                        OHS OS   Q U  O HU
X Government implementation performance              O HS OS    0 U  0 HU
* Implementation agency performance                  O HS O s  0  U  0 HU
* Overall                                            OHS Os  O  U  O HU
- 27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide Memoires and Back-to-Office Reports
2. Consultant Reports
3. Consultant Studies included in the Project
4. Borrower's Evaluation Report (section 9)
5. Staff Appraisal Report
- 28 -



MAP SECTION






r  66V             g                                  6lrIBRD 20516
B R A Z I L                                                                          B O  L I V I A
f'~~~~~~~T Ptrto Wi
ROADS:
main
ToRhEracaX Ei1 r                                                                                                                    Secondary
------Tracks
National Capitol
-12'                                                                                                                                   Depcirtment DBoundaries t|
International Boundaries
ul                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Valleys
r  Lowlands
0  50       ioa       150no    Tate
~~~~1bAatafssgats~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AR   E NAI ZA       \        IS ZL
lANtA _  e   r   roe EbCoa6r   b   ndblwof                                 JANUARY 1988



