Page  1
June 19, 1998
His Excellency
Edgar Millares
Minister of Finance
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19
La Paz, Bolivia
Excellency:
BOLIVIA - Judicial Reform Project (Cr.2705- BO)
Please refer to the Credit Agreement for the above captioned Project, as 
amended.
I am pleased to advise you that, pursuant to our recent discussions of the 
subject with the Ministry of Justice, the Judicial Council, and the Ombudsman’s 
Office, the Association has agreed to amend the Credit Agreement so as to: (a) 
reflect: (i) the assumption by the Judicial Council of the executing 
responsibilities of the Supreme Court; and (ii) the establishment of the 
Ombudsman’s office and the need for immediate assistance in its start-up phase; 
and (b) streamline disbursement provisions, as follows:
1.
Sections 1.02 (d), (f) and (r) are amended to read as follows:
"(d)
"Executive Council" means the council established by the Judicial 
Council (as defined below) pursuant to its Agreement No. 6 dated April 14, 
1998;"
(f)
"JD Operational Manual" means the manual to be adopted by the 
Project Directorate (as defined below), in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, establishing the policies and procedures for the 
identification, appraisal, approval and monitoring of JD Subprojects (as 
defined below);
(r)
"Project Directorate" means the directorate established by the 
Judicial Council pursuant to its Agreement No. 6 dated April 14, 1998;".
2.
A new Section 1.02 (v) is added to read as follows:
"(v) ‘Ombudsman’s Office’ means the Borrower’s Defensoría del Pueblo.".
3.
Sections 3.01 (a) and (c) are amended to read as follows:
"Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out: (i) the Judiciary Subproject, through the Judicial 
Council; and (ii) the Ministry of Justice Subproject, through the Ministry 
of Justice; all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate judicial, administrative, technical and financial practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain, with an organizational 
structure, powers and functions satisfactory to the Association, the 
Executive Council and the Project Directorate; (ii) maintain in such 
Council and Directorate, members and personnel, who shall have 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association; and (iii) 
consult with the Association with respect to the replacement of such 
members and personnel prior to any such replacement.".
4.
Section 3.06 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
Page  2
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare through the Judicial Council (in respect of the 
Judiciary Subproject), and the Ministry of Justice (in respect of the 
Ministry of Justice Subproject), on the basis of guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.".
5.
The description of Category 2 in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is 
amended to read as follows:
"Consultants’ services and training
(a)
for the Judiciary Subproject
(b)
for the Ministry of Justice Subproject".
6.
Paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 1 is amended to read as follows:
"(c)
the term "Training" means: (i) remuneration of trainers; (ii) domestic and 
international travel and per diems of trainers and trainees; (iii) 
purchase of training materials; and (iv) rental of training facilities.".
7.
Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 is amended to read as follows:
"4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower, for 
expenditures for:
(a)
goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent;
(b)
works under contracts costing less than $250,000 
equivalent;
(c)
services of consulting firms costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; 
(d)
services of individual consultants costing less than 
$25,000 equivalent; and
(e)
training.".
8.
Part E.1 of the Project is amended to read as follows:
"1.
Strengthening the Judicial Council’s capacity in policy formulation 
and in the review and implementation of justice administration 
improvements.".
9.
Part F.1 of the Project is amended to read as follows:
"1.
(a)
Drafting of laws and regulations, and preparation of the 
administrative design and implementation plans, for the operation of the 
Constitutional Tribunal, the Judicial Council, and the Ombudsman’s Office.
(b)
Carrying out of seminars, courses and other activities 
aimed at disseminating information on the constitutional and legal reforms 
prepared under the Project, including the laws and regulations dealing 
with the Constitutional Tribunal, the Judicial Council and the Ombudsman’s 
office.
(c)
Carrying out of the implementation plans for the operation 
of the Constitutional Tribunal, the Judicial Council and the Ombudsman’s 
Office.".
Page  3
10.
Part F.3 (c) of the Project is amended to read as follows:
"(b)
amendments to the Borrower’s civil and commercial codes to 
incorporate features of modern business practices including, inter alia, 
factoring, leasing and secured transactions; and"
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating this 
letter in the space provided below and returning the same to the undersigned. 
This amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts, each of which shall 
be an original.  
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us. 
The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective, on the date of 
this letter, once the Association has received one executed original of this 
amendment letter.
Very truly yours,
Ernesto May
Acting Country Director
Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
Edgar Millares Ardaya
Authorized Representative
Date July 7, 1998
