Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2705-BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Judicial Reform Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 21, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2705-BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 21, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS  (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
the Borrower's executive, judicial and legislative branches have signed a 
letter dated June 1993 (hereinafter called the Letter of Understandings) describing a 
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve a reform of its 
judicial sector (hereinafter called the Program) and declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
Page  2
(a)
"Beneficiary" means a district court or a civil court which meets the 
eligibility criteria set forth or referred to in the JD Operational Manual (as defined 
below) and which
proposes to carry out a JD Subproject (as defined below);
(b)
"Congress" means the Borrower's legislative branch;
 
(c)
"Constitutional Tribunal" means the tribunal referred to in Articles 119, 
120 and 121 of the Bolivian constitution as amended by the Law Amending the Bolivian 
Constitution (as defined below);
(d)
"Executive Council" means the council established by the Supreme Court 
(as defined below) pursuant to its Resolution dated December 21, 1994;
(e)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which commences on January 
1 each year;
(f)
"JD Operational Manual" means the manual to be adopted by the Supreme 
Court (as defined below), in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
establishing the policies and procedures for the identification, appraisal, approval 
and monitoring of JD Subprojects (as defined below);
(g)
"JD Subproject" means a subproject to be financed, on a grant basis, out 
of the proceeds of the Credit and which consists of an investment in goods, works 
and/or services, complementary or incremental to the judicial reform investments 
included in the Project, for the improvement of the administration of civil justice;
(h)
"Judicial Council" means the council referred to in Articles 122 and 123 
of the Bolivian constitution as amended by the Law Amending the Bolivian Constitution 
(as defined below);
(i)
"Judicial Organization Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 1455 published 
in the Official Gazette on February 18, 1993;
(j)
"Judicial Procedures Guidelines" means the guidelines providing the 
initial basis for reforming the handling of civil procedures, to be issued by the 
Supreme Court within the framework of the existing legislation, to ensure the 
expeditious and fair resolution of civil cases and the protection of the litigants' 
substantive rights in accordance with paragraphs 10 and 11 of the Letter of 
Understandings;
(k)
"Judiciary" means the Borrower's judicial branch; 
 
(l)
"Judiciary Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) (i) of this Agreement;
(m)
"Judiciary Subproject" means Parts A through E of the Project;
 
(n)
"Law Amending the Bolivian Constitution" means the Borrower's Law Number 
1585 published in the Official Gazette on August 12, 1994;
(o)
"Ministry of Justice" means the Borrower's ministry of justice;
 
(p)
"Ministry of Justice Special Account" means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) (ii) of this Agreement; 
(q)
"Ministry of Justice Subproject" means Part F of the Project;
 
(r)
"Program Directorate" means the directorate established by the Supreme 
Court pursuant to its Resolution dated October 1, 1993;
(s)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
August 12, 1993 and August 24, 1993 between the Borrower and the Association as 
amended on May 24, 1994;
(t)
"Special Accounts" means collectively the Judiciary Special Account and 
the Ministry of Justice Special Account; and
(u)
"Supreme Court" means the highest court in the Judiciary referred to in 
Article 47 of the Judicial Organization Law.
Page  3
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seven million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 7,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may open and maintain in dollars in its Central Bank: (i) a 
special deposit account for purposes of the Judiciary Subproject; and (ii) a special 
deposit account for purposes of the Ministry of Justice Subproject, both on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1999 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 2005 and ending April 1, 2035. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2015 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
Page  4
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out: (i) the Judiciary Subproject through the Supreme Court and the Judicial Council, 
in respect of Parts C and D of the Project, if and when the Judicial Council becomes 
operational to the Association's satisfaction; and (ii) the Ministry of Justice 
Subproject through the Ministry of Justice; all with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate judicial, administrative, technical and financial 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Judiciary Subproject and the Ministry of Justice Subproject in 
accordance with the implementation targets respectively set forth in the Annex to a 
supplemental letter of even date herewith.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall: (i) maintain, with an organizational structure, powers and 
functions satisfactory to the Association, the Executive Council and the Program 
Directorate; (ii) maintain in such Council and Directorate, members and personnel, and 
appoint and maintain a project coordinator, who shall have qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Association; and (iii) consult with the Association with 
respect to the replacement of such members and personnel prior to any such 
replacement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the JD Subprojects shall be identified, appraised, approved and 
monitored in accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to in the JD 
Operational Manual.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than June 30 and November 30 each Fiscal Year, furnish or cause 
to be furnished to the Association a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, containing, inter alia: (i) the Project activities carried out during the 
preceding six months; and (ii) the expenditures made in respect of such activities;
(b)
not later than December 31 each Fiscal Year, review with the Association 
its progress in the implementation of the Project and in meeting the targets referred 
to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
(c)
if after any of the reviews referred to in paragraph (b) hereof the 
Page  5
Association is not satisfied with the progress made in the carrying out of the 
Project: (i) not later than sixty days after the respective review, prepare a plan of 
action satisfactory to the Association aimed at achieving adequate progress in the 
carrying out of the Project and the meeting of its objectives; and (ii) take promptly 
all actions included in such action plan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
through the Supreme Court, not later than December 31, 1995, issue 
Judicial Procedures Guidelines addressing the following subjects: conciliation, oral 
procedures, direct and active involvement of judges in the handling of the judicial 
process, and the expected average duration of judicial procedures; and
(b)
through the Ministry of Justice, not later than June 30, 1996, furnish to 
the Association for its review its proposal for the establishment and operation of the 
system of resolution of disputes by justices of the peace to be developed under Part 
F.2 (a) of the Project.
Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare through the Supreme Court and if applicable the Judicial Council, 
in respect of the Judiciary Subproject, and the Ministry of Justice in respect of the 
Ministry of Justice Subproject, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and separate accounts referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
Page  6
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date July 20, 1995 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall 
terminate or on the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be 
the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
Casilla Postal No. 9917
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANZA
2617 (FINANZA BV)
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  7
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Andres Petricevic
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gobind Nankani
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                      Credit Allocated                % of
                       (Expressed in              Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)           to be Financed
(1) Goods:                                       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures,
    (a) for the             1,730,000            100% of local
        Judiciary                                expenditures
        Subproject                               (ex-factory
        (other than                              cost) and 85%
        E.3 (b)                                  of local expen-
        thereof)                                 ditures for other
                                                 items procured
    (b) for the Ministry      320,000            locally
        of Justice
        Subproject
(2) Consultants'                                 100%
    Services and
    Training
    (a) for the Judiciary   2,520,000
        Subproject (other
        than E.3 (b)
        thereof)
    (b) for the Ministry    1,610,000
        of Justice Sub-
        project and the
        Project Coordinator
(3) JD Subprojects            350,000           100% of the cost
                                                of the Subproject
(4) Refunding of              350,000           Amounts due pur-
    Project                                     suant to Section
    Preparation                                 2.02 (c) of this
    Advance                                     Agreement
(5) Unallocated               720,000
        TOTAL               7,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
Page  8
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Project Coordinator" means the salary of the coordinator to be 
maintained pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of this agreement and the travel costs 
related to the delivery of his or her services.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
(a)
prior to the date of this Agreement;
 
(b)
under Category (3) unless the JD Operational Manual has been adopted and 
institutional arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, have been made for the 
financing of the JD Subprojects; and
(c)
under Part F.1 (c) of the Project for activities related to the operation 
of the Judicial Council and the Constitutional Tribunal until: (i) the Association 
shall have approved the respective implementation plan; and (ii) the Borrower shall 
have made progress, satisfactory to the Association, in its program for the 
establishment and operation of respectively the Judicial Council and the 
Constitutional Tribunal.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods not 
exceeding $25,000 equivalent and works under Subprojects under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the quality and effectiveness 
of the Borrower's administration of justice and to establish the policy framework 
required therefor; (b) to strengthen the Judiciary's institutional capacity to provide 
judicial services; and (c) to strengthen the Ministry of Justice's capacity to prepare 
and review, and implement laws and programs related to the Borrower's constitutional, 
judicial, economic and social reforms.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Judicial Procedures
 
1.
Development and implementation of the Judicial Procedures Guidelines.
 
2.
Training of judges on the Judicial Procedures Guidelines and the implementation 
thereof including, inter alia: (i) the role of judges in terms of their social 
responsibilities and authority particularly in relation to the management of judicial 
proceedings and the adjudication of controversies; (ii) the competence and skills 
necessary for a more active role of judges in managing cases, particularly 
strengthening the judges' formation in due process issues, the management of 
conciliation procedures and the equal treatment of litigants; (iii) the management of 
the fact finding stage of cases and the evidence, particularly the advantages and 
shortcomings of the various methods of gathering evidence, the skills needed to 
maximize the results of the fact gathering process (examination of witnesses, 
assessment of expert advise, etc.) and the judges' authority in this field; and (iv) 
the planning, formulation and drafting of judicial decisions, particularly developing 
an awareness of the ethical and juridical values involved in judicial decision making 
and their potential social impact.
Part B:
Judicial Information Systems
 
1.
Development and implementation in all civil courts of a manual information 
system to enable the Judiciary to obtain accurate and timely information on the 
courts' work load and duration of proceedings.
2.
Development and implementation, on a pilot basis, in selected civil courts of a 
Page  9
computerized court information system that would enable lower courts a detailed 
monitoring of their operations and the appellate courts and the Supreme Court a 
selected monitoring of the courts under their jurisdiction. 
Part C:
Courtroom Administration
 
1.
Carrying out of a study on the Judiciary's organization and human resources, 
including, inter alia: (a) an inventory of the Judiciary's human resources and a 
diagnosis of the prevailing personnel policies at the professional and support levels; 
(b) a diagnosis of competencies, skill mix and job descriptions of incumbent judges 
and clerical personnel; (c) the development of alternative organizational structures 
to improve efficiency in courtroom administration, together with proposed staffing 
requirements, job description profiles and operational policies for the efficient 
operation of the Judiciary's courts; and (d) the development of organizational manuals 
for court administration.
2.
Implementation, on a pilot basis, in selected courts of an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, prepared on the basis of the recommendations of the 
study included in Part C.1 of the Project.
3.
Training of judges and clerical personnel on the organizational manuals to be 
developed under Part C.1 (d) of the Project.
Part D:
Human Resource Management
 
1.
Judicial Career System:
 
(a)
Development and implementation of personnel management criteria in the 
areas of recruitment, performance evaluation and career advancement.
(b)
Development of a career system for the Judiciary including the strategy 
for the implementation of such system. Such system will replace the judicial career 
system referred to in Part D.1 (a) of the Project and will include, inter alia: (i) a 
personnel selection system based on competitive recruitment on professional merits; 
(ii) a performance evaluation system based on efficiency and quality factors; (iii) a 
career advancement system based on specific job competencies for the various judgeship 
positions and the result of performance evaluations; and (iv) a compensation policy to 
reward professional excellence and administrative efficiency.
(c)
Development and implementation of a strengthened personnel management 
function within the Judiciary.
2.
Judicial Training:
 
(a)
Development and implementation of an on-the-job training program, to be 
given by prestigious retired judges to the newly appointed ones, on the institutional 
profile, judicial philosophy, judicial ethics and basic judicial skills expected from 
judges under the Program.
(b)
Development and implementation of semiannual seminars to judges dealing 
with specific topics of general interest to the Judiciary.
3.
Judicial Ethics:
 
(a)
Development of judicial ethics standards and institutional framework 
which will include, inter alia: (i) the ethical standards applicable to judges in the 
performance of their duties; (ii) the institutional arrangements for handling and 
deciding on ethical misconduct charges; (iii) the procedures and recourse the public 
will have available to pursue remedial actions; and (iv) a campaign for the 
dissemination of information to the public on such ethics standards and institutional 
framework.
Part E:
Institutional Strengthening of the Judiciary
 
1.
Strengthening the Supreme Court's capacity in policy formulation and in the 
review and implementation of justice administration improvements.
2.
Development and implementation of the Judiciary's planning, and legislative and 
jurisprudence review functions.
3.
(a)
Development of the JD Operational Manual and the institutional 
arrangements for the financing of JD Subprojects.
Page  10
(b)
Carrying out of JD Subprojects.
 
Part F:
Ministry of Justice
 
1.
(a)
Drafting of laws and regulations, and preparation of the administrative 
design and implementation plans, for the operation of the Constitutional Tribunal and 
the Judicial Council.
(b)
Carrying out of seminars, courses and other activities aimed at 
disseminating information to the legal community at large on the specialized 
proceedings of the Constitutional Tribunal and the functions of the Judicial Council.
(c)
Carrying out of the implementation plans for the operation of the 
Constitutional Tribunal and the Judicial Council to be prepared under Part F.1 (a) of 
the Project, including, inter alia, the establishment of a reference library and a 
system for the publication of decisions taken by the Constitutional Tribunal.
2.
(a)
Drafting of legislation for the promotion, establishment and 
implementation of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, including, inter alia, a 
system for the resolution of disputes by justices of the peace.
(b)
Carrying out, and evaluation, in selected communities of a pilot program 
of dispute resolution by justices of the peace.
3.
Drafting of:
 
(a)
a new code of civil procedures;
 
(b)
amendments to the Borrowerþs commercial code to incorporate features of 
modern commercial practice including, inter alia, factoring, leasing and secured 
transactions; and
(c)
a new law of administrative procedures.
 
4.
(a)
Strengthening of the Ministry of Justiceþs capacity to control and 
improve the quality of primary and secondary legislation including, inter alia, the 
development of a legal data base; 
(b)
preparation of a manual for use by public sector agencies setting out 
basic guidelines for the formulation of draft laws and regulations, and training of 
staff of such agencies on the application thereof; and
(c)
establishment of a library for the Ministry of Justice.
 
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid  validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A.1 and C.1 
hereof, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the 
Page  11
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be 
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding 
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based 
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Bolivia may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or less per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on 
the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from qualified suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections 
I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may, and works under JD Subprojects shall, be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained respectively from at least three suppliers and contractors eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract procured pursuant to the provisions of 
Parts A.1 and C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of 
the Special Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant 
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the respective Special Account in respect of 
such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Accounts, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ 
such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
Page  12
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of  Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
the term "Judiciary Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Judiciary 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Judiciary Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $300,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $900,000; and
(d)
the term "Ministry of Justice Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Ministry of Justice Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Ministry of 
Justice Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $150,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $450,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Judiciary Special Account or the Ministry of Justice Special Account have been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Judiciary Authorized Allocation and the Ministry of Justice 
Authorized Allocation, as the case may be, and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Judiciary Authorized Allocation and the Ministry 
of Justice Authorized Allocation, as the case may be, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Accounts 
of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of respectively the 
Judiciary Authorized Allocation or the Ministry of Justice Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Accounts such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Accounts at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Accounts such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special 
Accounts for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of therespective Special Accounts, the 
Page  13
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the respective Special Accounts:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Judiciary Authorized 
Allocation or the Ministry of Justice Authorized Allocation, as the case may be.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Accounts as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the respective Special Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount 
not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by 
the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Accounts (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the respective 
Special Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any of the Special Accounts will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the respective Special 
Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
