Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4079-BEN 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BENIN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 6, 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4079-BEN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated  
May 12, 2005 (hereinafter called the Letter of Development Policy), describing a program of 
actions, objectives and policies designed to eradicate poverty from the Borrower’s territory 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof;  
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
(C) 
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in a single 
tranche as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
 (b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.”; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“CFA Franc” means the currency of the Borrower;  
(b) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and 
(c) 
“PRSP” means the 2003-2005 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper adopted by the 
Borrower in December 2002. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to nineteen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,900,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in 
support of the Program. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit 
account in CFA Francs on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the 
Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said 
payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account 
for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date of 
this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by 
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied 
from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of 
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time 
be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 2015, and ending April 1, 2045. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Each installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2025 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.  
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), 
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the 
Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to 
in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in 
this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be 
a
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Page  6
-
5
-
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program.  
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Program, or any action taken under the Program. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
(4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination  
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is 
designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministère des Finances et de l’Economie 
B.P. 302 
 
Cotonou 
 
Republic of Benin 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
MINFINANCES 
 
5009 MINFIN or 
(229) 30 18 51 
 
Cotonou 
 
 
5289 CAA 
 
(229) 31 53 56 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or  
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BENIN 
 
By 
  /s/ 
Cyrille 
Oguin 
Authorized Representative 
 INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
 
/s/ A. David Craig 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall 
not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall 
have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  10
-
9
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party);  
6. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation. 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
The Borrower has:  
1. 
To improve performance in the agriculture sector 
(a) 
implemented the following measures to protect the 2004/2005 harvesting 
season and to lay the foundations for better cotton sector operation in the future: 
(i) 
setting out of a mechanism  for the importation and distribution of 
inputs in preparation of the 2005/2006 harvesting season, in 
accordance with paragraph 33 of the Letter of Development Policy;  
(ii) 
adoption of a single seed cotton marketing arrangement for the 
2004/2005 harvesting season, using existing structures and operating 
under the supervision of a committee comprising representatives of 
the ginners, the farmers, the traders and the Government, in 
accordance with paragraph 33 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
and 
(iii)  issuance of a Presidential decree establishing a new regulatory 
framework for the cotton sector, in accordance with paragraph 33 of 
the Letter of Development Policy; 
2. 
To improve rural transport services  
(b) 
identified geographical areas for priority feeder road investments, using 
poverty level and accessibility to production areas and community services criteria, 
in accordance with paragraph 38 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
3. 
To improve population access to drinking water and better sanitation in rural 
and semi-urban areas 
(c) 
achieved substantial progress in meeting objectives set for 2003, and has 
reflected the undertakings agreed in the joint Government-donor annual sector 
review in May 2004 in 2005/2007 program budget formulation, in accordance with 
paragraph 41 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
4. 
To improve the performance of the national health system 
(d) 
 developed a resource allocation method based on poverty, health and 
performance criteria, and has used such method to prepare the 2005 program-
budget for the Ministry  responsible for health, in accordance with paragraph 48 of 
the Letter of Development Policy; 
Page  12
-
11
-
(e) 
identified a comprehensive health services package to be delivered to 
families in ten (10) selected health districts, and has taken measures to make the list 
of services included in such package available to the public, in accordance with 
paragraph 48 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
5. 
To improve access to quality basic education  
(f) 
implemented the deployment plan (redeployment of existing 
teachers in the primary, and decentralized recruitment of 1,183 additional 
teachers in the primary) for teachers in public schools, and has improved 
teacher distribution within and across districts, in accordance with 
paragraph 50 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
(g) 
implemented the two action plans adopted in 2003 to improve 
school retention rate and the execution of educational reforms and, to that 
effect, has carried out in particular the following measures: 
(i) 
preparation of an implementation report regarding the 
abolishment of repetition in Grade 1, in accordance with 
paragraph 50 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
(ii) 
preparation of a construction program of at least fifty (50) 
classrooms to be funded under the 2005 budget to reduce 
discontinuity in targeted geographical areas, in accordance 
with paragraph 50 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
(iii) 
carrying out of at least 70 percent of the targeted programs,  
in accordance with paragraph 50 of the Letter of 
Development Policy; and 
(iv) 
preparation of the list of schools which will benefit from 
targeted intervention programs,  in accordance with 
paragraph 50 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
6. 
To improve the management of public finances and services 
 (
h)
submitted the draft 2005 budget law to the National Assembly 
consistent with 2005/2007 medium-term expenditure framework ceilings 
and PRSP priorities,  including detailed medium-term program-budgets 
for rural water, health, basic education, environment and urban sanitation, 
forestry management, and transportation, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 10 of the Letter of Development Policy;  
Page  13
-
12
-
(i) 
achieved substantially the targets set in the 2004 program-budgets 
for rural water, health, basic education, environment and urban sanitation, 
and  forestry management,  in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
10 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
 
(j) 
  presented the draft 2005 budget law submitted to the National Assembly, 
in multi-year program authorizations and annual payment appropriations, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 10 of the Letter of Development 
Policy; 
 
(k) 
established and made operational the new national regulatory agency for 
public procurement, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 68 of the 
Letter of Development Policy; 
7. 
To strengthen the legal and judicial systems 
(
l) 
recruited twenty eight (28) additional judges and twenty nine (29) 
additional clerks of the courts, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 59 of the Letter of Development Policy; and 
8. 
To improve human resources management towards achieving sector 
policy objectives 
(m) 
 authorized the three Ministries responsible for the education sector to carry 
out personnel management duties performed earlier by the Ministry responsible for 
civil service, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 78 of the Letter of 
Development Policy.
 
