Page  1
Annex 1  
Environment Analysis  
E1083 
 
Introduction 
 
This document is an analysis of the potential environmental and social impacts associated 
with the second Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-2) for Benin.  In addition to 
providing guidance for the compliance of Bank environmental and social safeguards 
during the implementation of PRSC-2, this analysis also summarizes the progress under 
PRSC-1 and sets the stage for the environmental assessment (EA) of envisaged PRSC-3, 
and the subsequent ones. The present document will be annexed to the Program 
Document of PRSC-2. 
 
Operational Context 
 
The overarching objectives of the proposed PRSC series are to support the 
implementation of Benin’s Poverty Reduction Strategy and to strengthen the 
Government’s capacity to design and carry out its own development and poverty 
reduction programs. PRSCs will focus on policies and reforms that have the highest 
poverty impact, and on areas where IDA has a comparative advantage. Given the 
comprehensiveness of the PRSP and the amount of resources needed for its 
implementation, PRSCs will be designed to assist the Government in establishing 
priorities and implementing a rolling reform program focused on these priorities. 
 
More specifically, the objectives of the PRSCs during the 2004-2006 period are to 
support the Government of Benin in its efforts to reduce poverty through the 
implementation of policies designed to: (i) maintain macroeconomic stability and 
accelerate economic growth (e.g., setting of a sound regulatory framework in liberalized 
sectors in order to create the enabling environment for private sector investment), and (ii) 
improve the delivery, quality, and coverage of basic services while improving 
expenditure efficiency. 
 
To that end, the series of PRSC-2 and PRSC-3 will continue to: 
-
help create the basis for private sector-led economic growth by supporting the 
Government’s macroeconomic program and improving investment climate;  
-
support the Government’s public expenditure management reform with the view 
to increase the poverty impact of public expenditures, along with the 
strengthening of public finance management and institutional capacity; and 
-
support the reform agenda and help finance the Government’s expenditure 
program in key sectors, focusing on the delivery of quality basic services tailored 
to the needs of the poor. 
Page  2
Overall, progress in achieving the PRSP objectives has been mixed during the past 12-18 months. 
Implementation has been rather slow despite broad areas of strength, such as public expenditure 
management and service delivery. Achievements under the three PRSP pillars are summarized 
below. 
 
The recent deterioration of economic activities led to a stagnation of GDP per capita in 2004. 
However, the Government has been successful in maintaining macroeconomic stability, and has 
taken the necessary steps to mitigate the effects of lower fiscal revenues on public expenditure 
management, as well as on program objectives. 
Significant progress has been made in implementing sectoral reforms, as well as in expanding 
basic services delivery, although improving the effectiveness of the reforms and the quality of 
services remains a key challenge. 
 
Implementation of the public expenditure management reforms has stayed on track. Results-based 
budgeting has progressively been put in place in line ministries, along with efforts to improve 
their monitoring and evaluation capacity. While reforms in the fields of budget execution, 
fiduciary management, and auditing systems have generally progressed well, some shortcomings 
have been noted with respect to the utilization of exceptional budget execution procedures. The 
Government and the Bank have agreed on a set of measures to address these issues in the short 
and medium terms (see para 137 ). 
 
Description of Project Objectives 
 
The proposed PRSC-
2
is designed to help implement Benin’s December 2002 Poverty Reduction 
Strategy. It will support key policy measures aiming at (i) bolstering the medium-term 
macroeconomic framework, (ii) improving service delivery, (iii) enhancing governance and 
institutional capacity, and (iv) promoting employment and income-generating activities for the 
poor. PRSC-2 will focus on selective cross-cutting themes (e.g., public expenditure management 
reform, civil service reform, justice) that are critical to the quality of service delivery. PRSC-2 
will focus on five sectors: health, basic education, and rural water, rural transport and agriculture. 
In addition to these five sectors, PRSC-2 will support the urban environmental management, as 
well as the forest management programs.  This support will ensure that these two programs are 
properly funded, implemented and monitored. 
 
In particular, PRSC-2 will support the implementation of Government policies and 
programs in the following areas: 
-
Public expenditure and budget management: (i) design and implement a transition 
strategy from project to program-based budgeting in transportation,  agriculture 
and in different sectors, (ii) develop a technical guide including quality standards 
for content and documentation for the preparation of program budgets, (iii) 
develop and implement a stronger performance monitoring and M&E capacity 
building program, and (iv) extend the coverage of the integrated public 
expenditure management system to all externally funded projects; 
-
Access to quality health services: (i) develop appropriate indicators needed for the 
monitoring and evaluation of the performance of the MOH, and the progress 
made towards achievement of MDGs, (ii) support and implement the health 
sector decentralization process by strengthening the capacity of health districts to 
implement and monitor priority health programs, and improving the mechanisms 
Page  3
for resource transfer from the center to districts, (iii) provide adequate support to 
priority health programs, particularly to reproductive health, malaria control, 
HIV/AIDS, and immunization; 
-
Access to quality basic education: (i) prepare a sector strategy and a long-term 
action plan, (ii) increase access and retention in primary education, (iii) improve 
management and distribution of staff (teachers), (iv) improve the efficiency of 
spending programs, and increase the role of communities in school management, 
and (v) develop new methods for primary and secondary teacher recruitment and 
training; 
-
Agricultural development activities aim to: (i) improve the efficiency of the core 
functions of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock at the national and 
regional level, (ii) create the enabling conditions necessary for the effective 
participation of producer organizations in sector management, (iii) improve 
access to agricultural services access for the poor and the cotton sector, in 
collaboration with the CDD program, and (iv) to develop decentralized, demand-
driven and integrated agricultural services, (v) improve public and private 
agricultural investment promotion;  
-
Cotton sector reform will (i) design and implement a single mechanism for the 
importation and distribution of inputs  and cotton primary marketing with clear 
indication of penalties for those who do not respect the mechanism, (ii) review 
the rules for the inter-profession, reorganize it to facilitate internal debate, but 
accept only a single inter-professional group with a clear definition of the 
relationship between the inter-profession and the Government and between the 
different professional groups; adopt a framework that would clearly define these 
relationships and make them legally binding; (iii) get the different professional 
organizations (producers, input distributors, ginners) to agree on their internal 
regulations and how they will operate within the rules of the reform; (iv) confirm 
the status and timetable for the privatization of SONAPRA’s gins and confirm 
that there will be no further involvement of SONAPRA (bis) in the cotton sector; 
-
Access to potable water in rural and semi-urban areas: (i) increase supply of water 
to rural to increase effective access in rural areas from 36 percent in 2003 to 45 
percent of the population in 2007, meanwhile, launch a special “Small Towns 
Water Initiative” in 2005 to increase significantly water coverage in semi-urban 
(localities with a population between 2000 and 55,000 inhabitants without access 
to potable water) dwellers by drilling 600 wells in 2004, (ii) adopt and implement 
a
long-term community plan for the maintenance of infrastructure (local repair 
shops, supply of spare parts, etc.), (iii) develop an adequate M&E system for the 
monitoring of water resources, and (iv) support the decentralization and 
deconcentration of rural water supply services and support the development of an 
Integrated Water Resources Management through a GOB action plan a new 
Water Code to be prepared in 2005; 
-
In rural transport: (i) implement a multi-year rural road investment program 
targeted to the poorest and most under-served areas, based on clear criteria for 
selecting optimal level of service; (ii) establish appropriate institutional 
Page  4
arrangements for managing and financing local rural roads in the context of 
decentralization; (iii) provide incentives to promote transport services in rural 
areas; (iv) improve the financial and management capacity of local governments 
and communities; (v) strengthen national, regional and local coordination 
mechanisms; (vi) strengthen the capacity of the Rural Road Directorate at the 
central level and regional rural road administration to implement the program; 
and (vii) establish an appropriate monitoring and evaluation system.  
-
Environmental management and urban sanitation: (i) improve the M&E and 
performance measurement tools for program budgets, (ii) prepare a plan for 
increasing the coverage of sanitation services in low-income and disadvantaged 
areas in Cotonou and Porto-Novo, and other secondary cities, and (iii) support 
environmental compliance and enforcement (environmental impact assessment, 
pollution control, etc.); 
-
Forestry and adjacent land management: (i) recruit and train additional foresters 
and provide sufficient funding and adequate equipment to the forest service, (ii) 
continue consultation process for the creation of forest user associations as 
partners to the co-management schemes between the forest service and local 
communities living on adjacent lands, (iii) prepare and implement forest 
management plans, and establish an M&E system, and (iv) review and update of 
forestry legislation. 
 
Environmental classification and Safeguard Policy 
 
The PRSC Working Group has recommended that this PRSC be classified as a SECAL and that 
OP 4.01, necessitating an environmental assessment will be required. An Integrated Safeguards 
Data Sheet (ISDS) recommending categorization as a B was prepared. This ISDS documents the 
main safeguards issues of the planned investments, as well as the measures proposed to mitigate 
any adverse environmental and social impacts that may result. Following the approval of the 
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS), and the B categorization by the Regional Safeguard 
Unit, an Environmental Assessment Annex was prepared. When this Annex is cleared by the 
Regional Safeguard Unit, it will be disclosed in the World Bank InfoShop. Its French version will 
be disclosed in Benin prior to the appraisal of the credit. 
 
Key Safeguard Issues 
 
The potential adverse environmental and social effects associated with the proposed PRSC-2 are 
associated mainly with the rural/semi-urban water supply activities, the health sector 
interventions, the investment in rural roads, the implementation of the forest management 
schemes, and the intensification of agricultural production, including cotton production. 
While the drilling of wells may only have minimal adverse impact on the physical environment, 
the use of the water sources and the maintenance of their surroundings could generate 
environmental effects stemming from the lack of adequate hygiene and the spread of water-borne 
disease (e.g., diarrhea caused by wastewater, mosquitoes, etc.). Such effects may create public 
health concerns. In addition to these concerns, the site and the drilling of wells could take away 
land from uses that support the livelihood of specific members of local communities. The 
mismanagement and inadequate disposal of medical and biomedical wastes (body tissues, blood 
Page  5
or body fluids and pathogens, sharp instruments, pharmaceutical compounds and packaging, etc.) 
are also the source of substantial public health risks. 
The construction or rehabilitation of roads can result in several types of adverse environmental 
and social impacts. Earthworks, right-of-way preparation, drainage works, quarries and borrow 
pits, vehicle and equipment servicing and fueling, etc. can cause damage to (i) non-living 
environment (physical features, soils, water resources, air), (ii) living environment (flora, fauna), 
and (iii) to the human environment (impairment of economic activities, human settlements, and 
public health and safety, etc). The intensification of agriculture, and especially cotton production 
will likely require an the increased use of pesticides. The misuse of pesticides has the potential 
for serious adverse environmental (surface and groundwater, fauna, flora), public health and 
safety impacts. To sum up, the activities supported through of the Ministry of Agriculture and 
Livestock that are supported by PRCS-2 may raise potential pest management issues. As a result, 
the Bank safeguards policy related to pest management (i.e., OP 4.09) is triggered. Finally, while 
the development and implementation of community-based forest management schemes will yield 
significant positive effects on the resource base, the restriction of certain types and level of uses 
of forests and forest products may impose hardship, or at least reduce the access to livelihood 
means on some segments of the local communities. Such effects will adequately treated as 
required by the resettlement operational policy (OP 4.12). 
Most of the environmental and social impacts associated with these investment programs 
supported by PRSC-2 are expected to be modest, and would be reversible through appropriate 
mitigation actions. PRSC-2 will finance the measures needed in order to eliminate or at least 
minimize the negative environmental and social impacts described above.  The Environmental 
and Social Management Plan of the PRSC-2 will identify the responsible institutions that are 
responsible for implementing and monitoring the mitigation measures associated with each 
category of sectoral investments. The Benin Environmental Agency will be responsibility for 
overseeing the execution of the ESMP of PRSC-2. An appropriate reporting mechanism will also 
be put in place to ensure that sectoral partners as well as external partners are kept abreast of the 
implementation performance. 
 
BORROWER READINESS FOR ADDRESSING SAFEGUARD ISSUES 
 
Regulatory and Institutional Framework 
 
Institutions for environmental management have developed slowly but steadily in Benin 
since the creation of the Ministry of Environment in 1992. The country adopted an 
overarching environmental law 
(loi cadre sur l’environnement)
 in 1999 that places 
environmental impact assessment at the core of the Government efforts towards 
achieving the goals of the sustainable development. Following the creation of the Benin 
Environmental Agency in 1995, the country benefited from the Bank’s support from 
1996-2001 in the implementation of the Environmental Management Project that focused 
on the creation of the basic institutional and technical capacity for environmental 
management. An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was one of the key areas of 
emphasis of the capacity building efforts. These capacity building efforts consisted of 
three main types of activities including (i) enacting a framework environmental law with 
specific requirements for EIA (and preparing and adopting implementation decrees for 
EIA law), (ii) developing sectoral guidelines for EIA, and (iii) holding several training 
workshops for the staff in line ministries, in consulting firms, and a few NGOs. These 
Page  6
training workshops started in 2000 and have had several rounds with differing thematic 
focus and complexity. 
 
In addition to the training of staff from the line ministries, the Environmental Agency 
helped create EIA cells in the following ministries: (i) economy and finance, (ii) public 
health, (iii) national defense, (iv) basic education, (v) public works and transport, (vi) 
agriculture, livestock and fisheries, (vii) mining, energy and water resources, (viii) 
interior, security and decentralization, (ix) industry, commerce and employment, (x) 
information, communication and new technologies. Of these ministries, seven have 
enacted an 
“arrêté ministeriel”
 that establishes the legal foundation for the operations of 
these cells.  The main role of these units is to undertake the screening of the public 
investment projects included in the budget of each year, and recommend appropriate 
actions (under the guidance of the Environmental Agency) aiming to mitigate any 
residual negative environmental or social impacts.  Based on the sectoral guidelines 
prepared by the Agency, they provide guidance and supervision of EIA studies, and 
mitigation plans. All the expenditure programs supported by PRSC-2 (health, education, 
water supply, rural roads, agriculture, urban environment, forestry) are located in line 
ministries where sectoral environmental impact assessment cells have been created. The 
Ministry of Environment, Housing, and Urban Development will continue to provide the 
Benin Environmental Agency with the budgetary resources that will allow the agency to 
continue the upgrading of its operational and technical capacity, particularly in strategic 
environmental assessment. These new skills will help the agency in order to provide the 
best possible oversight to the sectoral EIA units in the implementation of their respective 
ESMPs. 
 
During the implementation of the Environmental Management Project (1996-2001), the 
Benin Environmental Agency helped establish Municipal Associations for Environmental 
Management (AMAE). These associations (NGO status) also benefited from training in 
environmental assessment, and in local investment planning in the area of environmental 
management.  Following the formal creation of the communes and the first municipal 
elections in 2002, the AMAE are collaborating with the municipalities in the area of local 
environmental management. 
 
Environmental Policy Implementation 
 
In addition to the NEAP (updated in 2001), the Ministry of Environment, Housing, and 
Urban Development (MEHU) has adopted in 2002 a Medium-Term Strategic Plan (2002-
2006) that highlights the main objectives of the country in the area of environmental 
management, housing, and urban development. The Environment Directorate and the 
Benin Environmental Agency share the responsibility and objectives of the Ministry’s 
mandate in area of environmental management. This mandate that focuses on the control 
of the country’s major environmental threats evolves around the following activities (i) 
strengthening and deepening the regulatory framework, (ii) developing environmental 
compliance and enforcement tools, (iii) protecting coastal resources and controlling 
costal erosion, (iv) controlling urban transport pollution, and (v) increasing access to 
urban sanitation and drainage services. 
Page  7
These activities are fully reflected in the Ministry’s 2005 budget, and medium-term 
expenditure framework supported by PRSC-2. The Ministry has also developed an 
effective expenditure tracking, and activity/performance monitoring system that is now 
followed by other ministries.  It is the progress toward strategic planning and effective 
performance monitoring, especially in the area of environmental management that led to 
the inclusion of the Environment Program (of MEHU) in PRSC-2. PRSC-2 will ensure 
that this Program is properly funded and implemented. The integration of environmental 
impact assessment (big items that clearly require attention in terms of environmental 
impacts) in the appraisal and planning of at least 50 percent of 2004 public investments is 
one of the two indicators included in the PRSC-1 monitoring matrix (see PRSC-1 
Program Document). 
 
Arrangements for Borrower to Address Safeguard Issues 
 
Based on the above, it is fair to state that Benin would has the institutional, regulatory, 
and technical capacity required to support the implementation of the measures needed to 
ensure compliance with its own EA law as well as Bank safeguard policies. In addition to 
the general framework for applying due diligence and compliance with the country’s 
environmental legislation, a review of the implementation of PRSC-1 specific 
environmental assessment measures used in each of the ministries supported by PRSC-2 
was conducted. The result of this review and the lessons learned from the implementation 
of the environmental and social management plan of PRSC-1 will help identify the most 
effective ways to ensure compliance with the Bank safeguard policies during the 
implementation of PRSC-2. 
 
Arrangements for dealing with environmental and social safeguards in sectoral 
ministries 
 
(i) 
Investments in Rural Water Supply 
 
The Ministry of Energy and Water Resources, is among the departments that 
acknowledged most the importance of these EIA cells by giving them a legal mandate 
(i.e., adopted an 
“arrêté ministerial”
 that clarifies the role of the sectoral EIA unit). The 
environmental safeguards adopted by the Ministry in the area of rural water supply and 
water resource management include the following: 
-
Mandatory full EIA for dam; 
-
Avoid unsanitary sites (cemeteries, near dump sites, cattle pens and sites that 
served this purpose in the past); 
-
Control of wastewater and mud around wells; 
-
Sensitization of users on hygiene; and 
-
Imposing restrictions on the distance between wells and latrines (at least 15 
meters). 
 
Page  8
These measures will continue to be enforced during the implementation of the rural water 
supply investment of the proposed Credit. The Government is not directly involved in the 
process of designating the location where the wells are drilled.  This process is completed 
by the requesting community through a consultation process facilitated by NGOs. The 
drilling starts only when the community reaches an agreement on the selection of the site. 
This agreement must be based on a donation title signed by the commune. This process 
has worked well so far. 
 
(ii) Medical Waste Management 
 
Environmental safeguards for the Ministry of Health have to do mainly with the 
treatment and disposal of medical wastes. In 1998, the Ministry of Health and the 
Ministry of Environment, Housing, and Urban Development jointly prepared and adopted 
a
National Sanitation Action Plan. This Action Plan includes a component on health care 
waste management that has three categories of expenditures, namely, training, acquisition 
of health care equipment, and incinerators. The lack of sufficient financing (total cost in 
1998 was US$1.1 million) has impeded the implementation of this Action Plan. 
 
Fortunately, the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan of the Multi-
Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project provided the opportunity to implement the most urgent and 
cost-effective actions of the health care waste management component of the National 
Action Plan. In fact, a waste management plan (covering the whole country) prepared by 
the borrower was cleared by ASPEN in early 2002. Consequently, there is no need to 
prepare another plan. The project is now under implementation along with the waste 
management plan. PRSC-2 will use the same plan and rely on the existing 
implementation mechanisms to meet the safeguard requirements in the area of health 
service provision. 
 
(iii) 
Forest Management Activities 
 
Although no reliable data on changes in forest area is available, it is a common 
knowledge that the forest resource base of Benin has been decreasing at an accelerated 
rate over the last years.  Efforts by the Government to reduce the rate of deforestation 
have been hampered by fast growing demand for forest products, vested interests in the 
forest industry, and property rights issues. The Program for the Management of Forests 
and Adjacent Lands aims at developing new and more effective ways to reducing the rate 
of deforestation through the implementation of four set of activities: (i) restructuring of 
the forestry administration, (ii) providing technical and organizational assistance to local 
communities for sustainable forest resource management, (iii) stimulating private 
investment in forest-based enterprises and in alternative sources of income for the rural 
communities living near gazetted forests, and (iv) promoting sustainable agricultural 
practices in order to reduce encroachment of forest lands. This Program is co-financed by 
the GEF. 
 
GEF will support activities aiming at managing the forests and adjacent lands in an integrated 
way so as to reduce encroachment onto the remaining forest lands, and protect the forest resource 
base. In addition to yielding benefits to the local populations (reduced degradation of forest and 
Page  9
land resources leads to increased agricultural outputs and forest products), the implementation of 
integrated forest and adjacent land management plans will produce multiple global benefits 
including: (i) enhanced carbon sequestration, (ii) increased and more effective protection of 
biological diversity, and (iii) protection of water resources and watersheds. The planned activities 
are organized into three components, including: (i) technical and managerial capacity 
strengthening of the central and regional forestry administration units, (ii) development and 
implementation of participatory forest and adjacent land management plans, and (iii) sustainable 
production of fuel wood. Although the GEF component is still under preparation, the Government 
has started the implementation of the program since 2002. It is important to mention that local 
populations and communities living around the forests selected for co-management were fully 
involved in the preparatory activities. This involvement resulted in the formulation of a sub-
component 
titled “Sustainable use and community development” aiming to provide community 
members who might lose economic opportunities with alternative livelihood means. 
 
Overall, the proposed activities are not expected to generate noticeable environmental and social 
damage. Except for forest enrichment activities, little or no physical or structural investments are 
planned within the forest areas. However, the co-management plans could result in reduced 
access to the resources by the neighboring communities as a way to ensure the sustainable use of 
the forest resources. As part of the preparation of the GEF component, an environmental and 
social assessment of the full program is being prepared, and will be completed by the time the 
PRSC-2 is effective. This assessment will develop an environmental and social management plan 
that will propose mitigation measures for any adverse biophysical and social effects that might 
result from the implementation of the proposed activities. In particular, the study will identify 
clearly and account for the various categories of resource users affected by the planned activities, 
and prepare a resettlement process framework that seeks to balance the opportunity costs to the 
local populations with agreeable compensation measures. 
 
(iv) Urban 
Sanitation 
 
UrbanUrban sanitation services have improved steadily in the two major cities of the 
country (Cotonou and Porto-Novo) since the mid 1990s.  However, the concerns for 
unhealthy sanitation and environmental conditions are growing in low-income 
neighborhoods of Cotonou and Porto-Novo, and in secondary cities.  The improvement of 
sanitation infrastructure in low-income urban areas, especially in Cotonou and Porto-
Novo could generate noticeable environmental and social impacts. Such impacts are 
known to a great extent because the existing master sanitation plan prepared in 1998 
included an environmental impact assessment study that proposed an environmental and 
social management plan. PRSC-2 will help update the 1998 master sanitation plan by 
selecting high priority low-income areas where urgent improvement of sanitation services 
is needed in order to reduce the burden of environment-related diseases. Investment in 
terms of earth work and construction of drains will not start until 2005 because (i) the 
2004 sanitation budget is allocated primarily to the completion of on-going sanitation 
work in other areas, and (ii) the need to complete area-specific technical studies.  As part 
of these studies, the 1998 environmental and social study will be updated to meet the 
specific needs of the targeted areas. In addition, the Government is preparing a 
resettlement policy framework (RPF) as part of the preparation of the second 
decentralized city management project. The RPF will be completed by February 2005. 
These studies will be completed by the time the preparation of the 2005 budget starts 
(May 2004). 
Page  10
(v) 
Pest management in agriculture and cotton sub-sector development 
 
In conformity with the Bank safeguards policies, the government prepared an 
environmental management plan (EMP) as part of the cotton sector reform program 
started in 2002. This EMP consisted of two major parts: (a) the environmental audit of 
the ginning plants that were eligible for privatization, and (b) the pest management plan. 
The en
vironmental audit provided recommendations related to workers’ safety, pollution 
control within the plants and outside in the neighboring communities, and road safety. In 
compliance with the pest management safeguard policy, the pest management plan 
(PMP) is designed to minimize potential negative impacts on human health and the 
environment, and to promote alternative ways of pest control. The plan also helped to 
screen pest control products for better efficiency and safety of the use of such pesticides. 
Finally, the plan includes a capacity building component (training, targeted research, and 
awareness raising). This plan that has been is use since 2002 will continue to guide the 
work on environmental and social safeguards in the agricultural expenditure programs 
supported by PRSC-2. 
 
(vi) 
Rural roads and safeguards 
In 1996, the Ministry of Transport and public works has undertaken a series of studies in 
the context of the preparation of the Sector transport project and adopted an operational 
directive for environment. Then, the Ministry implement an institutional framework by 
1999 after the adoption of the NEAP (updated in 2001). 
The institutional framework in the sector have been developed, thanks to the donor 
projects and to the overarching environmental law: (a) an environmental unit with 
objectives to undertake different studies was created on September 14, 1999 with the 
support of DANIDA to ensure the implementation of the directives concerning the road 
projects, integrating an efficient management of the environmental issues in all the 
projects; (b) on February 20, 2001, an environmental cell was created to undertake the 
integration of environmental dimensions in the policies, plans, program’s and projects of 
the transport sector.  
Since 2001, the environmental unit in of environmental issues inside the MEHU 
(Ministry of Environment, Housing, and Urban Development) has been involved in the 
entire activity in the sector including the rural roads in collaboration with ABE (Benin 
Environmental Agency). By 2002, 238 km of rural roads have been executed in the Zou 
regional division with the support of DANIDA. This work has received a clearance from 
MEHU through its environmental unit. Reports and follow-up documents are available 
and can be obtained upon request. The GOB, ABE and DANIDA have agreed to 
undertake a review  and update the operational directives. 
 
ENFORCEMENT AND COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL AND 
SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS UNDER PRSC-1 
 
Measures proposed under PRSC-1 
Page  11
The appraisal mission discussed with the sectoral ministries the best way to help them 
implement successfully the above mitigation actions and comply with both national and 
Bank safeguard policies. The agreed measures rely heavily on the sectoral ministries 
themselves, and stress the link between these ministries, in particular, their environmental 
assessment cells with the Benin Environmental Agency (ABE). During the mission, the 
EA specialist of the PRSC-1 task team held meetings with (i) the Directorate of Planning 
and Prospective Studies and the representatives of the EA cell of each sectoral ministry, 
(ii) the Bank sectoral TTL (i.e., health, water supply, and urban sanitation, forest 
management), and (iii) the head of the environmental impact assessment unit of the ABE. 
These meetings examined the potential environmental and social impacts associated with 
the planned investments in the respective sectors, and agreed on the nature, and scope of 
the measures needed to mitigate these impacts. Drawing lessons from the implementation 
of the ESMP of PRSC-1, the teams adopted an action plan and division of labor that will 
improve the monitoring and reporting of the implementation of the adopted mitigation 
measures.  In particular, the task team agreed with the Government that the Benin 
Environmental Agency will play a greater role in leading and providing direct assistance 
to the line ministries involved in PRSC-2.  The Agency will also monitor the 
implementation of the safeguard measures of on-going programs/projects on which 
PRSC-2 depends for its compliance with OP 4.01.  This increased involvement of the 
Environmental Agency will be supported by earmarked budgetary resources.  The agreed 
division of labor is as follows: 
-
The Directorate of Planning and Prospective Studies of each sectoral ministry 
will prepare an environmental and social management plan (ESMP) and its 
implementation during PRSC-2, 
-
The EA cell of each sectoral ministry will prepare an implementation progress 
report of their ESMP under the supervision of the Benin Environmental Agency, 
-
The Benin Environmental Agency will monitor the implementation of the 
ESMPs, and assist the environmental cells in the preparation of the sectoral 
progress reports, 
-
The Benin Environmental Agency will prepare an integrated progress report that 
provides a synthesis of the implementation of the ESMPs during PRSC-2, and 
-
The sectoral TTLs of the PRSC-2 team are accountable for making sure that the 
agreed actions included in the ESMPs are implemented timely for the issuance of 
the progress reports and the final report. 
 
The final report to be prepared by the Benin Environmental Agency will be used as the 
basis for preparing the EA work for PRSC-3. The report should be available by the time 
PRSC-3 is appraised.
 
wb12009 
C:\Documents and Settings\WB12009\My Documents\E1083.doc 
20/04/2005 08:49:00
Page  12
