Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1286 
Operation Name 
SECOND POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY CREDIT 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (40%);General finance sector 
(40%);General information and communications sector 
(10%);Central government administration (10%) 
Project ID 
P074313 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BENIN 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Economy 
P.O.B. 302, Cotonou, Benin 
Mr. Mathias Houndonougbo 
Permanent Secretariat of the National Committee for Development 
and the Fight Against Poverty 
Tel. 229-30 -17-37 
Fax. 229-30-18-51 
Date PID Prepared 
December 15, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 10, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 28, 2005 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Benin's population was estimated at about 6.8 million in the 2002 census. GDP per capita is estimated at US$440 
in 2004, with agriculture contributing to over one-third of GDP and employing two-thirds of the work force. The 
main export crop, cotton, accounted for 76 percent of domestic exports on average in 2000-2002. The small 
industrial sector consists largely of cotton ginning and small enterprises involved in the production of basic 
consumption goods for the local market and account for about 14 percent of GDP. The large share of services (50 
percent of GDP) partly reflects Benin's role as a transportation and transit hub for the landlocked neighboring 
countries and their principal trading partner Nigeria. In comparison  to most other countries in the sub-region, and 
to its starting point of economic collapse and political crisis in 1989, Benin has achieved remarkable progress in 
sustaining robust growth while building a pluralist democracy over the past decade. Up to 2003, growth generally 
exceeded other economies in the region and productivity gains allowed per capita incomes to rise. Structural 
adjustment programs executed by the Government have been successful in establishing fiscal discipline, opening 
up the economy, privatizing most public enterprises, and strengthening private sector incentives. Most social 
indicators improved steadily throughout the 1990s, particularly for education and health. But as shown in Benin's 
recently completed PRSP, these achievements did not translate into significant progress in poverty reduction.  
 
Project Objective 
The overarching objectives of the proposed PRSC series are to support the implementation of Benin's PRSP and 
to strengthen the Government's capacity to design and carry out its own development and poverty reduction 
programs. PRSCs will focus on policies and reforms with the highest poverty impact and where IDA has a 
comparative advantage. Also given the comprehensiveness of the PRSP and the high cost of its implementation, 
PRSCs will be designed to assist the Government in establishing priorities and implementing a rolling core reform 
program. 
 
Page  2
More specifically, the objective of the PRSCs during the 2004-06 period are to support the Government of Benin 
in its efforts to reduce poverty through implementing policies designed to: (i) maintain macroeconomic stability 
and accelerate economic growth focusing on the effective implementation and completion of the privatization 
program, the setting of a sound regulatory framework in liberalized sectors, the improving of private sector 
investment climate, and of the legal and judicial systems; and (ii) improve the delivery, quality, and coverage of 
basic services while improving expenditure efficiency. 
 
The objectives of the PRSC-1 was to: (i) help create the basis for private-sector-led economic growth by 
supporting the Government's macroeconomic program and improving the investment climate; (ii) support the 
Government's public expenditure management reform program; and (iii) support the reform of the public resource 
management and help finance the Government's expenditure program in key sectors, focusing on the delivery of 
basic services tailored to the needs of the poor.  The proposed PRSC-2 will support the same objectives in the 
medium-term program while deepening the content of reform programs in light of lessons learned from PSRC-1 
implementation and expanding progressively the coverage to three new sectors (agriculture, rural transportation 
and justice).  
 
Project Design 
The series of PRSCs is intended to cover one PRSP cycle and be synchronized with the Government's budget 
cycle. It would contain clear performance benchmarks, policy measures and outcome indicators for each of the 
PRSCs. The PRSCs would provide an anchor for the Bank's overall support to Benin's policy and institutional 
reform and public expenditure priorities. Each individual PRSC will be put in place and disbursed on the basis of 
the up-front completion of a set of prior actions that demonstrate satisfactory progress of the country's social and 
structural reform agenda in support of its poverty reduction strategy. Each annual tranche, as part of the rolling 
medium-term program framework, will build on the previous one; its prior actions will be formulated and agreed 
upon drawing on the progress towards benchmarks laid out at the outset. 
 
Project Selectivity and Sequencing 
 
While PRSC-
1
has covered three sectors in “emphasis mode” (rural water, health and basic education), two others 
in "maintenance mode
1
"
(environment and forestry) and the public expenditure management reform as a core 
segment, PRSC-2 is expanded to include progressively agriculture, rural transport and justice. The inclusion of 
these new sectors reflects the fact that the Government has made significant progress in developing and/or 
sharpening the sectoral strategy along with the identification of a credible agenda of reforms to increase public 
expenditure efficiency. However, progress in these new sectors is not yet sufficient in defining: (i) a full-fledged 
results-based operational sector program; and (ii) a complete set of measurable result/outcome indicators to 
monitor progress in achieving objectives (including the lack of baseline and targets). 
 
In the new sectors, the PRSC-2 would support critical measures/steps that are necessary for the sector to be able 
to: (i) formulate a results-based operational program including measurable result/outcome targets; (ii) strengthen 
sector management to ensure effective implementation of this program; and (iii) put in place critical instruments 
for implementing the program. Financing needs of these new programs will be carefully assessed through the 
overall review of MTEF 2005-07. This will be done with the idea to limit their pressure on the public spending 
while preparing the ground and conditions for their full participation into the process. These sectors will be lightly 
covered in the policy matrix at this stage and will be subject to selected policy-based prior actions and 
benchmarks.  
 
1
These are two sub-sector programs that have achieved impressive results under the PERAC and where no substantial policy issues are 
expected. Support under PRSCs would ensure that that these programs are properly funded, executed and monitored. 
Page  3
Project Environmental Aspects 
 
Based on the objectives and sectoral coverage of PRSC-1, the operation was classified as a sectoral adjustment 
credit (SECAC) in accordance with the Interim Guidelines for PRSCs of May 2001. According to Bank policy, 
the Operational Directive (OD) 8.60, Adjustment Lending, and Operational Policy (OP) 4.01, Environmental 
Assessment, apply. In accordance with OP 4.01, the credit was categorized as a B without a separate 
Environmental Assessment. The Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS - under preparation) will document the 
main safeguards issues and the measures proposed to mitigate any adverse environmental and social impacts that 
may result. Following the approval of the Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS) by the Regional Safeguard 
Unit, an Environmental Analysis Annex will be prepared and disclosed through the World Bank InfoShop, and in 
Benin prior to the appraisal of the credit. 
 
Project Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits
:
The reform program to be supported by PRSC-2 is expected to contribute to the PRSP's ultimate goals, 
with greater effects on the following areas: (i) improved budgeting and public expenditure management; and (ii) 
improved basic services delivery (health, education, water and sanitation services). 
 
Although the PRSC will help increase the service delivery through the support of the PRSP, the PRSC as a 
programmatic instrument has another main benefit: increasing Benin’s ownership of its development program, 
and promoting coordination among donors’ while maximizing the impact of the donors aid on poverty reduction. 
 
Risk:
 The main risk is the economy’s vulnerability to a further drop in cotton prices and/or in cotton production. 
Given the importance of the cotton sector for the economy, a significant drop in international cotton prices or a 
disruption of production would affect growth and living standards of the population, and would worsen the poor 
conditions of those in rural areas.  
 
Vulnerability to economic and political developments in Nigeria
.
This represents both a big opportunity and a 
serious risk for development and poverty reduction in Benin. This risk was identified under PRSC-1 and has 
started to materialize in 2004. Nigeria has imposed new restrictions on Benin’s re-exports. This concerns a list of 
44 products. To benefit from positive developments in Nigeria, Benin should aim to become a more efficient trade 
platform by ensuring that its customs system operates fairly and efficiently. It should lead the West African 
Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) to adopt even more liberal and open trading policies, and ensure that 
its infrastructure services are delivered at lowest cost (especially port and transport operations). Improvement of 
port operations are supported by the PRSC-1. 
 
Slippages in key reforms and program implementation.
 The upcoming presidential elections and preceding 
campaign could result in political conditions and institutional dynamics, which may increase the fiduciary risk. 
This risk is controlled under the CAS triggers since it could have important setback effects on the Government’s 
ability to maintain a stable macroeconomic environment.  
 
Weak institutional capacity.
 There is a slight improvement in the area of public expenditure management, but 
the institutional capacity remains an important risk since it could slow down the pace of improvements in public 
service delivery as well as implementation of core reforms. The progressive expansion of the scope of the 
program also tends to put more pressure on already weak institutional capacity. Although the increased ownership 
by the Government and other local stakeholders would foster the creation of national capacity in the long run, 
various approaches will be implemented to respond to capacity building needs along with the program 
implementation. These include: (i) the outsourcing of services when appropriate, through an active partnership 
with private providers; (ii) the implementation of tailored capacity building activities funded under the national 
budget and/or financed by donors. 
 
Page  4
Project Implementation 
 
The program will be supervised by an Inter-ministerial Committee chaired by the Minister of Finance. 
Coordination and monitoring will be managed by the Permanent Secretariat of the National Committee for 
Development and the fight Against Poverty. 
 
Contact Point  
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone: (202) 458-5454 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
 TTLs: 
 
David Tchuinou  (Ext: 89605) Rachidi Radji (Ext 31008)  
 
