Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22277
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(39140; 3914A; 27560)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.7 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHNA
FOR THE
IODINE DEFICIENCY DISORDERS CONTROL PROJECT
June 27, 2001
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia & Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May, 2001)
Currency Unit = Renminbi (RMB)
RMB 1.00 = US$ 0.12
US$ I = Y8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AusAID           -                Austalian Agency for International Development
CAS              -                Country Assistance Strategy
CNCLI            -                China National Council of Light Industry
CNSIC            -                China National Salt Industry Corporation
GOC              -                Government of China
IBRD             -                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICCIDD           -                International Council for the Control of IDD
IDA              -                International Development Association
IDD              -                Iodine Deficiency Disorders
IDDC             -                Iodine Deficiency Disorders Control
ISIDF            -                Iodized Salt Industry Development Fund
mtpy             -                Million tons per year
MCH              -                Maternal and Child Health
MI               -                Micronutrient Initiative
MOF              -                Ministry of Finance
MOH             -                 Ministry of Health
NGO              -                Non-governmental Organization
NIDDEP           -                National IDD Elimination Program
PIU              -                Project Implementation Unit
SAR              -                Staff Appraisal Report
SDBC             -                State Development Bank of China
SDR              -                Special Drawing Rights
SDPC            -                 State Development and Planning Commission
SIL             -                 Sector Investment Loan
SOE             -                 Statement of Expenditure
TT               -                Technology Transfer
UNDP             -                United Nations Development Progmme
UNICEF           -                United Nations Children's Fund
UNIDO-           United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USI              -                Universal Salt Iodization
WBOB             -                World Bank Office, Beijing
WHO              -                World Health Organization
Vice President: . Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:   Yukon Huang
Sector Manager/Director:    Maureen Law
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Janet I.Hohnen



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
IODINE DEFICIENCY DISORDERS CONTROL PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry     2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                        7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                         10
6. Sustainability                                                              16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                              22
8. Lessons Learned                                                            31
9. Partner Comments                                                           34
10. Additional Information                                                    38
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                          43
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                          44
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                          47
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                          48
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components          50
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                             51
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                         52
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                           54
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                         55
Annex 10. Borrower's Report                                                   62
Annex 11. Summary of UN Agency Programs                                       77
Annex 12. Executive Summary                                                   83
Annex 13. Government Letters                                                  88
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Acknowledgements
Background. Pioneering studies of iodine deficiency disorders (IDD) began in China in the 1960s under the
leadership of Professor Ju Chen Yi and Professor Ma Tai, assisted later by Professor Chen Zu Pei and the
collaboration of Australian scholars including Professors Basil Hetzel, Cres Eastman and Glen Maberley.
This work provided the scientific basis for advocacy to the Ministry of Health for early control of IDD and
the start of salt iodization in the 1980s. IDD control in China was encouraged by Dr. James Grant of
UNICEF and followed up by representatives and technical staff of UNDP, UNICEF, WHO and UJNIDO in
Beijing, led by Mr. Arthur Holcombe, Representative of UNDP. Following the World Summit for Children
in 1990, Premier Li Peng committed China to the global goals of Universal Salt lodization and Elimination
of IDD. China then embarked on a new IDD control project with UN support, which sponsored the
National Advocacy Meeting in September 1993, to launch the National IDD Elimination Program. On this
occasion State Councillor Madam Peng Peiyun requested World Bank support, which was agreed by Vice
President Javed Burki.
Proiect Preparation and Supervision. The China IDD Control Project was identified by Jagadish Upadhyay
(Senior Project Officer) as a component of the Comprehensive Maternal and Child Health Project, but was
then prepared as a stand-alone project by a team consisting of N. C. Krishnamurthy (Industry Specialist,
team leader), Lalit Raina (Finance Specialist), Janet Hohnen (Public Health Specialist) Dingyong Hou and
Darren Dorkin (Social Sector Operations Analysts) and Yingwei Wu (Procurement Officer), with
assistance of Judith McGuire (Nutrition Adviser), under the guidance of Division Chief Vinay Bhargava,
Country Director Nicholas Hope and Resident Mission Chief Pieter Bottelier. The Bank task team,
supported by Sector Managers Joseph Goldberg, Alan Ruby and Maureen Law, retained N. C.
Krishnamurthy, J. Hohnen and D. Dorkin throughout project implementation and over time included
Beijing based staff Naiqin Lu (Industry Sector); Hongwen Zhao and Shiyong Wang (Health), Jinan Shi
(Procurement), Junxue Chu (Financial Management and Disbursement) and Lansong Zhang
(Administrative Support), and Leon Chen (Project Operations Consultant). Consultants Cres Eastman and
William Watkins participated in the Mid Term Review.
Implementation Completion Report. This Intensive Learning ICR was prepared by the task team of J.
Hohnen, N. C. Krishnamurthy, D. Dorkin with administrative support of Juliana Williams, as well as
assistance from Shiyong Wang, Lansong Zhang and Leon Chen in Beijing. It was translated by Mr. Chen.
The ICR was based on: a field visit and report by Chorching Goh (OED); an independent review of the
project conducted in October 2000 by Mr. Venkatesh Mannar, Executive Director of Micronutrient
Initiative; the completion mission of the project in November/December 2000, which included a
stakeholders' workshop and a meeting with UN agencies; and materials in the project files. The draft was
finalized after discussion with the Government in April 2001, and two seminars in World Bank
Headquarters in June 2001. The ICR was reviewed by EASHD Sector Director Maureen Law and cleared
by China Country Director Yukon Huang. The Borrower's contribution is in Annex 10 and the UJN
agencies' contribution is in Annex 11.






Project ID: P037156                                       Project Name: IODINE DEFICIENCY DISORDERS
CONTROL
Team Leader: Janet I. Hohnen                               TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR            Report Date: June 2 7, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: IODINE DEFICIENCY DISORDERS CONTROL   L/C/TFNumber: 39140; 3914A; 27560
Country/Department: CHINA                                                 Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: HT - Targeted Health
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/02/92                                 Effective: 09/01/95           04/16/96
Appraisal:  01/31/95                                  MTR: 10/30/96               05/04/98
Approval:  06/28/95                                 Closing:  12/31/98           12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: PRC/CHINA NATIONAL SALT INDUSTRY CORPORATION (CNSIC).
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Russell Cheetham
Country Manager:     Yukon Huang                                Nicholas Hope
Sector Manager:      Maureen Law                                Vinay K. Bhargava
Team Leader at ICR:   Janet 1. Hohnen                           N.C. Krishnamurthy
ICR Primary Author:  Janet I. Hohnen; N. C.
Krishnamurthy
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Assessment of the objective and design of the project is made in the context of the National
Iodine Deficiency Disorders Elimination Program (NIDDEP), referred to in Chinese as NIDDEP
2000, which began in 1993 to meet China's commitment to the global goals of universal salt
iodization (USI) by 1996 and virtual elimination of IDD by 2000. The efficacy and cost
effectiveness of targeted interventions to reduce micronutrient malnutrition, including the
iodization of salt to prevent IDD, had been demonstrated in many countries. The World Bank
group was supporting micronutrient initiatives in several countries when this project was being
prepared, including four projects or components of other projects incorporating salt iodization,
iodine supplementation by other means, or programs to eliminate IDD (A summary of the project
background and context is in ref. 16, Mannar, V. Section 1).
The NIDDEP is a comprehensive multi-sectoral nationwide effort to eliminate IDD, a major
preventable cause of impaired mental development and physical deformity, through making
available edible salt fortified with iodine to all households in China, in line with the goal of
Universal Salt Iodization (USI). It comprises several components including: organization and
advocacy; health education; legislation; program planning and review; monitoring and
surveillance; technical support and international cooperation; scientific research; and ensuring an
adequate supply of iodized salt. The NIDDEP has been supported by many national and
international partners under the leadership of the State Council. Within this broad program, the
specific role of the Iodine Deficiency Disorders Control (IDDC) Project has been to assist China
to develop the capacity to produce and deliver the required amount of adequately iodized salt. A
major factor in the outstanding success of the NIDDEP was Government's recognition of the
central role of the salt industry, and the making of a set of legal, administrative and financial
decisions to support this central role.
The project's overall development objective was to help reduce the incidence of IDD in China by
supporting the NIDDEP through financing investments in production, iodization, packaging and
distribution of iodized salt. The project scope and outputs were clearly defined, with specific
targets for physical infrastructure which formed the essential deliverables of the project. There
was no revision of the development objective during the project, although the support provided to
some participating salt enterprises was adjusted during implementation in line with ongoing
industry rationalization.
The project objective supported one of the Borrower's disease prevention priorities and its
international conrmitment to IDD elimination. The project was included in the lending pipeline at
short notice on request of the State Council to the Bank's Country Director for China. The
project's scope resulted from the decision of the Government of China (GOC) to use Bank
assistance solely in the salt sector, for the physical underpinning of the key NIDDEP strategy of
improved supply of iodized salt. The project objective was also consistent with the aim of the
Bank's 1995 China country assistance strategy (CAS) to help alleviate poverty through social
sector support, in this case through control of a high priority health problem which
disproportionately afflicts the poor. At the time of project identification it was estimated that 400
million people in China were at risk of IDD, constituting 40% of the global total. In rural China
-2 -



whole communities were intellectually impoverished and unable to contribute fully to their own
development, due to IDD.
The project strategy of industry upgrading was also consistent with the Government's ongoing
drive for economic development through enterprise reform, also supported in the 1995 China
CAS. The project's facilitation of reform and rationalization of the salt industry resulted in a
strong alignment of the interests of the industry and social sectors. In addition, the project's
support of technology transfer in the manufacture of packaging machines matched the
Government's aspirations for industrial development and import substitution.
The project objective itself was found to be achievable, although project implementation period
estimated at appraisal proved unrealistic, due to the complexity and vast geographic distribution
of the participating enterprises. The Bank team became aware of these complexities during
preparation, but was faced with the optimistic assurances of the implementing agency and some
pressure on GOC to achieve the international goal of USI by 1996. The time required to
complete the technology transfer was also underestimated. In the event, as discussed below, the
project was extended by two years.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objective was not revised
3.3 Original Components:
As described in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the project consisted of two parts:
Part A, comprising physical projects at enterprise level, including civil works, equipment,
installation, training and management support for the upgrading of existing facilities and creation
of additional new capacity for raw salt upgrading, iodizing, packaging and distribution of edible
salt; and Part B, a limited program of technical assistance in information systems and project
management. The basic elements of the project design were straightforward, involving
construction of simple buildings and the procurement, manufacture, installation and operation of
equipment which was not technologically complex. However, the project overall was ambitious,
complex and demanding due to the following factors:
(a) the size and geographic scope, covering over 200 enterprises in 31 province-level
jurisdictions;
(b) the technology transfer element, involving many factors which were difficult to control
during implementation;
(c) the environment of enterprise reform and rationalization, then just gaining momentum
in China, and in the salt industry given an added incentive by the project;
(d) the in-country financial mobilization required; the Bank's initial funding amounted to
less than 20% of the estimated project cost.
(e) the lack of previous experience of the implementing agency with Bank practices;
(f) the coordination required with other UN and bilateral partners for supply of technical
assistance and machine prototypes; and
(g) the coordination required to ensure participation of the enterprises and other
stakeholders in project definition, implementation arrangements and selection of
equipment.
-3 -



The design included specific targets for capacity rationalization and upgrading in each province.
The targets were modified during project implementation as a result of ongoing industry
rationalization and re-estimation of total capacity needed and capacity switching amongst units;
however the overall physical targets remained valid.
At appraisal, the major risk identified was continued consumption of non-iodized salt, which
would detract from full utilization of project capacities and delay IDD elimination. Lower risks
related to timely delivery of equipment, and project management capacity in relation to the scale
of the project. These risks were addressed through the following elements of design and the
implementation environment, which were either place or were committed before project
implementation began:
(a) strong government commitment, with policy guidance and oversight from the highest
level of the Government (the State Council) and a framework for supervision,
coordination and monitoring of progress in NIDDEP at each level down to the
enterprise itself,
(b) a law prohibiting production or sale of edible salt unless iodized to the required
standard;
(c) regulations for licensing of enterprises involved in production, distribution, transport
and sale of iodized salt, and for the labeling of iodized salt packages;
(d) financing mechanisms, including a new price for standard iodized salt, with a small
portion of the price channeled into the national Iodized Salt Industry Development
Fund (ISIDF);
(e) strong, coordinated support among UN agencies and other donors under the NIDDEP;
and
(f) a Government letter assuring the Bank that it would implement all the NIDDEP
interventions required to ensure the project's impact;
(g) provision for technical assistance on project management to the implementing agency.
The main limitations of the design which might have been anticipated, but might not have been
avoided, were:
(a) the short implementation period (noted above), which underestimated time needed for
the technology transfer process, for mobilizing provincial authorities and enterprises to
participate in the project, and for internal review and approval procedures;
(b) the Bank's requirement for all provincial and enterprise agreements to be in place
before effectiveness, resulting in an interval of 10 months rather than the estimated
three months from Board approval to effectiveness. However, the delay was not
material since there was provision for retroactive financing of activities started before
effectiveness;
(c) the lack of Bank funding for any NIDDEP activities outside the salt sector. This
decision was made by GOC, with support of the Minister of Health, in keeping with its
policy on onlending and repayment of World Bank funds, also taking into account the
expected support of other agencies for health sector activities of NIDDEP. The
decision disappointed Ministry of Health (MOH) staff, especially as US$10 million of
the project credit had been deducted from another health project, and MOH had
expected some World Bank funds would be used for activities such as public
- 4 -



education, standard setting, surveillance and health worker training. This situation
made it difficult in the early stages of the project, for the Bank team to maintain
dialogue on plans and progress in the full range of NIDDEP activities, as mandated in
the project's legal agreement. However, this early difficulty in MOH-Bank relations
did not significantly affect project implementation, and the situation improved as the
project and the NIDDEP progressed.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's quality at entry is rated as Satisfactory based on the following features of project
design and readiness and the policy and regulatory environment:
(a) the responsiveness of the objectives and design to the priorities and strategies of the
borrower (described above);
(b) the strong organizational, regulatory and financial framework in place (described in 3.1
above);
(c) both the project implementation unit (PIU) and the implementation plan for the first
year were in place;
(d) some procurement actions were underway, with completion before effectiveness of the
evaluation of international and domestic packaging machine manufacturers,
preparation of technical specifications, preliminary quotations and a procurement plan;
(e) there was strong support for initial project activities from the UN agencies; a
coordination mechanism among UN agencies was operating and was later formalized
through signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on September 14, 1995;
(f) the monitoring indicators for the project had been agreed during negotiation and
arrangements were in place for their collection;
(g) a master plan was prepared specifying the physical facilities to be created, as well as
the roles and responsibilities of concerned agencies for implementation; and
(h) a clear financing plan was in place, with commitments to provide agreed shares from
identified counterpart financing agencies.
Overall, great effort was made to ensure the readiness of the project, in the face of: (a) pressure
to start implementation quickly to meet China's commitment to USI; and (b) some differences of
Bank and GOC views on what constituted readiness for implementation in terms of detailed
planning, establishment of the PIU, implementation arrangements, counterpart financing, etc.
Appraisal was in fact postponed twice by the Bank team to allow more time to complete those
actions considered essential to improve readiness. The Government also postponed approval until
its own project feasibility report was revised to meet its requirements. This approval was given
in February 1995.
Financial readiness:
The financial readiness of the project was evident from the following:
(a) agreements were reached with MOF, the two main counterpart financiers, ISIDF and
the State Development Bank of China (SDBC), the provinces and enterprises on the
- s -



size and conditions for their contributions to the project, including funding of any cost
overruns. Signed agreements with the provinces and enterprises were a condition of
effectiveness;
(b) onlending, disbursement and repayment arrangements for the Credit/Loan were agreed
involving MOF, the China National Salt Industry Corporation (CNSIC), a financial
intermediary and the provinces; and
(c) a new price for iodized salt was set by GOC (and formalized in January 1996). The
resulting increased income to the ISIDF helped ensure the project's counterpart
funding, as well as additional resources for industry upgrading and related activities
outside the project.
Technical readiness:
The technology for upgrading the physical facilities was not sophisticated or expensive,
comprising iodizing, mixing and packaging machines; basic laboratory testing methods and simple
warehouse buildings with features for reducing dust and salt in the air. Assessment and selection
of models of equipment to be funded had begun earlier with support of UNICEF and UNIDO.
Upgrading of domestic manufacturing capability for retail packaging machines through
technology transfer was an objective of the project. Standard plant designs were developed by a
local engineering company (completed in July 1995) and used in the provincial feasibility studies.
A program of research and development was also defined before project effectiveness, giving
priority to reducing iodine losses through: (i) improving iodizing machines; (ii) increasing the
stability of iodine in salt; and (iii) irriroved packaging machinery.
Bank safegyards: None of the specified monitorable Bank safeguard policies was applicable to
this project. There were no issues of negative environmental impact, resettlement or threat to
minority communities.
External factors: The project was designed under two main assumptions about external factors:
(a) the major assumption was that complementary activities of the NIDDEP would be carried out,
thus ensuring that the project's support for the edible salt industry would in fact lead to realization
of its development objective of improved use of iodized salt at household level and reduction of
IDD. This assumption was considered reasonable due to top level political commitment, a good
strategy and strong institutional arrangements for the NIDDEP, technical support and finance
from other international agencies, and the commitment on this matter given by MOH to the World
Bank during appraisal and negotiations (see ref. 1, Staff Appraisal Report, Annex 2).
(b) the second important assumption was that the new price of iodized salt, which underpinned
the financing of the upgraded capacity and distribution of iodized salt across China, would not
significantly affect affordability or demand for iodized salt at household level. This assumption
was based on the estimation that the price increase for quality iodized salt represented less than
one percent of the household budget, in both rural and urban areas, and would therefore not be a
concern for the vast majority of families. The assessment at project completion is that on balance
the Government's decision to set a new higher price for quality iodized salt was the right decision,
and helped to finance the needed great expansion in supply of iodized salt. However, for some
- 6 -



disadvantaged communities, where price may still be one of the factors affecting use, advocacy
and marketing as well as compensation, price subsidy or other alternative strategies might be
needed to ensure household uptake.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
The project outcome is rated as Highly Satisfactory, based on the contribution of the project to
the achievement of the goals of the NIDDEP, within the relatively short period of about six years.
The standard for assessing achievement of the project development objective did not change over
the implementation period.
NIDDEP progress was monitored through three national surveys, conducted in 1995, 1997 and
1999 by MOH and Provincial Bureaus of Health, with national and international assistance. The
surveys assessed three program indicators: the availability of adequately iodized salt at household
level, and the prevalence of two biological markers for iodine deficiency, enlargement of the
thyroid (goiter) and low urinary iodine excretion. The results showed that, for the country as a
whole, coverage of quality iodized salt at household level increased from 39.9% in 1995 to 88.9%
in 1999; while measures of goitre and low urinary iodine in school children decl'ned dramatically
in the same period.
Table 4a. Outcome/Impact Indicators
Indicaw.-r                 1995       1997               999
1. % households consuming quality iodized salt   39.9   81.1             88.9
(20 ppm or over in tested sarl samples)
2a. % school children 8-10 years with enlarged   n. a.  9.9               8.0
thy-roid (measured by ultrasound)
2b. % school children 8-10 years with enlarged   20.4   10.9              8.8
thyroid (measured by palpation).
3. % school children 8-10 yrs with low urinary   13.3    3.5              3.3
iodine (50 ug/L or less)                 T
Source:  Three national surveys conducted by GOC with intenational support (Annex 7, ref. 24)
ug/L = micrograms per liter
ppm = parts per million
[Note: The international criteria for IDD elimination are: (a) 90% of households consuming salt
with 20 ppm iodine or above; (b) no more than 20% of school children with urinary iodine below
50 ug/L; and (c) no more than 5% schoolchildren with thyroid enlargement, by palpation or
ultrasound.]
The project's health impact, through its contribution to the NIDDEP, is rated as High. The
increase in household coverage of adequately iodized salt implies that an additional 50% of
families in China will now benefit from greatly reduced incidence of miscarriage and stillbirth,
physical deformity and mental retardation caused by iodine deficiency, bearing in mind that IDD is
the commonest cause of preventable mental retardation in the world and that at the beginning of
the 1990s, China was estimated to have 40% of the world population at risk of IDD. In addition,
studies in China and other countries, as reported by Micronutrient Initiative, have concluded that
-7-



all children born in previously iodine deficient communities and now protected from IDD will
have on average intelligence 13-5 IQ points greater than if not protected. Out of an estimated
18.2 million births per year in China, 17.2 million newborns are now protected from IDD,
including about 9 million with protection provided through the increased coverage of iodized salt
resulting from this project. Apart from improved reproductive health, the enhancement of
learning ability and productivity, and reduction of dependency and medical costs due to disability,
will make an important contribution to social and economic development.
The impact on povertv reduction is rated as Modest. The additional 50% of China's families now
using iodized salt, with the benefits described above, include a large number of the poor and very
poor, and to the extent that poor families and communities are more burdened by the effects of
ill-health and disability than non-poor, they will particularly be advantaged by the success of the
Program. Economists consider that the marginal productivity increase of improved health is likely
to be higher for poorer than for richer families, which would further underline pro-poor benefits
of project. On the other hand, it is known that the estimated 10% of households not yet
consuming iodized salt are predominantly located in the poorer provinces and counties. These
were not reached directly by the project. However, the Government has made new plans to
address these areas, and as discussed below, one important resources available to assist is the
ISIDF which was greatly strengthened as a result of the project.
In June 2000, an evaluation group representing six government agencies made a further
comprehensi'e assessment of each province and concluded that China had satisfied the criteria for
virtual elimination of IDD at the country level and in 24 provinces. The review identified
remaining problems in the other seven provinces, especially in remote inland areas and in some
coastal areas where salt is produced by small enterprises. These problem areas contain 14% of
China's population. While these gaps could not have been addressed within the scope of the
project as designed, in October 2000, GOC and the provinces made detailed plans to address this
challenge in the next five years, through such activies as: (a) establishing small salt iodizing and
packaging plants some local population centers; (b) social marketing; (c) targetted subsidies of the
salt price or transport cost, and (d) incentives to reduce excess production capacity, especially
among small producers. Until such strategies are well established, alternative iodine
supplementaton for vulnerable groups, especially women and young children, should remain in
place. The ISIDF, which has grown strong as a result of the project, is available for use in these
remaining problem areas. For example, a small iodization plant has been built in Tibet and two
more are planned there, using the ISIDF along with funds from WHO and the Australian Agency
for International Development (AusAID).
4.2 Outputs by components:
Part A. Physical Capacity Building (Credit US$17.29 million!.
The achievement of outputs in this component is rated Highly Satisfactory, based on the
completion of all physical targets of the project, including installed capacities for salt production,
iodization and packaging as well as successful technology transfer for production of retail
packaging machines in China (see Annex 1, Table I b).
In summary the project outputs were as follows:
- 8 -



(a) upgrading of 1.54 mtpy low quality raw salt production in 55 enterprises, with
concurrent expansion of capacity to 2.45 mtpy (compared with SAR target of 2.2
mtpy in 57 enterprises)
(b) installation of iodization capacity at 112 locations, with increase of total iodization
capacity from 3.5 to 8.1 mtpy (target adjusted down from SAR target of 8.16mtpy)
(c) installation of new bulk packaging capacity at 29 locations to 3.76 mtpy (compared
with the appraisal target of 2.93 mtpy)
(d) installation of new retail packaging capacity at 147 locations up to 3.45 mtpy
(compared with the appraisal target of 3.16 mtpy)
(e) installation of new carton packaging capacity at 2 locations, each of 0.05 mtpy (same
as the appraisal target).
Part B. Technical Assistance (Credit US$0.14 million). The output of this small component
(0.6°% of the credit) is rated Unsatisfactory. The component was not frlly implemented due to the
following factors: (a) the project implementing agency, CNSIC, was not convinced that the
planned technical assistance would be helpful, and proceeded with reluctance with the
procurement process; (b) the recommended system and implementation arrangements did not
meer the needs and expectations of the client; the software system, developed in English, was
found to be difficult and expensive to convert into Chinese; and (c) the implementing unit did not
fully put into practice the system recommended by the consultant firm. However CNSIC
recognized the principles and utility of the project management systems and used some of the
idLas when it requested a local software firm to undertake the development of the nationwide Salt
Industry Information System. (CNSIC has commented that it is satisfied with the fnal outcome of
this work.)
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Economic and financial rates of return were not estimated at appraisal nor at the conclusion of the
project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact is rated as Substantial. The assessment covers:
(A) impact on the implementing agency; (B) impact on the salt industry; and (C) impact on
intersectoral relations and the NIDDEP.
A.    Impact on Implementing Agency. The project made the following contributions to
improved institutional capacity of CNSIC:
(a) improved capacity in project management, financial management, procurement and
audit procedures, which were developed in response to project needs, including
World Bank requirements.
(b) Upgrading of the management information system and improved links to all levels in
the industry, although the potential of the system has not yet been fully realized.
(c) Strengthened capacity to interact with a wide range of international partners, to
represent China in international forums and partnerships and to offer support to other
g  



countries in operational aspects of salt iodization and IDD elimination
(d) consolidated CNSIC's leadership and advocacy role for IDD Control in wide range of
intersectoral activities and the media.
B. Impact on the Salt Industry. The project:
(a) greatly improved overall management system and management capability of the salt
industry, bringing it recognition and status among industrial sectors in China;
(b) enhanced understanding and implementation at all levels of approaches to product
quality control, cost control, marketing and communication which are integral parts
of a modem industry; and
(c) stimulated improved institutional arrangements for research and development (R&D)
in the sector, and the application of R&D results in the industry, e.g., adoption of new
standards and procedures throughout the industry.
The technology transfer (TT) arrangement provided a stimulus to institutional development in the
packaging industry. The technology for manufacture of modem packaging machines was
transferred from a European company to a local machinery manufacturing firm as part of an
equipment supply contract. The TT process, as well as the development of human resources and
infrastructure at the domestic fimn, was successful and led to further adaptation of the technology
and related quality control, and manufacture of the machines required by enterprises participating
in the project. The domestic firm is now able to manufacture machines to meet future demands
within China, and will be in a position to c, mpete in the international market, given its cost
advantages.
One negative impact of the industry's reform, at least in the short term, has been loss of jobs due
to closure of excessive salt production capacity, and also the conversion from manual to
automatic packaging methods.  Loss of low skill jobs is a common effect of  industry
rationalization and reform which is taking place in on a huge scale in China. As the economy is
expected to continue growing at 5-7% annually in the next 5 years at least, and becoming more
diversified, commensurate job growth is also expected, which would facilitate finding of
alternative employment by those laid off. In addition, many provinces have provided incentives or
compensation to small producers to reduce or cease production, and assisted with those
enterprises to find alternative employment. However, ability to assist in this way varies among the
provinces, and the persistence of excess capacity in those areas is a major challenge which may
require additional higher level support. This is one area for legitimate use of the ISIDF.
Role of Government. The strong role taken by central and provincial Governments, through legal
channels and regulation, has been an important institutional factor in the project's success during
the 1990's; the passing of laws and licensing regulations is justified in terms of the public health
and social benefit from reduction of IDD. With the industry on a more viable footing and with the
expected growth of consumer advocacy and general strengthening of civil society in the next
decade, the role of Government may be complemented more strongly by these other agencies. In
other countries, with longer history of consumer advocacy and active civil society, the role of
Government may be less prominent, but the Government role, backed by civil society, will still be
critical in establishing an enabling environment for IDD elimination.
- 10-



C.    Impact on the NIDDEP. The project gave a compelling rationale and stimulus for
effective intersectoral cooperation, within the structures set up for the NIDDEP, and reinforced
the important role of the salt industry in the partnership, with mutual benefit for both the salt
industry and the overall program. The other key sectors, including planning and finance, health,
education, information and technical supervision, as well as local government at each level, gained
practical experience of successful collaboration and problem solving with industry on a program
with a social objective. Mutual understanding and support were particularly strengthened through
the processes of supervision, monitoring and surveillance, mass community education and
marketing, and research and development.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Positive factors:
(a) strong foundation of scientific analysis of IDD in China which had been used to
inform and persuade senior decision makers
(b) the global movement to achieve USI and the elimination of IDD provided both a
rationale and an enabling mvironment for the project;
(c) four years of groundwork by GOC and the UN agencies, leading to the 1993 National
IDDC Advocacy Meeting, laid the foundation of the NIDDEP with a defined central
role for the salt industry, and for World Bank support of that role; and
(c) strong support from paitner agencies during project preparation and impleme.atation
(e.g., UNICEF and UNDO supplied consultants to the project; UTNDP and UNICEF
staff provided leadership in coordination of salt and health sectors at working level).
Negative factors:
(a) some of the implementation delay was due to slow procurement and to delays by
international suppliers especially in technology transfer;
(b) low technical and management capacity of enterprises in remote areas of China; and
(c) project implementation coincided with a period of rapid social and economic change,
reform and reorganization of all levels of government; fluctuating policies on import
duties and bank loan interest rates, all of which affected project implementation.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Positive factors:
(a) international commitments made by GOC;
(b) fornulation of the multisectoral NIDDEP;
(c) set up the legal and regulatory framework governing the iodized salt industry;
(d) set up the financial foundation for project and later sustainability;
(e) GOC leadership requested Bank support on a fast track basis.
Negative factor: A more proactive role of some provincial governments in calling coordination
meetings and supporting timely mobilization of counterpart financing in the initial years, could
have reduced implementation delays.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
- 11 -



Positive factors:
(a) strong leadership and successful effort to mobilize and coordinate the large number of
provinces and enterprises;
(b) proactivity of CNSIC to adjust the master plan as opportunities opened up through the
project to improve industry structure and efficiency; and
(c) CNSIC also took new initiatives during the project to improve sustainability through
industry support units such as the training center and spare parts supply center.
Negative factors:
(a) despite outstanding overall performance by CNSIC, the agency was reluctant to take
advice on strengthening project management and information systems.
(b) CNSIC did not accept the Bank team's recommendation to use credit savings for
systematic market analysis or investigation of demand side factors. However they did
meet annually with other sectors to review barriers to progress and have, since
participated in the planning of new initiatives to address the remaining problem areas
(see also Section 10.2)
5.4 Costs andfinancing.
This section summarizes: A. the status of final project costs compared with appraisal estimates;
B. project financing arrangements, C. the reasons for delay in project implementation; and D. the
performance of project contractors
A.    Project Costs. At appraisal, the project's installed cost was estimated at US$108.95
million equivalent. The final cost at completion is US$101.83 million equivalent, or 93.5% of the
appraisal estimate.  The total project financing required was estimated at appraisal to be
US$152.29 million. The final estimate, at US$118.80 million, amounts to 78% of appraisal
estimate. The capital costs and total financing required at appraisal and the estimate at completion
are summarized in Table 5.4a. Reasons for variations greater than 20% in any item are discussed
below.
Reasons for variations:
(a) Civil construction. At appraisal, warehouse buildings were expected only to be renovated
and marginally enlarged. During implementation, several enterprises decided to build new
warehouses at a higher standard of construction, which accounted for most of the 31%
increase in final cost.
(b) Duties and taxes. At appraisal, it was estimated that project imports would carry 15%
import duty and 17% value added tax. At project inception, the government waived duty
on project imports. Import duties were reinstated in April 1996, reduced to 9% in
December 1996, and again fully exempted from January 1998. As a result, actual
expenditure for this item was only 15% of the appraisal estimate.
- 12 -



Table 5.4a. Project Cost and Financing by Items of Expenditure
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Item          Appraisal       Actual      Actual as % of
Estimate                      Appraisal
Estimate
Engineering and Other Services          3.69           3.98           107.9
Civil Construction                    27.89           36.65           131.4
Equipment and Spare Parts             42.51           44.22           104.0
Duties and Taxes                        7.77            1.16           14.9
Comnmissioning and Installation         2.28           7.02           307.9
Inspection                              1.27            1.24           97.6
Plant and Equipment Insurance           1.33           0.14            10.5
Training                                1.94            1.60           82.5
Project Management                      2.31           5.37           232.5
Technical Assistance (PIU)              0.49           0.45            91.8
Subtotal Base Cost                    91.48          101.83           111.3
Physical Contingencies                4.53             n.a.            n.a.
Price Contingex1cies                  12.94            n.a.            n.a.
Subtotal Installed Cost              108.95          101.83            93.5
Interest During Construction           14.53           3.90            26.8
Incremental Working Capital           28.81            13.07           45.4
Total Capital Cost                   152.29          118.80  =78.0
Notes:  n.a. Not applicable.
The exchange rate at appraisal was: I US$ = RMB 8.45; and at project completion was: I US$ = RMB 8.28.
(c) Commissioning and installation. During implementation, the number of retail packaging
machines installed at new sites was increased from 374 to 578, while the number of
machines at production sites was reduced from 228 to 139. That is, a significant share of
the retail packaging capacity shifted from "production" to "distribution" sites. This change
was due to perceived efficiency gain by shifting from manual to machine packaging. The
new supply capacities at the new locations increased the capital costs, shown as "
installation and commissioning expenditures", by 208% over the appraisal estimate. As a
consequence, the total retail packaging capacity installed was about 3.45 mtpy, compared
to the appraisal target of 3.16 mtpy.
(d) Plant and equipment insurance. Provision was made at appraisal for insurance of plant and
equipment insurance at 3% of the value, covering transport, storage and installation.
However, Chinese practice does not require insurance during construction, so the
expenditure for this item is much lower than estimated.
(e) Project management. The increase of 133% for actual expenditure compared with
appraisal for this item was due to the two year increase in implementation period and the
much larger coordination effort, especially with provinces and enterprises.
(f) Interest during construction. At appraisal, interest during construction was assessed at
6% p.a. on the outstanding Bank Loan, and 10% p.a. on domestic loans. In the event the
- 13-



Bank Loan was cancelled; the ISIDF loans carried no interest, and a large part of province
and enterprise counterpart financing was in the form of equity or loans at less thanlO%
interest p.a. As a consequence, the total burden of interest during construction was only
27% of appraisal estimate.
(g) Incremental working capital. The appraisal estimate of US$28.8 million for this item was
based on 15 days of accounts receivables, 15 days of finished goods inventory, and 15
days of materials in process and raw materials in stock. The actual provision of about
US$13.1 million equivalent by CNSIC, based on Chinese practices, is about 45% of the
Bank's estimate at appraisal.
There were also significant cost savings in procurement of packaging machines. The appraisal
estimate of the unit cost of retail packaging machines was US$136,000 each, compared with the
actual cost of US$83,700. There were also much higher estimated costs for technology transfer
with supply of components for machines to be manufactured locally (at US$5.1 million) compared
with actual expenditure (US$1.8 million) (see Table l0.a).
B.    Financin2 Arrangements. The final contributions and relative shares of the four main
project financing agencies differed from the appraisal estimates, as explained below:
(a) The Bank's final contribution to the total project cost was smaller than estimated at
appraisal due to: (i) lower foreign exchang.. requirements, mainly for packaging
equipment and technology transfer, which led to cancellation of the Loan of US$7.0
million on June 15, 1998. The savings also allowed procurement of additional machines
and spare parts from the unutilized Credit; and (ii) reduction in the dollar equivalent of
SDRs due to exchange rate fluctuation (see Table 5.4b below).
(b) The lower than expected utilization of SDBC loans compared with appraisal was due to:
(i) a higher interest rate than the enterprises could obtain from other local banks; and (ii)
the complex procedures for commitment, release and disbursement of SDBC loans
which deterred potential borrowers.
(c) In contrast the higher contribution of the ISIDF to project funds was related to: (i) the
improved financial position of the fund through collection of dues; and (ii) the absence
of interest charges on ISIDF loans, making ISIDF more attractive.
(d) The actual contributions of provincial governments and the enterprises themselves were
lower than estimated because of lower actual project costs, as well as the increased
availability of concessional ISIDF funds mentioned above.
- 14 -



Table 5.4b. Project Costs and Financing by Source
(US$ million equivalent)
Source                    Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Actual as %
Estimate      Estimate     of Appraisal
Estimate
World Bank
IDA Credit                                20.00          17.29           86.5
IBRD Loan                                  7.00          0.00             0.0
Government
State Development Bank of China            22.54          17.56           77.9
(SDBC)
Iodized Salt Industry Development Fund     22.54          27.13          120.4
(ISIDF)
Provincial Governments                    51.41          34.58           67.3
Enterprises                               28.81         22.24            77.2
Total                                          152.29        118.79           78.0
Note: Exchange rate at appraisal was: I US$ = 8.45 RMB; and at project completion: 1 US$ 8.28 RMB.
The shares of the different sources of financing, were based on the Bank's estimate at appraisal
that the total financing required would be US$152.3 million equivalent (RMB 1,286.9 million).
However, the total project cost as approved by the State Development and Planning Commission
(SDPC) was lower at US$116.2 million equivalent (RMB 981.7 million). This approved cost did
not provide for insurance during construction and also used lower base prices and contingency
provisions.
C.    Implementation Delays. Three specific aspects of the project which contributed to
implementation delays are discussed here briefly. They are: procurement of retail packaging
machines; the project management system; and counterpart financing. A common factor in these
was the number of procedural steps, many unforeseen, required for acceptance and approval by
the involved agencies.
1.    Procurement of Retail Packaging Machines (including Technology Transfer).  The
selection and award of the contract for supply of retail packaging machines followed the Bank's
requirement of a two-stage bidding process. CNSIC found it difficult to accept this process,
preferring single-stage bidding, and was not familiar with the Bank's mandatory sequential
clearances of bidding documents, selection of bidders and award of contract. The Bank also did
not complete these steps in a timely manner. The contract was awarded on November 1996, one
year later than scheduled at appraisal. Technology transfer (TT) was expected to take place over
the twelve months following contract award, and local manufacture of machines based on the TT
to begin a few months before completion of the TT. Some lack of responsiveness and inaccuracy
in documentation by the foreign supplier caused further delay. After the transfer, the local
contractor was to produce two prototype machines for demonstration to end users and then
modify the documents and design to suit their requirements before commencement of actual
manufacture. Inadequate scheduling by the local manufacturer extended the completion time for
the earlier batches of machines. The installation and commissioning of the machines at the
enterprises also took longer than expected, because of delay in site preparation including
- 15 -



foundations for the machines and connection of utilities. At some locations, disputes about
ownership of the facilities compounded the delays.
2.    Project Management System. A system for effective project management, including cost
and finance control, was developed by an international consulting firm for CNSIC under the TA
component of the project, but there were numerous delays in development and use of the system.
The Bank team considered that the system, if appropriately finalized and put to use, would have
permitted CNSIC to monitor project implementation more closely, anticipate emerging problems,
and plan remedial action. Schedule control might then have been more efficient and reduced the
delays which occurred.
3.    Counterpart Financing. Despite assurances and commitments on the shares and conditions
of funding of the counterpart contributors, significant delays occurred at the beginning of the
project in mobilizing counterpart funds. The delays were compounded by very complex internal
procedures for annual commitment and disbursements. As a result, implementation progress
during 1997 and 1998 slowed significantly, contributing to overall delays in the project.
In retrospect, the implementation schedule developed at appraisal did not make sufficient
allowance for: (a) inexperience of CNSIC (the implementation agency) with Bank procedures
and with implementing complex projects; (b) the Bank's own delays in clearing procurement steps;
(c) the complexities of international technology transfer; and (d) the intricate procedures of some
counterpart agencies for clearanc :, and approvals.  Both the Bank's and the Borrc iver's
expectations in this regard were ove -'y optimistic.
D.   Performance of Contractors. This section summarizes the performnance of the two main
contractors funded by the project: one for retail packaging manufacture based on technology
transfer, and the second for project management support.
1. Retail Packagin. Machine Contractor. At appraisal, one domestic firm was identified from
among several examined by CNSIC, and Bank staff and consultants, to absorb the foreign
technology for manufacture of retail packaging machines. The firm had extensive shop fabrication
capacity, a well staffed engineering and design office and a forward looking management. The
transfer of technology to the contractor from an Italian manufacturer has been successful. At the
close of the project the contractor had delivered 100 machines to the project enterprises, and had
also provided 3 machines to the inventory of the CNSIC equipment supply center. As noted in
Section 4.5, the firm is now capable of supplying meeting future requirements of the local salt
industry and is in a position to compete internationally for supply of such machines.
The delay in technology transfer and absorption is described in section C above, and the time
required for the learning and adaptation in both parties was underestimated. Several technical and
commercial meetings were required to reach full understanding of the technology transfer
documents, translate them and adapt them to local conditions. The local contractor had limited
capacity for network planning and scheduling of fabrication and delivery of machines, which could
have helped in early identification of problems and actions to address them. However, taking into
account the external factors that contributed to the delay in the firm's areas of responsibility, its
overall performance can still be considered satisfactory.
- 16 -



2. Contractor for Project Management Support and Financial Management Systems. An
international consulting company was selected by CNSIC, primarily on the basis of previous work
in China in industrial projects, Chinese language capability, and some familiarity with China's salt
industry. The scope of work included design and development of a comprehensive, industry
standard project management system, installation of the system at CNSIC's project offices, and
training of personnel in its use. The project management system was to include accounting and
financial control systems for project implementation. The report on the recommended system was
due within five months from contract signing. However there were delays in the contract
becoming effective, in finalization of the report, and system installation. CNSIC considered that
the conversion of the recommended system to meet CNSIC's requirements was technically
difficult and too expensive. Although CNSIC recognized the utility of the system as a whole,
because of the factors mentioned, it was not used to its full potential. The contractor requested
additional funding to make the necessary conversion but this was not agreed by CNSIC. As a
result the contract was not implemented fully or in a timely manner.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustamnabili.- rating:
The sustainability of project achievement is rated as Highly Likely, based on the factors
summarized in Section A below for both the National IDD Elimination Program and for the
achievements of the proiect itself. Section B covers the main risk to sustainability, Section C
addresses critical factors that will need attention in the next decade to ensure sustainability and
Section D mentions as a possible continuing role for the Bank.
A.   Sustainability Factors. The main factors justifying the high sustainability rating which are
relevant to the NIDDEP are as follows:
I .    Commitment of Key Stakeholders. International commitment by the highest level of the
Government to the international comnmunity to eliminate IDD from the whole of China was made
at the 1990 World Summit for Children and then adopted by local governments, public health
bureaus and salt administrations at province and county level. The widespread awareness and
pride of salt industry groups in their contribution to public health and social development through
reduction of IDD, are important factors for sustaining this broad based commitment.
National and provincial commitmnent for the future was renewed at the International Re-advocacy
Meeting hosted in Beijing in October 2000, when strategies and plans for extending the
elimination of IDD in the next 15 years were presented. The Minister for Light Industry
announced the Government's seven point plan for further progress and sustainability of IDD
elimination, covering the following:
(a) strengthen overall advocacy and planning, including
i) raise awareness and strengthen political support,
(ii) meet new targets for IDD elimination by 2010,
(iii) arrange regular progress review by the State Council and
(iv) gradually increase the Government allocation for IDD elimination, especially within
anti-poverty initiatives in the Western Provinces;
- 17-



(b) operationalize multi-sectoral collaboration;
(c) expand enforcement of IDD elimination laws and statutes;
(d) redouble information and education to mobilize all segments of society;
(e) improve monitoring and evaluation, using scientific methodologies;
(f) improve the quality of personnel working on IDD elimination; and
(g) expand scientific research and intemational cooperation.
2.    Continuing Strong Administrative and Institutional Arrangements.  Based on the
Minister's announcement mentioned above, public and institutional support from the level of Vice
Premier is expected to continue. The working group of MOH and CNSIC continues to meet
regularly with the provinces, with special focus on the action plans for the lagging areas. Some
CNSIC project staff have been moved full time to this work since the project closed.
3.    National Capacity for Scientific Leadership, Monitoring and Surveillance and
Research and Development. During the last decade, in response to the needs of the NIDDEP,
national scientific and intellectual leadership has developed in a range of fields related to iodine
metabolism and deficiency, populaton monitoring and surveillance, and applied research and
development in 'he salt industry. This capacity will contribute to the sustainability of China's own
program as well as being available for assisting other countries.
4.    Continuing International Support.  Several agencies have a continuing stake in
sustaining an.' deepening China's success in IDD control, inclu'ing the UN agencies, the
International ..'ouncil for the Control of Iodine Deficiency Disorders (ICCIDD) and Kiwanis.
China will also gain tremendously from its membership of the new intemational "Partnership for
Sustained Elimination of IDD" established in February 2001, which also includes UNICEF,
YHO, the Program Against Micronutrient Malnutrition, Micronutrient Initiative (MI), Europe
Salt Production Association, the World Salt Association, Kiwanis and ICCIDD. The Partnership
will assist with monitoring, information exchange and networking in countries where the greatest
progress can be achieved.
In addition, the following factors are in place to underpin sustainability of the project's
achievements within the salt industry:
5.    A Strong Legal Framework The outlawing of non-iodized edible salt and the high level
of state control of the industry, through regulation and licensing of production, packaging,
transport and sale of iodized salt, have been critical factors in the rapid increase in supply and use
of iodized salt. These legal and regulatory provisions, along with the political will and capability
of enforcement, have been effective tools for salt industry authorities at each level to reduce and
control illegal uniodized or substandard salt in the market. The Government intends to maintain
control over the iodized salt industry in the interests of its public benefit, at least for the next
decade.
6.    Financial Underpinning through the Iodized Salt Industry Development Fund
(ISIDF). Sustainability requires financial support for new initiatives as well as for recurring costs
and the ISIDF is seen as one of the main sources of this finance. ISIDF's financial position
- 18 -



improved significantly as a result of the project, and the continuation of a levy on salt producers
would sustain its financial viability in the future. As noted earlier, ISIDF resources are being used
for further improvements in the industry, including construction of small plants in underserved
areas such as Tibet. In addition, it has been proposed by CNSIC and agreed by MOF that ISIDF
will support the health sector's initiatives in consumer education and in monitoring of IDD status,
in recognition that these factors are important for lasting success. It is the Governrment's
intention to maintain the ISIDF.
7.    Creation and Maintenance of Consumer Demand for Iodized Salt. The Government is
committed to "redouble" its efforts to mobilize and inform all segments of society in the next
phase of IDD elimination. The NIDDEP partners, including the salt industry, are aware that
strong, continuing consumer demand in vital for success of the USI/IDD strategy and for the long
term viability of the industry, particularly in those areas with relatively easy access to illegal
non-iodized salt, which have yet to meet the criteria for IDD ellimination. While the salt industry
would continue its efforts to reduce the supply of non-iodized salt, lowering of demand for this
salt is also very important. CNSIC, with assistance of UNICEF, intends to focus particularly on
the education of salt retailers and on point of sale messages in the stores and on salt packets.
Part.cular community and market analysis will be needcc to design appropriate messages in
different cultural settings.
8.    Salt Industry Transforming into a Viable, Modern Industry.  The upgrading and
rat o nalization of the industry through the project has put i' on a much more viable footing for the
long, term, consistent with the overall strategy for enterprist reform in China. The combination of
increased efficiency and productivity, savings from reduced waste, modem quality control and
management systems and enhanced market responsiveness, have enabled a much greater reach
and coverage of quality iodized salt. Before 1994, iodized salt was produced and packaged by
several thousand small work units located near centers of consumption, using very basic iodizing
technology and manual packaging, and with hardly any quality control. The project helped the
Government to rationalize the industry, which now involves a much smaller number of production
units (213), with iodization at the point of production, and repackaging (147) units. CNSIC plans
to continue phasing out older units, through further capacity integration and through incentives
for uneconomic units to close and take up alternative businesses. The operation and management
of the salt enterprises and the industry as a whole, have improved greatly through training of over
8,000 personnel in China and abroad, and through exposure to international practices. This
program is continuing with assistance from an international salt company, financed by bilateral
agencies and UNIDO. The salt pricing system has ensured the financial viability of enterprises
and provided incentives for further modernization. The industry has created support services for
training, for supply of equipment and spare parts, and for establishing and maintaining quality
control laboratories. These structural and institutional changes have greatly increased the chances
for sustainability in the edible salt industry.
9.    Enhanced Domestic Capacity to Manufacture Equipment and Materials for the Salt
Industry. Through technology transfer to a local company during the project, modem automated
retail packaging machines can now be made in China for use in the salt industry. This domestic
capability makes it more affordable for other salt enterprises to replace their old machines. Other
- 19-



local manufacturers have now upgraded their machines in order to compete with the firm
supported by the project.  In addition domestic plastics producers have developed new
fornulations films suitable for the packaging of salt. These advances, coupled with a system for
replenishing spare parts, established by CNSIC, will help ensure sustainability, by reducing the
need to import these goods
B.    Risks to Sustainability and Actions to Address those Risks.  China has declared the
achievement of its goal of virtual IDD elimination by the year 2000. However, as noted, this
overall achievement conceals variations in provincial performance, with seven provinces yet to
meet the international criteria of IDD elimination at province level. The challenge now is to
identify factors that might detract from the successes achieved so far, as well as those that have
prevented achievement in those lagging areas, and provide for mechanisms to ensure long-term
sustainability.
The most serious risk to sustained high coverage of iodized salt at household level is considered
to be the presence of non-iodized salt in the market (which takes market share from the legitimate
enterprises). Despite the Goverment's legal, regalatory and enforcement mechanisms, non-iodized
or sub-standard salt continues to provide about 5-8% of the total supply of salt in the market.
The main contributing factors are:
(a)    some sections of the population are not yet aware of the dangers of IDD and the
advantage of consuming iodized salt;
(b)    excess capacity for salt product:sn in some areas. Local governments in these areas
are often reluctant to close small sal producers when there is no alternative avenue for
revenue or employment;
(c) the higher price of packaged iodized salt provides an incentive to put "fake" salt into
the market, which may or may not be iodized, but is   outside the approved
production quota; and
(d) the policing and enforcement system is not fully effective.
Up to the present there has been no systematic study to assess the contribution of each of these
factors to the presence of illegal salt in the market, and it is likely that the contribution or
influence of each will vary in different settings. This type of analysis will be of increasing
importance in tailoring future IDD elimination in the remaining areas where it remains more
prevalent, as each setting has its own combination of demand and supply factors (see also section
10.2).
C.    Critical Factors to Ensure Sustainability. Concerning the future role of the salt industry,
action will be needed to maintain and strengthen the gains from the project as follows:
(a) maintain the industry profile not only as the supplier of edible salt but also as an
essential contributor to the nation's health and social development;
(b) preserve and enhance professional standards of performance appropriate to a modem
industry, through personnel training and system coordination;
(c) maintain the capacity for training of personnel in all aspects of salt industry operations
and management,
(d) continue some mechanism for providing equipment advice and supply of spare parts
- 20 -



to the enterprises
(e) maintain and improve the use of the computerized database and management
information system for the industry statistics, to permit effective monitoring and
evaluation of industry performance.
(f) augment industry based marketing initiatives
(g) increase support for special measures to poor or vulnerable communities, particularly
in areas that have not reached the criteria for IDD elimination; and
(e) maintains contact with the international agencies for assistance with specific activities
such as market promotion, public education, industry efficiency improvements and
training.
(d) maintain and improve enforcement of laws and regulations to limit the presence of
non-iodized or sub-standard salt in the market;
In addition priorities for the Govcrnment will be to maintain current inter-sectoral linkages,
especially the strong salt-health partnership, and also to maintain the ISIDF as a financing
source also for continued consolidation of the industry and for the areas mentioned above;
The following indicators could be uscc. to monitor the impact of the project in the future:
(a) industry capacity in: (i) quality raw salt production; (ii) iodizing; (iii) bulk packaging;
and (iv) retail packaging;
(b) annual production of: (i) quality raw salt; (ii) iodizing; (iii) bulk packaged salt; and
(iv) retail packaged salt;
(c) quantity of iodized sal. sold, compared with the estimated consumption il each
county and province; (a target would be to reduce illegal salt in the market below 2%
of the total sold)
(d) proportion of households consuming effectively iodized salt (containing at least 20
ppm); and
(e) percentage of iodized salt that meets the national standard; the target is 95% (the
current standard allows concentration between 20-50 ppm at each level of the system.
MOH is now proposing a range of 15-30 ppm at each level.)
D. Possible Continued World Bank Role. While further World Bank financial support fo! the
iodized salt industry in China is unlikely, the Bank remains actively involved in enterprise reform
in China and in reduction of IDD and other micronutrient deficiencies internationally. Two
current Bank supported rural health projects in China include small subcomponents on IDD
control within a set of high priority health interventions, focusing on community education, salt
monitoring and surveillance. Similar initiatives would be considered for future health projects or
components of poverty projects. Support for some form of continued Bank involvement has been
voiced by the project provinces in the stakeholders workshop and also by international agencies.
The Bank has expressed its interest, if invited, in continuing in an appropriate capacity as a
member of the international partnership supporting China's continuing effort to eliminate IDD.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Arrangements for transition to regular operations and sustaining them are rated as Satisfactory.
The Project has supported rationalization and incremental change to improve the regular
operation of the edible salt industry, facilitating the industry's own ongoing comprehensive reform
- 21 -



agenda. As such there is no requirement for a major transition plan or for commissioning or
integrating large new elements into the existing industry. CNSIC has established mechanisms
with the provincial salt authorities to consider further proposals for rationalization of all older
existing capacities, within the overall reform.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during identification, preparation, appraisal and negotiations is rated as
Satisfactory.
Project Identification. The project was identified between November 1993 and February 1994 in
response to a special GOC request in October 1993, linked to the NIDDEP and outside the
regular lending discussions. Bank management responded promptly to the Porrower's new
priority, initially agreeing to include IDD Control as a component of the Comprehensive Maternal
and Child Health (MCH) Project (Cr. 2674-CHA) then under preparation. However this
arrangement was not feasible due to the different preparation needs and processing schedule and
the different counterpart plementation agency. In May 1994, it was agree3 to prepare a
stand-alone IDD Control Project, using US$20m IDA credit, of which US$10m was from the
MCH project, and a loan of US$7 million.
Preparation and Appraisj.. Four preparation and appraisal missions were cc iducted between
February 1994 and Febn.iry 1995, bu a Bank task team with strong industry, faance and health
expertise and extensive project processing experience. Continuity of team membership was
maintained throughout preparation, with assistance of UN funded consultants in specific technical
areas. Nutrition experts in the Bank's central human development unit provided technical advice
and effective management support was given by the sector and country units for the team's
dialogue with MOF, SDPC, MOH and the UN agencies.
It became clear early in preparation that the project, which appeared initially as a relatively
straightforward exercise in increasing iodizing capacity, would also involve packaging of all edible
salt, and would take place over a vast geographic area, involving a complex mosaic of county,
province and national level enterprises and salt industry authorities. Each agency had considerable
autonomy in implementing and financing capital projects within a general master plan, so that full
briefing and coordination was required to reach agreement on their participation. The team
realized that more time than at first anticipated would be needed for analysis and project
definition, and obtaining agreements and clearances before either Bank or GOC approvals would
be forthcoming.
Another complex area to be tackled was that of project financing, involving the State Council's
impending decision for a new price for iodized salt, and several channels for counterpart funding,
each to be negotiated and committed. During preparation it was necessary to reach agreement
with many agencies on specific capacities to be established and locations, as well as
implementation arrangements, credit onlending and repayment obligations. The Bank team
recognized the management challenge that this project posed for CNSIC, as the apex
- 22 -



implementing agency, dealing with the Bank for the first time, and covering all the provinces
simultaneously. It was also known from previous experience in industry projects in China that
project management and counterpart financing would be risky and challenging areas requiring
detailed negotiation and commitment before the project could start.
The Bank team worked closely with CNSIC to develop the project Master Plan, and suggested a
range of strategic design options to CNSIC. Those agreed were included in the project feasibility
study commissioned by CNSIC from an engineering company in March/April 1994. The
feasibility study was approved by GOC in February 1995.
The following is a summary of approaches introduced by the Bank team to the Borrower during
preparation, based on the project context and lessons learned from previous Bank industry
projects and China experience, which were subsequently included in project design and
implementation arrangements:
(a) for the physical facilities:
*  upgrade selected facilities within a broad program of capacity rationalization, including
merging, closing and creating larger, standardized units in fewer locations consistent with
market demand and access to primary salt, for achieving cost efficiency, reduced
implementation time, ease of monitoring of implementation, and better long termn control.
*  reduce the cost of equipment and materials, and shorten the procurement schedule,
throug:. centralized procurement. This would also reduce sparL parts inventory and permit
interch.ingeability by standardizing machine types and unit capicities.
* reduce foreign exchange requirements and augment domestic manufacturing capacity,
through transfer of technology from foreign manufacturers to selected domestic
manufacturers, as part of the equipment supply contract.
- involve specialist consultants iodizing and packaging (financed by other UN agencies) to
develop and recommend suitable technologies, types and design of machinery, and provide
cost estimates.
(b) for implementation arrangements
*  strengthen implementation capacity through a TA component covering general project
management, accounting and financial management.
*  establish a fully staffed PIU  at CNSIC, replicated in participating provinces and
enterprises.
*  formalize implementation agreements between CNSIC (as apex implementing agency) and
each participating province, providing that facilities would be established in conformance
with CNSIC's master plan, that agreed counterpart funds would be provided, and that
progress would be reported to CNSIC.
*  establish monitorable performance indicators, and a clear project implementation plan
which defined the roles and responsibilities of involved agencies.
*  establish strong working relationship with other UN agencies, who had longer experience
and complementary roles in working with GOC on the NIDDEP. This relationship was
later cemented through an Inter-Agency Cooperative Agreemen, now considered an
example of good practice for UN cooperation in the sector.
- 23 -



(c) for project financing
* make the Bank's funds available to the Government (as Borrower) as a sector investment
loan (SIL) for onlending to CNSIC. Initially, a line of credit loan was considered, which
would have involved selection of an agent bank intermediary as the channel for Bank
funds. The agent bank would appraise applications of interested enterprises received over
time. This option was rejected because: (a) it would have been difficult for CNSIC to
control the number of locations, the capacities installed or implementation schedule; (b)
the cost and time savings of centralized procurement would not have been possible; and
(c) it would be very difficult to monitor the consequent asynchronous implementation.
* ensure adequate counterpart financing through identifying sources with prior commitments
for agreed shares.
* CNSIC to use Bank funds centrally to procure equipment and materials for the provinces
and enterprises who would repay in cash on agreed terms.
The signing of the onlending agreement and the implementation agreements between CNSIC and
project provinces were made conditions of effectiveness, to ensure that participating enterprises
would all implement their sub-projects according to the o erall master plan and implementation
arrangements. While this safeguard was considered essential, delays were experienced in the
signing of the Agreements between CNSIC and the provinces. Provision for retroactive financing
was made at appraisal in case of possible delays in declaring project effectiveness.
(d) ;or defining the role of the project in relation to NIDDEP. The Bank team helped to establish
the strong linkage between the project and NIDDEP, through:
* defining the project objective as assisting in achieving NIDDEP objective;
* obtaining GOC commitment to implement all the other interventions concurrently with the
project; and
*  obtaining GOC commitment to share information on NIDDEP implementation progress
periodically with the Bank. These aspects were recorded in the Staff Appraisal Report,
particularly in a letter from the Minister of Health (SAR Annex 2).
In the event, with the vast project scope, the Bank's Credit/Loan of US$27.0 million equivalent
amounted to less than 20% of the appraised total project cost. During preparation, the Bank team
suggested two variations on use of Bank funds: (i) a larger loan to finance more imported
automatic packaging machines (to reduce project implementation time); and (ii) use of about
US$1.0 million of the credit for activities of MOH in advocacy, surveillance and institutional
strengthening, to give the Bank a broader influence in the Program, and facilitate more direct
interaction with MOH in relation to NIDDEP implementation. However these suggestions were
not accepted. GOC fixed the Credit/Loan amount at US$27.0 million and decided it would be
used for salt industry activities only. The Government would implement all remaining NIDDEP
activities itself with assistance from other intemational agencies. With the inclusion of technology
transfer and other proposed implementation arrangements in the project, as well as GOC's
commitment to implement NIDDEP and the project concurrently, it was concluded that the Bank
would have sufficient influence over project implementation in spite of its small share of project
fnance, to see the achievement of the project's development objective. In the event, this
- 24 -



judgement was borne out.
During preparation the Bank assisted GOC in analysis of demand side risks to the continued
consumption of non-iodized salt, and concluded that the incremental price increase of iodized
packaged salt compared with non-iodized packaged salt would be a very small proportion of the
household food budget. It also considered that social marketing and community education under
NIDDEP would help increase market demand for iodized salt, such that consumers would
willingly choose iodized salt and pay the higher price. This risk was considered manageable. The
other risk areas identified by the Bank concerned technology transfer, time schedule, and project
management, which were addressed in the project design and implementation arrangements.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during supervision is rated as Satisfactory. The Bank team carried out
nine supervision missions with CNSIC, including the project launch in August 1995 (prior to loan
signing), the mid-term review in April 1998 and the final supervision and ICR preparation mission
in December 2000. The project launch included a two day seminar to explain Bank guidelines and
procedures, especially for procurement and disbursement, to CNSIC and representatives from
several provinces. Each supervision mission included a review of project progress reports and
implementation issues, field visits to provinces and enterprises, discussions with MOH and
provincial health authorities and coordination meetings in Beijing with UN agency representatives.
Each mission focused on anticipated 2nd emerging problems in project implementation,
particularly in procurement, counterpart finarsiing and project management. This may have
reduced but did not prevent the implementatici delays described elsewhere. While supervision
misson reports assessed the project status appropriately, the team's expectations for remedial
action were often over-optimistic, despite good communication maintained with CNSIC by
Beijing based Bank staff. In each subsequent mission hitherto unforeseen factors emerged which
had delayed agreed corrective action on problems earlier identified. This situation reflected gaps
in understanding by each team (Bank and CNSIC) of the other's constraints, management
approach and procedural requirements.
With respect to the NIDDEP, in the first three years of the project, MOH did not submit annual
progress reports to the Bank, as agreed at negotiations and required under a legal covenant. It
became understood that the reluctance of MOH to report to the Bank was due to short staffing,
and to the view at the working levels (never officially stated) that since MOH was not a direct
beneficiary of the Bank credit, they should not be called upon to report to the Bank on NIDDEP.
Non-fulfillment of this covenant, coupled with poor ratings for counterpart financing and project
management, led to the project being classified automatically as a 'problem project' for a period
of time. After the Mid-Term Review in May 1998, the Bank team adopted a more pragmatic
approach, relying on discussions with MOH during missions and obtaining reports on NIDDEP
progress as they became available from MOH or the UN agencies.
The Bank maintained continuity of its Headquarters based team throughout the project.
Satisfactory support from the World Bank Office in Beijing (WBOB) on health sector,
procurement, financial management and audit was also maintained although individual team
members changed. Support from WBOB industry staff was excellent in the initial two to three
years, but then declined due to workload and reassignment. This left an important communication
- 25 -



gap between the Bank and implementing agency which was later remedied by engagement of a
local industry consultant, recommended by WBOB.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated as Satisfactory. At each stage of the project the Bank
team was able to make a constructive contribution to the Government's efforts im eliminating
IDD, and in related human resource development and capacity building in China. Through early
involvement, the Bank was able to assist the implementing agency to develop an efficient project
design which resulted in major progress towards restructuring and modernizing the salt industry,
including its physical facilities, management systems and financial viability. The institutional
capabilities of salt industry agencies have improved, through exposure to international agencies
involved in technology, operations and management of salt industry.  The Bank's active
continuous cooperation with the other UN agencies helped to maintain the strength of this
partnership and this provided an example of how such a group can deliver coordinated, targeted
assistance to a complex national program.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of the Government  Borrower, of the CNSIC as implementing agency, a xl of
other agencies are presented below.
Government. The Govermment's performance during preparation is rated as Satisfactori,. The
Government's commitment to eiimin,. te IDD through NIDDEP and the implementation of al i of its
components, including the project, -vas reflected in the establishment of a multisectoral Lcading
Group headed the State Council. Implementation of the project was the responsibility of the
China National Council of Light Industry (CNCLI) and CNSIC, with coordination mechanisms
with the MOH Department of Endemic Disease Control. The Leading Group initiated several
policies in support of NIDDEP and the project and functioned very effectively throughout to
secure and maintain the commitment of all concerned to the success of this major national
venture. In support of the project, GOC promulgated the legal and regulatory framework
governing the salt industry, which has been described elsewhere.
To ensure adequate and sustainable financing for the project and for comprehensive upgrading of
the salt industry, the Government instituted a new price regime for iodized salt. Work on this
new pricing arrangement was initiated during project preparation and completed early in
implementation. Up to this time, there had been no difference in price between iodized and
non-iodized salt, with iodate being supplied by MOH free of charge to iodizing units and the costs
of iodization absorbed by the iodizing units. The new price regime pernitted full recovery of the
cost of iodization by such units, and also permitted payment of higher levies into ISIDF which
was one source of counterpart funds. The Government waived import duty for project imports
and through SDPC and MOF, also gave timely approvals to the project design, to the master
plan and feasibility study developed by CNSIC and the Bank, and to the proposed counterpart
financing arrangements.
Implementation Agency (CNSIC). The performance of CNSIC during preparation is rated as
Highly Satisfactory. CNSIC as the apex implementing agency faced an extraordinarily complex
- 26 -



task in developing the project concept, the project definition and a Master Plan for all
implementation arrangements. Creation of all physical facilities under the project potentially
involved over 210 enterprises located in all China's provinces. All stakeholders including the
enterprises and related Government agencies in the provinces had to be brought "on board". The
tasks that CNSIC performed successfully included the following:
(a) explained to all stakeholders the importance and role of the project to the Government's
objective of IDD elimination, and the linkage between the salt industry and the health
status improvement of the population. This was necessary to secure the commitment of
the salt industry, sector agencies, and personnel at provincial, country and city levels.
(b) developed a feasibility study with the assistance of a local engineering firm, incorporating
the strategies jointly developed by CNSIC and the Bank.
(c) identified co-financing agencies and their respective contributions.
(d) developed a comprehensive Master Plan through iterative discussions with provinces and
enterprises.
(e) obtained assistance from other UN and bilateral agencies for financing consultants to
examine and recommend appropriate technologies and types of machinery to be used.
(f) initiated actions for development, drafting and issue by government of a series of
regulations in support of the project and long-term operation of the iodized salt industry.
(g) created a strong Project Implementation Unit at central level as well as similar units at the
provincial salt administration bureaus.
(h) initiated action and selected a local fabrication company to receive transfer of technology
and subsequently c^anufacture a large number of retail packaging machmu,.s for the project.
CNSIC had previous experience in planning and implementing relatively small and isolated
projects, whereas this project design had a broader geographic scope with a very large number of
facilities to be upgraded or created simultaneously in an efficient manner. With strong leadership
and vision from the top level of the agency, CNSIC rose to the challenge and successfully
prepared the project by bringing on board all the actors and stakeholders, developing a clear
definition of the project and implementation arrangements in cooperation with the Bank,
establishing an organizational framework for coordinated implementation and information
exchange among all actors, and developing a realistic system for monitoring implementation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, the government's performance during implementation was Satisfactory. During the early
implementation phase, the Government completed the formulation and promulgation of the legal
framework governing the salt industry and issued several detailed regulations over aspects of salt
industry management. It accorded poverty alleviation status to the project allowing SDBC to
reduce its onlending interest rates significantly. The initial duty exemption on imports was
withdrawn, reinstated later, and finally applied again for project imports, resulting in overall
reduction in import duty expenses for the project. The Government ensured the annual audit
reports were prepared, based on CNSIC-supplied data, and submitted to the Bank, albeit
somewhat behind schedule. Administration of the Special Accounts in terms of timely submission
of application and withdrawals was adequate. The Government has satisfactorily fulfilled its legal
obligations as Borrower in the context of the Project.
Legal Covenants with the Government. The Government has been in conformance with the
- 27 -



covenants under the Credit Agreement, except in the matter of reporting on NIDDEP. The
Government was required to furnish to the Bank, commencing March 16, 1996, annual reports on
NIDDEP status during the preceding twelve months, and measures taken for the following twelve
months; and review such reports with the Bank and take all measures taking into account the
Bank's views on the matter. As mentioned in para. 7.2 above, because of difficulties faced by
MOH in preparing such annual reports, the Bank in May 1998 adopted a more flexible approach,
to obtain this information from UN and other agencies, supplemented by discussions with MOH
during supervision missions.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
During implementation, CNSIC successfully carried out the following major tasks:
(a) reviewed the provincial feasibility studies including conformance with the Master Plan
prior to the enterprises implementing their subprojects.
(b) initiated action on an iodized salt pricing system, after the Governnent's promulgation
thereof, including an intensive drive for collection of levies to be paid by the salt enterprises
into ISIDF. This resulted in major improvement in the financial position of ISIDF,
allowing t to provide more than its planned counterpart share, and create a separate
account tor guaranteeing repayment of the Bank funds onlent by the Borrower to CNSIC.
Although the funds collection and disbursement for project expenditures were slow in the
initial stages, CNSIC's innovative efforts for collections of past and current dues resulted in
the vcry strong position of ISIDF.
(c) coordi,,ated the activities of enterprises and provinces, And prepared consolidated
implementation status reports.
(d) provided information to MOF and the State Audit Bureau for preparation of audit reports.
(e) established effective working relationship with MOH, especially in relation to quality
control, standards, progress review and surveillance.
(e) arranged for prototype machines (some financed by UNICEF) to demonstrate performance
to the enterprises and provinces to enable them to decide on and place orders for such
machines through CNSIC. This required holding several seminars and meetings with
provinces and enterprises.
(f) fully cooperated with Bank supervision missions, and arranged for site visits to various
project sites.
On its own initiative, CNSIC established a permanent facility, with financial assistance from UN
and other agencies, to train operating and maintenance personnel in the areas of salt production,
refining, iodizing, and packaging. This facility is also being used to train personnel from other
countries. During the project CNSIC also established a centralized spare parts supply facility,
which stocks spare parts for the various types of machinery used for iodization and packaging, for
supply to the enterprises on a replenishment basis. This reduces the procurement time for the
enterprises, and so improves the continuity of production.
The sections below give specific assessment of CNSIC performance in: A. implementing technical
assistance (TA); B. managing project implementation; C. legal covenants; and D. procurement.
A.    Implementing Technical Assistance. The project's TA component envisaged development
of a general project management system (PMS) and an industry information system. CNSIC
- 28 -



contracted an international project management company to develop the PMS, but in the event,
did not adopt it, because of the difficulty and expense of adapting it to Chinese language and the
CNSIC system of management. Active use of a suitable PMS would have helped identify
emerging problems in TT and the manufacture of retail packaging machines, and allowed for more
timely remedial action. Therefore the implementation of the TA was not fully successful. With
Bank facilitation, the general Salt Industry Information System was developed through financing
from UNICEF and other UN agencies. However, again CNSIC was not able to realize the full
potential of the system and needed local TA to assist.
B.    Managing Project Implementation. CNSIC put in place a project implementation unit
(PIU) with an adequate number of staff, with competence in the required areas at project
commencement. During implementation, CNSIC's efforts to supplement the PIU's capacity to
address emerging problems achieved limited success. Distribution of work responsibilities among
PIU .Itaff was uneven with an unusually heavy load placed on the project manager. Initiation of
project implementation activities and status review depended primarily on the project manager.
Direct access by Bank staff to PIU members for discussion on their areas of responsibility (e.g.,
procurement, project accounts and financing, progress reporting) was sometimes difficult, and
supervision missions had to rely primarily on the project manager. This situation seems to reflect
a work culture with limited delegation of responsibilities among subordinate staff. CNSIC's
senior management (Vice President and above) gave strong support to the project manager
throughout the project especially for higher level intersectoral coordination, securing ISIDF
coi- terpart financing and solving of implementation bottle; ecks.
In accordance with the legal agreement, CNSIC submitted quarterly and semi-annual progress
reports. For reasons mentioned above information from enterprise and provincial levels was
transmitted manually rather than through a computerized system as envisaged at appraisal. In the
initial years, there were problems with the quality, content and timeliness of the reports, but
substantial improvement occurred over time. CNSIC's accounts were audited in accordance with
the legal covenants and audit reports were submitted to the Bank.
C. Legal Covenants. CNSIC has been in conformance with all relevant covenants under the
Project Agreement, except for the following:
(a) CNSIC was required to procure goods and services only after Enterprise Implementation
Agreements (EIAs) had been signed between the project provinces and salt enterprises. In
the event, goods and services were financed in anticipation of the EIAs, all of which were
not signed until November 1998; and
(b) CNSIC was required to ensure that all edible salt would meet iodization standards by
December 31, 1997. The universal iodization of edible salt, with lower quality, was
achieved by December 1996, while nation-wide full quality iodized salt supply was
achieved by December 2000.
D.   Procurement. CNSIC faced several problems in procurement of Bank financed items.
Delays were caused primarily by difficulty in understanding the Bank's procurement guidelines
and procedures, the need to reach agreement with many provinces and enterprises on machinery
to be selected on their behalf, internal approval procedures and the inexperience of PIU staff in
- 29 -



international procurement, the contractors' work content, and contract management. PIU staff
found it a great challenge to monitor work completed by the local procurement agent and
suppliers. For example, CNSIC's management of the contractors' performance for the PMS and
for manufacture of retail packaging machines based on TT was not proactive in the early stages of
the project, which contributed to delays. With experience, PIU management of procurement
improved markedly and much credit for the cost savings on equipment procured must go PIU
management and staff.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated Satisfactory for the above mentioned reasons.
8. Lessons Learned
This section summarizes the main positive and negative lessons from each stage of the project, as
well as from the overall National IDD Elimination Program of which the project was a part.
8.1 Institutional Environment and Project Identification. The ultimate success of the project
was due to three positive factors in the greater environment of the country:
(a) strong and continuing national high level political support, linked to China's serious
international commitments in human development (IDD elimination);
(b) strong alignment of the interests of economic development and industrial modernization
with the aim of delivering a social benefit through a technologically simple and very cost
effective intervention at population level, and
(c) prior sector analysis and strategy development at both national and international level, with
consensus on the role and value of the proposed project.
The recognition of the synergism of the two agendas by leaders of both health and salt sectors, as
well as the core planning and finance agencies and the State Council, had been fostered over the
previous decade by relevant studies and limited interventions in China, supported by national and
international experts. The project was conceived by this coalition of national and international
interests as a specific but central strategy of the comprehensive National IDD Elimination
Program. This high level of national leadership support also enabled:
(a) reciprocal support from senior World Bank management;
(b) promulgation of legal and regulatory measures to support both social and industry reform
agendas; and
(c) establishment of an ongoing source of finance, through the ISIDF, to underpin the project
itself and provide funds for sustaining and continuing project achievements post project.
This leadership commitment also enabled appropriate decision making to overcome
bottlenecks and solve problems during preparation and implementation.
8.2 Project Design and Preparation. The following positive lessons can be drawn from this
project experience:
* A strong Bank team with relevant country, sector and project experience, supplemented
with TA supplied by other agencies
* Early and intensive involvement of the Bank team with the Government and
implementing agency, to offer and facilitate acceptance of key design elements,
- 30 -



consistent with the development objectives of both.
* Persistence on both sides to finalize precise project definition and to put in place key
enabling policy, institutional, and other implementation arrangements before
commencement, even though this involved additional preparation time.. At the same
time, willingness to defer actions on other issues till a later stage based on a balanced
judgment and on the expectation that with good leadership and continued advocacy,
momentum and buy-in would grow as implementation proceeded.
* The inexperience of the implementing agency was effectively compensated by its
willingness and ability to learn rapidly, to identify the strategic opportunities of the
project, and to engage strong technical support.
* Selection of the appropriate lending instrument.
* Clarity on output targets and the monitoring and reporting mechanisms.
In retrospect, negative lessons can be drawn about a certain lack of realism in three items agreed
upon during project negotiations: the relationship with MOH; the implementation period; and the
condition for project effectiveness.
* Relationship with MOH. It was difficult initially to maintain constructive dialogue with
MOH when the project provided no funds for related activities outside the salt industry,
especially when the Bank was asking MOH to provide reports on NIDDEP as required
under a legal covenant. The- Bank's only remedy for nonconformance was suspension of
disbursement, an extreme measure that would have defeated the main purpose of bank
assistance. The requirem.-nt was not enforceable, and it fell back upon the .xrong
relationship of the Bank with other UN agencies to allow continuing monitoring and
dialogue on the overall program. Basically, making NIDDEP progress reporting a legal
covenant did not contribute to the project in any positive way. A key lesson here is that
funding support facilitates access, and that access across sectors is important to
reinforce the interdependence of the key sectors in achieving the goal.
* The short implementation period. At appraisal all physical facilities were expected to be
substantially completed by December 31, 1997, and the credit closing was set for
December 31, 1998. Compared with CNSIC's own estimate of project completioin by
December 31, 1996, and taking into account the steps taken already by the Bank, this
was considered achievable. CNSIC's completion estimate was driven by Govemrnent
optimism and by pressure for China to meet a mid decade goal of universal salt
iodization. However, the Bank's estimate also turned out to be optimistic and the
situation was redeemed through two one year extensions, which resulted in an
appropriate project completion period.  The lesson for managers is that project
extensions may be constructive, often compensating for unforeseen factors that come
into play during implementation. In the extension period, when preoccupation with
procedural issues is lessened, greater attention to development impact and sustainability
can greatly increase the value and impact of the project.
* Condition for project effectiveness. The linking of project effectiveness to completed
implementation agreements with over 25 provinces also seems in retrospect to have been
- 31 -



unnecessarily onerous, and the consequent delay in effectiveness caused management
concern. While the intention was understandable, the objective may have been achieved
through a more phased approach. Although delay in effectiveness did not delay
implementation commencement, the condition was an irritant both to the Borrower and
the Bank.
8.3 Project Implementation. Positive lessons from project implementation include:
*  The importance of accommodating adjustment of output targets during implementation
within a clear goal and master plan, in order to respond to the rapid changes being
brought about through learning and enterprise reforms.
*  The energy and creativity generated by the reforrn environment to establish structures to
enhance the likelihood of sustainability.
* The way that initial success, shared agendas and high political recognition brought
increasing willingiess to move towards problem areas that could not be discussed
adequately during preparation.
*  The value of strong and continuing coordination of action among the UN agencies,
which brought a more cohesive and technically strong support to the project and
reduced the risk (,f fragmentation or duplication of effort.
* The value of continuity in core membership of both Bank and Government project
teams.
*  The importance of ensuring adequate ongoing communication from Beijing based team
members, whethL.r Bank staff or local consultants.
Negative lessons learned or reinforced:
* Onerous procedures of both Bank and Borrower for procurement, fund flows, etc.
* Delays caused by lack of awareness of the importance good project management capacity
and systems; and reluctance to use early technical assistance for this purpose; or, put
another way, inability of Bank team or international TA to persuade the implementing unit
of these facts.
* Underestimation of the time required for technology transfer
8.4 Program-Related Lessons Learned and Applicability to Other Countries. The following
are the main factors that led to the success of the project in the context of IDD elimination in
China, which could be usefully applied to similar projects in other countries:
* Commitment to goal at highest political level, disseminated to all stake holders and
participants ensuring their commitment.
* Comprehensive program developed and implementation management framework defined
with allocation of responsibilities of all participants and coordination mechanisms.
* Leadership role assumed by very high political and administrative level that has authority
over the several involved agencies, exercised through persuasion and good coordination.
* Allocation of a major role to a single agency in the salt industry as implementer of the
program.
* ensuring sustainable financing for industrial development and other activities in the medium
to long term.
* Local presence of international aid agencies, and maintaining contact with them and others
- 32 -



outside the country for eliciting technical and financial assistance, and periodic discussions
with them.
*  Comprehensive legal and regulatory framework and appropriate sector policies, in support
of the salt industry's responsibility to supply sufficient salt of adequate quality and prevent
illegal salt manufacture and sale.
*  Maintaining state control of the industry, through a legal and regulatory framework, in the
interests of the public health, at least until facilities for salt supply are fully in place and
risks to the achievement and sustainability of IDD elimination objective are reduced to a
defined level.
*  Mutual recognition of the complementarity of the roles by salt industry and health
authorities in achieving the common program goal; and willingness to work with and assist
each other.
*  The project is a successful example of food fortification for prevention of a micronutrient
deficiency. Fortification may also be a feasible approach to tackle other micronutrient
deficiencies.
Despite the success in substantial achievement of the program objective for the country as a whole
it is noted that IT)D elimination has not yet reached 14% of the population, particularly in poorer
and remote areas of the country. Appropriate strategies to address the special challenges of these
areas are being dleveloped. These include: creation of small iodizing and packaging capacities near
centers of consumption or altemative methods to ensure steady suppy: improved social marketing;
and targeted pc'ze subsidies. Until these strategies are fully effectivc provide alternative iodine
supplementationi, such as oral capsules or injections to vulnerable groups.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
This section includes short summaries of assessments or comments made by the borrower,
implementing agency and a selection of national and international stakeholders. The Borrower's
contribution to the ICR is in Annex 10 and the summary of UN agency involvement in NIDDEP is
in Annex 11.
9.1. Borrower/Implemenfing Agency
As described in Annex 10 (the Borrowers report), the Government of China and CNSIC
considered that the project made a critical contribution to both the modernization of the edible
salt industry and to the country's achievement in elimination of iodine deficiency disorders in line
with its national and international commitments. The achievements of the project include:
*  meeting or exceeding all physical targets with increase of quality iodized salt from 3.0
million to 8.1 million tpy;
*  increased consolidation and mechanization of all processes, with shifting of iodization from
distribution and sales points to production points;
*  large savings in iodate use due to greater accuracy in measurement and mixing, and
improved packaging. Iodine loss during iodization was reduced below 5%, resulting in
iodate savings of 10% (RMB 8 million per year), which is half of the capital cost of the
iodizing machines. Reduced losses and discards from one bulk packaging machine in
Sichuan covered the investment cost of the machine in two years; and
- 33 -



*  enhanced management capacity of the salt industry through introduction of international
project and management practice, establishment of the salt industry information system,
quality control laboratories and procedures, and the training of over 8,000 personnel.
The success of the project is attributed to support from a broad coalition of national sectoral
agencies and NGOs under the leadership of the State Council and SDPC; public awareness
campaigns especially around May 5, IDD Day, and other consumer education initiatives;
introduction of legislation, regulations, supervision and enforcement to support and control
production, distribution and sale of iodized salt and the financing of industry upgrading and
related activities; and support from the international community both before and during the
project.
Through the combination of the project with related activities of the NIDDEP, China achieved its
goal of virtual elimination of IDD by the year 2000 for the country as a whole and in 24 out of 31
provirnces. Seven provinces, accounting for 14% of China's population have not yet reached that
goal, and new action plans have been made to achieve IDD elimination in each of those provinces,
with assistance from central and provincial government agencies, and international partners
including UNICEF, AusAID, ICCIDD, MI and others.
CNSIC identified the following key experiences from the project: (a) the salt enterprises saw
participation in the project as a way to ensure their survival and development; (b) the salt industry
rec(.gnized the linkage of the social goal and industry bene;itt; (c) both World Bank funds and the
ISIDF made it easier for enterprises to obtain local financ ug for their investment needs; and (d)
colliboration of salt and health sectors was the key to successful implementation, especially in
quality monitoring and community education.
Among lessons learned, CNSIC noted: (a) delay in initial phases of project implementation due to
inexperience of project staff; (b) underestimation of the complexity and the time required for
technology transfer; and (c) the special challenge facing enterprises in remote and developing
regions with low technical and management capacity.
Overall CNSIC concluded that the project achieved 100-1 10% of the project plan, ensured quality
and quantity of iodized salt supply to the nation, and achieved great social and economic benefit.
CNSIC has identified the following critical factors for successful extension and maintenance of
IDD elimination nationwide: (a) adoption of responsibility for IDD elimination by all salt industry
personnel; (b) maintaining government control over the industry with active enforcement of the
regulations; (c) maintaining 95% achievement of salt industry targets for sales, market coverage
and quality of iodized salt; (d) providing an equipment service to enterprises for spare parts and
new machines; and (e) continued close cooperation with international organizations.
Provincial Salt Administrations and Salt Enterprises. At a stakeholders workshop held during
the ICR mission, staff of these agencies stressed the benefit of the project to overall
rationalization of the edible salt industry and to modernization of individual enterprises. They
noted that some aspects of the modernization resulted in cost savings while in other areas,
especially the advanced retail packaging, their costs increased somewhat, but this increase was
- 34 -



absorbed by the higher salt price. They appreciated the value of World Bank's involvement in the
project in facilitating access to local credit, and in reinforcing the social goal of the iodized salt
initiative. They noted the three major challenges facing the industry in the immediate future: (a)
to reduce overcapacity in salt production, including giving incentives to close small producers; (b)
to provide special assistance to particular communities who were not yet taking iodized salt
because of extreme poverty or beliefs against iodized salt; and (c) to maintain vigilance in
enforcing regulations controlling the industry and keeping un-iodized salt out of the market.
Results of the stakeholders workshop are in Annex 9.
Health Sector. During the ICR mission, Ministry of Health representatives confirmed their
satisfaction with the major contribution of the project to the national goal of IDD elimination, and
praised the salt industry at each level for its active collaboration in the overall Program, its
participation in the comprehensive Program evaluation in every province during June 2000, and
for making plans to address remaining areas which have not reached the goal. Although
disappointed that none of the World Bank funds were available for health related activities under
the NIDDEP, MOH greatly appreciated the contribution of the Bank to the IDD Control Project
implemented in the salt industry, and encouraged the Bank to find ways to remain engaged in the
ongoing work of IDD control in China, along with other members of the international community.
In the stakeholders workshop, a Provincial Health Bureau official commented that China had
given great attention to endemic disease control over many decades, and the project's success was
built on long efforts by the health sector, whic, started iodization of salt in the 1960s, and new
scientific evidence in the late 1980's that iodine deficiency affected mental development. The
Govermment had used this evidence to mobilize support of officials at all levels, which would not
have been possible before 1985. The involvement of the World Bank also drew the attention of
key sectors. The central strategy of large scale iodization, with regulation to ensure transport and
distribution, was considered the key to the effectiveness of the intervention. Health Bureaus
should continue to be kept fully informed of progress and problems. Continued monitoring of salt
quality by the Health Bureaus is needed, and ISIDF funds could be used to help cover these costs,
which should be covered in the health budget, not charged to the enterprises or the industry.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
United Nations Agencies. Following a meeting with the UN agencies during the ICR mission,
comments were received from UNDP, UNICEF, UNIDO and WHO summarizing their own
activities leading up to launch of the NIDDEP in 1993, their contributions to IDD control since
that time and their views on the role of the IDDC project (see Annex 11). The Bank's additional
comments are in Para 10.1.
International Assessments. An international workshop on China's IDD Elimination Strategy in
Beijing in October 1998 emphasized that the assignment of a central role to the salt industry, with
strong regulatory support, was an important success factor. The conference noted that through
the project, the salt industry carried out a great deal of work, resulting in significant achievement
for IDD elimination in China and a valuable demonstration for the global effort to eliminate 1DD.
- 35 -



The Micronutrient Initiative. An independent assessment of the project by the Executive
Director of Ml was commissioned by the World Bank in October 2000 in advance of the
Completion Mission (See Ref: 16. Mannar, V.). The report concluded that the project's success
in meeting its physical targets had allowed China to increase its production of iodized salt from 3
million tons in 1995 to 6.8 million tons in 1999. This in turn had enabled China to meet the
international standard of Universal Salt lodization (USI), with over 90% of households using
adequately iodized salt. The challenge for the future is to extend USI to areas that are still below
that goal.
The report concluded that through the project the salt industry had strengthened its management
and operational capacity at each level to a degree unforeseen a decade ago, including project
management, information system development, physical development, financial mobilization,
interaction with a range of international funding and development partners, working with foreign
contractors and technology transfer, aiad research and development. Although CNSIC at ti.nes
found the Bank's requirements arduous and difficult, the process had strengthened their own
capacity and, along with support from other agencies, has put China in a position to offer its
expertise and technology to other countries in the full range of IDD program components,
including assessment, salt iodization a;n I packaging, surveillance and monitoring.
Because China has 40% of the global burden of IDD, the Government's action, with Bank
assistance and international support, has played a significant role in the global fight against the
most common preventable cause of b-ain damage in children. To ensure adequate iodide int . ke to
safeguard the intellectual and social -vellbeing of China's future generations, salt iodization !eeds
to go on forever and therefore must become an integral part of the salt production and
distribution system. Progress has been impressive but much remains to be done in those areas
where household intake of iodized salt is still low.
Lessons from China's experience are summed up by MI as follows:
* High level of political comnmitment.
* Broad alliance of relevant units in government and civil society, including the All China
Women's Federation and the Disabled Persons Association as representatives of the
ultimate beneficiaries
* Strong national organization, including regulation, to ensure adequate production of
iodized salt.
* Sufficient funding for the necessary reform and streamlining of the industry to underpin and
sustain iodized salt production.
* Effective information system connecting the whole industry.
* Strong guiding and supporting role from the central agency (CNSIC)
* Salt companies should take a marketing approach to compete for consumer attention.
* Consumer education should be an integral part of the salt marketing strategy, including
messages on salt packages and use of retail outlets to reach the target audience.
* Careful preparation and contracting for technology transfer.
* Plan for sustainability, so that salt iodization becomes an integral part of the salt production
and distribution system.
- 36 -



MI report made the following recommendations for China:
*  Maintain strong regulation of the salt industry until the behavioral norm of using iodized
salt is established and sustained.
*  Maintain the Iodized Salt Industry Development Fund to support continued rationalization,
maintenance and support for provinces with inadequate    access to quality iodized salt.
*  Mobilize salt retailers to disseminate IDD educational messages, to accelerate the adoption
of the behavioral norm of using iodized salt.
And for the World Bank:
*  Draw lessons from the successful China experience for other IDD elimination projects.
* Review Bank procedures and formalities and simplify where possible.
* Consider documenting and publicizing the project achievements within and outside the
Bank, to assist others and to draw attention to the WB contribution to social development
and poverty.
* Consider further analysis of the project as an example of social or public good resulting
from support to the industry sector.
* Consider further analysis to show the correlation between industry investment and health
benefits; and between learning ability and economic return.
10. Additional Information
This section contains ;;upplementary information on four subjects: the contribution of
International Agencies to ;he National IDD Elimination Program; factors affec,ing presence of
non-iodized salt in the 'aarket; the performance of counterpart funding agencies; and the
utilization of the World Bank funds and final project costs.
10.1  Contributions of International Agencies   As noted elsewhere, several international
agencies have provided, and continue to provide, technical and financial assistance to NIDDEP, to
the salt industry in general, and to the project. These include four UN agencies (UNDP,
UNICEF, WHO and UNIDO), the International Council for Control of IDD (ICCIDD), the
Micronutrient Initiative (MI), AusAID, the global NGO Kiwanis, Government of Netherlands,
Government of Spain, and the Akzo Nobel company. Their contributions are summarized below.
From the first assessment mission of UNICEF consultants to China in 1988, and through the joint
project of MOH with UNDP, UNICEF and WHO in selected provinces from 1990-94, UN
agency support to China helped to set the stage for the National IDD Elimination Program which
was launched by the Government with an landmark national advocacy meeting in September
1993. This preparation also provided the background for the Government's proposal to the
World Bank for this project, specifically targeted to creation of capacity for iodizing and
packaging of salt, as one of the main interventions within NIDDEP. These three UN agencies
funded technical assistance and international study visits and fellowships during project
preparation. UNIDO then joined the group with specific assistance for salt industry training,
research and development. UNDP, UNICEF and WHO continued assistance to NIDDEP in the
areas of program management, social marketing, surveillance, health education, quality assurance,
information systems, and research and development, including provision of equipment and
personnel training. UNIDO's support, with financial and technical assistance from the
- 37 -



Govermnent of Netherlands and Akzo Nobel, has helped to improve technologies for salt
processing, iodization, packaging, training and general salt industry management.
The details of the UN family's assistance programs, are in Annex 11. However, not mentioned
specifically in the annex is particular assistance by UNICEF, UNDP, and WHO to the project,
which included: (a) funding of one consultancy in iodizing, two in packaging, and one in
information systems for the salt industry; (b) study tours and overseas training for CNSIC
management and other personnel; (c) provision of office systems, including computers for the salt
industry information system; and (d) provision of prototype machines for iodizing and packaging,
which helped in selection of equipment for the project and in initial training in operations. Such
assistance contributed significantly to the definition of the project as well as during
implementation.
The presence of senior UN agency staff in China facilitated dialogue with Chinese counterparts,
leading to improved development of programs and implementation.  Throughout project
implementation, UNDP played a leadership and coordination role, including the convening of
regular joint planning and review meetings, and had also provided funding for the first high level
advocacy meetrg. UNICEF provided technical and financial support in a broad range of
activities, especially for surveillance, quality control and community education and marketing. The
longstanding and continuous support by the UN family to botlh NIDDEP and the project, in
conjunction with Government commitment and actions, helped to maximize the effectiveness of
the Bank's coin; ibution and was an important factor in the overall suc, ss of NIDDEP.
From the time of its formation in the early 1990s, the International Council for Control of IDD
(ICCIDD) provided technical support for the initial programs of the Government and the UN, as
well as to NIDDEP, through its local expert members and through helping to form an
International Working Group to provide technical advice to the Program. Micronutrient Initiative
(MI) provided support, mainly through UNICEF, in advocacy, consumer education, and the
design of monitoring systems. AusAID supported the establishment of the National IDD
Reference Laboratory in Beijing, and in coordination with UNICEF and WHO, has helped to fund
and manage an IDD Control project in Tibet. Assistance from the Government of Netherlands
and Akzo Nobel company comprised the UNIDO program for assistance to the salt industry and
CNSIC. The Government of Spain provided a soft loan for upgrading salt production in one
location and also two prototype packaging machines.
The coordinated identification and provision of technical and financial assistance by these
international agencies resulted in synergy between the agencies and efficient delivery of support to
China, which is an excellent example of the way in which international cooperation can assist a
country to achieve a national health objective.
10.2 Factors Affecting Continued Use of Uniodized Salt (see also Section- 6. 9 B). Illegal or
substandard iodized salt continues to be present in the retail salt market in China. While the
market share varies across the country, it is estimated overall at 8%, and this despite the legal and
regulatory framework, which bans sale of uniodized edible salt, sets production quotas for each
province and licenses enterprises involved in producing, packaging, wholesale distribution and
- 38 -



transport, and extensive institutional mechanisms to enforce the regulations. Two questions need
to be addressed: how does the salt find its way into the market; and why is there a demand for
uniodized salt. There are several factors operating on both the supply and demand sides, and the
relative importance of these factors will vary according to the location.
1. Supply side factors include: (a) excess production capacity, and lack of control over this
capacity or salt produced above the quota (in some areas this may actually be iodized salt); (b)
deficient quality control in the iodizing process; (c) fraudulent packaging and labeling of
uniodized salt as iodized salt by unlicensed producers to capture the difference between cost
and price; and (d) enforcement mechanisms unable to plug the leaks in illegal supply.
2. Demand side factors include: (a) insufficient consumer awareness of IDD and of the benefits of
consuming iodized salt, to make it truly demand-driven; (b) unwillingness to pay the higher
pr;ce, however small, for packaged iodized salt, especially among poorer sections of society;
(c) ready availability of raw salt near production centers, or where consumers can obtain salt
for themselves from local deposits; and (d) consumer preference for unrefined, large crystal
salt;
An in-depth systematic evaluation of these factors and their relative importance in particular
markers would greatly inform the development of targeted strategies to improve coverage of
iodized salt at household level, or as a percentage of market share. During the project the Bank
tear. suggested using a portion of the unutilized credit for iuch a study, but this was not taken up
by (NSIC. However, CNSIC and the provinces are awaie of the importance to the viability of
the salt industry of reducing excess capacity, and there is general acceptance that generation and
maintenance of consumer demand will be essential for long term sustainability of the protective
effect of iodized salt across the whole population. However, provincial plans for follow up
action in the remaining problem areas would benefit from systematic, professional analysis of the
factors mentioned, with possible fnancial assistance from ISIDF.
10.3 Performance of Counterpart Funding Agencies: (see also Section 5.4 B above).
During preparation and at appraisal, the sources of counterpart financing and their respective
shares were identified as follows (see also table 5.4b): (i) Salt Industry Development Fund
(SIDF); RMB 190.43 million; (ii) SDBC, RMB 190.43 million; (iii) provincial governments, RMB
434.43 million; and (iv) project enterprises, RMB 243.43 million. The total amount and shares
were based on the Bank team's estimate of total financing required of RMB 1,286.9 million. The
total project capital cost approved by the State Development Planning Commission (SDPC) was
however, lower at RMB 997.7 million (including cash flow of RMB 108 million). The SDPC
approve capital cost was RMB 867 million (excluding cash flow) with corresponding lower
counterpart contributions from  provincial governments and project enterprises.  Written
assurances were obtained from SIDF and SDBC that they would make available their funds in a
timely manner. Under the project implementation agreements with CNSIC, the provincial
governments and the project enterprises also agreed to make available their designated shares.
Under standard Bank conditions the Borrower would be responsible for any overruns, particularly
in view of the difference between SDPC's approved project cost and the Bank's appraisal estimate.
- 39 -



SIDF [later designated as Iodized Salt Industry Development Fund (ISIDF)]. The primary
income source of the SIDF was a levy on salt producers and processors, part of which was
retained by provincial governments and part (RMB 13.5 per ton) remitted to the central SIDF,
administered by a Steering Committee composed of SDPC, MOF and CNCLI representatives, and
loaned to eligible borrowers for salt industry development. At project identification actual SIDF
collections were found to be poor, primarily because of enterprise debts, and at appraisal, an
amount in excess of RMB 700 million was due to SIDF. However, it was thought that with
improved collection, SIDF should be able to provide its share of counterpart.
As a condition of onlending of Bank funds by the Government to the implementing agency
(CNSIC), a separate Debt Redemption Fund was created under ISIDF, to guarantee repayment of
onlent funds. Concurrently, the Government announced a new price for iodized salt, that would
permit enterprises to recover their full costs and also pay RMB 25 per ton of salt into ISIDF.
With concerted efforts by CNCLI and CNSIC to collect overdue amounts, the Fund's position
improved slowly during 1995-1997, and then faster, with the result that it was able to contribute
RMB 224.6 million in counterpart, which is more than its initial commitment of RMB 190.4
million, while also providing for the Debt Redemption Fund, and other industry support activities.
SDBC. Although SDBC agreed in advance to its counterpart share, loan commitments and
disbursements quickly ran into trouble. The interest rate of 12.3% p.a. (including a discount of
3% from the originally specified rate) was considered too high by enterprises. With hardly any
takers, SDBC offered to decrease the rate to 9."% with government subsidizing the difference.
After a very long time, SDBC set the interest rate at 10.1% without Government subsidy, by
designating the project as supporting poverty alleviation. In the meantime, enterprises and
provincial governments began seeking alternate, cheaper financing, from their own internal
resources and local banks.
The procedures required by SDBC for loan commitment and disbursement were also onerous.
First, annual commitments for funding for the year as part of overall total commitment were made
generally only in the fourth quarter of that year. Second, the so-called 'release' of funds was
conditional upon: receipt of application from the enterprise supported by provincial government;
nomination of guarantor for repayment; and past progress and future annual plan in support of
'release' request. Third, disbursements were based on actual physical progress, and evidence of
concurrent disbursements from the other counterpart financing agencies. These self-defeating
convoluted procedures had two major effects: (i) they dissuaded borrowers from in using SDBC
funds and several actual borrowers accelerated debt retirement to reduce interest burden; and (ii)
they delayed project implementation. SDBC's total contribution to the counterpart financing was
RMB 145.4 million, which was lower than its original estimated share of RMB 190.4 million.
Provinces and Enterprises.  Contributions from the provincial salt administrations and the
enterprises themselves were made in sufficient amounts and timely manner. In fact, local project
costs during the initial two years were met mostly from these sources, although overall funds from
these sources were below estimates at appraisal, due to factors discussed elsewhere.
10.4 Bank Credit/Loan Utilization. The utilization of the Bank Credit/Loan estimated at
- 40 -



appraisal and final utilization are shown in the table below. As noted in Section 4B of the main
text, there were significant savings, especially in the procurement of retail packaging machines,
resulting in cancellation of the entire Loan portion on June 15, 1998. With Bank agreement,
CNSIC used additional savings in Credit portion to finance certain additional items, totaling
US$1.35 million equivalent, as summarized in the Table 1 Oa below.
The final World Bank Credit utilization of US$17.29 million equivalent, including financing of
additional items not foreseen at appraisal of US$1.35 million equivalent, is significantly less than
the combined Credit/Loan of US$27.0 million equivalent at appraisal. The difference was
primarily due to higher unit costs of retail packaging machines estimated at appraisal
(US$136,000/machine) compared with actual costs (US$83,700/machine), and also higher
estimated costs for technology transfer and components for machines to be manufactured locally
(US$5.1 million) compared with actual cost (US$1.8 million).
-41 -



Table 10a. Bank Credit/Loan Utilization
Item                    Appraisal Estimate               *Final Utilization
Number  Unit Cost   Total    Number  Unit Cost   Total
or Sets  (US$'000)    Cost    or Sets  (US$'000)    Cost
(US$'0O0)                     (US$'000)
1. Components for Iodizing Units    n.a.       n.a.      712       n.a.       n.a.    1,500
2. Bulk Packaging Machines            11     104.6      1,150        12     104.7      1,256
3. Retail Packaging Machines
a. Type I                         130      135.9    17,666      127*       83.7   10,626*
b. Type I (components and TT      122       41.8     5,100       122                1,811
fees only)
c. Type IV (carton packaging)       2      365.1       730         2      304.0      608
d. I-ton Bagging Machine            1       52.0        52         -          -         -
Subtotal Item 3                                     23,548                      13,045**
4. Installation and Comrissioning    n.a.      n.a.      701                             **
5. Training                          n.a.      n.a.      732                             **
6. Technical Assistance              n.a.      n.a.      157       n.a.       n.a.      140
7. Additional Items Financed :ut of
Unutilized Credit
a. Retail Packaging Machirees                                      6 6    71.5       429
b. Spare Parts for 7(a) Ahove                                      6                  115
c. Spare Parts for Some                                                               182
Machines Under 3(a) AbNe _e                                           _
d. Spare Parts for 3(c) Above                                        _                 27
e. Wrapping Machine for 3(a)                                                          398
Above
f. Mixers                                                                            200
Subtotal Item 7                                                                     1,351
TOTAL                                                 27,000                         17,292
Notes: *  Includes 32 machines from Spain at US$71,530 each, and 95 machines from Italy at US$87,760 each.
** Includes US$648,000 for installation and commissioning, and US$546,000 for training of personnel.
n.a. Not applicable.
- 42 -



Table 10b. Project Financing by Expenditure Item
_______________________  (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Item         Appraisal Estimate       *Final Cost 1/       Final as Percentage
Appjraisal
Bank       GOC        Bank       GOC         Bank       GOC
Engineering and Other Services         -       3.69                   3.98          -      107.9
Civil Construction                     -      27.89          -       36.65           -     131.4
Equipment and Spare Parts          24.29      18.23      15.96       28.26       65.7      155.0
Duties and Taxes                        -      7.77          -        1.16           -      14.9
Commissioning and Installation      0.67       1.61       0.65        6.37       97.0      395.7
Inspection                             -       1.27          -        1.24           -      97.6
Plant and Equipment Insurance           -      1.33          -        0.14           -      10.5
Training                            0.70       1.24       0.55        1.06       78.6       85.5
Project Management                      -      2.31          -        5.37          -      232.5
Technical Assistance (PIU)          0.15       0.34       0.14        0.31        93.3      91.2
Baseline Cost Subtotal             25.81 _ 65.67         17.29       84.53       67.0      128.7
Physical Continwncies                 -       4.53        n.a.       n.a.        n.a.       n.a.
Price Contingencies                 1.19     11.75        n.a.       n.a.        n.a.      n.a.
Installed Cost Subtotal            27.00      81.95      17.29       84.53       64.0      103.1
Interest Dunng Conistruction            -     14.53          -        3.90           -      26.8
Incremental Wos"ing Capital                   28.81                  13.07                  45.4
Total Capital C'st                 27.00     125.29      17.29     101.50        64.0       81.0
Notes: 1/   for Bank portion, difference between appraisal and actual due to :,ancelled Loan portion of
US$7.0 million and
Credit portion SDR:USD exchange rate fluctuations over the life of the project.
Exchange rate at appraisal was: 1US$ = 8.45RMB; and at project completion was: IUS$ =
8.28RMB.
n.a.   Not applicable.
Differences due to rounding.
Table 10c. Credit (Loan) Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual ($ million equiaent)
FY1996   FY1997   FY1998   FY1999   FY2000   FY2001
Appraisal estimate                  9.59      20.47      27.00 _          ___     _
MTR Formal Revision (05/1998)        1.99      3.80       8.75     15.92      20.00
Actual 2/                            1.99      3.80       8.76     15.55      17.02      17.29
Actual as % of revised estimate    100.00    100.00    100.11      97.68      85.10
Notes: 1/ Difference between appraisal estimate and MTR Revision due to cancellation of World Bank Loan of
US$7.00 million equivalent, June 15, 1998.
2/ Difference between MTR Formal Revision and Actual due to SDR:USD exchange rate fluctuations
over the life of the project.
MTR: Mid term Review.
-43 -



Table 10d. Capacities for lodization and Packa ging of Salt
Enterprises and Capacities by Type*    Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate
Salt Upgrading
Capacity ('000 tpy)                            2,200                      2,445
No. of Enterprises   X57                                                   55
Iodization
Capacity ('000 tpy)                            8,160                      8,100
No. of Enterprises                              107                        110
No. of Lines by Type    I                        19                       551
n  52                     35
III                      26                         17
IV                       23                         36
Bulk Packaging (50 kg bags)           .
Capacity ('000 tpy)                         2,929                     3,762
No. of Enterprises                           40                        40
No. of Lines by Type  I      _ _ _           __ 11                      13
II                       35            2_1
Retai Packaging (0.5-1.0 kg)
1. Production Level                                  .
Capacity ('000 tpy)                         1,418                      970
|-,To. of Enterprises                             72      _                 72
N  of Lines by Type  I                        86                        64
____             II~~~~1                   44                         30
III                       98                        45
I=        _       IV                                           1_      _       _
2. Distribution Level
Capacity ('000 tpy)                         1,643                     2,477
No. of Enterprises                           75                         75
No. of Lines by Type  I                      44                         74
II                       78                        70
III                     245                        434
Retail Packaging Total                                                  1
Capacity ('000 tpy)                         3,061                     3,447
No. of Enterprises                           147                       147
No. of Lines by Type  I                      130                       138
____________      II1                     122                        100
III                     343                       479
IV             _                                   2
Note:  tpy - tons per year
* using classification from Staff Appraisal Report
-44 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Table 1 a. Outcome/Impact Indicators
Indicator                       1995               1997             1999
1. Percentage of households consuming          39.9               81.1             88.9
quality iodized salt ( 20 ppm) (testing
of salt samples)
2a. Percentage of school children 8-10          n. a.             9.6               8.0
years with enlarged thyroid (measured by
ultrasound)
2b. Percentage of school children 8-10         20.4               10.9              8.8
years with enlarged thyroid (measured by
palpation)
3. Percentage of school children 8-10           13.3              3.5               3.3
yrs with low urinary iodine (% iodine
content   50 ug/L)
Notes: Since the project objective was to support the national program goal of IDD elimination, health impact is
included as a project outcomne.
Source: Three national surveys conducted by GOC with international support (Annex 7, refs. 21-24)
ugfL = micrograms per liter.
ppm = parts per million.
Table 1 b. OLisput Indicators
Indicator                      Projected in last PSR      Final Achievement
1. Upgrading of raw salt production facilities at             2.45 Mtpy                2.45 Mtpy
25 locations
2. Installation of iodization capacity in 107                  8.10 Mtpy                8.10 Mtpy
locations           _
3. Installation of bulk packaging capacity at                  3.76 Mtpy                3.76 Mtpy
producer level
4. Installation of retail packaging capacity at                0.97 Mtpy                0.97 Mtpy
producer level
5. Installation of retail packaging capacity at                2.48 Mtpy                2.48 Mtpy
distributor level
6. Installation of carton packaging capacity                  0.05 Mtpy                 0.05 Mtpy
Notes: mtpy = million tons per year.
The total operating capacities at completion, including retained existing capacities were: (a) bulk packaging, 6.31 mtpy;
(b) retail packaging at producer level, 2.05 mtpy, and (c) retail packaging at distributor level, 3.57 mtpy.
- 45 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Table 2 a. Project Cost by Component
(Silon equi vaent)
Project Cost By Component        Appraisal   Actual/Latest    Actual as % of
Estimate      Estimate     Appraisal Estimate
lodization Projects                        90.99         101.37                111.4
Technical Assistance                         0.49            0.45               91.8
Subtotal Base Cost                    91.48          101.82              111.3
Physical Contingencies                       4.53            n.a.                n.a.
Price Contingencies                         12.94            n.a.                n.a.
Subtotal Installed Cost              108.95          101.82               93.5
Interest During Construction                14.53            3.90               26.8
Incremental Working Capital                 28.81           13.07               45.4
Total Capital Cost           l       152.29        118.80                 78.0
Notes: Differences due to rounding.
n.a.   Not applicable.
The exchange rate at appraisal was: I US$ = RMB 8.45; and at project completion was: I US$ RMB 8.28.
Table 2 b. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(Appraisal Estimate, US$ million equivalent)
_Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      -     ICB          Other 1/       NBF 2/         'i2-kal
EngineeringAnd OtherServices        -                              4.71         4.71
Goods                                                                                 _
Equipment and materials
1. Iodization equipment                          1.50 (0.71)    2.18         3.68 (0.11)
2. Packaging machines             37.51 (24.65)   0.08 (0.05)    12.19       49.79 (24.7)
3. Salt quality upgrading equipment   -          -              4.74         4.74
Installation and commissioning     0.70 (0.70)    -               2.06        2.77 (0.70)
Training on new equipment          0.73            .              1.59        2.32
Works
Iodizing                         __12.16                                     12.16
Packaging                                                        19.89       19.89
Salt quality upgrading                           -              3.66         3.66
Plant and Equipment Insurance                                      1.69         1.69
Project Man agem en-t                                              2.96         2.96
Technical Assistance (PIU)          -              0.16 (0.16)    0.43         0.59 (0.16)
Subtotal                            38.94 (26.08)   1.74 (0.92)    68.27        108.95 (27.0)
Interest Durinn  Construction       -               -              14.53        14.53
Incremental Working Capital                         -              28.81        28.81
Total                         38.94 (26.08)   1.74 (0.92)    111.62       152.29 (27.0)
Notes:  1/    Other procurement methods include ISP, direct contracting, and consultant services.
2/     NBF denotes non-Bank Group financing.
Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the Bank.
- 46 -



Table 2 c. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(Actual/Latest Estimate, US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                        Procurement Method
ICB      Other 1/    NBF 2/       Total
Engineering And Other Services.                                       3.98       3.98
Goods
Equipment and materials
1. lodization equipment                         -       1.50       2.12        3.62
(1.50)                 (1.50)
2. Packaging machines                       13.54      0.92       26.04       40.50
(13.54)     (0.92)                (14.46)
3. Salt quality upgrading equipment             -                  2.50        2.50
Installation and commissioning                0.65                  6.37        7.02
(0.65)                            (0.65)
Training on new equipment                     0.55          -        1.06       1.61
(0.55)                            (0.55)
Works
Iodizing                                        -          -      11.37       11.37
Packaging                                       -          -      16.82       16.82
Salt quality upgrading                          -          -       8.47        8.47
Plant and Equipment lzkwurance                    -          -        0.14       0.14
ProjectManagement                                                     5.37       5.37
Technical Assistance (PIl)                        -       0.14       0.31        0.45
(0.14)                 (0.14)
Subtotal                                  14.74       2.56       84.55     101.85
(14.74)     (2.56)                (17.30)
Interest During Construction                                          3.90       3.90
Incremental Working Capital                       -          -       13.07      13.07
Total                                     14.74       2.56      101.52     118.82
(14.74)     (2.56)                (17.30)
Notes:  1/    Other procurement methods include ISP, direct contracting, and consultant services.
2/     NBF denotes non-Bank Group financing.
Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the Bank.
- 47 -



Table 2 d. Project Financing by Component
(US$ million equivalent)
Component          Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate  % of A praisal
Bank      GOC        Bank       GOC        Bank       GOC
Iodization Projects         25.66     65.33      17.15      84.22       66.8      128.9
Technical Assistance         0.15      0.34       0.14       0.31        93.3      91.2
Subtotal Base Cost          25.81     65.67      17.29      84.53       67.0      128.7
Physical Contingencies         -      4.53        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
Price Contingencies         1.19     11.75        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
Subtotal Installed Cost     27.00     81.95      17.29      84.53        64.0     103.1
Interest During                 -      14.53         -       3.90           -      26.8
Construction                                 _                         _
Incremental Working             -     28.81          -      13.0',-                45.4
Capital
Total Cost                  27.00    125.29      17.29     101.50       64.0       81.0
-48-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
An economnic rate of return was not estimated for the project at the time of appraisal, nor at closure.
-49 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
Ident. 02/1994               4   HE, IS, OA, 00
Prepn. 04/1994               2   IS, IS
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appr. 02/1995                4   EC, IE, IS, OA, PH
Neg. 05/1995                 6   DO, IE, IS, LC, OA, PH
Supervision
Supn I (Project               6   DO, HS, IS, IS, PH, PS              S              S
Launch) 08/1995
Supn 2 01/1996                4   HS, IS, IS, PS                      S              S
Supn 3 06/1996                4   HS, IS, IS, PH                      S              S
Supn 4 03/1997                3   IS, IS, OA                          S              s
Supn 5 (MTR                   7   H0, HS, IS, IS, OA, PH, PY          U             HS
05/199(
Supn 6 04/1999                6   DO, HS, IS, PH, PS, PS               S 5
Supn 7 11/1999                5   EC. HS, IS, OS, PH P                               S
Supn 8 06/2000                4   DC. IS, PH, PS                       S            HS
Supn 9 11/2000                7   DO, HS, IS, IS, OA, PH, PS          S              S
ICR
ICR 1,10/2000                2    IS, IS                               S             S
ICR 2, 11/2000               7    DO, HS, IS, IS, OA, PH, PS           S            HS
Notes: I/The IDDC Project was first identified as a comnponent of the China Comprehensive MCH Project (Cr. 2655-CHA),
and later processed as a stand alone project.
Specialist Skills: DO = Disbursement Officer, EC = Economist; FA = Financial Analyst; Health Education Specialist
= HL; HE = Health Economist; HS = Health Specialist; IE = Industrial Engineer; IS = Industry Specialist; LC = Legal
Counsel; OA = Operations Analyst; 00 = Operations Officer; PY= Physician; PS = Procurement Specialist; PH =
Public Health Specialist.
Performance Ratings: HS  Highly Satisfactory; S = Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory; HU =Highly Unsatisfactory.
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estinate
No. Staff weeks               US$ C000)
Identification/Preparation                39.1                       67.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                     46.7                       137.6
Supervision                              140.6                       433.4
ICR                                                                   62.7
Total                                                                701.6
Note:   Cost only includes Bank budget used for preparation and implementation.
- 50 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
F Physical                                * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
F Financial                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development               0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                0 H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
 Gender                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
 Other (Please specify)           * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Health
Z Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management                0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
-51 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
N Lending                                            OHS *S OU OHU
I Supervision                                        OHS IDS  C u   0 fU
E Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
Z Preparation                                        OHS OS   C u   O HU
f  Government implementation performance             O HS O S  C U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
Z  Overall                                           OHS O*S   Ou           I HU
- 52 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
World Bank Documents
1.    China: IDDC Project. Staff Appraisal Report No. 1403 1-CHA. June 6, 1995.
2.    China: IDDC Project. Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic of China
and IDA December 20, 1995.
3.    China: IDDC Project. Loan Agreement between the People's Republic of China and IBRD.
December 20, 1995.
4.    China: IDDC Project. Project Agreement among IDA, IBRD, and China National Salt Industry
Corporation. December 20, 1995.
5.    China: IDDC Project. Mid-term Review Report. November 12, 1998.
6.    China: IDDC Project. First Supervision Mission Aide Memoire. August 18, 1995.
7.    China: IDDC Project. Second Supervision Mission Aide Memoire. January 30, 1996.
8.    China: IDDC Project. Third Supervision Mission Aide Memoire. June 18, 1996.
9.    China: IDDC Project. Fourth Supervision Mission Aide Memoire. March 21, 1997.
10.   China: IDDC Project. Fifth Supervision Mission Aide Memoire. May 26, 1998
11.   China: IDDC Project. Sixth Supervision Mission Aide Memoire. April 23, 1999.
12.   China: IDDC Project. Seventh Supervision Mission Aide Memoire. December 16, 1999.
13.   China: IDDC Project. Eighth Supervision Mission Aide Memoire. June 14, 2000.
14.   China: IDDC Project. Ninth Supervision Mission Aide Memoire. December 15, 2000.
15.   Goh, Chorching. World Bank. An Analysis of Combating Iodine Deficiency: Case Studies of
China, Indonesia, and Madagascar. OED Working Paper Series No. 18. Winter 2001.
16.   Mannar, Venkatesh. Micronutrient Initiative. China IDD Control Project: Report to Final
Supervis.mn Mission for Preparation of Implementation Completion Report. December 2000.
Government
17.   China Beijing Consulting and Engineering Limited (BCEL)Engineerinig Company. Feasibility
Study: Project of Universal Iodization of Salt to Eliminate IDD in China. April 1994.
18.   China BCEL Engineering Company. Feasibility Study: Project of Iodized Salt to Eliminate IDD
in China (Second Edition). November 1994.
19.   China BCEL Engineering Company. Supplementary Material for Feasibility Study: Project of
Universal lodization of Salt to Eliminate IDD in China. June 1994.
20.   National Office for Endemic Disease Control, Ministry of Health. Regulations on Edible Salt
Iodization as a Means to Eliminate Iodine Deficiency Disorders. August 23, 1994.
21.   Chinese Research Center for Endemic Disease Control. Report of 1995 China National IDD
Surveillance. --, 1996.
22.   Chinese Research Center for Endemic Disease Control. Report of 1997 China National IDD
Surveillance. March 8, 1998.
23.   Chinese Research Center for Endemic Disease Control. Report of 1999 China National IDD
Surveillance. --, 2000.
24.   China National Salt Industry Corporation. Borrower's Project Completion Report for IDDC
Project. December 2000.
25.   Government of China. Summary  of National IDDC  Program  Achievement and
Readvocacy, October 2000.
Other
26.   UNICEF, UNDP, WHO. Report of the National Advocacy Meeting to Eliminate Iodine
Deficiency Disorders by the Year 2000. September, 1993.
27.   Memorandum of Understanding on Coordination and Cooperation among IDA, UNDP, UNICEF,
UNIDO, and WHO for the National Iodine Deficiency Disorder Elimination Program of the
- 53 -



People's Republic of China. September 15, 1995.
28.   Ministry of Health, China, CNSIC, UNDP, UNICEF, WHO, UNIDO. Programme of
International Cooperation for Elimrination of IDD in China by the Year 2000: Comprehensive
Evaluation and Planning Mission, Report of the Mission's Observations and Reconmmendations.
Jly, 1996.
- 54 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
No beneficiary survey was carried out for the following reasons: (i) field surveys were carried out by other
agencies at regular intervals during the project, in relation to program monitoring and the demand oriented
activities which were managed outside the project; and (ii) there were limited funds, and the choice was
made to conduct a stakeholders workshop to gain more insight into the experience of the project itself.
- 55 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
CHINA IDDC PROJECT - FINAL SUPERVISION MISSION
MINUTES OF MEETING OF STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP
Nanning, China, December 8, 2000
Introduction. A stakeholders workshop was organized in Nanning, Guangxi Autonomous
Region, on December 8, 2000, to assess achievements of the project; the positive and negative
experiences of design, preparation and implementation; lessons learned and advice for the future,
especially concerning sustainability of the success achieved so far and improved implementation in
the hard to reach areas which have not yet reached the standard of iodized salt coverage and
elimination of IDD.
The sixteen participants came from the salt industry of five provinces or regions, the bureau of
health and bureau of technical supervision of Guangxi Region, and the central project
implementation unit of the China National Salt Industry Corporation (CNSIC). It had also been
planned to invite local media, industry and commerce and transport sectors, and the federations of
women and of disabled persons, but these invitations were not followed up. The workshop took
the form of a round table discussion, A ith short presentations addressing the key questions nuted
above, which had been sent in advance, followed by comments and questions from the group.
Finally the main conclusions and recommendations of the group were summed up by the project
director.
Summary of Main Points. This s ection provides a summary of the experience and issues
presented by each of the provincial units represented, followed by the workshop summing up.
1. Hunan Provincial Salt Administration. A Deputy Provincial Governor was put in charge of
project implementation. We secured funding of 46 million Yuan from four sources - World Bank
(25%), ISIDF, local bank loans, and from participating firms; we strengthened the regulatory
system for the whole province and strictly controlled illegal salt production and distribution; we
upgraded and unified the retail packaging arrangements for the whole province, added the
anti-fake logo on double-layer poly film retail packaging; and conducted technical and
management training both at home and abroad. During the design stage, Hunan decided to move
all iodization to production points, rather than linking it with retail packaging. The project
achievement proved this decision was right. We also rationalized iodized salt production in 2 salt
production firms (350,000 tpy and 450,000 tpy respectively), and closed all other small salt firms.
The new machines have greatly improved the quality standard, production rate and environmental
hygiene. Now 99-100% of salt produced reaches the quality standard. However, the modernized
retail packaging, with abolition of manual handling, increased overall production cost by some 30
Yuan/SOOg; the salt companies sacrificed some 3 rnillion Yuan profit annually for the IDD
elimination effort. In addition, the spare parts of imported machines are expensive and not easily
available. However, local enterprises have already learned the maintenance of these machines and
are experimenting with locally made spares. Installation of local retail packaging machines from
Tianjin will be completed early 2001. Overall the upgrading has improved quality, but has not
improved profit. We have reduced our profit for social benefit.
- 56 -



2. Quality Control Division, Guangxi Technical and Quality Supervision Bureau. The major reasons
of success of this project are:
* It is a social welfare project benefiting people's health, so it is supported by government,
welcomed by the people, with financial support catalyzed by the World Bank;
* Centralized IDDC Project implementation system (IDDC Office) at national, provincial and
local level, concerted effort has been made by multi-agency and multi-level approach.
To sustain the project achievement, pay special attention to following key steps:
* Do not relax, continue the strict monitoring and control of iodized salt quality during the
production and packaging,
* Maintain centralized salt regulatory system for salt production and distribution
* Strike harder on illegal salt business. If illegal salt still exists in the market, there will be no
sustainability of IDD elimination
* Step up the education and awareness raising effort; the harmfulness of iodine deficiency to
mental development of children should be known to everyone. Education to school children
are particularly important in poverty stricken upland areas of Guangxi as most mothers there
are illiterate and poor.
* IDDC work should not t; relaxed. IDD problem is like the enemy, when gripped firmly, they
die, if the grip slackens, they escape.
* Financial support should be made available to health monitoring work from appropriate
mechanism.
Guangxi has made great acliievement in IDD elimination during this project, than'.s to the World
Bank and CNSIC IDDC Office. As a technical supervision officer, I will work hard to support
your work to sustain China's IDDC achievement.
In answer a question of the function of the ISIDF after the project is completed, Mr. Chen
replied:
* China is a developing country, government budget cannot provide enough fund. IDD
elimination is a social welfare activity, so incremental cost and investment should be financed
by IS1DF;
* Maintenance and service of newly installed equipment
* Monitoring and supervision of iodized salt production and distribution
* Education and publicity activities
* Some price subsidy for poor and remote regions to keep unified salt price province-wide.
When questioned about state control, especially now China is facing WTO access, Mr. Chen
answered:
* The great western area of China with large population is facing serious IDD problems. The
purpose of state control is ensure health and social benefit. Also, the historical background of
thousand years of state control of the salt trade in China should be taken into account.
* Our iodized salt standard should be close to international standard after China enters WTO.
Thanks to coordination of IDDC Project Office of CNSIC, the cooperation among different
agencies is quite smooth, so far, seems such management system and project design have no
- 57 -



problems. Suggest health sector should conduct random check ups in remote areas for the
sustainable management of IDD elimination.
3. Comments of Official from Endemic Disease Control Center of Guangxi. One of the most
important reasons that government officials and relevant agencies paid greater attention to IDDC
project implementation is the new understanding, especially after 1985, of harmfulness of IDD,
that it is not just a goiter problem, but a threat to Chinese people's mental development. Such
knowledge has really drawn great attention of the society.
China's IDD elimination effort was launched as early as 1965. By 1992, the goiter rate was
reduced in most parts of the country, but the quality rate of iodized salt was only about 50% due
to lack of funds for salt industry reform, health education and monitoring as well as regulation of
the salt distribution system.  Then from  1992, Chinese government started to implement
comprehensive IDDC program. With World Bank support the governmenit stepped up its effort to
an unprecedented extent with respect to modernization of salt production, iodizing, packaging,
health education, etc. This laid a sound material basis for the success of IDDC program in China.
I hope World PBnk will continue to give support, and government give health sector more
support; for example, our quarterly IDD monitoring at county, township and village levels are free
of charge, but we hope to get financial support to sustain such monitoring effort.
4. Official of CJuangxi Region Salt Administration. I am respons2;le for the distribution of
iodized salt in the whole of Guangxi Autonomous Region. I would like to supplement other
people's comments with my experiences:
i) Firrn commitment by the government and leaders
ii) Strong arrangement of institutional coordination
iii) Set up complete set of policy and legal framework, regulation, provisions and standard.
iv) Control of salt production, transport and distribution system with special license system
v) Establish distribution network at county, township and village levels, to insure the
availability of iodized salt to all consumers
vi) Educate school children and housewives. When we have coordinating meeting for
education and dissemination, we invite representatives from women's federation. In poor
area, school children will cast greater influence on their illiterate mothers.
5. Representative of Chongqing Municipality Salt Administration. Each province has its own
unique characteristics; some provinces have salt surplus; in some salt production and consumption
is balanced, while others provinces need to import salt from neighboring provinces partially or
entirely. My comments are based on Chonqing's actual condition, in implementing the project.
Chongqing is a salt surplus municipality, with numerous small salt producers, especially in poverty
stricken areas. The demands for iodized salt are 400,000 tpy, while the total production of salt
was 710,000 tpy. Production costs in these small salt firms are much lower than market price set
by CNSIC. To rationalize production of quality iodized salt, we need to close most of the small
salt factories, but they belong to local government and are an important source of local revenue.
Chongqing therefore adopted a policy of financial compensation for closure or purchase of these
- 58 -



firms. This ensures that local government revenue and incomes of workers remains the same after
closure. Chongqing Salt Administration also provides alternative production or support for
production conversion. So far, the streamlining of iodized salt production has resulted cost
savings which are used to compensate small firms which are closed.
6. Representative of Fujian Provincial Salt Administration. Fujian province is a typical salt
surplus province in southern China. There were more than 1.1 million tpy sea salt production in
Fujian in earlier 1990s, which accounted for 50% of salt production in South China, while the
consumption of edible salt in Fujian is just 250,000 tpy. The rest of the salt was supplied to 7
other provinces under the planned economy. With the new market economy other provinces
developed their own salt production and Fujian salt industry suffered greatly; export to other
provinces declined from 600,000 tpy to 100,000 tpy; and export to foreign countries also declined
to 20,000 tpy, so overproduction of salt posed problems in the market. Cost of illegal salt
production in Fujian is as low as 20 Yuan/t, while the production cost of licensed salt is 120 Yuan
per ton. In addition, after other provinces reduced their demand for salt from Fujian, the
accumulated salt in licensed salt firms was also huge, so these firms also tried to sell salt illegally
to maintain the operation.
According to a survey by UNICEF and MOH in 1998, the qualified iodized salt coverage in
Fujian were only 60%, which ranked as the 6th from bottom among the economically developed
provinces. This result shocked provincial leaders, so immediate action was taken by provincial
gove.ument. IDDC leading groups were set up, headed by 'he No. 1 head of the government at
provimicial, prefecture and county level; IDDC targets were p3rt of the performance assessment of
the govermment head. Fujian Provincial Salt Administration set up a special 7-member IDDC
Office for rationalization. Such drastic measures really made a difference. Restructuring and
rationalization of salt industry have been implemented; edible salt production capacity is reduced
from half million tpy to 350,000 tpy in 2000. A great campaign to crackdown on illegal salt has
been launched, confiscated illegal salt in Fujian accounts for more than 25% of the country's total.
Over 235 salt production firms have been closed or converted to other businesses. This process
of closure or conversion is full of pain and hope. The IDDC project office makes a good example
of successful conversions, using video tapes to help persuade other firms to convert or close.
So far, Fujian realized its IDD elimination effort at the end of 2000 with the total investment of 91
million Yuan. Although 2.1 million Yuan of the World Bank credit is only accounts for 2.2% of
the total investment, but it really catalyzed domestic funds. So the World Bank support is more
significant politically than the credit itself.
7. Representative of Hainan Provincial Salt Administration. Hainan is another typical salt
surplus province in China. It is also one of the 7 provinces that has not realized the IDD
elimination target. There are more than 600 small salt producing firms with the total production
of 250,000 tpy, but the internal consumption of salt in Hainan province is only 40,000 tpy; CNSIC
will accept only 50,000 tpy, so the total surplus after CNSIC's quota, is 160,000 tpy. The good
experience of Chongqing and Fujian is not applicable in Hainan for the following reasons:
i) Government officials do not pay enough attention to this IDD elimination issue
ii) Hainan provincial salt administration is a small organization with limited financial strength,
- 59 -



so we are not be able to compensate closure or conversion of many small salt producers
iii)IDD area of Hainan is located mainly in central upland of the island, which is a national level
poverty area. Great effort should be made in this area for IDD elimination.
Mr. Cao sincerely hopes that CNSIC and World Bank continue to support to Hainan's IDD
effort.
Summary of the Views Expressed in the Stakeholder Workshop:
A.   Key Factors Contributing to Positive Achievements
*  Commitment to IDD elimination as a national goal at highest levels in government, and top
officials paid great attention to the project implementation. At national level, Premier Zhu
Rongji and State Counselor Madam Peng Peiyun personally took charge of IDD elimination
work. Accordingly, at each province, municipality and autonomous region, a deputy governor
is taking charge of the project implementation work.
*  Establishment of a comprehensive legal framework, which permitted unified control of the salt
industry and health sector operations.
* Establishment of financial mechanism for basic counterpart financing from central government
through the establishment of Iodized Salt Induwtry Development Fund (ISIDF) approved by
the State Council in 1995.
*  Availability of local counterpart financing in adequate amounts, although with some delays
* Establishment of organizational framework with clear responsibilities and coordination
mechanisms among appropriate agencies at c. ntral, provincial and county levels to execute the
various interventions required for IDD elimirntion, with financial and technical support from
international agencies.
*  Commitment of the full range of stakeholder agencies to the overall objective and their
execution of the activities relevant to their responsibility
*  Enforcement of state regulation of the salt industry, preventing un-iodized salt from entering
the market through joint operations involving technical supervision bureau, industrial and
commerce administrations, transport, salt industry and health sector.
*  Rationalization the salt industry, close small salt firms of low quality and technical level.
*  Introduction of advanced technology and equipment of iodizing, bulk and retail packaging
machines as well as relevant measuring and control devices for salt iodizing and packaging.
*  Technical training for salt industry personnel and staff of endemic diseases control and
prevention.
*  Revision of iodized salt standard and testing methods, especially the concentration of iodine of
iodized salt at production, retail and household levels.
*  Population awareness, developed over time, of the dangers of IDD and acceptance by the
consumers of iodized salt consumption as the means of preventing it.
The participants of the workshop pointed out that the World Bank funds played a critical role and
catalyzed the establishment of IDSF and allocation of local counterpart financing for the project.
- 60 -



B.    Main Problems or Barriers Faced in Implementation
*  Delay in transmitting message to the population about the insidious influence of iodine
deficiency on mental development, and mixed messages equating iodine with intelligence,
leading to confusion among some consumer groups, that persists in some areas.
*  Lack of experience in implementing projects of this magnitude and complexity; dealing with
international technology and equipment suppliers in procurement, Bank procedures;
*  Problems with delivery and responsiveness of the international suppliers
*  Delayed process of ownership restructuring between salt production side and distribution side,
delayed the physical implementation of the project, especially involving retail packaging.
C.    How to Ensure Sustainability
*  Do not relax, but strengthen and continue consumer and stakeholder education, especially
among school children and through salt retailers. Improve education messages on salt
packages
*  Develop and implement policies favorable to poorer sections of the population including
targeted price subsidies, and increased opportunities for economic development.
*  Maintain state regulation and control of the salt industry for the foreseeable future.
*  Ensure financial support for recurrcAt health sector expenditures for IDD control
Stakeholder% Workshop - List of Participants
Name                _   Position                     Institution
Central Level Participants
Guo Wenhui                     Project Manager      China National Salt Industry Corporation
Li Gongli                      Vice Manager         China National Salt Industry Corporation
Zhang Yan                      Intepreter           China National Salt Industry Corporation
Wene Xiaoya                    Interpreter          China National Salt Industry Corporation
Chongqing Municipality
Huang Daomo                    Deputy Controller    Salt Industry Adrministration Bureau
Liao Daixin                    Deputy Manager       Shuote Co., Limited
FuNian Province
Liu Shizhong                   Deputy Controller   {Provincial Salt Industry Adrninistration Bureau
Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region
Xia Zhengxin                   Manager              Provincial Salt Industry Administration Bureau
Zhang_Zhongyun          Deputy Manager       Provincial Salt Industry Administration Bureau
Zhang Zhongyun                 Deputy Manager       Provincial Salt Industry Administration Bureau
YiChongtQiang                  General Manager      Provincial Salt Industry Administration Bureau
Chen Lishan                    Controller           Quality and Technology inspection Bureau
Lin Guixing                    Deputy Controller    Prov. Health Bureau, Disease Control Dept
Wei Jinping                    Manager              Prov. Health Bureau, Supervision Departrnent
Hainan Province
Cao Shirnin                    Deput Manager       |Prov. Salt Industry Administration Bureau
Hunan Province
Xie Qiushi                    TDeputy Manager       Xiangheng Salt Mineral Plant
- 61 -



Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Report
Project Report
China Iodine Deficiency Disorders Control Project
Part I: General. The salt industry is a traditional business with more than 400,000 personnel in more
than 1300 production and distribution enterprises. In recent years, annual production remained 28 to 29
million tons, in which sea salt represents 68%, well-rock salt represents 24% and lake salt 8%. Every year
7 million tons of edible salt is produced.
Edible salt iodization is a major intervention in China to eliminate iodine deficiency disorders (IDD) by
2000 and sustainable development afterwards, which concerns improving people's quality, social
development and boosting the economy. The China IDDC Project is an integrated project involving food
salt management system, production technologies and marketing. Physical components under the Project
include financing, selection, procurement & installation of equipment and associated technology, domestic
equipment manufacturing, civil construction, research and development (R&D) on iodization and
packaging etc. The objectives of the Project are rationalizing production, level-off production and
distribution, producing quality iodized salt, iodization and packaging modernization and c.osuring market
supply. The Project is the first of its kind in the history of salt industry in terms of the size of investment
and large sum of enterprises involved.
Through the efforts made in these years, much progress has made in IDD eliminati n. Average iodine
content in salt is now equal te or above 20mg/kg. Coverage of iodized salt at household le, el has increased
from 39.9% in 1995 to 88.90/,. in 1999. Total goiter rate in children through palpation ant Ultra sound has
decreased from 20.4% in 1995 to 8.8% in 1999. The year 2000 nation-wide assessmenl of 31 provinces
shows that 24 provinces, or 77.4% of the total areas have basically achieved their phase targets. The figure
demonstrates that IDD phase objectives have been basically achieved and people's level of Iodine nutrition
has been improved significantly.
Part II:   Project Initiation and Approval. The Project started when China was making dramatic
advances in economy, new demand-supply relationships and ever-changing economical systems. China is
opening up. The Project involves many financing sources and implementing agencies, which are a challenge
in the fast changing environment. The Project has received support from the State Council, State Planning
Commission (SPC), and State Economic and Trade Commission (SETC). The World Bank and
international agencies also assisted during Project concept, approval and implementation.
A     Domestic Approval
I     Support from State Council and various sections
l.1   The State Council. During September 1994 to June 1995, the State Council and its secretariat
convened many times discussing and finalizing financing, setting up Iodized Salt Industry
Development Fund (ISIDF), pricing, setting loan interest rate of SDBC, import duties and VAT,
food salt monopoly. It was clearly decided that SPC directed the Project and China National
Council for Light Industry (CNCLI), China National Salt Industry Corporation (CNSIC) and
provincial salt companies took part in the Project.
1.2   SPC Coordination. SPC met several times with MOF, MOH, SDBC and CNCLI to discuss
physical issues, e.g. establishing ISIDF, iodized salt pricing and loan rates.
1.3   Support From Other Sections. IDD elimination is a systematic effort  involving legislation,
managerial mechanism, production technology, equipment upgrading, marketing, social mobilization
- 62 -



and quality monitoring. SPC, SETC, MOF, MOH, CNCLI, State Family Planning Commission,
Federation of Women, Federation of Disabled People, Ministry of Education, Ministry of
Broadcasting and Television, State Administration of Industry and Commerce, State Administration
of technology inspection, Public Security, Justice, Railway and Ministry of Transportation all
contributed to the success of the Project. MOF supported in establishment and utilization of ISIDF
as well as in the World Bank loan on-lending. SETC and China National Customs Bureau approved
favorable treatments on imported equipment. SDBC offered favorable loans to the Project. MOH
extended much help in the Bank loan/credit application and in iodized salt social mobilization to
eliminate IDD.
2    Project Proposal and Approval
2.1  July 1988. Dr. Mannar of UNICEF headed a team named "Survey on China Salt lodization" to
visit China. Major findings are that 330 million people were living in endemic areas and universal
salt iodization is essential for IDD elimination. Major recommendations included raw salt upgrading
and equipment improvement in terms of iodization and packaging.
2.2   Oct.-Nov.1993 Iodized Salt Office of CNSIC compiled Project Proposal (draft) with concept of
capacity building of 8 million tons/year in 30 provinces.
2.3    Dec. 2nd, 1993 MOH and CNCLI sent a joint letter to SPC proposing applying to the World Bank
for additioinal funding for IDD elimination and including IDDC Project in the 1994-1996 master
budget. On Feb. 19, 1994 sent a letter to SPC proposing to include IDDC Project costing 27
million USD in the Comprehensive MCH Project (Health VI).
2.4    On March 20, 1994 CNCLICNSIC submitted revised Project Proposal to SPC. The total cost was
estiniafe6 ?s 980 million Yuan (including foreign currency of 26.473 million USD), SDBC share of
190 million Yuan, ISIDF 190 million Yuan, and salt enterprises 248 million Yuan capital and 115
mnillion  uan as working capital. The project would establish iodization & packaging capacity of
eight million tons per year (tpy). The revised proposal was approved by State Planning
Commission on Sep. 5, 1994.
2.5    Mar. 11, 1994 CNSIC entrusted China BCEL Engineering Company to develop the Feasibility
Study. The First Edition came off in late April. Project arrangement and implementation schedule
were discussed at the National Salt Conference and National Iodized Salt Conference on Mar.
15-18, and Mar. 23-31, 1994 respectively. On June 30, 1994 China International Consulting Co.,
entrusted by SPC, approved the Feasibility Study.
2.6    On June 20, 1994 the General Office of the State Council issued a notice officially approving the
Project and indicated that the Project consisted of facilities upgrading, iodization, packaging,
quality control and training in every province. It called upon leaders at various levels to be
responsible for directing, organizing and ensuring financing of local Project share.
2.7    On Sep. 28, 1994 the State Council convened on the Project and released a meeting minute
confirming: 1) NIDDEP mobilization; 2) Bank loan onlending to CNSIC and further onlending to
provinces; 3) Counterpart financing incl. SDBC, ISIDF and local enterprises and 4) sectoral
coordination.
2.8    Oct. 12-14, 1994 the Second Iodized Salt Conference was held to finalize project capacity
distribution, financing plan by province and Feasibility Study. In Oct.-Nov. 1994 BCEL submitted
the revised edition to CNCLI and SPC.
2.9    Dec. 18, 1994 CNCLI sent comments on Feasibility Study to SPC. On Jan 5, 1995 CNCLI made
request to State Council concerning Project Funding.
2.10   On Feb. 25, 1995 SPC approved Feasibility Study. On Aug. 24, 1995 SPC submitted a proposal
to the State Council requesting 1) setting up ISIDF and iodized salt pricing; 2) SDBC loan rates;
3) duty exemption and 4) food salt monopoly measures.
2.11  In July 1995, BCEL completed preliminary designs as a reference for provincial designs.
- 63 -



2.12   During July to Nov. 1995, CNCLI reviewed the Feasibility Study by provinces. Consequently On
Nov. 20, 1995, CNCLI proposed to SPC for Project startup. On Oct. 20, 1996 SPC approved the
proposal and issued fnancing plan for year 1996. On Dec. 16, 1996 CNCLI issued fixed assets
investment plan for year 1996.
B.    World Bank Loans
I     On Dec. 1993 to Feb. 1994 MOH and CNCLI submitted request, through SPC, to the World Bank
for additional funding for IDDC project as a component of MCH (Health VI) Project. On Nov. 10,
1994 CNSIC submitted a Project Proposal (draft) to the Bank as loan application.
2     From Feb. 1994 to Feb. 1995, the Bank carried out four appraisal missions on proposed IDDC
Project. The Bank agreed to the ideas presented in the proposal and decided to offer a loan for
imported equipment.
3     Negotiation was held in Washington in May 1995 among MOF, CNCLI, CNSIC, MOH and the
Bank. Six documents were released after negotiations: ]) Project Agreement;2) Loan agreement; 3)
Credit agreement; 4) Memorandum; 5) Presidential letter to the Board; and 6) Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR). The Board finally approved the project in June 1995.
4     In Dec. 1995 the Government of PRC entered into the loan agreement and credit agreement with
the Bank. The onlending agreement was signed between MOF and CNCLI/CNSIC in January of
1996.
5     On March 4, 1996 CNCLI submitted relevant legal documents to the Bank, including: 25 copies of
letters issued by each provincial govermnent addressing provincial salt companies vesting the
responsibilities of carrying out provincial project and 25 copies of letter of confirming the
responsibility issued by provincial salt companies. Also included in the legal document package
were 85 copies of enterprise agreements.
Part llI:   Project Objectives. The objectives are based on previous production and distribution,
selecting appropriate sites to set up central salt producers to supply iodized food salt in a unified way,
ternmination of iodization at distribution areas, decreasing iodine losses, packaging of all iodized salt, 50%
of salt being packaged mechanically, every province organizing its supply in a unified way, plant
upgrading, setting up provincial quality monitoring stations, social mobilization and training. The targets
are:
1     lodization: Installation 120 units of iodization machines in 107 sites in 24 provinces, arriving at
total capacity of 8.1 rnillion tons.
2     Bulk packaging: Installing 46 machines in 40 sites arriving at total capacity of 3.64 million tons.
3     Retail packaging: Installing 742 machines in 147 sites arriving at total capacity of 3.039 million
tons.
4     Plant upgrading and warehouses
4.1    Upgrading: 2.2 million tons of plants in 57 sites needing upgrading.
4.2    Warehouse capacity building and reconstruction.
5     Iodized salt quality and infornation networking.
5.1    Quality and Information network
5.2   Training
Part IV: Financing Arrangement
1     The World Bank Loan. In 1996 to May 1997 the Bank approved procurement of bulk packaging,
retail packaging and iodization machines with total amount approved of 15.94 million USD. In June 1999
procurement of pre-mixers, spare parts to retail packaging machines and retail packaging machines with
total amount of 0.954 million USD was approved by the Bank. The Bank approved the procurement of
case packers with total amount of 0.398 million USD in Feb. 2000. In June 1998 the Bank cancelled the
- 64 -



loan portion of 7 million USD. The original credit of SDR 1270 million was equivalent to 17.3 million
USD due to changes in exchange rate. Total amount of procurement approved by the Bank was 17.29
million USD. It is expected that all these amount would have been disbursed by the end of 2000. During
implementation the availability of Bank loan has been very good, which also facilitated availability of
counterpart financing.
2     SDBC Loan. In May of 1995 SDBC committed to supply loan of 196 million Yuan to 19
provinces. In August 1996 SDBC decided to offer favorable rates to the Projects. The favorable treatmnent
terminated in second half of 1997 and went back to normnal treatment. Accumulative financing plans from
1996 to 1998 was 169.3 million Yuan. By the end of 1999 expenditure in 15 provinces totaled 136.67
million Yuan. The gap was filled by ISIDF and/or enterprises.
3     ISIDF Establishment and Utilization
3.1   In Jan. 1996 SPC approved to set up ISIDF, contributed from after-tax profit of 25
Yuan/ton at wholesale price at production levels.
3.2    Original share of ISIDF was 190.43 million Yuan. Combined with additional funding of 9.8
million Yuan approved by SPC in 1999, total share is 200.23 million.
3.3   CNCLI released the ISIDF financing plan for 1996-2000 at the amount of 200.23 million
Yuan. Cumulative expenditure is 200.23 million Yuan. Up to 1999 another 14.7653 million
Yuan of ISIDF was advanced as interest and tariffs.
3.4   The final 2000 cumulative disbursement for IDDC Project out of ISIDF was 225.3 million
Yuan.
3.5   In 1999 and 2000, 200 million Yuai, v -s disbursed through other projects to set up
warehouses, which filled the gap left du e to insufficient funding from enterprises and SDBC
and the part of funding played an impt- tant role in continuation of IDDC Project.
4     Funding by enterprises has been satisfactory and civil construction went on as scheduled.
5     Import duties and VAT. When the Project was initiated imported goods financed by the Bank were
duty free. The practice ceased in April 1996. Based on CNSIC's request SETC and Customs
decided on Dec.1996 to levy half rate (18% to 9%) on imported goods in 1997. However VAT was
still payable. From Jan 1998 the duty exempt policy was revived, but the new policy did not cover
imported parts and components. By the end of 1999 8.3329 million Yuan of ISIDF was advanced.
Ending 2000, cumulative amnount advanced is 9.6 million Yuan for import duties.
Part V: Implementation
1     lodization. Through central bidding, 139 iodization units, including 103 from CNSIC and the Salt
Research Institutes (SRI) at Tianjin and Zigong, and 36 locally made, were installed in 112
licensed producers in 24 provinces. Total capacity of 8.1 million tpy was built. Plants and
warehouse were reconstructed or extended. The target for iodization capacity has been 100%
achieved. lodization machines made by SRI, Zigong and CNSIC (improved version of machines by
CMXI) could dose within 2 seconds after detecting weight and could function within deviation of
7ppm plus and minus. Quality rate is over 95%. All the indicators comply with contract terms.
These machines were enjoyed by the end users. Some local made machines, for example by
Zhejiang, are operable; however mixing is not so good.
2     Bulk Packaging.  Twelve baggers from Chronos Richardson and one bagger from Spain were
imported. Together with 19 baggers made locally, total capacity installed is 3.762 million tons,
which is 103.55% of original plan.
- 65 -



2.1   Selection, procurement, installation and commissioning. By intemational competitive
bidding (ICB) 12 units of 50kg baggers were introduced by Chronos Co. The machines
arrived in April 1997 and installed in Yangkou Salt Works, Caiyangzi Salt Works,
Chuandong Salt works, Denguan Salt Works, Gongjing Salt Works, Ziliujing Salt Works,
Xiangli Salt Mine, Xiangheng Salt Mine and Chuan Salt Plant. The performance has been
good with output of 12 bags/min with precision of 0.5%. Many laborers were saved and
hygiene conditions ensured.
2.2   Local baggers selection, procurement, installation and commnissioning. 19 local machines
were procured centrally. 12 were made by Changsha Scale factory and 7 by Beijing
Shihua Co. These machines were installed in Sichuan, Qinghai, Hebei, Liaoning, Jiangsu,
Guangxi and Yunnan. The output is 10 bags/min with precision of 0.5%. Many laborers
were saved and hygiene conditions were ensured.
3     Retail packaging. The capacity finally achieved by order would be 3.447 million tons, which is
113.43% of original plan. It is expected that by 2000 3.135 million could be installed, which is
103.16% of the original plan.
3.1   Selection, procurement, installation and commissioning of imported machines. Through ICB, 127
machines were ordered in 1997 (32 from Spain and 95 from Italy). Additional six Spanish
machines were procured in 1999, g. zing a total of 133. In Nov. 1997 three prototypes (one Spar'Ish
and two Italian) were air shipped to China and tested. The suppliers made some revisions based on
customers' comments before they m-ade batch deliveries in 1998 and 1999. The precision is within
1% and sealing rate is 98%. Output is 55-65 pouches/min and 55 pouches/min respectively for
Italian and Spanish machines. Petformance complies with contract terms. In Hubei, Shenzhei, and
Shanghai these machines are running continuously (three shifts a day) in good shape.
3.2   Two retail machines donated by Spanish Government and one by UNICEF have been installec, and
commnissioned.
3.3   Type II machines based on technology transfer. TF2 Factory was selected through bidding as
recipient of Italian technologies. Two prototypes were delivered in Sep. 99, installed in Wuhan and
Harbin, tested and accepted. 98 units would have been manufactured by the end of 2000.
3.4   Selection, procurement, installation and commissioning of local machines
3.4.1  Fully automatic machines. Through bidding 33 units by Wuhan Leader Co. and Guilin
Packaging Factory were ordered.
3.4.2  Semi-automatic. Through bidding, 446 units of two types were installed. One is electric
weigher (Tianjin and Xinxiang) with output of 15-17 pouches/min. The other kino is
volumetric (Jiangyin and Wuxue) and output is 40-45 pouches/min (precision is within 1%
and sealing quality is 95-98%).
3.4.3  Cartoning machines selection, procurement and installation. Through bidding, Mingozzi
delivered two machines in Nov. 1997 to Guangzhou and Jiangsu. They were installed and
accepted in Sep. 2000.
4     Plant upgrading and warehouse construction
4.1   Plant upgrading. Altogether 55 production lines were upgraded, giving a total yearly capacity of
2.445 million tons, which is 111.41% of original plan.
4.2    Warehouse construction and improvement. Better storage conditions and consequently decreased
iodine losses resulted from plant and warehouse construction and renovation.
5     Iodized salt quality and information network
5.1    Quality, Information Network
5.1.1  Provincial Quality Monitoring Stations. Under the Project, new stations were established in
- 66 -



Heilongjiang, Jilin, Liaoning and Gansu. Existing stations were equipped with new
equipment and sufficient workers. All these stations have individual capacity of
comprehensive analysis.
5.1.2  Infornation Network
5.1.3  In second half of 1998 China Salt Industry Info Network was put into operation. The
network offers, among others, iodized salt quality information. UNICEF and UNIDO
donated more than 100 units of PCs and printers during construction.
5.2    Training. In Feb. 1995 Salt Engineering Dept. of Tianjin Light Industry College compiled training
material of half a million words in two volumes (legislation and technology). In 1995 1095 persons
took part in nation level training held in Tianjin, Sichuan, Hubei, Jiangsu and Guangdong. In 1996
900 persons took part in provincial training and 3300 finished training in enterprises. In 1997 to
2000 training was carried out for producers in the areas of operation of iodization and packaging.
Uncompleted statistics showed that 4000 persons took part in the training and skills in operation
and maintenance were improved. Along with domestic training, 150 persons were sent to Great
Britain, Spain and Italy in ten groups to be trained there and perform pre-shipment ;nspections. In
2000 China Salt took part in the 8th Salt Symposium and received training in the Netherlands.
Part VI: Technology Transfer and Absorption of Foreign Technology and Management Experience
1     Successful technology transfer of retail packaging machines. Per the requirements for the Project
and according to status in China, production of iodization machines and 50-kg baggers could
utilize domestic technologies and thus no foreign technologies were needed. When retail packaging
mnachines were introduced there were no such machines operating in salt industry. Through ICB,
technology of SASIl. of Italy was introduced to China. As recipient, Tianji;? 'Tuate Co (TF2).
manufactured 100 urw-ts of machines on the technology. All the machines corntorm to original
machines, with only 1lalf the cost of the originals. More than four million Yuan vv:re saved. Spare
parts could also be off-eled from local sources and local technologies also are upgraded.
2     During Project implementation oversea fellowships, visits of foreign specialists, participation in
salt symposium and quality monitoring network financed by UNICEF and UNIDO all contributed
to quality management and reporting system.
3     Consultation under a contract of 139,500 USD, ICF Kaiser assisted CNSIC in developing a
computerized system consisting of information flows.
Part VII:   Project Implementation Units. The Project was directed by SPC and implemented by
CNCLI, CNSIC, provinces and enterprises. CNSIC has established IDDC Project Management Office on
Sept. 30, 1993 to undertakes organization and management of IDDC project implementation. Various
provincial salt industrial corporations have also established IDDC project office to undertake the
coordination and supervision of the implementation of their respective project activities. Details of the
project implementation management works are summarized as follows:
I.    Work out the Project Implementation Plan:
I.    Finalization of principles and engineering activities for iodized salt production capacity and
production locations;
2.    Worked out and submitted the salt iodination project proposal to State Development and Planning
Commission (SDPC). Entrust China Qingxin Engineering Company to conduct the feasibility
Study of Salt lodination, then evaluated through discussion at China National Salt Industry
Conference, National Salt lodination Workshop, as well as appraised by China International
Consulting Corporation, China National Council of Light Industry, submitted to SDPC for
approval.
3.    Worked out the project plan to use the World Bank Credit and Loan.
- 67 -



II.    Allocation of Project Funds
1.    Assisted the World Bank to evaluate the project four times, undertake 8 supervision mnissions of the
IDDC project implementation. Transferred the World Bank credit to project provinces timely for
equipment procurement and installation. Organized and completed the annual audit of the World
Bank IDDC projects in 1997 and 1998 respectively.
2.    Secured the loans from State Development Bank (SDB): With great effort made by IDDC Project
Office of CNSIC, successfully secured the following preferential policy from SDB: Comnnitment
of provision of the loans up to 190 million Yuan in 1995. The annual interest rate is 15.3% with
3% of deduction for 5 years. In 1996, SDB provide preferential policy of poverty alleviation to
IDDC project, adjusted the loan interest to 10.08% for five years loan. In 1997, government
adjusted the financial policy, reduced loan interest significantly for all banks, so the preferential
loan policy of SDB no longer applied.
3.    Established Iodized Salt Industry Fund in 1996 after State Council approval on September 26,
1994, then transferred such fund to various provincial IDDC project in the form of loans in a
timely manner.
4.    Obtained the reduction and exemption of import duties and VAT: According to regulations
stipulated by State Council on April 1, 1996, the imported equipment by using the World Bank
loans should pay import duty and relevant VAT. CNSIC applied to the State Council in 1997
requesting the reduction of import duty from 18% down to 9%. In 1998, government resumed the
preferential policy of exemption of import duty and VAT to the project financed by the World
Bank loans.
III.   Organize I,tudy on Equipment and Industrv Process
1.    Study on .quipment and process of lodination of Salt: Organized the Design Institutes of Salt
Industry of Tanggu and Zigong to conduct R & D work for automatic iodizing equipment, using
nuclear scale to control the flow speed of the salt on convey belt to which iodine liquid is sprayed
to salt. After many tests, reduced the delay time from more than 20 seconds to around 2 seconds,
increased the iodination accuracy to more than 90%, reduced iodine losses to less than 3%.
2.    Study on packaging equipment and process: Organized Beijing Huashi Co. to conduct R&D for
bulk packaging machines, and companies of Tianjin, Xinxiang and Wuxue for semi-automatic
retail packaging machines, companies from Jiangyin and Lide for fully automatic retail packaging
machines.
3.    Research on packaging materials and supplementary equipment of retail packaging machines:
Organized companies of Jiangyin and Rentian to develop supplementary equipment of feeding
system, mixing as well as anti-fake logo sticking machine.
4.    R&D on iodine quantity meter: Organized the Institutes of Tianjin Optical Apparatus and Tanggu
Salt Institutes to jointly conduct R&D to develop Type WYD Iodine Meter.
IV.   Selection, procurement and installation of the equipment:
1.    Organized overseas technical study tour to more than 14 packaging machine manufacturers and 2
salt production firms to evaluate technology of packaging machines for the final selection and
procurement of most suitable machines for IDDC project.
2.    Equipment Procurement and Installation:
2.1    By using the World Bank credit, procured the equipment through ICB process. CNSIC
prepared bidding document, organized bidding and evaluation of bids, identified the final
bid awards.
2.2    Completed absorption of technology from Italy for the manufacture of 0.5-1.0 kg retail
packaging machine (Type II).
- 68 -



2.3    Through domestic competitive bidding process to procure the equipment by using domestic
funds.
3.    Organized the inspection and test of imported equipment as well as overseas training for the
operation of such imported equipment.
Part VIII: Capacity Building of the Salt Industry
I.      Achievement of the IDDC Project:
I1.     Build the capacity of production of 8 million tpy of iodized salt, improved iodized salt quality,
ensured adequate supply of quality iodized salt in China from 3 million tpy in 1995 to more than
7 million tpy in 2000, make great contribution to IDD elimination effort in China.
2.      Upgraded equipment in China's salt industry: Upon completion of IDDC project, China's salt
industry basically realized the mechanization of iodizing and bulk packaging, while for retail
packaging, 50% of capacity realized mechanization. Retrofitted 55 salt production lines,
constructed warehouses for iodized salt and workshop buildings, improved the production and
storage conditions. Also, improved the salt quality supervision and testing stations at provincial
levels, established information systems of China's salt industry, significantly upgraded
equipment level of China's salt industry.
3.      Upgraded management level of salt industry: As mechanized production process of iodizing and
packaging, requires management method of production and sales of iodized salt be improved
accordingly. Hence, CNSIC organized training program at national, provincial and enterprise
level for more than 8000 personnel's in the areas of management of iodizing, production and
packaging technology as well as management knowledge. During the implementation of the
World Bank financed IDDC project, CNSIC learned the extensive intemational and the World
Bank project implementation and management practice and experiences to direct the engineering
construction and enterprises management. The estab'ishment of Salt Industry Information
System and quality supervision network has greatly upgraded information management level of
salt industry in China.
4.      Increased production and improved quality of iodized salt, and met with the demands for IDD
elimination: By the end of 1995, all the provinces and autonomous region, except Tibet, realized
salt iodination. The supply of iodized salt from3.3 millions in 1993 increased to 3.63 tpy in 1994
and in 1995, realized salt iodination nationwide of 5.39 million tpy. Such achievement has been
continuously consolidated and increased consecutively in 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999, realized
6.05 million tpy, 6.2 million tpy, 6.5 million tpy and 6.67 million tpy respectively. According to
the random sampling test to salt production and sales enterprises by China National Technical
Supervision Bureau, quality rate of iodized salt has been improved from 50% in 1993 to 94.14%
In 1999, and the supply of iodized salt from 50% of the planned target to 98.2% in 1999. In
addition, CNSIC gradually shifted salt iodizing from sales side to production side; all iodized salt
is supplied with retail package.
5.      The employment of iodizing machine improved the quality of iodized salt from 94% to 98%.
Iodine losses during iodizing process is reduced to less than 5%, national average savings of
iodine consumption is around 10%, which is equivalent to 8 million Yuan, about 50% of the
capital investment of the iodizing machines. Besides, to meet the requirement of 0.5 kg retail
packaging machines, CNSIC has increased granular degrees and reduced salt powder
concentration of the salt; hence, salt quality is increased.
6.      Satisfactory perfornance of 50 kg bulk packaging machines: For instance, 50 kg bulk packaging
machines in Leshan Salt Plant in Sichuan, not only reduced the labor load, but also reduced
financial losses caused by inaccuracy of baseline weighing scales. The error was reduced from
500 g to 50g for each bag of 50 kg; the saved amount is more than 100,000 Yuan, which means
the investment for bulk packaging machines is recovered in about 2 years.
- 69 -



7.      The employment of 0.5 kg retail packaging machine, reduced labor load, improved working
conditions, increased accuracy of the weight, improved hygiene of the table salt, reduced broken
rate of the package, so the loss of iodine is reduced. The cost of mechanized retail packaging is
increased slightly, but selling price of the iodized salt is increased accordingly, so the investment
can be recovered.
Part IX: Audit
1.      1997 World Bank IDDC Proiect Audit: In 1998, State Audit Administration (SAA) completed
the World Bank IDDC Project Audit for 1997. Since there was no time to audit provincial
project status, SAA issued audit report of "Refuse to comment".
2.      1998 World Bank IDDC Project Audit: In June 1999, SAA completed auditing work for the
World Bank IDDC Project for 1998. SAA concluded that financial spending of IDDC project is
basically accurate, and complies with relevant regulations. But SAA reserved their opinion for
the financial statement of the project as follows:
I)     CNSIC reported expenditures is 659.880.21 DR less than monthly report of the World
Bank disbursement compared with MOF account;
2)     IDDC project account of CNSIC should be improved, progress of the project in
provincial levels are different, management system need to be strengthened;
3)     Other issues, such as project activities beyond the project budget, engineering project
losses, idling of the equipment, etc. should be addressed.
CNSIC corrected the problems. The World Bank IDDC account management by CNSIC and provinces is
strengthened; project activities of Hubei Province lx y( ,nd the scope of World Bank IDDC funds are already
picked out of the project account. Modification of iodizing machines is already completed, idle equipment is
listed as spare, and the performance of imported retail -ackaging machines already reached the requirement
of contracted conditions.
3.     1999 World Bank IDDC Project Audit: In June 1999, SAA completed auditing work for 1998
World Bank IDDC project, and concluded that expenditure of 1998 is basically correct, complying with
relevant government regulations and provisions. But SAA issued the auditing report as "reserve opinion"
type, which refers to expenditure of 497,000 Yuan by Dingyuan Salt Mine; Anhui Province has no reliable
supporting receipt. Although such expenditure does not use the World Bank credit, IDDC Project Office of
CNSIC urged Dingyuan Salt Mine to provide receipt. Since the project in Dingyuan is close to completion,
the World Bank will ask for the result of response to SAA's audit report.
SAA audit report also pointed out that the expenditures listed in various financial reports of CNSIC are
consistent, but not consistent with the progress report submitted to the World Bank. The reason is that the
progress report to the World Bank is an instant report prior to final year-end financial summary report in
which the figures are adjusted with the summary of actual spending. CNSIC will improve the accuracy of
the report to the World Bank. Besides, carton packaging machines are already installed and commissioned
at sites. CNSIC requests project beneficiary enterprise to set up a separate account for the World Bank
IDDC project.
Part X: Support from International Community and National Organizations
I.    Support from the Intemational Community: The rapid development of China's IDD elimination
benefited from international support. International Council of IDD Control, WHO, UNICEF,
UNIDO, UNDP and Micronutrient Initiative have provided support, which played a very important
role for China's IDD elimination effort. UNICEF has played an important role in supporting
testing and quality control of iodized salt; UNIDO, Dutch Govenmment, Aksonobel Co. of Holland
- 70 -



and Spanish Government, also provided valuable financial and technical support for China's IDDC
project.
1.    Assistance from UNICEF: UNICEF has financed China's IDDC project for many times, financed
overseas training in the United States, study tours to Europe and United States for iodizing and
packaging equipment and process, participating intemational IDD elimination conferences and
workshops. UNICEF also financed key intervention project to eliminate IDD in 8 provinces,
financed network construction and training as well as study of Tibet IDD status. UNICEF
constantly work with Ministry of Health, to publicize and educate the importance of iodized salt
for IDD elimination, played important role in enforcement of salt concession (or monopoly), raised
public awareness and consciousness of using iodized salt as well as popularization of iodized salt
supply.
2.    Assistance from UTNIDO: UNIDO sent IDDC experts to China many times, provide technical
exchange and support to China's IDDC project. TA project from UNIDO including establishment
of Information Network of Chinese Salt Industry, development of office automation,
computerization and modern accounting system as well as application of modernized iodizing and
packaging machines, organize Chinese salt expert to participate in the training courses in Alksu
Co. and attend World Salt Conference.
3.    Assistance from WHO and Australian Government: Provide technical support and lab equipment
to salt iodizing plant in Lhasa and Changdu, Tibet, facilitated the significant progress of IDD
elimination in Tibet.
4.    Assistance from Spanish Government: By introducing Spanish technology and equipment of
iodized salt, build a 50,000 tpy salt refining workshop in Tanggu Salt Institute.
China's salt industry and CNSIC appn-ciate kind support and great contributions of internatv)nal
community to China's IDD elimination Affort. We sincerely hope to keep such excellent cooperetive
relationship.
11.    Support from National Organizations
1.    Government attaches great importance to coordination among different departments with wide
participation of general public for IDDC activities.
1)    Chinese Government attaches great importance to the health of Chinese people. In 1990, Chinese
government ratified the World Declaration of Children's Survival, protection and development, set
forth the target of IDD elimination. In September 1993, State Council convened Advocacy Meeting
of IDD Elimination by the Year 2000 in China, and worked out the Plan of IDD Elimination by the
Year 2000 in China, laid sound foundation for China's IDDC Project.
2)    In order to ensure the supply of quality iodized salt, step up the management of production and
sales of iodized salt, State Council issued Document #13 (1994) in February 1994, decided to
impose edible salt concessionary practice. State Council also has promulgated Management
Provisions to Eliminate IDD by Iodizing Salt and Method of Salt Concession. These important
regulations and provisions as well as relevant provincial regulations of salt industry, provided
important legal framework for IDD elimination and salt industry management.
3)    IDD elimination work is a systematic engineering, concerning legal regulation, management
system,.production technology, marketing, social mobilization and quality control. Measures of salt
concession and iodination, have been supported by State Development and Planning Commission
(SDPC), State Economic and Trade Commission (SETC), Ministry of Finance (MOF), Ministry of
Health (MOH), State Administration of Light Industry, State Family Planning Commission, All
China Women's Federation, Chinese Association of Disabled Persons, Ministry of Education,
Ministry of Radio, Film and Television, Ministry of Public Security, Industrial and Commerce
Administration, Technical Supervision, Ministry of Railway as well as Ministry of
- 71 -



Comnmunications.
4)    In order to raise the awareness of general public for IDD elimination by iodized salt consumption,
the Chinese Government designated every May 5th as the National IDD Elimination Day,
launching education and publicizing campaign to publicize the hamfulness of IDD and function of
IDD elimination by iodized salt, and whole society's awareness of IDDC and self protection to
prevent IDD has been increased. Salt industry companies at various levels actively participated in
the education campaign of IDDC Day. At the same time, during the process of marketing and sales
of iodized salt, consumer education for IDD elimination, has achieved good result.
2.    Successful Implementation of the Salt Concession
1)    Streamline the management of the salt concession system: salt concessionary system, physical
system is an important organizational guarantee. In past few years, CNSIC actively cooperated
with various local government departments concerned, to streamline the management system of salt
sector. Up to now, all 31 provinces, municipalities and autonomous regions in China have
established provincial level salt administration and salt industry corporation. Prefectures, cities and
counties also established corresponding salt administrations and salt companies. Hence, a
nationwide systematic salt concessionary management system has been set up.
2)    The core for salt concession is the "three-license management", namely, Production License of
Edible Salt, License of Salt Wholesales, and License of Salt Transportation. CNSIC organized the
salt sector to implement three-license management, issued 112 salt production licenses in whole
country, 6037 whole-sale licenses and 140,000 salt transportation licenses. Meanwhile, adopt
bi-annual license renew system. Some provinces also issued retail licenses for iodized salt, ensured
adequate supply of qlu eity iodized salt.
3)    Step up the enforcelnent measures, to control and purify salt market. CN'IC established
enforcement force of -aore than 25,000 staff in China, to protect consumer's legal interest, rectify
production and sales of iodized salt. Since 1997, about 361,000 cases of violation have been
handled, intercept various illegal salts of 694,000 tons and some 70 violators are punished by
relevant Chinese laws.
4)    Adopt "five-unifications", namely, unified management, unified planning, unified supply, unified
financial accounting and unified levy of Iodized Salt Industrial Development Fund. CNSIC mainly
focusing on unified planning, expand sales network and quality control measures, maintain the
seriousness of state planning; hence guaranteed steady increase of iodized salt supply and sales. In
some areas where illegal salt entering market significantly, CNSIC adopt the management
measures of "sending the.iodized salt to the consumers", helped to curb the illegal salt smuggling.
5)    To strengthen salt concession, CNSIC launched annual check up campaign since 1997. Based on
provincial self check up, CNSIC organized supervision mission composed by officials from SDPC,
Railway, Communication, Technical Supervision, Administration of Industry and Commerce,
visited various provinces and salt production, transport and sales enterprises, carefully checked
three licenses, reviewed salt concession implementation, got clearer understanding of salt
concession implementation status of China.
Part XI: Project Impact to China's IDD Elimination Effort. CNSIC, in coordination with Ministry of
Health, has been monitoring the impact of iodized salt through completed quality control and monitoring
system and management method of CNSIC system, ensure quality of the iodized salt during production;
sales firn tightened quality control over the process of iodized salt purchase, out of warehouses to ensure
the quality iodized salt get into market. Salt enforcement forces stepped up the supervision and crack down
of illegal salt smuggling into market. All these measures cleaned the salt market, which is the foundation of
IDD elimination. The Health departments also conducted monthly check up to production firms, sales
finns, retail points as well as households, which facilitated improvement of iodized salt. According to
- 72 -



bi-annual survey result by health department, following data are obtained:
I.    Iodized salt coverage, goiter rate and urine iodine concentration in 1995: According to survey and
analysis of National IDD status, quality rate of iodized salt of the household among 25 surveyed provinces
was 39.9% (based on the index of iodine concentration no less than 20 ppm), children's median urine iodine
concentration reached or exceeded 100 mg/l were 24 provinces, provinces of urine iodine less than 100
mg/l are: Shanghai, Guangdong, Jiangsu, Hainan and Tianjin. Total goiter rate (by palpation) was 20.4%.
II.   Iodized salt coverage. goiter rate and urine iodine concentration in 1997: According to survey and
analysis of National IDD status, supply rate of iodized salt accounted for 94% of the total demands, quality
rate of iodized salt of the household was 81% (based on the index of iodine concentration is no less than 20
ppm), children's urine iodine concentration (middle figure) reached or exceeded 100 mg/l by all provinces
(except Tibet). Total rate of goiter rate (by palpation) were 10.86% and 9.6 1% (by ultrasonic) respectively.
Other measures such as provide iodine pill to special groups to supplement their iodine need.
III.   Iodized salt coverage goiter rate and urine iodine concentration in 1999: Survey and analysis of
National IDD status by health departmnent, supply rate of iodized salt accounted for 93.8% of the total
demands, quality rate of iodized salt of the household was 88.90/o (based on the index of iodine
concentration is no less than 20 ppm), children's urine iodine concentration nmiddle figure) reached or
exceeded 100 mg/l by all provinces (except Tibet) with the average figure of 319 mg/I. Total rate of goiter
rate was 8.8% (by. both palpation and ultrasonic). Health education and popularization have been
improved. "Iodized Salt is one of measures to ensure the IDD elimination in China" for such achievement
IV.  Joint Appn'isal in June 2000.  The Ministry of Health, State Admirdstration of Light Industry,
Ministry of Education and other government functionaries conducted joint appraisal mission to all 31
provinces of China, and concluded that:
1.    Seventeen provinces and municipalities that realized IDD elimination target are: Beijing, Shanghai,
Tianjin, Heilongjiang, Jilin, Hebei, Henan, Shanxi, Shandong, Anhui, Jiangxi, Hubei, Hunan,
Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Guangdong and Guangxi.
2.    Seven provinces and municipalities that basically realized IDD elimination target are: Liaoning,
Inner Mongolia, Niningxia, Shan'anxi, Fujian, Yunnan and Guizhou.
3.    Seven provinces and municipalities that NOT realize IDD elimination target are: Tibet, Xinjiang,
Gansu, Qinghai, Chongqing, Sichuan and Hainan. In terms of population of these seven provinces
and regions, it accounts for 14% of the total population of China.
Based on such survey and appraisal result, Chinese government can declare to international community that
China has already realized China 2000 IDD elimination target.
Part XII:  Sustainability of the Project. To materialize the major measures of salt iodization, it needs
unremitting effort. The evaluation result in 2000 shows that China has basically achieved IDD elimination
target by 2000. But due to the vast ternitory of China and uneven economic development between regions,
there are 7 provinces (municipalities and autonomous regions) or 325 counties that are still not yet realize
the IDD elimination target in 2000, current status of IDD elimination in some of these seven provinces,
either with large salt lakes, poor economic development or in southern coastal area, are still have big gaps
with the planned target set forth by central government.
Therefore, contuous effort for IDD elimination should be made despite realization of national IDD
elimination target in 2000 from country's point of view. To consolidate the achievement, sustainable IDD
elimination mechanism should be established with suitable measures, to popularize the supply of iodized
- 73 -



salt in those regions and provinces of serious IDD status. As for those provinces and regions where IDD
elimination target is already met, effort should be continuously made to sustain IDD elimination. Hence, the
next step of work to sustain IDD elimnination in China is as follows:
1 .    All staff of China salt industry, under the leadership of government of various levels, working
closely with relevant departments, social organizations, to undertake tasks of supplying quality
iodized salt to Chinese people.
2.     Maintain the Salt concession system. In some provinces where salt concession is not yet fully
established, should work out the salt concession regime as soon as possible. Strictly follow
government planning to produce and supply iodized salt with major effort focusing on
implementation of iodized salt sales planning and retail selling network construction.
3.     Strengthen the management of "three-rates", namely, rate of realization of planned sales target of
iodized salt, quality rate of iodized salt, and coverage of iodized salt in the market. All three rates
should exceed 95%. Step up the quality control measures of iodized salt, especially to toughen the
quality control and supervision measures in wholesale enterF tises.
4.     Step up law enforcement, crack down on illegal salt and fake salt business to prevent it entering the
market. In line with regulations of Salt Concession and other relevant laws and regulations,
reinforce the capacity of salt administration and enforcement task forces, implement
inter-provincial joint enforcement and supervision campaign. strike harder to illegal salt, and clean
and regulate the salt market. At the same time, continue awareness education to consumers, to
increase iodized salt coverage.
5 .    Streamline the salt industry, close or convert some small salt production firms, or those firms at
unreasonable locations, adjust or reduce some of the raw salt production, so that the salt
production will be detennined by sales to keep balance between production and sales.
6.     Set up CNSIC Equipment Company, to undertake ceni-alized procurement of spare parts for
imported equipment, establish spare parts inventory and service center, to ensure smooth operation
of imported machines.
7.     Continue close cooperation with international organizations, further improve technology and
equipment for iodizing and packaging so as to provide sounder material basis for IDD elimination
effort.
Part XII: Experiences and Lessons Learned from Project Implementation
I. Experiences:
1.     The implementation of the IDDC project has been successful and achieved projected target. But
progress has been somewhat delayed mainly due to longer period of technology transfer,
conversion and absorption.
2.     The role of the World Bank is smooth, played key functions of facilitation to the project.
3.     The successful establishment of ISIDF has greatly helped in availability of domestic counterpart
funding for the project implementation. It lays sound foundation for the development of salt
industry and further investment for IDDC project.
4.     The availailability of loans from  the State Development Bank ensured central govemrnment
counterpart financing for the project.
5.     Project enterprises consider the participation of IDDC project, in production, packaging and sale of
iodized salt are pre-conditions of the survival and development of their enterprises. Meanwhile,
Chinese salt industry has undertaken the social responsibilities and social benefit of IDD
elimnination, and actively allocate self financed portion of the project component, to ensure the
smooth implementation of the project.
6.     Support and financing from  international organizations catalyzed project formulation and
implementation, especially in the area of quality control of iodized salt production and sales,
- 74 -



network construction and provided a strong voice in education and media campaign, has
contributed greatly for the project.
7.    Collaboration between salt industry and health department is the key to the successful
imnplementation of the project. Health department has played important role in strengthening the
iodized salt quality supervision and monitoring, as well as increasing the coverage of iodized salt.
Health departmnent also actively educate and publicizing the health significance of iodized salt
consumption to general public.
II. Problems or lessons learnt:
I1.    Due to higher requirement to the project management and complicated procedures of the World
Bank project management, staff of Project Management Office (PMO) of salt industry could not
get used quickly, causing some delay in progress.
2.    Underestimation of the complexity of technology transfer, delayed progress. During the process of
technology transfer, two original prototypes of retail packaging machines were installed first; after
trial run, CNSIC and Tianjin Factory prepared comments and suggestions for revision, convinced
that with these revisions, the machine will be suitable for Chinese salt industry. Then went through
all procedures of signing the contract, endorsement from the World Bank, supplier provided
technical document and drawings, training, import key component, digest the technical document
and drawings for manufacturing of the machinr.s, prototype testing and commission, and formal
production of 100 retail packaging machines as well as site installation and commissioning.
3.    Some enterprise in developing regions of China with poor technical capacity and backward
management, delayed the implementation of the project.
Part XIV: Conclusions of and Comments on the Project Implementation
1.    Comments on the project by International Wo)rkshop 1998: In October 1998, the International
Workshop on China IDD Elimination Strategy, emphasized that the salt concession is a major
measure of the success of China's IDD elimination effort. Through the project implementation,
Chinese salt industry has undertaken a great deal of work, made significant achievement for IDD
elimination in China, and such achievement is also of demonstration significance to global IDD
elimination effort.
II.    Surnmar of China IDD Elimination 2000 and Re-advocacy. October 2000, emphasized that
consumption of iodized salt is a fundamental measure for IDD elimination. At this conference,
UNICEF awarded "Global Contribution to Children of The World". Afterwards, UNICEF
organized UN agencies and other international organizations to participate in a workshop,
introduced to them in detail the achievement made and experiences gained by Chinese salt industry
in past few years. All participants of the workshop agreed that iodized salt is the key to the success
of IDD elimination. China has made great progress in salt production, iodizing and popularization
of iodized salt supply, and iodized salt production capacity is over 8 million tpy which laid sound
foundation for IDD elimination by iodized salt. Achievement made by Chinese salt industry filled
whole nation with joy.
III.   National Evaluation made in June 2000 concluded that 24 provinces of China with 86% of total
population in China has materialized the IDD elimination target, and Chinese government declared
that the target 2000 for IDD elirnination has been met. This is the result of IDDC project
implementation.
IV.   Actual achievement of the proiect accounts for 100% - 110% of the project plan, ensured quality
and quantity of iodized salt supply to the nation.
- 75 -



V.    Future Efforts. It is suggested that Government continue the support and investment for IDDC
project and further strengthening of international cooperation, to retrofit the iodizing equipment,
increase 2 to 3 million tpy of retail packaging capacity, so as to realize the complete mechanization
of retail packaging of iodized salt in China.
VI.   This IDDC project has achieved great social and economic benefit.
Attachment 1. List of Supporting Documents
1. Compendium of Advocacy of National IDD Elimination Program (NIDDEP 2000), October 1993.
2. Activities on National IDDC Day, since May 5th, 1994.
3. The National IDD Elimination Program (NIDDEP), August 1994.
4. Approval of IDDC Project Proposal by 'SDPC, No. SDPC/NCLI[1994] 1183, September 5, 1994.
5. The Management Provision of Salt lodization and Eliminate Iodine Difficiency, October 1, 1994.
6. CNSIC's Project Proposal of IDDC Project Proposal submitted to the World Bank (draft), November
10, 1994.
7. Iodized Salt and IDDC, Training materials, edited by Salt Industrial Department, Tianjin LiJnt
Industrial Instutue, February 1995.
8. SDPC's Approval on IDDC Project Feasibility Study, No. SDPC/NCLI [1995] 199, February 25,
1995.
9. Agree to submit the legal ensuranec d-^ument for the IDDC Project Implementation to the World. Pink
by NCLI/CNSIC, No. [1996] 14, Mar-h 3, 1996.
10. Onlending Agreement between MOF -.id NCLI/CNSIC for IDDC Project, January 8, 1996.
11. Method of State Controlled Salt Industry, May 27, 1996.
12. SDPC approval of Commencement of IDDC Project and Capital Investment Plan of 1996, No. SDPC
(Investment) [1996] 2453, October 20, 1996.
13. The Impact of S & T Achievement and IDD Elimnination in China during the 9th Five Year Plan
Period, March 15, 2000.
14. Sumrnary of National IDDC Project Achievement and Readvocacy, October 27, 2000.
- 76 -



Additional Annex 11.U N Agency Programs
Programs for Elimination of Iodine Deficiency Disorders in China
Summary of Contribution s of the UN Agencies
This section summarizes the contributions made by UNDP, UNICEF, WHO and UNIDO to IDD
control in China, both before and during the National IDD Elimination Program, as well as
specific support given to the IDD Control Project. (Please- refer also to Section 10 of the main
ICR text.)
A.   UNDP Contribution to the IDD Elimination Programme in China
In 1991, the IDD programme (CPR/91/434) was formulated as joint programme
cooperation between the Government of China, UNDP, UNICEF and WHO, with the
overall objective to support the elimination of IDD in China by the year 2000. Starting
implementation in 1993 the project was completed in 1996. A comprehensi-e evaluation
of this joint first cycle IDD elimination programme was conducted in 1996. Total UN
agency inputs were US1.96 million including $1.29 million from UNDP; $576,500 from
UNICEF and $89,000 from WHO.
*     The design of the project included plans, through high level multisectoral advocacy, to
build on the international and national commitrnents to bring greater awaieness of the
nature and exten; L f the IDD problem within China and among potential donors and
investors. This was primarily accomplished through the National AdvocEcy Meeting to
Eliminate IDD in Chima by the Year 2000, held in September 1993.
*     The National Advocacy Meeting for IDD was the first major programme activity of
CPR/91/434 and engendered high political support for a National IDD Elimnination
Programme (NIDDEP) in China. For the first time the salt industry was recognized as a
key player in the NIDDEP with the crucial job of supplying the main programme
intervention, iodized salt.
*     While formulated as a multisectoral programme, assistance under CPRI91/434 was mainly
directed towards the Ministry of Health (MOH) as the key counterpart agency to support
the NIDDEP in the areas of communication, advocacy, surveillance, training, R&D and
technical assistance, with the national programme director (NPD) located in the National
Office for Epidemic Disease Control, MOH. With World Bank support targeting the
national salt industry as a main player (through upgrading of salt production facilities and
provision of salt iodization and packaging equipment), this approach complemented the
UNDP/UNICEF/WHO project. Both projects were regarded as part of the NIDDEP.
*     In 1995 an MOU  was signed between the World Bank and UNDP, UNICEF,
UNIDO,WHO to coordinate assistance of the respective agencies relating to the NIPPED
and to advise each other of matters concerning the NIDDEP and other matters of common
interest. UNDP played an important role in convening and chairing the coordination
meetings initiated under the MOU.
- 77 -



There is an interagency consensus that the UNDP supported project CPRI91/434 was
instrumental in bringing about a comprehensive multisectoral approach for universal salt
iodization in China (in contrast to targeted interventions concentrating on problem areas)
and mobilizing the necessary international and national support for a concerted approach.
Notably, it is felt that the joint UNDP/UNICEF/WHIO programme paved the way for the
World Bank to join the original UN partners in their support of the NIDDEP and initiate
the World Bank supported IDD Control project. In this sense, the joint
UNDP/UNICEF/WHO project may be regarded as the forerunner of the WB supported
project.
B.   Progress Report on IDD  Elimination Project of GOC-UNICEF Cooperative
Programme.
UNICEF contributed to an UN-wide effort from 1990-1992 to advocate the
cost-effectiveness of IDD elimination through salt iodization. The principle input was the hiring
of a long-term consultant for IDD activities, and supporting visits of external experts to work
with GOC. The first formal cycle of the China-UNICEF IDD elimination programme was
initiated in the year 1993. The comprehensive evaluation of the first cycle programme was
completed in 199  The second cycle of the China-UNICEF IDD elirmation programme was
from 1996-2000. Starting in 1998, UNICEF also provided direct support to the China National
Salt Industry Corporation (CNSIC) to improve salt quality monitoring at production, and iodized
salt distribution and marketing.
The overall goal of the programme is virtual elimination of IDD by the year 2000 in China and
setting up a mechanism of continuous elimination of IDD. The strategies for achieving the goal
are to strengthen social mobilization, promote health education, reinforce coordination and
management, energize preventive activities, support personnel training, intensify surveillance and
improve quality assurance for iodized salt.
1.    Advocacy, Social Mobilization and Health Education. In 1993 a national advocacy
meeting was held in Beijing and during that time firm commitments were given by Premier Li
Peng and Vice Premier Zhu Rongji to the National Program for Elimination of IDD in China. In
addition, legislation was enacted for universal salt iodination as the means to achieve eradication
of IDD. "The National Programme of Iodine Deficiency Disorders Elimination in China by the
Year 2000", and the "Regulation on Edible Salt lodization as a Means to Eliminate IDD" were
approved by State Council in 1994, setting up a mechanism for virtual elimination of IDD with the
efforts of different govemment sectors and society.
An Exhibition of large photos on IDD control, named ALERT was held in the China
Revolution Museum at the end of 1996. National IDD Control Day identified as mass campaign
of IDD health education. IEC material was developed and disseminated to primary school and
public. An Intemational Workshop for the Strategy of IDD Elimination in China was held in
Beijing, in October 1998; and in October 2000, a re-advocacy meeting was held, also in Beijing to
celebrate the USI goal reached for nation as a whole by 1999 and to mobilize further political
support and commitment.
- 78 -



2.    Conducting National epidemiological survey on IDD and establishing national
surveillance system of IDD prevalence and iodised salt. The first national survey was
conducted in 1995. According to the national plan of IDD surveillance, the National IDD survey
was conducted in 31 provinces and regions supported by UNICEF. In line with the Nation IDD
Surveillance Plan, each province acted as a basic unit. The unified methodology of PPS (full*)
was utilized and each province chose 30 counties as samples. All the data of indicators for
assessing IDD status including clinical and biochemical and monitoring were collected.
The second national survey was done in 1997 and the third in 1999. The data showed household
use of iodized salt increased from 39.9% in 1995 to 89% in 1999. In addition, the prevalence of
goiter (total goiter rate in school children, 8-10 years of age) was reduced from 20.4% to 8.8%.
Table I. Comnarison of IDD Elimination  dicators of the Three Survevs
Major Indicators for Assessing IDD  1995            1997          1999
Status
Quality Iodized  Salt Coverage at     40%           81%           89%
Household Level (>= 20 mg/kg)                      :    _    _
Median Urinary Iodine (ug/1)          164           330           306
Prevalevtce of Goiter                120.4%          10.9%        8.8%
Ini-depth monitoring and surveys were conducted in problem provinces. According to data
analysis from the third National TDD Survey in 1999, eight provinces in where the coverage of
iodizel salt was less than 80% at household level were identified as high-risk provinces.
Intensified monitoring of iodized salt was also supported by UNICEF in all counties of these
provinces to map the high risk counties and find the reason of non-iodized salt consumption. The
results of this intensified monitoring were used to design the interventions in these areas to
increase the coverage of iodized salt.
3.    Laboratory monitoring system. This effort supported the establishment of an IDD
laboratory for each province and a National IDD Reference Laboratory. UNICEF and AusAID
provided assistance for the establishment of a National IDD Laboratory Network. The objective
is to establish a scientifically reliable, long-term functional surveillance system for nation wide
IDD monitoring. This surveillance system includes 3 components:
A. Samples collection network;
B. Laboratory network, including health and salt industry laboratories, research capacity
building, technical support and services, and standardizing of national methods;
C. Information management and reporting network: this network will be connected with
the network in MOH.
Fourteen new project provinces were selected in addition to the ten provinces of the first
cycle. Total 24 provincial IDD labs have the capacity of TSH test and test of urinary iodine level
and all prefecture IDD labs have the capacity of urinary iodine (UT) test and salt iodine test.
4.    Set up routine iodized salt monitoring system and reporting network. Technical and
equipment support provided for provincial IDD Control Center to formulate the routine reporting
system.
- 79 -



5.    Personnel training and overseas experience exchange. Training of IDD management
and technical personnel at provincial, prefecture and county levels has been carried out every year.
Laboratory technicians at NRL and provincial levels were sent to Australia and USA. Some
teams visited Thailand, Indonesia to learn experience outside and joined international conference.
6.    Funding input. From 1993 to 2000, UNICEF input US$7,844,000 mainly used in supply
such as transportation, computer, lab equipment and non-supply supporting mentioned above for
supporting IDD programme in China.
Although great progress toward IDD elimination has been made in China, there are still
eight provinces where iodized salt coverage is less than 80%. UNICEF will continually cooperate
with China Government to support IDD elimination programme in the new cycle of cooperation.
The advocacy program will continue to promote USI at province level. Integrated intervention of
IDD in high-risk areas, especially western provinces and coastal provinces.  Through the
approaches of strengthening intensive management and comprehensive interventions such as
health education, to improve people's awareness of IDD, increase the coverage of iodized salt at
household level to reach the 90% target for all parts of China.
C.   WHO Contribution to EDD Elimination in China
A major programme for the elimination of IDD in China was completed in 1995 with
UNDP, UNICEF and WHO funding the project. A positive evaluation of the first phase of the
national action plan in China revealed progress in achieving the targets. This prompted the
development of another plan, finalized in 1997, to implement the second phase.
Under the 1996-97 regular budget, WHO provided the Government of China total funds of
USD287 769 for policy workshops, technical support of consultant in the finalization and
operationalization of the second phase of the national IDD programnme, training on methods of
programme evaluation, fellowships on laboratory techniques. technical support of consultants for
the establishment of a national reference laboratory for IDD monitoring and surveillance and for
logistical support in the form of laboratory reagents and computers. In 1998-1999 further
financial support was provided to China in the form of training courses to improve national
capability in the IDO programme management and evaluation. Fellowships were also granted to
deserving programme officers. Computers and a vehicle were provided to strengthen data
management. A workshop to standardize IDD surveillance methods was also held with WHO
financial support.
In 1999-2000, with the help of consultants and partner institutions, WHO developed a
proposal for the elimination of IDD in Tibet. This was submitted to AusAlD and funded for a
three-year period, for 1.25 million US$. The project was launched in May 2000. An additional
contribution has been obtained from AusAID, to strengthen the health promotion component and
sustainability of the project, and the monitoring/evaluation component, through additional
laboratory support. WHO has also contributed additional funds for the training component in
2001. The Institute of Clinical Pathology and Medical Research (lCPMR), Westmead Hospital,
Australia, is responsible for the provision of technical assistance, project direction and external
- 80 -



coordination through its Project Coordinating Committee.
In Tibet, IDD is still a problem of severe proportions, with goiter rates ranging from 30% to
80%, very low urinary iodine (25-60 ug/l) and an average IQ in children of only 85 points. A large
number of Tibetan children suffer from serious intellectual imnpairment as a consequence of iodine
deficiency. The programme has several components, including health education and health
promotion: production and distribution of iodised salt; delivery of iodised oil capsules (JOCs) to
women of reproductive age (WRA) and children under two years; quality assurance for iodised
salt; strengthening of laboratory capabilities; monitoring and evaluation; management support and
coordination.
The programme has made a very good start. Eight Tibetans, representing 5 sectors, have
been trained in health education. Training courses on the distribution of IDD have been
conducted and the distribution of lOCs has started. The suitability of salt produced at a site in
Eastern Tibet has been investigated, to decide if a salt iodation plant should be established in this
location. A quality control laboratory has been set up in the Lhasa salt factory to monitor the
quality of iodised salt produced. Pilot iodised salt monitoring programmes for schools and
households have been developed and will be conducted in 4 sites in 2001. Almost all the
equipment required for the project has been purchased and delivered. Project managers and
laboratory managers have been trained. A baseline epidemiological survey was completed before
starting the distribution of lOCs.
Workshops on IDD were also conducted in other provinces of China during 2000. WHO is
collaborating with CDC, Atlanta, UNICEF, PAMM, the MI, and other agencies and institutions in
establishing a global network of reference and resource laboratories on IDD. This will help
countries implement good quality assurance programmes in the laboratory testing of iodine levels
in salt and urine, to monitor the effectiveness and efficiency of lDD prevention programmes.
China's National Reference Laboratory on IDD, established with support of UNICEF, WHO and
ICPMR (Australia), is a good model for other countries to consider.
D.   UNIDO Technical Assistance to the World Bank supported IDD Control Project
With expansion of the original UNDP, UNICEF and WHO-funded project (CPR/91/434) into a
NIDDEP plan in 1993/44, UNIDO became involved due to the plan's new interventions vis-a-vis
the salt industry. The original intention was that UNIDO would provide technical assistance (TA)
to the World Bank's loan program geared towards CNSIC and the salt research institutes in
Tianjin and Zigong. UNIDO work started in 1994 and 1995 with special industrial service (SIS)
funds, and cost-sharing with UNICEF and CNSIC, and included a comprehensive study tour of
Chinese officials to Mexico, USA and Europe followed by international TA in iodization,
packaging and storage technologies, data information systems and quality standards. After this
financial limitations prevented synchronization with the project work program for a couple of
years. However, a contribution from the Netherlands of US$455,000 enabled UNIDO, together
with the Dutch company Akzo Nobel, to complete the intended TA to CNSIC in the 1999-2001
period. The objectives and achievements of UNIDO's activites in the China NIDDEP have been:
Purpose (Immediate Objective 1): To enhance the capacity of CNSIC in planning, managing
- 81 -



(administratively and financially) and monitoring the production and distribution of high quality
iodised salt, and specifically, in performing the following functions and activities:
- advising on the proper transfer of technologies, including iodisation and packaging;
- assisting in meeting the quality standards as required by the health authorities,
- identifyiing needs and advising industry and small scale producers;
- advising on appropriate quality of packaging, storage and distribution (bulk and retail)
Purpose (Immediate Objective 2): To strengthen training and R&D programmes in selected
institutions in order to provide support to production and iodisation units in the fields of
iodisation, packaging and storage stability and analytical techniques as well as to provide modem
training opportunities.
Achievements:
Improved and operational capacity established, enabling CNSIC to:
- coordinate with various salt producers in the country to keep track of supply/demand;
- provide necessary technical advice to various salt companies through provincial salt
companies;
- keep close interaction with clients (the distribution centres) concerning required amount of
salt, and especially, in trouble shooting exercises;
- collaborate with R&D institutions on research projects for developing and adapting
appropriate salt technology, packaging and distribution;
Upgraded and strengthened research capability at the Salt Scientific Research Institute at Tianjin,
to carry out R&D work on:
- effects of various forms of packaging on the loss of iodine;
- iodine stabilisers in iodised sea and lake salt ( washed salt)
- simplified and rapid analytical methods to trace iodine in washed salt.
Upgraded and strengthened research capacity at Zigong Design and Research Institute, to carry
out R&D work on:
- iodisation processes: a. Impact of various ingredients in edible salt on the iodine stability in
iodised salt; b. Iodine stability in iodised salt using  different stabilisers; c. Iodine
stabilisers for vacuum salt.
- position and form of automatic iodisation equipment
- the sulfur dryer in relation to the mixing effect of iodisation and loss of iodine
- industrial chemical analysis
Upgraded and strengthened capacity at Department of Salt Engineering, Tianjin University of
Light Industry (TULI) to undertake R&D work on
-     iodisation process
-     automatic  iodisation  equipment:   a. Iodisation  position  and  form;   b.
Standardisation of equipment for iodized salt production
-     rapid analytical methods for iodine determination and packaging materials
-     industrial chemical analysis
- 82 -



Additional Annex 12.E xecutive Summary
China Iodine Deficiency Disorders Control Project - Implementation Completion Report
Executive Summary
Background. Iodine deficiency has been a major scourge in China for thousands of years, and
there is a history of efforts to prevent and control the serious physical deformity and mental
retardation (cretinism) which, with thyroid enlargement (goiter) are the hallmarks of this
condition. In the early 1940s goiter was found to be endemic in 39 counties in Hunan province
and in the Chengdu area. Studies in the 1960s showed over 15% of school children in several
provinces were severely retarded. Overall it was estimated that 50% of China's population lived in
so called endemic iodine deficient areas. New studies in the 1980s, in China and elsewhere,
revealed a broader range of iodine deficiency disorders (IDD) and showed that even mild
deficiency has effects on mental development, with shift to the left of IQ distribution curves of
10-15 points in affected populations, resulting in reduced productive capacity for very large
numbers of people. This understanding brought a change in approach to IDD prevention from
targeting endemic areas to protecting the entire population, and the most cost effective
intervention for this mass approach was shown to be the fortification of edible salt with iodine.
In 1990 China participated in the World Summit for Children and then ratified the World
Declaration of Children's Survival, Protection, and Development, which set a mid decade goal of
universal salt iodization and aimed to eliminiate IDD by year 2000. Chinese experts and leaders,
with assistance of intemational agencies, then developed the National IDD Elimination Program
(NIDDEP), which was launched at the National Advocacy Meeting in September 1993, with
leadership of the State Council. The NIDDEP is a comprehensive multi-sectoral nationwide
initiative covering: organization and advocacy; health education; legislation; program planning and
review; monitoring and surveillance; technical support and international cooperation; scientific
research; and improved supply of iodized salt.
The Government of China requested World Bank assistance with improving the capacity of the
salt sector to provide sufficient iodized salt for the country, as a central strategy of the NIDDEP,
and at the same time passed laws and regulations mandating iodization of all edible salt, setting a
new price for quality iodized salt, and levying a proportion of salt producers' revenue for a
reconstituted Iodized Salt Industry Development Fund (ISIDF). Regulations for licensing of
production, packaging and transportation of salt were also strengthened. The Bank agreed to the
Government's request to confine its assistance to the salt industry, on the basis of support by
other UN agencies to the complementary activities of the NIDDEP, and the Government's
commitment to ensure that these activities would be carried out.  A memorandum  of
understanding was signed by the World Bank and four UN agencies to confirm the coordinated
arrangements for international support of the NIDDEP.
Project Objective and Scope. The project's development objective was to help reduce the
incidence of IDD in China through improved production, iodization, packaging and distribution of
iodized salt. The project's scope and activities were designed as part of a master plan for
- 83 -



rationalizing and upgrading of the salt industry which involved consolidation of production and
iodizing units, reducing excess and inefficient capacity through closing smaller units, installing
modem machinery for iodizing and packaging salt, and improving project management and
management information systems. Within the project the Bank funded the foreign exchange
costs of equipment, including technology transfer for manufacture of retail packaging machines,
training and management support, as well as a limited program of technical assistance in
information systems and project management.
While the physical elements of the project were straightforward and the technology involved was
quite simple, the project overall was complex and demanding due: to its wide scope, covering
over 200 enterprises in all provinces; the in-country financial mobilization required; the
coordination of support from UN and other international agencies; and also the rapid changes
occurring in the economic and organizational environment, which presented both challenge and
opportunity for industry reform. Because of this complexity, great effort was made by all parties
to ensure the project's financial, organizational and technical readiness. The Government provided
a very strong enabling environment for the project through the overall NIDDEP and the UN
agencies provided both general support and specific technical assistance in preparation and early
implementation.
The project was prepared during 1994, appraised in February 1995 and approved by the Board of
the Bank in June 1995. The mid term review was conducted in May 1998 and the project closed
in December 2000, which was tw^- years later than originally scheduled. The performances of the
Borrower and the Bank were rated satisfactory throughout the project; the performance of the
implementing agency (CNSIC) was rated highly satisfactory during preparation and satisfactory
during implementation.
The final project installed cost was $101.83 million equivalent (93% of the appraisal estimate) and
the final total project financing required was US$118.8 million equivalent, or 78% of the appraisal
estimate. The Bank's contribution was an IDA credit of US$ 17.29 million equivalent, or about
15% of the final project cost. An IBRD loan of US$ 7.0 million equivalent was also included in
the Bank's assistance but was canceled in 1998 due to savings in procurement, especially for
packaging equipment. The Credit was onlent by the Ministry of Finance to the implementing
agency (CNSIC). Counterpart funding was provided from the ISIDF, the State Development
Bank of China, and from the participating provinces and enterprises, some of whom borrowed
from local banks.
Project Outputs, Outcome and Impact. The achievement of project outputs and outcomes are
both rated as Highly Satisfactory. All the physical targets were met or exceeded and the
technology transfer was successful. The production of quality iodized salt in China rose from
about 3 million tons per year in 1995 to more than 6.7 million tons per year in 1999, which was
98% of the target. The proportion of households in China with adequately iodized salt rose from
39.9% in 1995 to 88.9% in 1999 (and estimated to have reached 93% in year 2000), and the
percentage of school children 8-10 years with low urinary iodine declined from 13.3% to 3.3% in
the same period.
-84 -



Table 4a. Outcomempact Indicators
Indicator                                1995       1997      1999
1. % households consuming quality iodized   39.9         81.1 88.9
salt. (20 ppm or over)
2. % school children 8-10 years with enlarged 20.4   10.9     8.8
thyroid (measured by palpation)
3. % school children 8-10 yrs with low urinary  13.3  3.5     3.3
iodine (50 ug/L or less)
Source:  Three national surveys conducted by GOC with intemational support
ug/L = micrograms per liter; ppm = parts per million
Through its contribution to the NIDDEP the project has had a significant health impact. The
increased availability of iodized salt means that an additional 50% of China's families will benefit
from reduced incidence of miscarriage and stillbirth, physical deformity and mental retardation
caused by iodine deficiency. This is a great improvement, considering that IDD is the commonest
cause of preventable mental retardation in the world and that at the beginning of the 1990s, China
was estimated to have 40% of the world population at risk of IDD. In addition, it is estimated
that children born into previously iodine deficient communities will have on average intelligence
10-15 IQ points greater than if they had not been protected. The enhancement of learning ability
and productivity, and reduction of dependency and medical costs due to disability, will make an
important contribution to social and economic development.
The project's overall impact on poverty reduction is rated as modest. The additional 50% of
China's families now using iodized salt, with the benefits described above, include a large number
of the poor and very poor and economists have concluded that the marginal productivity increase
of improved health is likely to be higher for poorer than for richer households. On the other hand,
the estimated 10% of households not yet consuming iodized salt are predominantly located in the
poorer provinces and counties and were not reached directly by the project. However, the
Government has made new plans to address these problem areas, and an important resource
available for this effort is the ISIDF which was greatly strengthened as a result of the project.
The project had a substantial institutional development impact through: (a) the forging of
intersectoral alliances under NIDDEP, in working to a common goal. The assigning of a central
role to the salt industry stimulated its strong espousal and advocacy for the social goal of IDD
elimination and gave it a new role in national and international arenas; (b) building the capacity of
CNSIC, as the implementing agency, to manage complex projects, transforming its information
management and monitoring capability and establishing support services for the industry in
training, equipment and spare parts; and (c) catalyzing the restructuring of the old, fragmented,
inefficient edible salt industry into a modern, efficient industry capable of delivering adequately
iodized salt to meet all domestic demand.
Factors Contributing to Project Success.  The following are the main factors that led to
success of the project as well as the NIDDEP:
*   strong foundation of scientific analysis of IDD in China which had been used to inform and
persuade senior decision makers
- 85 -



*   high level of commitment by all stakeholders through effective dissemination of IDD
elimination goal and strategies to all sectors and levels.
*   functional program management structures put in place with clear responsibilities and
coordination arrangements, led by highest level of government
*   salt supply given central role in the overall NIDDEP and a single agency within the
industry made responsible for coordinating all salt industry activities and deliverables.
*   comprehensive legal and regulatory regimes enacted and enforced, prohibiting
manufacture and supply of non-iodized salt
*   strong financial arrangements for funding of salt industry activities under the project, and
related non-project activities
*   early Bank technical dialogue for joint development of efficient and practical project
design and implementation arrangements
*   strong leadership, coordination and proactive approach by external agencies, especially the
UN.
*   technical and financial assistance to program interventions and project elements through
local presence and representation
*   competent project implementing agency that showed its ability to learn on the job.
Project Sustainability. The sustainability of the project achievement is considered highly likely
based on continuation of the relevant success factors mentioned above and the enhanced viability
of the industry resulting from the project. The commitment of all sectors and provinces was
renewed in a Readvocacy Meeting in Beijing in October 2000, at which the Government's seven
point plan for IDD elimination in the next 15 years was presented, and those seven provinces with
remaining low coverage of iodized salt made specific action plans, to be supported by UN,
especially UNICEF. CNSIC has moved ex-project staff to this activity. The Government has also
agreed to maintain the ISIDF, and the salt industry will pursue its rationalization with further
reduction of excess capacity.
The main risk to sustained coverage of iodized salt at household level is considered to be presence
of non-iodized salt in the market, presently estimated at 5-8% of total supply. The main
contributing factors are: excess capacity, especially among small salt producers with very limited
alternative employment; lack of consumer awareness or consumer preference for traditional
alternatives; and the price differential between qualified and fake or substandard salt. A critical
factor in long term sustainability will be strengthening of awareness and demand for iodized salt
from household consumers. This will require both in-depth analysis of factors which constrain
consumers from valuing or buying iodized salt, and professional communication and marketing
initiatives to address those concerns.
Lessons for Other Countries. Each country has its own history and context in relation to the
elimination of IDD. The experience of China highlights issues to be addressed in any successful
program, although the balance of roles and emphasis in addressing them will vary. The following
are the major conditions for success, and their relative importance depends on individual country
contexts, such as whether the country is a major producer of salt, the type of ownership of salt
enterprise, etc:
- 86 -



* the program should be based on sound analysis of the country's IDD status, including
quantification of the negative impacts and social costs of IDD on population, to create
awareness among leaders and develop top-level support for addressing the problem;
* market and social analysis is also needed to understand what constraints will need to be
overcome in order to ensure consumer acceptance and preference for iodized salt
* advocacy to a broad range of stakeholders to mobilize them for IDD elimination
* develop and put in place a comprehensive strategy identifying all key interventions to be
implemented concurrently, clear responsibilities for each, and coordination mechanisms led
by a senor government authority which can give leadership to the other agencies, at least
during the program implementation
* assign the salt sector a key role with full responsibility given to a single agency to coordinate
actions to assure supply
* develop a set of indicators for monitoring implementation and impact with systems for
periodic surveillance and reporting
* provide technical assistance and full financing of all interventions through local and
international agencies
- institutionalize arrangements for agency and donor coordination
The Role of the World Bank. In China, the Bank was invited to support an important but
specific and limited element of the overall IDD elimination effort, the supply side. The Banks
assistance has been successful because of the strong coordinated framework for all sectors
provided by top Govermnent leadership and by UN agencies. Bank was not the lead external
agency, but became an important partner among the agencies supporting the Program. For the
salt industry, the Bank was the largest external financier, but Bank funds were only 15% of the
overall project cost. Technical and financial support from others was also critical to project
progress and eventual success. The value of World Bank participation included the following: (a)
adding weight and legitimacy to NIDDEP in dialogue with core non-health agencies (such as
finance and planning), as well as in intersectoral coordination, and mobilization of provincial and
local governments; (b) skills and experience in technical and strategic aspects of project design
and preparation; and (c) provision of financial support which was helpful, especially for foreign
exchange costs, but also improved the ability of enterprises to borrow from local banks.
Conclusion. The positive experience of the Bank's involvement in the project suggests that it
should be possible to adopt a multi-sectoral approach, together with coordinated international
support, to implement IDD elimination initiatives elsewhere, and also to address other
micronutrient deficiencies. On a broader level, the project is an outstanding example of the
achievement of a population health impact through primary intervention in a non-health sector. A
critical success factor was the alignmnent of the social goal with the salt industry's own reform
agenda and the leadership assumed by the salt sector in pursuing that social benefit. The role
played by the health sector in scientific analysis, policy development, advocacy, coordination,
community education and monitoring and surveillance can also be seen as a model for future
action in other public health challenges which must be addressed through action in other sectors.
- 87 -



Annex 13: Government Letters
q S k A 4 Jk A
CHINA NATIONAL SALT INDUSTRY CORPORATION
tNtt$*EtE@k*t (100055)
China Salt Building Lian Hua Chi, Fengtai District, Beijing, 100055,CHINA
Iti, (Tel): 86-10-63272165 Ext; It (Fax): 86&10-63272289; E-maik CHNASALUblcjb.eoWfc
FAX TRANSMISSION
9 1 t( of pages):No: I
4ktf*A(To fXx No): +1-202-522 3394
&, k AMAttn): Dr. Maureen Law, Sector Director, Human Development Sectr Unit, East
Asia and Pacifc Region. te World Bank
#tK(cc): Mr. Zhou Yong. Ministry of Finance; Dr. Hao Yang, Minstry of Health
)t A(From): Mr. Guo Wenhui, China National Salt Industrial Corporation (CNSIC)
Ei  "M(Datc): June 27,2001
I:NpW(Subject): China IDDC Project mplepmestation Completion Report (I(CIf)
Dear Dr. Maureen Law,
Afer several rounds of discussions and revision bete  CNSIC and the World Bnk for the
Inplemenaon Completion Rexwt (ICR) of Chi  lodine Defiiency Disorder Control
Project, we think tha the final emo of te ICR you have sent to us, are objective,
informafive and comprehensive. summ6u:0d the good expeience and lessons learn from
the implentan of this importa  poblic beath project trough the industial intevention.
It is glso our gr  pleasure that the World Ban; rated this project as one of te most
swucessful Projects, and your plan to use this project as the good example to be publicized to
other couries for theffir IDDC effort
With the successful implementaton of this project, CNSIC has been benefited greatly, the
idustry is modrnid, caacity of the CNSIC and the indusy as the whole ba bten bufld
up greatly, the finani mechm of the ISIDF, wil be an sound bes to sustan the IDDC
progrm i China We hope that the World Bank will, togeer  th other uN agenci
continuously support Cbins's IDDC effort, and CNSIC will furter develop our fruitful and
enjoyable cooperation that benefit our children and the society as the whole.
Thnks owce agin for all your kind support and help, and as algwys, we remain,
Vice President
China Natinal Salt ledustrl Corporation (CNSIC)
- 88 -



INTERNATnONAL DEPARTMENT
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Swuihe dXien Dourriff                      F                0 _
JEIJNG 10820 Pe e's Repubi' of Chb,a   V  I   J        4_i_glso
Junc 29, 2001
Maureen Law
Director
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
The World Bank
Iodine Deficiency Disorders (IDD) Control Project (Cr. 2757-HA)
Implementation Cowpletion Report
Dear Dr. Maureen Law:
Reference is made to the fial draft of Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) of Iodine Deficiency Disorders (IDD) Control Project, which was closed on
December 31, 2000.
After a careflul review of the ICR of the above project, we wish to extend oir
high appreciation for the comprehcnsive coverage, objective analysis and constuctive
recommendations in the Report We completely share with you the aveall assessment
of the achievements, outcomes and lessons leamed as presented in the Report.
Best regards.
Sincerely yours,
Yang Jinlin
Director
Division Il, Intl' Department
Ministry of Finance
CC: Jenet Hohnen, Senior Public Health Specialist, Tel: 202-458-1217; Fax: 202-522-3394
- 89 -



