Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2756 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Iodine Deficiency Disorders Control Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 20, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2756 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1995, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000) (the 
Loan);
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan are made;
(D)
the Project will be carried out by the China National Salt Industry 
Corporation (CNSIC) (as defined in Section 1.02(b) of this Agreement) with the 
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to CNSIC the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement and the 
proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
Page  2
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, 
the Bank and CNSIC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member of 
the Bank or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Basic Legislation" means:  (i) Decree No. 163, dated August 23, 1994 
adopted by the State Council of the Borrower and effective as of October 1, 1994, 
entitled "Regulations for the Iodization of Edible Salt to Eliminate Iodine Deficiency 
Disorders"; (ii) Decree No. 51, dated March 2, 1990, adopted by the State Council of 
the Borrower and effective as of March 2, 1990, entitled "Regulations on Salt Industry 
Administration"; (iii) Order No. MLI-1991-02 dated September 1, 1991 issued by the 
Borrower's Ministry of Light Industry and entitled "Implementing Measures for 
Management of Salt Industry Administration"; and (iv) the documents referred to in 
Section 1.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(b)
"CNSIC" means the China National Salt Industry Corporation, a state 
enterprise established and operating pursuant to: (i) Document of the Borrower's State 
Economic Commission (1980) No. 80 dated  February 28, 1980 entitled "Reply to Ministry 
of Light Industry Concerning the Establishment of CNSIC and Implementing  Plan"; (ii) 
Document of the Borrower's Ministry of Light Industry (1990) No. 28 entitled "Circular 
Concerning Adjustment of Functions of CNSIC"; (iii) Document of the Borrower's 
Ministry of Light Industry (1991) No. 6 dated February 21, 1991 entitled "Circular 
Confirming Functions of CNSIC and China National Salt Industry Association"; and (iv)  
Business License No. 100004148 issued by the Borrower's State Administration of 
Industry and Commerce on September 2, 1992.
(c)
"Enterprise Implementation Agreement" means, in respect of each 
Iodization Project, the implementation agreement to be entered into between the 
Project Province and the Salt Enterprise which is to carry out said Iodization 
Project, pursuant to Part B.1(a) of Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement.
(d)
"Iodization Project" means a specific development project included in 
Part A of the Project which is to be carried out by a Salt Enterprise utilizing the 
goods procured by CNSIC for the purpose and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit or of the Loan.
(e)
"Iodization Standards" means, the following minimum levels of iodine in 
edible salt: (i) 50 parts per million at the place of iodization; (ii) 40 parts per 
million at the factory gate; (iii) 30 parts per million at the retail level; and (iv) 
20 parts per million at the household level.
Page  3
(f)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as
applied to such agreement (the General Conditions Applicable to the Loan Agreement), 
and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
(g)
"NIDDEP" means the Borrower's National Iodine Deficiency Disorders 
Elimination Program, a program of objectives, policies and actions set forth in the 
letter dated May 5, 1995 from the Minister of Health of the Borrower to the 
Association, designed to eliminate iodine deficiency disorders in the Borrower's 
territory by the calendar year 2000.
(h)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Association, the Bank 
and CNSIC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(i)
"Project Implementation Unit" means the unit referred to in Part A of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
(j)
"Project Provinces" means, collectively, all of the provinces, autonomous 
regions and directly-administered municipalities of the Borrower, with which CNSIC has 
entered into a Provincial Implementation Agreement; and "Project Province" means any 
of the Project Provinces.
(k)
"Provincial Implementation Agreement" means, in respect of each Project 
Province, the implementation agreement to be entered into between CNSIC and said 
Project Province in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement.
(l)
"Salt Enterprise" means, in respect of each Iodization Project, the salt 
producing or distributing enterprise with which a Project Province has entered into or 
proposes to enter into an Enterprise Implementation Agreement for the purposes of 
carrying out said Iodization Project.
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
(n)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and CNSIC pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twelve million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 12,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a financial institution acceptable to the 
Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time 
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 2005 and ending March 1, 2030. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on March 1, 2015 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each  installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Page  5
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause CNSIC to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement all the obligations of CNSIC therein set forth, shall take and 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable CNSIC to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit and the proceeds of 
the Loan to CNSIC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and CNSIC, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association and the Bank, and which shall include terms
whereby:
(i)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be the 
equivalent in terms of 
Special Drawing Rights (determined as of 
the date or respective dates of withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or 
the Loan Account, as the case may be, or payment out of 
the Special 
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or 
paid out, on account of the goods and services required for the Project and to 
be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan;
 
(ii)
CNSIC shall repay the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan over 
a period of 
fifteen (15) years, inclusive of a grace period of 
five (5) years; and
(iii)
CNSIC shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Subsidiary 
Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate 
equal to five percent (5%) per annum.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,  abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03.  The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried 
out by CNSIC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall:  (a) take all measures necessary to ensure 
that each Project Province shall perform, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Provincial Implementation Agreement to which it is a party, all of the obligations of 
said Project Province therein set forth; and (b) not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices,
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  6
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at 
least one year after 
the Association has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section and 
those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than
six (6) months after the end of each such year the report of such 
audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time 
to time 
reasonably request.
 
Section 4.02.  In order to facilitate the achievement of the Borrower's 
objective of eliminating iodine deficiency disorders by the year 2000, the Borrower 
shall:
(a)
carry out NIDDEP with due diligence and efficiency;
 
(b)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Association, the carrying out of NIDDEP and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association on or about March 15 in each fiscal year, commencing March 
15, 1996, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of NIDDEP during the twelve months preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of NIDDEP 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the twelve months following such 
date; and
(d)
review with the Association on or about June 30 in each fiscal year, 
commencing June 30, 1996, each report referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, 
and promptly take all measures required to ensure the efficient carrying out of NIDDEP 
during the following twelve month period and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report and the 
Association's views on the matter.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
CNSIC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
Page  7
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that CNSIC will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(c)
The Basic Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of CNSIC to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CNSIC or for the suspension of 
its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in Section 5.01(a) of this Agreement shall occur and 
shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in Sections 5.01(c) and (d) of this Agreement shall 
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have 
been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
(b)
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and CNSIC.
(c)
Provincial Implementation Agreements have been entered into between CNSIC 
and not less than 29 Project Provinces.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by CNSIC 
and is legally binding upon CNSIC in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and CNSIC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CNSIC in 
accordance with its terms; and
(c)
that each of the Provincial Implementation Agreements referred to in 
Section 6.01(c) of this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the parties 
thereto and is legally binding upon said parties in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and 
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on 
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the 
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Page  8
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (MCI),
 64145 (MCI) or
 82987 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Russell J. Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit 
and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Page  9
                         Amount       Amount
                         of the       of the
                         Credit        Loan
                        Allocated   Allocated
                       (Expressed   (Expressed            % of
                         in SDR      in Dollar         Expenditures
      Category         Equivalent)  Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Goods             12,630,000    5,760,000        100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures,
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory cost)
                                                      and 75% of local
                                                      expenditures for
                                                      other items
                                                      procured locally
(2)  Consultants'         70,000        40,000        100%
     services
(3)  Unallocated              __     1,200,000
                       __________    _________
                TOTAL  12,700,000    7,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
1,700,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after February 25, 1995.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account, and the Bank 
may require withdrawals from the Loan Account, to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures for:  (a) goods under contracts costing less than 
$200,000 equivalent; (b) services provided by  consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (c) services provided by individual 
consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; all under such terms 
and conditions as the Association or the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to reduce the incidence of iodine deficiency 
disorders in the Borrower's territory, consistent with the policies and objectives of 
NIDDEP.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Iodization Projects
 
The financing, through, inter alia, the acquisition of equipment and 
consultants' services by CNSIC and the provision thereof, on credit terms, through the 
Page  10
Project Provinces, to Salt Enterprises, of development projects to increase the 
production and distribution of iodized edible salt, such development projects to 
consist of:
(1)
upgrading of edible salt production facilities; and
 
(2)
installation of equipment required for salt iodization and for wholesale and 
retail packaging of iodized salt.
Part B:
Technical Assistance
 
Strengthening the capabilities of the Project Implementation Unit in the areas 
of Project management, project accounting and financial management systems, 
information systems and market promotion and quality control, through the provision of 
consultants' services.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 5,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
Page  11
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account 
and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the  Credit Account or 
the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for  eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be  required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement or from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions applicable thereto;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section, or 
to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 6.02 of the 
respective General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the uthorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from  the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
Page  12
refund to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account, as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the 
Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable thereto.
