Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2756 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 3914 CHA
Project Agreement
(Iodine Deficiency Disorders Control Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CHINA NATIONAL SALT INDUSTRY CORPORATION
Dated December 20, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2756 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 3914 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1995, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association), the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) 
and CHINA NATIONAL SALT INDUSTRY CORPORATION (CNSIC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
twelve million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 12,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that CNSIC agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000) on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that CNSIC agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(C)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and CNSIC, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement and the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
made available to CNSIC on the terms and conditions set
Page  2
forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, CNSIC has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, respectively) 
have the respective meanings therein set forth, and, wherever used in this Agreement, 
the Association, the Credit and the Credit Account shall also be deemed as reference 
to the Bank, the Loan and the Loan Account, respectively.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CNSIC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering,
industry and health practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and CNSIC shall otherwise agree, CNSIC shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, and carry out such other actions as are set forth in said Schedule, in 
accordance with the provisions thereof.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. CNSIC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions applicable to the 
Development Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of 
the General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
Section 2.04. CNSIC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, CNSIC shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) CNSIC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
CNSIC's obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
CNSIC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by CNSIC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Page  3
Management and Operations of CNSIC
Section 3.01. CNSIC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, industry and health practices under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. CNSIC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, industry and health practices.
Section 3.03. CNSIC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CNSIC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
CNSIC shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six
(6) months after the end of each such year, a certified copy of 
the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts
and the audit thereof, as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
CNSIC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates in 
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this 
Section, the Association shall promptly notify CNSIC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
applicable to the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (MCI),
 64145 (MCI) or
 82987 (TRT)
For CNSIC:
China National Salt Industry Corporation
No. 55 Taoranting Road
Xuanwu District
Beijing 100054
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
7774 Beijing
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CNSIC, may be 
taken or executed by the President of CNSIC or such other person or persons as said 
President shall designate in writing, and said President shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Section 6.04.  As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to CNSIC 
and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have terminated prior to the 
termination of the Loan Agreement:
(a)
the obligations of CNSIC to consult with, and to furnish information, 
documents, plans, reports, records and statements to, the Bank shall be satisfied to 
the extent performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to, CNSIC shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are fulfilled by the 
Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or granting of 
waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement, and in the name and on behalf of both the
Association and the Bank.
Page  5
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Russell J. Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
CHINA NATIONAL SALT INDUSTRY CORPORATION
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
International Shopping
 
Iodization equipment estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract 
and other goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, together, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Direct Contracting
Page  6
Goods which are of a proprietary nature may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply 
to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
For the purposes of Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement, the Implementation 
Program shall consist of the following.
A.
Project Management
 
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, CNSIC shall maintain 
a Project implementation unit, with terms of reference, staffing and other resources 
acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for the overall coordination and 
supervision of Project execution, the supervision of the procurement of goods and 
services thereunder, the overall assessment of quality and impact of the Project and 
the program referred to in Part D of this Schedule, and the preparation and
Page  7
furnishing to the Association of reports and other information thereon.
B.
Part A of the Project:  Iodization Projects
 
1.
CNSIC shall procure the goods and services required for each Iodization Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit only after a Provincial 
Implementation Agreement has been entered into between CNSIC and the Project Province 
in which such Iodization Project is to be carried out and an Enterprise Implementation 
Agreement has been entered into between said Project Province and the Salt Enterprise 
which proposes to carry out said Iodization Project.
2.
CNSIC shall make available to each Project Province the goods and services 
required for all Iodization Projects to be carried out in the territory of said 
Project Province and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit under an 
implementation agreement to be entered into between CNSIC and
said Project Province, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by 
the Association and which shall include, without limitation, those set forth in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3.
CNSIC shall:
 
(a)
not take any action which would prevent or interfere with the performance 
by any Project Province, in accordance with the Provincial Implementation Agreement to 
which it is a party, of the obligations of said Project Province therein set forth; 
and
(b)
exercise its rights under each Provincial Implementation Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association and CNSIC, 
comply with its obligations under this Agreement and achieve the purposes of the 
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive any Provincial Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.
C.
Part B of the Project
 
CNSIC shall carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with a time-bound 
action plan acceptable to the Association.
D.
Iodization Program
 
CNSIC shall carry out a program acceptable to the Association designed to 
facilitate the achievement of the objective of ensuring that by December 31, 1997 all 
edible salt produced or distributed in the Borrower's territory shall meet the 
Iodization Standards.
E.
Monitoring and Reporting
 
1.
Monitoring
 
CNSIC shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Association, (a) the carrying out of the Project and (b) the carrying out of the 
program referred to in Part D of this Schedule; and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof.
2.
Reporting
 
CNSIC shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association the following reports:
(a)
quarterly reports, on or about January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 
15 in each fiscal year, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to Section 1 of this Part E, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the preceding
calendar quarter and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
then current calendar quarter;
Page  8
(b)
annual reports, on or about July 15 in each fiscal year, integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to Section 1 of 
this Part E, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the program referred to 
in Part D of this Schedule and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
twelve-month period ending the previous June 30 and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out thereof and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the next twelve-month period; and
(c)
a mid-term report, on or about December 15, 1996, integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to Section 1 of this 
Part E, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project, and of the 
program referred to in Part D of this Schedule, during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and of the program referred to in Part D of this Schedule 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof thereafter.
3.
Consultation
 
After furnishing each report referred to in Section 2 of this Part E, CNSIC 
shall review said report with the Association, and promptly take all measures required 
to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, as well as the efficient continued carrying out of the program 
referred to in Part D of this Schedule and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report and the Association's 
views on the matter.
4.
Operational Phase
 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.03 of this Agreement, CNSIC 
shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and CNSIC, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
CNSIC on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
SCHEDULE 3
Provincial Implementation Agreements
For the purposes of Part B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, each Provincial 
Implementation Agreement with a Project Province shall consist of the following 
principal terms and conditions.
A.
Terms
 
1.
The amount payable by each Project Province to CNSIC for the goods and services 
made available by CNSIC to said Project Province pursuant to the provisions of Part 
B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be the aggregate of all amounts payable by Salt Enterprises therefor to 
said Project Province pursuant to Part B.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
2.
The amount referred to in Section 1 of this Part A shall be paid over a period 
of ten (10) years, inclusive of a grace period of four (4) years.
3.
Interest shall accrue on the amount referred to in Section 1 of this Part A 
remaining outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to six and four-fifths percent 
(6.8%) per annum.
B.
Conditions
Page  9
1.
Enterprise Implementation Agreements
 
Each Project Province shall undertake to:
(a)
make available the goods and services required for each Iodization 
Project to be carried out within the territory of said Project Province by a Salt 
Enterprise and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to said Salt 
Enterprise: (i) in accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and (ii) under an implementation agreement to be entered into between said 
Project Province and said Salt Enterprise, which shall include the principal terms and 
conditions set forth in said Schedule 4;
(b)
(i) cause each Salt Enterprise with which it shall have entered into an 
Enterprise Implementation Agreement to perform, in accordance with the provisions of 
said Enterprise Implementation Agreement, all of the obligations of said Salt 
Enterprise therein set forth; (ii) take or cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable said Salt Enterprise to perform such obligations; (iii) not take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance; (iv) 
exercise its rights under said Enterprise Implementation Agreement in such manner as 
to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association, CNSIC and said Project 
Province, comply with its obligations under the Provincial Implementation Agreement to 
which it is a party and achieve the purposes of the Project; and (v) not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive any Enterprise Implementation Agreement to which it is a 
party or any provision thereof without the prior approval of the Association.
2.
NIDDEP
 
Each Project Province shall undertake to carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association and CNSIC, designed to facilitate the achievement of the 
objective of ensuring that by December 31, 1997 all edible salt produced and/or 
distributed in the Borrower's territory shall meet the
Iodization Standards.
3.
Monitoring
 
Each Project Province shall undertake to maintain policies and procedures 
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
indicators acceptable to the Association, the carrying out (a) by each Salt Enterprise 
with which it shall have entered into an Enterprise Implementation Agreement, of said 
Salt Enterprise's respective Iodization Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, and (b) by said Project Province, of the action plan, referred to in Section 
2 of this Part B, to be carried out by said Project Province; and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof.
4.
Reporting
 
Each Project Province shall undertake to prepare, under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Borrower, the Association and CNSIC 
an annual report on or about July 15 in each fiscal year, integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by said Project Province pursuant 
to Section 3 of this Part B, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of (a) each 
Iodization Project referred to in said Section 3, and (b) the action plan referred to 
in said Section 3 during the first calendar semester of such year and the second 
calendar semester of the
preceding fiscal year and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out thereof and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the second 
calendar semester of such year and the first calendar semester of the following fiscal 
year.
5.
Consultation 
 
Each Project Province shall undertake to review each report furnished by it 
pursuant to Section 4 of this Part B, with the Borrower, the Association and CNSIC, 
and promptly take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of each 
Iodization Project covered by said report and the action plan covered by said report 
Page  10
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said report and the views of the Borrower, the Association and 
CNSIC on the matter.
6.
Remedies
 
CNSIC shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of each Project 
Province with which it shall have entered into a Provincial Implementation Agreement 
to receive any goods or services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit upon 
failure by said Project Province to perform its obligations under said Provincial 
Implementation Agreement.
SCHEDULE 4
Enterprise Implementation Agreements
For the purposes of Part B.1(a) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, each Enterprise 
Implementation Agreement between a Project Province and a Salt Enterprise in respect 
of an Iodization Project shall be made in accordance with the following procedures and 
on the following principal terms and conditions.
A.
Eligibility
 
Each Project Province shall enter into an Enterprise Implementation Agreement 
for the carrying out of an Iodization Project only with a Salt Enterprise which shall 
have demonstrated to the satisfaction of CNSIC and said Project Province, on the basis 
of an appraisal carried out in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association that:
1.
said Salt Enterprise has the organization, management, staff and other resources 
(including technical expertise in the operation of salt production and packaging 
facilities), required for the efficient carrying out of its operations, including said 
Iodization Project; and
2.
said Iodization Project is technically feasible and consistent with the 
objectives of the NIDDEP.
B.
Enterprise Implementation Agreements
 
Each Enterprise Implementation Agreement shall include the following principal 
terms and conditions.
1.
Terms
 
(a)
The amount payable by each Salt Enterprise to a Project Province for the 
goods and services made available by said Project Province to said Salt Enterprise 
pursuant to the provisions of Part B.1(a) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be the equivalent in terms of Special 
Drawing Rights (determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the 
Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn or paid out, on account of said goods and services.
(b)
The amount referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 1 shall be paid 
over a period of ten (10) years, inclusive of a grace period of four (4) years.
(c)
Interest shall accrue on the amount referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 1 remaining outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to six and 
four-fifths percent (6.8%) per annum.
2.
Iodization Projects
 
Each Salt Enterprise shall undertake to:
(a)
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs, including the carrying 
out and operation of its Iodization Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound engineering, financial, managerial and industry practices and 
appropriate safety, health and environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank, with 
Page  11
qualified management and staff, in adequate numbers; provide, promptly, as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services, staff and other resources required for the purpose; and 
maintain adequate records and accounts;
(b)
utilize all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
and made available to said Salt Enterprise exclusively in the carrying out of its 
Iodization Project;
(c)
enable the Association, CNSIC and said Project Province to inspect such 
goods and the sites and works included in its Iodization Project, the operation 
thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
at all times operate and maintain its facilities, machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial, 
industry and health practices; and
(e)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against 
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice.
3.
Iodization Standards
 
Each Salt Enterprise shall undertake to maintain policies and procedures 
acceptable to the Association, CNSIC and the Project Province with which it shall have 
entered into an Enterprise Implementation Agreement, designed to ensure (a) that the 
level of iodine in all edible salt produced or
packaged in each facility operated by said Salt Enterprise shall comply with the 
Iodization Standards applicable to production and packaging of said salt, and (b) that 
appropriate laboratory equipment and qualified staff shall at all times be maintained 
for the purpose of monitoring such compliance.
4.
Monitoring
 
Each Salt Enterprise shall undertake to maintain policies and procedures 
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
indicators acceptable to the Association, the carrying out of its Iodization Project, 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, and the operation of the facilities 
operated by said Salt Enterprise.
5.
Reporting
 
Each Salt Enterprise shall undertake to prepare, under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to CNSIC and said Project Province (for 
consolidation in the reports to be furnished by said Project Province to the 
Association pursuant to Part B.4 of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement), semi-annual reports on or about January 15 and July 15 in each fiscal 
year, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out 
by it pursuant to Section 4 of this Part B, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of its Iodization Project during the preceding calendar semester, including the 
amount of, and levels of iodine in, iodized salt produced and/or packaged during such 
semester in facilities operated by it, and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of its Iodization Project, the operation thereof, 
including compliance with the Iodization Standards, and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the then current calendar
semester.
6.
Consultation
 
Each Salt Enterprise shall undertake to review each report furnished by it 
pursuant to Section 5 of this Part B, with CNSIC, the Project Province with which it 
has entered into an Enterprise Implementation Agreement, and, if so requested by the 
Association, the Association, and promptly take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of its Iodization Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, the operation of its facilities, and the compliance of all edible salt 
produced and/or packaged by facilities operated by it with the Iodization Standards, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report and the views of the 
Association, CNSIC and said Project Province on the matter.
Page  12
7.
Remedies
 
Each Project Province shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of 
each Salt Enterprise with which it shall have entered into an Enterprise 
Implementation Agreement to receive any goods or services financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit upon failure by such Salt Enterprise to perform its obligations under 
said Enterprise Implementation Agreement.
