Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6958-TA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
March 1,. 1988
Southern Africa Department
Agriculture Operations Division
1n  document has a resced distrb  t   may be used by recipfieb only In th pedomeanco of
thir offiil dutie  Its cont_nt my n_  otewise be dicosed without Word Bank uhoon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
US$1.00        -  TSh  90.0
TSh  1O00      =  US$0.011
ABBREVIATIONS
BOT   -  Bank of Tanzania
CRDB  - Cooperative and Rural Development Bank
ERP   - Economic Recovery Program
GDP   - Gross Domestic Product
IBRD  -  International Bank of Reconstruction and Development
IDA   -  International Development Association
IMF   -  International Monetary Fund
MRC   - Multisector Rehabilitation Credit
NBC   - National Bank of Commerce
SLA   -  Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SOEs  -  Statement of Expenditures
TAC   -  Tanzania Audit Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
1.  Government of Tanzania                           : July 1 - June 30
2. Cooperative and Rural Development Ban!k           : July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary  .......      ....................    i
I.   PROJECT AND SECTORAL BACKGROUND  ......................    1
A.   Project Background  .....       .........................    1
B.   Macro-economic Context  ..........................    1
C.   The Agricultural Sector          .........................    3
D.   Development Constraints in the
Export Sub-sector  .*......             .....*.............    4
E.   Government Objectives and Strategy for
Export Agriculture   ..... ........ .g....               5
P.   Bank and Oth%.Ž Donors' Strategies and
Assistance                      6......... . .  -.    6
RI. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR  .................................       9
A.   The Financial System  .....e.....e ................    9
B.   Cooperative and Rural Development
Banak (LMDB)  ..................  10
III. THE PROJECT                                                  15
A.   Rationale and Project Objectives  %...............   15
B.   Project Design                  .....                   13
C.   Project Description                                     16
D.   Detailed Features  ...............................   16
E.   Project Costs                                           23
F.   Financingl Plan  ......24
G.   Procurement  .....................................   24
H.   Disbursements  ...      .25
I.   Accounts and Audits  ....25
J.   Environmental Impact  ....25
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission which visited
Tanzania in April 1987. The mission comprised Messrs. J. Wambia (mission
leader), N. Okidegbe (Bank and principal author), M. Stoller (consultant,
banking specialist) and Ms. R. Halvorson (consultant).
Ths document harsta cted distdbution    may be used by rwipients onb in te performanc
of teir offici dutle Its contents my not owse be diclsed wihout World Dank aurluaton.



Page No.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .................................   27
A.   Organization and Management        .....................   27
B.   Reporting and Monitoring        ........................   28
C.   Lending Policies and Procedures        .................   28
D.   Project Implementation Plan        .....................   30
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS  ...........................   31
A.   Preject Benefits       ...............................   31
B.   Project Risks  ........  ...........................   31
VI. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ..........................    33
ANNEXES
I. Historical Interest Rate and Inflation
TI. Aetual and Projected Balance Sheets 1982-1992
III. Actual and Projected Income Statements 1982-1992
IV. Actual and Projected Financial Ratios 1982-1992
V. Projected Sources and Uses of Funds 1988-1992
VI. Major Assumptions Used in Financial Projections
VII. Policy and Operating Guidelines for Credit Implementation
VIII. A Mechanism for Handling the Foreign Exchange Risk
IX. Detailed Cost Table
X. List of Intended Beneficiaries (Project Pipeline)
XI. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
PROJECT FILE DOCUMENTS
1.  Working Paper on Cooperative and Rural Development Bank.
2.  Agricultural Cooperatives in Tanzania.
3.   Cooperative and Rural Development Bank Background Papers.
4.   Export Rehabilitation Package Prepared by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock Development.
5.   Terms of Reference for Studies:
A. Restructuring of the Cooperative and Rural Development Bank
(CRDB) Study
B. Revaluation of CRDB Portfolio
C. Review and Installation of a Financial Information System
CHART
CRDB Organization
nf
IBRD lo. 19829



TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Pr9lect Summary
Borrowers            Government of Tanzania.
Implementing
Agencyt              Cooperative and Rural Development Bank (CRDB).
Beneficiariess       Enterprises engaged in export agriculture and CRDB.
Amount:              SDR 22.0 million (US$30.0 million equivalent).
Terms:               Standard IDA terms, with 40 years mAturity.
Pro-iect
Descriptions         IDA Credit of US$30.0 million would be channelled
throu&' CRDB, which would use the funds to ti) lend
for investment projects in the agricultural exports
sub-sector, and (ii) strengthen its capacity for
medium- and long-term agricultural lending. The
Credit would finance expenditures of: (i) agricultural
export enterprises (US$26.7 million); and (ii)
institutional support to CRDB (US$3.3 million).
On-lending Terms:    US$26.7 million from IDA Credit of US$30.0 million
equivalent would be on-lent to CRDB by the Government
at 2.0 percent and CRDB would on-lend it to sub-
borrowers at a fixed interest rate of 8.0 percent. The
balance of IDA Credit (US$3.3 million) would be made
available to CRDB as a grant for institution building.
Loans to CRDB and to sub-borrowers would be
denominated in US dollars with the sub-borrowers
bearing the exchange risks. Mkaximum maturities of
sub-loans to sub-borrowers would be 15 years, with up
to 3 years grace period. CRDB would have loan
maturities of up to 16 years, and a grace period of up
to 5 years.
Benefits and Risks: The Project would foster greater capacity utilization,
improved productivity and efficiency of agricultural
exports, and improved agricultural term-lending
capacity of CRDB. However, the major benefit from the
Project is expected to be an increase in Tanzania's
exports following the rehabilitation and expansion (f
viable agricultural enterprises. The main risks
associated with the Project are: (a) the possible
waning of the Government's commitment for maintaining
the momentu.- of policy reform in the agricultural



- ii -
sector, particularly as it relatws to liberalization
of crop and export marketing, and producer pricing;
(b) the failure of the restructuring of CRDB and a
slowing down of credit disbursements. The first
Project risk has been minimized by the Government's
agreement to liberalize the marketing of agricultural
input and export crops. With regard to the other
risks, the Project would: (i) front-load the studies
and agreements related to the restructuring of CRDB;
(ii) finance a pipeline of sub-project feasibility
studies; and (iii) provide technical assistance to
CRDB and sub-borrowers.
Estimated Costs:
Local      Foreiign      Total
---------US$ million---------
Line of Credit to Sub-borrowers         10.4         25.3          35.7
Support to CRDB tnstitution
Building                              1.6          2.7           4.3
12.0        28.0          40.0
Financina Plan:
Local      Foreign       Total
---------US$ Million---------
IDA                                      2.0         28.0          30.0
CRDB                                     2.0          -             2.0
Beneficiaries (Sub-borrowers)            8.0          _             8.0
12.0        28.0          40.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY       1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
_----_13----------------US$ Million---------   ----------
Annual        1.7      4.0     6.0     6.0      4.8     3.4      2.5     1.6
Cumulative    1.7      5.7    11.7    17.7    22.5    25.9    28.4    30.0



TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. PROJECT AND SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Proiect Background
1.01     The Project, for which an IDA Credit of US$30 million is proposed,
aims at increasing the volume and quality of Tanzania's agricultural
exports and improving the capability of Cooperative and Rural Development
Bank (CRDB), the key agricultural bank in Tanzania, for medium-and long-
term agricultural lending. It is part of IDA's continued support for the
Government's Economic Recovery Program (ERP) which emphasizes the revival
of agricultural exports and greater efficiency in the allocation of
resources. The proposed Credit was identified in July 1986 in discussions
between the Government and IDA. An IDA preparation mission visited
Tanzania in November 1986, and was followed by an appraisal mission in
April 1987.
B. Macro-economic Context
1.02     Ovsrall Performance.  Tanzania's economy has undergone a
protracted deterioration during the past ten years, characterized by
stagnating production and declining exports, deteriorating physical
infrastructure, rising inflation, mounting debt, and a large accumulation
of external arrears. This economic decline reflected a number of exogenous
factors such as worsening terms of trade, a prolonged drought, the effects
of the breakup of the East African Communitv and the war with Uganda. But
more importantly, it was also the result of insufficient producer
incentives and resources allowed to the agricultural sector, the protection
of inefficient enterprises, inappropriate exchange rate and other pricing
policies, reliance on administrative controls for allocating resources, and
excessively expansionary fiscal and monetary policies.
1.03     During 1976-81, the increase in real gross domestic product (GDP)
averaged about 1 percent per annum, which implied a decline in per capita
income of more than 2 percent per annum. Agricultural output, which
accounts for over 46 percent of GDP, increased modestly. However, the
volume of principal foodcrops and agricultural exports declined
significantly below the peak levels realized in the early 1970s because of
inadequate price incentives and inefficient marketing systems. Industrial
output declined at an annual rate of about 5 percent over the 1976-81
period as shortages of imported inputs and spare parts contributed to low
capacity utilizations.
1.04     The Structural Adiust,uent Program.  Starting in June 1982, the
Tanzania Government adopted a three-year Structural Adjustment Program
(SAP) designed to stimulate agricultural development, improve capacity
utilization and efficiency, and restore financial and economic stability.



-2-
As part of the implementation of this program, the Government introduced
real increases in producer prices, restructured its budget to favor
agriculture, and devalued the Tanzania shilling by 20 percent in 1983 and
26 percent in 1984. In conjunction with its 1984/85 budget, the Government
eliminated food and agricultural input subsidies, -eorganized some
Government agencies and parastatals, reintroduced cooperative unions,
liberalized food marketing and introduced an "own-exchange" import scheme.
1.05     These policies had some important and positive effects on the
economy. In particular, there has been a substantial increase in the
supply of foodgrains for the domestic market since 1984/8&. OveArll,
however, these policies proved to be insufficient to stimulate a major
economic recovery and to stop the deterioration in the balance of payments,
because, among other reasons, of failure to address deficiencies in the
distribution of agricultural inputs and marketing of agricultural exports,
the absence of a program to significantly improve efficiency in the
industrial sector, and the continuation of highly expansionary fiscal and
mcnetary policies. The overall budget deficit as a proportion of GDP
averaged 10.3 percent in the three years ended June 1985, and was financed
primarily by domestic bank credit. Because of inappropriate pricing
policies and operational inefficiencies, the financial operations of
parastatals, particularly crop authorities, resulted in large persistent
deficits, which were financed by direct budgetary support and sizeable
increases in bank credit. As a result, domestic inflation continued around
30 percent per year, thereby leading to further appreciation of the real
exchange rate despite the adjustments in its nominal value.
1.06     The Economic Recover, Program.  Early in 1986, the Government
introduced a more comprehensive medium-term Economic Recovery Program
(ERP). The Program, presented at the June 1986 Consultative Group meeting,
received wide support from the international community. Its main medium-
term objectives are to achieve a positive growth rate in per capita income
and a low rate of inflation, while restoring a sustainable external balance
of payments position. Major emphasis is placed on measures which improve
resource allocation and enhance incentives to work, save and invest, such
as appropriate price policies and improvements in production and marketing
arrangements. These measures are to be supported by appropriate demand
management policies.
1.07     A first set of measures announced at the time of the 1986/87
budget presentation includeds a devaluation of the Tanzania shilling per
U.S. dollar from TSh 17 in March to TSh 40 in June 1986, with subsequent
adjustments in the rate aimed at achieving an equilibrium exchange rate in
mid-1988; a 50 percent increase in interest rates in June 1986, with
subsequent adjustments aimed at achieving positive interest rates before
mid-1988; and decontrol of domestic prices over a period of three years,
with one third decontrolled effective July 1986. These policies were
accompanied by the adoption of restrictive fiscal and monetary policies,
and institutional and policy reforms aimed at improving the efficiency of
the agricultural, industrial and transport sectors. Specifically in tne
agricultural sector, the Governments (i) increased producer prices; (ii)
widened quality producer margins; (iii) liberalized the marketing of
foodgrains; (iv) liberalized the marketing of minor exports crops, and
dissolved the related marketing parastatals; and (v) announced its



- 3 -
intention to permit all private estates and cooperatives to export directly
instead of through marketing boardc. Finally, the Government has taken
several measures which could restore a larger role for the private sector
in commercial agriculture, through privatization of several agricultural
enterprises (particularly coffee, tea and sisal estates) either by sale to
the private sector, joint ventures, or management agreements, and is
encouraging both parastatals and cooperatives to consider such options.
Private grain traders and millers are now competing with National Milling
Corporation (NNC) following the removal of NMC's monopoly in those fields.
In support of these measures, an 18-month standby arrangement of SDR 64.2
million was approved by the IMF on August 28, 1986, and a Multisector
Rehabilitation Credit (MRC) of US$130 million was approved by the World
Bank on November 20, 1986 incorporating financing from IDA (US$50 million),
African Facility (US$46.2 million), and Special Joint Financing (US$33.8
million) by the United Kingdom, the Federal Republic of Germany, and
Switzerland.
C. The Aaricultural Sector
1.08     Agriculture is the most important sector in Tanzania's economy
although its contribution to GDP has declined from 57 percent in 1960 to 46
percent in 1984. It contributes 80 percent of exports and provides
employment to 83 percent of the labor force, and is a major source of food
and raw materials for the urban and industrial sectors and of Government
revenues needed for the development of the economy. The agricultural
population is an important market for the goods and services produced in
the industrial sector.
1.09     Performance Trends.  Between 1961 and 1970, agricultural GDP grew
at about 5.0 percent per annum, well above the Sub-Saharan Africa average
of 2.5 percent per annum. Food production grew at an estimated 5.5 percent
per annum over the same period. With an annual population growth rate of
2.7 percent per annum, per capita agricultural GDP and food production grew
at 2.2 percent per annum and 2.7 percent per annum respectively over that
period. Meanwhile, agricultural exports grew at 3.8 percent per annum as
the volume of marketed coffee, cotton, cashewnuts and tobacco doubled
between 1960/61 and 1966/67. Between 1966/67 and 1973/74, the marketed
quantities of cashewnuts and tobacco doubled again. This rapid growth was
the result of the combination of favorable weather, sound economic policies
which stressed agriculture's central role in the economy, and favorable
terms of trade.
1.10     The Impact of Adverse Policies.  This growth peaked in the mid-
1970s, except tea and coffee, when production and exports of major crops
began to decline rapidly. Between 1978 and 1985, real agricultural GDP
grew at an average 1.0 percent per annum, well below the corresponding
population growth rate of 3.4 percent per annum. This was mainly caused by
Government's policies and institutional changes in the sector featuring,
inter alia, establishment of monopoly parastatal crop authorities in
marketing and processing of all major export crops and livestock products;
expropriation of most large-scale enterprises in agriculture;
'villagization', i.e. collection into large villages of a previously



- 4 -
dispersed populationt dissolution of cooperatives; imposetion of extensive
controls on prices and marketing of virtually all agricultural inputs and
implements; and closure of most private retail shops in rural areas.
1.11     The economic crisis that Tanzania has experienced over the past
decade is primarily the result of the 66.0 percent decline in the volume of
marketed production of major agricultural exports (see Table 1.1), which in
turn was caused largely by inappropriate policies, particularly the lack of
producer incentives. Between 1976/77 and 1985/86, production of major
exports crops declined by 54.0 percent, from a peak of US$426.1 millicni in
1977 to US$196.1 million in 1985. This steep decline in production of
exports coincided with a high level of public investment in the production,
processing and marketing facilities of sevoral major export crops
(particularly cashewauts, cotton, tea, pyrethrum and tobacco). Production
declined across the spectrum - from estate to smallholder and from
perennial to annual crops. This sustained decline in production resulted
in costly excess capacity. In addition, the inadequate maintenance of the
processing facilities for cotton, coffee, tea, tobacco and sisal resulted
in serious processing constraints for these export crops.
Table l: Marketed Atricultural Export Production
('000 metric tons)
1985/86
as S of
Peak Amount/Year    1976/77    1980/81   1985186       peak
Coffee             66.6   1980181      48.7        66.6      55.2        82
Seed-cotton      194.7   1976/77      194.7       173.3     105.7        54
Tea               18.5   1977/78       15.2        16.4      15.5        84
Cashewnuts       140.0   1975/76      140.0        57.0      15.0        11
Sisal            240.0   1964/65      119.1        86.0      26.9        11
Tobacco           18.8   1976/77       18.8        16.6      13.2        70
Pyrethrum           4.9   1975/76       3.4         2.0       1.4        29
Total Tonnage    683.50               539.9       417.90    232.90       34
Production Index   1.27                 1.0         0.77      0.43       34
Sources Mini2try of Agriculture and Livestock Development Reports.
D. Develonment Constraints in the Export Sub-sector
1.12     In addition to inadequate policies cited (para 1.10), there are
still some critical bottlenecks to the recovery of agricultural export.
These include: (i) the lack of medium- and long-term foreign exchange to
finance the rehabilitation of agricultural export enterprises; (ii) the
inadequate capability of the banking system to channel agricultural term
and seasonal lending to the sub-sector; (iii) the virtual breakdown of



- 5 -
supporting research and extension services; (iv) severe rural transport
constraints; (v) poor availability of critical inputs, implements, and
consumer goodst and (vi) problems of the land tenure system which tend to
discourage long-term private investment in land and employment of farm
labor.
E. Government Obiectives and Strategy for Export Agriculture
1.13     The Government is working to address some of the structural
deficiencies in the economy which negatively impact on export agriculture.
It has embarked on a program of policy and institutional reforms aimed at:
(i) achieving an average rate of economic growth of at least 4.0 percent
per annum, which will correspond to a positive per capita income growth of
1.0 percent per annum; (ii) reducing the domestic inflation rate from about
30.0 percent in 1986 to below 10.0 percent by 1989, while eliminating most
price controls; and (iii) reducing the current account deficit from 165.0
percent of merchandise exports in 1986 to I.26.0 percent by 1989. The
latter objective would prepare the way for the restoration of a sustainable
balance of payments position through expansion of agricultural exports by
the early 19909.
1.14     The Government's strategy of achieving economic growth during this
period is expected to result from restoring agricultural output,
specifically export crops, to the levels achieved during the early 19709
with the exception of cashewnuts and sisal. Both these crops have deep-
seated problems and, in the case of sisal, limited market prospects and a
more modest target of 50 percent of previous peaks would be more realistic.
Economic growth would also come from improving capacity utilization rates
of efficient firms in the industrial sector. To achieve these overall
objectives, the specific policy and institutional reforms in the
agricultural sector detailed below will be adopted.
1.15     Agricultural Marketing and Pricing Policies.  As a result of the
liberalization of domestic foodgrain marketing and pricing, the National
Milling Corporation (NMC) has been unable to compete with private traders.
This has accelerated its large deficits because its internal inefficiency
and inflexible pricing policies guarantee sales to particular customers at
specific prices that do not cover costs. Giveq the demonstrated ability of
the liberalized market to procure and distribute food more efficiently thian
the NMW, the Government is reviewing the proper role for the NMC in the new
circumstances, including responsibility for an adequate strategic grain
reserve. In addition, there are plans to introduce appropriate policy and
institutional changes that would ensure efficient operations and financial
viability.
1.16     Some progress has been made in reforming the institutional
structure for processing and marketing Tanzania's export crops, but further
reforms are needed to reduce the marketing costs and to ensure a lasting
recovery in export earnings. The Government is committed to take
additional steps to improve the efficiency of export crop marketing, and to
reconsider the role that the marketing boards, cooperatives and private
agents may play in the future. Studies to develop action programs for



- 6 -
cotton, coffee, tobacco, and other export crops were completed in 1987.
The implementation of action programs arising from these studies would
begin immediately thereafter. An essential aim of the action programs will
be to ensure the cost efficiency and financial strength of the marketing
boards that continue to operate.
1.17     The Goverranent recognizes that in addition to efficient marketing
institutions, the provision of adequate price incentives is essential to
increase agricultural production of exports. Accordingly, the Government
has announced its intention to increase real producer prices rapidly, and
then to move them in tandem with world market prices. During the three-
year program, the Government is committed to increase official producer
prices to at least 60-70 percent of export prices (f.o.b.) or to ensure a
real increase of 5.0 percent annually, over the medium-term, until the
target of at least 60-70 percent of export prices is achieved. In
addition, the Government will allow greater price differentials for quality
to encourage production of higher grades.
1.18     The Government is also modifying the present institutional
arrangements for the supply and distribution of agricultural inputs.
Currently, the importation of most agricultural inputs is confined to large
parastatal companies and marketing boards (so-called "confinees") which
then sell them through their own retail outlets or to the newly introduced
cooperative unions. To improve the timely availability of agricultural
inputs, the Government has begun the process of deconfining the importation
and distribution of all agricultural inputs except for fertilizers. Import
licenses would be issued to cooperative unions and other private importers
and these institutions would be allowed equal access to import licenses and
foreign exchange. The Government would also undertake a special study of
fertilizer and seed marketing almed at determining the best ways to improve
their availability.
F. Bank and Other Donors' Strategies and Assistance
1.19     The proposed Agricultural Export Rehabilitation Project, besides
providing institutional support for strengthening CRDB as a viable
agricultural bank, seeks to promote agricultura_ exports by helping to meet
the unsatisfied demand for term credit of public and private enterprises
involved in export agriculture. It also seeks to further IDA development
strategy in Tanzania which has evolved over the years in support of the
Government's objectives and strategies in the agricultural sector and has
concentrated on: (i) advancing the process of further economic reform,
specifically in agriculture by reforming the agricultural input and crop
marketing system; (ii) providing financial and technical support to
rehabilitate agricultural services (specifically by strengthening research
and extension); (iii) strengthening capability for sectoral planning and
policy analysis in the Ministry of Agriculture; (iv) strengthening the
agricultural lending capability of financial intermediaries; (v) assisting
the Government to focus its agricultural expenditures effectively; (vi)
providing medium- and long-term financial assistance for the rehabilitation
and expansion of agricultural enterprises; (vii) supporting the
rehabilitation of critical transport infrastructure; and (viii) assisting



- 7 -
the Government with the articulation of clear long-term sectoral policies
(such as the ERP) which are partly aimed at reducing investors' and
lenders' perceived risks and encouraging the role of the private sector in
agriculture. The proposed Project would be an essential complement to the
planned and on-going national activities in the agricultural sector.
1.20     Previous Bank Group Involvement in Agriculture.  Between
Independence and the late 19708, agricultural production, processing and
integrated rural development projects received about 30 percent of the Bank
Groups' lending program in Tanzania. Assistance was provided for 18
agricultural and 3 rural development projects consisting of US$240 million
in IDA credits and US$37 million in IBRD loans. However, by the end of
1980, it was apparent that production was falling well short of projections
for 1965-75 (on which several processing projects had relied) and project
implementation problems, rather than being specific, were common to the
whole agricultural sector. The Bank Group stopped most agricultural
project lending, pending a careful reassessment of the sector, and
initiated an intensive review of the performance and policies pertaining to
the agricultural sector. The resulting Tanzania Agriculture Sector Report
(Report No. 4052-TA, August 1983) described in detail how macro-economic
policies contributed to the 'multiple binding constraints" facing the
smallholder. Lending subsequent to 1980 was for either specific balance of
payments support (Export Rehabilitation Program, US$50 million under Credit
1133-TA), or technical assistance (Third and Fourth Technical Assistance
Projects, US$12 million under Credit 1206-TA and US$10 million under Credit
1524-TA). The Sao Hill Forestry Project (US$12 million under Credit 1229-
TA) was the exception. The Bank is also assisting the Government in
improving agricultural policy formulation through multi-sector lending
(Multi-sector Rehabilitation Project [MRC]), in which agriculture is a
major focus. The policy reforms being supported under MRC are cited in
para 1.07. The proposed Project relies on the successful implementation of
MRC for achieving its objectives.
1.21     Lessons Learned from Previous Agricultural Prolects.  The emphasis
in previous IDA agricultural assistance efforts in Tanzania was on crop
specific projeats involving agricultural parastatals and regional
development authorities. In line with Government policy, few of these
projects provided financial assistance to private entrepreneurs in the
agricultural sector. Many of these projects are now recognized by the
Government and IDA as having been unsuccessful. The principal reasons for
this record of failure include lack of recurrent Imports because of
shortage of foreign exchange, unfavorable macroeconomic and sectoral
policies, and inefficiency and poor management of parastatals (paras 1.02-
1.04).
1.22     The Role of Other Donors in the Exports Sub-sector.  In addition
to the Bank, several other donors are active in the agricultural exports
sub-sector in Tanzania: the European Development Fund (EDF) has been
supporting the rehabilitation and expansion of coffee production and
processing since the late 1970s; the Netherlands Government has for the
last three years provided emergency recurrent import and technical support
to the cotton sub-sector; the United vingdom also provides significant
recurrent import support and technical assistance to the cotton sub-sector
for ginning and seed multiplication, import support aimed at meeting the



- 8 -
recurrent import requirements of private agricultural enterprises and input
suppliers not catered to by the 'confinees" and (through the Commonwealth
Development Corporation) is expected to provide some support to the
rehabilitation of selected coffee estates in the Arusha and Iilimanjaro
Regions in collaboration with cooperative unions there; and the UN World
Food Program (UNWFP) has for several years been supporting the recovery of
the sisal industry through its Food for Work Program. The Bank's proposed
support for the rehabilitation of the export sub-sector would not only
fulfill a need that is currently unmet for term foreign exchange credit to
export agriculture, but would also complement the efforts of these other
donors, from a policy and institutional perspective.



- 9 -
II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. The Financial System
2.01     Overvie  .  The financial sector in Tanzania consists of a central
bank - the Bank of Tanzania (BOT); two Government-owned commercial banks -
the National Bank of Commerce (NBC) and the Peoples Bank of Zanzibar; three
development banks - the Cooperative and Rural Development Bank (CRDB),
Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) and Tanganyika Development Finance Company
(TDFL); a housing bank - the Tanzania Housing Banks and four other
specialized financial institutions - the National Insurance Company, the
National Pension Fund, the Post Office Savings Bank and the Diamond Jubilee
Trust. There is in addition an office of the East Africa Development Bank.
While financial institutions are very few in number and concentrated in
Dar-es-Salaam, given its stage of development, the country is well served
by an extensive branch and mobile banking network.
2.02     The Bankins System.  Tanzania's banks are deeply burdened with
high (50 to 70 percent) loan portfolio arrears. These reflect (a) the
failure of the Government's past fiscal, price and exchange rate policies
to produce stable, sustained and profitable growth for agriculture and
industry; (b) the inefficiency of the financial system and its inability to
apply consistent, sound technical criteria for lending; and (c) the absence
of effective supervision of the policies and performance of the financial
institutions by their directors. The above-mentioned factors have affected
the banks in different ways. Industrial projects have been particularly
hard hit as many are import substitution oriented and foreign exchange
dependent. TIB and TDFL are particularly affected by the devaluations of
the Tanzania shilling as a substantial portion of their industrial sector
lending is foreign exchange denominated. Fifty percent of CRDB's long-term
development portfolio is affected by arrears as a result of Government's
past directives to CRDB to lend almost exclusively to Ujamaa villages and
parastatals. All of CRDB's borrowing and lending is in local currency.
2.03     Interest Rates and Credit Allocation.  A modest change in interest
rates took place in July 1982 when deposit rates were increased on longer-
term deposits from 6 percent to 7.5 percent, with a 0.5 percent increase
allowed on 9 to 12 month deposits, from 5 percent to 5.5 percent, and no
change on short-term deposits. Lending rates were raised by 0.5 percent
from 7.5-12 percent to 8 to 12 percent. In spite of 30 percent inflation,
further increases did not occur until October 1985 when the general level
of interest rates was adjusted by 1 to 4.5 percentage points. Twelve month
deposit rates were increased to 7.5 percent and savings rates to 10
percent; the maximum lending rates were increased to 14 percent for
commercial banks and to 16 percent for specialized financial institutions.
Throughout the 1970s until now, real interest rates have been significantly
negative. As of late, real interest rates have become less negative due to
more frequent upward adjustments in the nominal rate.
2.04     The allocation of credit throughout the economy, which is mainly
determined by NBC, is extremely inefficient. The current channelling of
financial resources is both an outcome and a cause of the inefficient
allocation of foreign exchange which exists. The allocation of a large



- 10 -
share of credit resources to very unproductive activities is the result of
the institutional weaknesses and rigidities at NBC and at the Central Bank,
the remaining trade and pricing policy distortions and the inadequate
financial and economic assessment in the provision of credit overdrafts at
NBC. Relatedly, the objective of keeping many large unviable activities
afloat results in the provision of large amounts of credit overdrafts to
unviable activities. Under these circumstances, the imposition of
aggregate credit ceilings for the economy has the unintended effect of
leaving many efficient firms out of the official credit allocatiln system.
2.05     Financial Sector Reforms.  The Government has agreed to reform the
financial system. Over the next three years, the Government would
implement monetary and credit policy consistent with strengthening the
bAlWnce of payments and reducing the inflation rate. In addition, within
the overall credit expansion, the Government intends to reduce its
borrowing requirement to allow sufficient credit for the productive sectors
of the economy. To ensure the attainment of these objectives, the
Government would: (i) establish targets for quarterly domestic credit and
government credit expansion; (ii) make the interest rate structure positive
in real terms by mid-1988; (iii) adjust government borrowing rates to be
consistent with the overall structure of interest rates; and (iv) support
institution building of financial institutions, particularly CRDB which is
the country's major agricultural bank.
B. Cooperative and Rural Development Bank (CEDB)
2.06     The proposed IDA Credit would be lent to tho Government of
Tanzania, which would on-lend the Credit proceeds to CRDB. CRDB would in
turn on-lend the Credit funds to public and private enterprises involved in
agricultural export. The operations of CRDB are described below briefly. A
more detailed analysis of CRDB is contained in the Project File.
2.07     Structure.  CRDB was established in 1971 as the Tanzania Rural
Development Bank, before it changed its name to the Cooperative and Rural
Development Bank in 1984. It was originally established as an agricultural
development bank; its statutes were altered in 1975 to enable the bank to
operate as a commercial bank. The bank did not, however, begin accepting
deposits from the public until 1985. The bank's shareholders are the
Government of Tanzania (51X), the Bank of Tanzania (19Z), and the
Cooperative Union of Tanzania on behalf of its member cooperatives (30Z).
The bank's authorized share capital is Tsh 1,200 million, of which Tsh 425
million is paid up. The Cooperative Union of Tanzania (CUT) has not been
able to pay for most of its allotted share of Tsh 100 million, which are
held in trust by the Bank of Tanzania. Although CRDB is adequately
capitalized, its major shareholders should be encouraged to pay up their
outstanding subscriptions.
2.08     Management.  CRDB's management is guided by the CRDB Act of 1971.
All powers are vested in the Board of Directors consisting of nine members.
The chairman, who is also Managing Director, is appointed by the President
of the Republic. The Minister of Finance appoints the other members who
are chosen from among persons with knowledge and experience in economic and



- 11 -
financial matters, agriculture, rural development and cooperative
institutions. The responsibilities of the Chairman include the development
of appropriate policies for CRDB in coordination with the Government, the
Bank of Tanzania, other financial institutions, the political party and
other institutions involved in rural development.
2.09     The chairman is assisted in his duties by the General Manager, the
Corporation Secretary and the Internal Auditor.  The General Manager is in
charge of the day-to-day operations of CRDB with all department heads
reporting to him.  He is responsible for translating the policies of the
Board into o, -rational guidelines for the staff, for meeting the goals and
objectives of CRDB and for supervision of the staff. The Corporation
Secretary convenes regular board meetings, maintains board memoranda and
ensures that legal requirements are met in all CRDB transactions. The
Internal Auditor is responsible for the internal audit of CRDB.
2.10     CRDB's management has been substantially strengthened by the
appointment of an experienced commercial banker as the General Manager of
the organization. A director with substantial banking experience was
recently appointed as the head of the commercial banking department.
However, there are major gaps in managerial skills and technical
proficiency in the directorates of finance and development banking. These
weaknesses would be addressed under the Project, and the professional
capability of CRDB to efficiently manage its finances, and appraise and
supervise its projects would be strengthened.
2.11     Organization.  CRDB is the major agricultural bank in Tanzania
with 20 regional offices which are distributed throughout the country.
CRDB is in the process of reorganizing itself. Its reorganization
objective iss (i) to restructure the institution to operate as a
commercial and development bank in a branch banking environment; and (ii)
to strengthen its project appraisal and portfolio management functions.
The organization would consist of Planning and Development, Audit and
Inspection Directorates reporting directly to the Managing Director, and
five operating directorates; Commercial Banking, Development Banking (term-
lending), Finance, Manpower Development and Administration, and Regional
Coordinator (branch banking) reporting to the General Manager. The
organizational structure (see CRDB Organizational Chart) would be modified
to appropriately support the operations of CRDB in its nei role as
commercial bank and term lending institution. The modified organizational
structure of CRDB would be approved by its Board by not later than
September 30, 1988. Under the proposed reorganization, it is envisaged
that within the commercial and development banking stream, each branch bank
would operate as a profit center. Separate accounting would be maintained
for commercial and development banking functions and financial statements
would be consolidated within the directorate of Finance. A Credit Data
Bank would be shared in common and liquidity policy and management would be
centralized with the directorate of Finance. For the new organization to
succeed as a multi-branch operation, computerization of CRDB's operations
and finances would be required. This system would be developed under the
institution building component of the Project (paras 3.09-3.11).
2.12     Scaffing.  CRDB has a current staff level of about 950 people,
including 190 professionals. Almost half of the staff are employed in the



- 12 -
clerical grades. The growth of non-professional staff in the past several
years was abnormally high. CRDB's senior management justified the growth
as stock piling in anticipation of a rapidly expanding branch network and
resource base. CRDB's reorganizational review would evaluate its staff
position and recommend adjustments where appropriate.
2.13     Overall, professional staff quality is good, with the majority
having solid academic backgrounds. In order to further improve the quality
of its project officers, credit supervisors and accounting staff, CRDB has
placed increasing emphasis upon staff training. It has reached agreement
with NBC to train CRDB staff a. the NBC training institute.  The training
program does not contain adequate technical coverage in financial and
credit management or project appraisal. In addition, the technical skills
mix that CRDB needs to strengthen its institutional capability in project
appraisal and supervision, and financial management (including a management
information system) would require more specialized training than CRDB
currently provides. The Project would assist CRDB in providing this
specialized training for its staff.
Financial Structure
2.14     Resource Base.  In the past, CRDB depended mainly on grants from
the Government and soft loans from multilateral or bilateral agencies for
its funds. Since mid-1985, CRDB has accelerated its program to capture
deposits. As of June 30, 1985, CRDB has Tsh 1,637 million in total
resources of which 15 percent were on deposits, but by June 30, 1987, CRDB
increased its resources to an estimated Tsh 5,019 million with 36 percent
of total resources on deposits. Of the Tsh 3,957 million increase in fund
resources, 41 percent were due to increased demand and time deposits, 34
percent to overdraft facilities with NBC, 21 percent to increased payment
arrears to the Treasury and 4 percent due to Tsh 16 million increase in
capital. The structure of CRDB's resource base has shifted significantly
from long- to short-term funds. Whereas in 1985, 26 percent of CRDB's
resources were short-term, by 1987 about 76 percent of total resources were
short-term in nature. It is anticipated that the level of long-term
resources would remain constant or diminish in real terms.
2.15     Portfolio.  As of June 30, 1987, CRDB had an outstanding loan
portfolio of Tsh 1,673.0 million. About 55? of that amount was for medium
and long-term loans, and 45? was for seasonal inputs and crop finance. As
of June 30, 1987, Tsh86O million (51? of the portfolio) was in arrears of
principal and interest for over six months, out of which Tsh798 million
were in arrears for over twelve months and are considered bad debts. At
Negotiations, agreement was reached with Government that CRDB would use
Tsh588 million (Government loan to CRDB which was converted into equity
capital) to write off the bad debts before Credit Effectiveness (Table 3.1
and para 6.02 [i]). Tsh210 million which CRDB has provided for bad debts
would also be used to write-off the balance of the bad debts. The arrears
would be written off in three equal installments, but not later than June
30, 1991.
2.16     Financial Results.  Annexes 3 through 5 present CRDB's balance
sheets, income statements and basic financial ratios respectively. These
financial data show that CRDB's financial situation is weak. As of June



- 13 -
30, 1987, CRDB had net earnings after taxes of Tsh 45.0 mi'lion, or 4
percent return on equity and return on average assets of about 1.2 percent.
Staff costs are high, at about 221 of gross profit. The very low level of
earnings experienced by CRDB since 1982 (average of 0.4 percent return on
average asset) is insufficient to provide CRDB with a realistic basis for
asset growth. The poor financial performance of CRDB could be attributable
to Government pressure on CRDB to lend to parastatals and Ujamaa village
authorities who are poor credit risks. The Government has agreed not to
pressure CRDB to lend to non-bankable enterprises. The proposed lending
operation would assist CRDB to improve its financial results by
restructuring and strengthening its capability to engage in medium- to
long-term lending to the agricultural sector, and thereby improving its
profitability.
2.17     Financial and Operational Reortanization of CRDB.  To improve the
financial position of CRDB, the Government and CRDB management have agreed
to restructure CRDB's finances and operations. the proposed Project under
the institution building component would assist CRDB to restructure itself.
Three studies are being financed ur4er the Project Preparation Facility
;PPF), (two studies have been completed) to provide CRDB with data to
restructure itself. At Negotiations a monitorable action program for CRDB
restructuring was agreed (Table 3.1) and the implementation of which would
be undertaken during the Project period. In its restructuring efforts,
CRDB would need assistance in strengthening its accounting system, project
appraisal and supervision skills, and portfolio management capability. It
also needs support to develop an efficient financial management information
system. These would require staff training and technical assistance which
would be provided by the Project.
2.18     Financial Proiection.  Financial projections have been prepared on
the assumption that CRDB would undertake and implement the restructuring of
its finances and operations in a timely and efficient manner. Details are
in Annexes II, III, and V. CRDB is expected to continue to expand its
commercial operations with relatively low cost of funds, reduce operating
costs, particularly administrative costs, and achieve greater efficiency in
asset use from its professional staff. On that basis, CRDB would operate
with relatively high profitability. Income and expenses projections
postulate that CRDB would take a one time write-off of 9.9 percent of
average assets (Tsh588 million) in 1988 to clear its books of bad debt for
which provisions were not made. Thereafter, through 1992, it would make
provision for bad debt of 1.5 percent of average assets in its financial
statements. Even on this conservative basis, CRDB is projected to earn
1.5 percent on average assets, and 7.3 percent on equity by 1990 which is
reasonable for an agricultural bank. Its equity/assets ratio would exceed
6X, while its equity base would be reinforced with retained earnings.
2.19     Performance of CRDB Under Previous Bank Projects.  CRDB has been
involved directly or indirectly in several IDA-funded agricultural projects
since its establishment in 1971. The last IDA-funded credit (US$10.0
million) was intended to strengthen TRDB's (as CRDB was then known)
institutional capability and effectiveness. The Project Completion Report
rated CRDB's Performance as "unsatisfactory'. There was practically no
disbursement between 1981 and 1983, and US$6.6 million was disbursed during



- 14 -
the last stage of the project (l984-86).l  Although CRDB was relatively
ineffective in handling the project, it complied with loan covenants as
stipulated, including obtaining Government repayment of some hard-core loan
arrears from parastatals, District Development Corporations and Ujamaa
villages.
2.20     While CRDB's performance under the last project was poor, this was
because the bank operated under unfavorable circumstances, most of which
are no longer pertinent. Specifically, the overall adverse policy
environment, CRDB's over-stretched responsibilities involving distribution
of inputs (which were imposed on it by the Government at short notice), and
the establishment of commercial banking activities partly explain why it
failed to perform as had been expected. Since then, CRDB has been
strengthened by a new General Manager and by reorganizing its commercial
banking and development banking functions. The proposed Project would
further restructure CRDB, and provide it with technical assistance to
strengthen and improve its operational efficiency.
1/ US$3.0 million from the original amount of the credit was cancelled in
1984, and the closing date was extended for two successive years until
December 31, 1985. The technical assistance component was extended
until December 31, 1986.



- 15 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale and Proiect Objectives
3.01     The proposed Project, as part of IDA-supported Government's
Economic Recovery Program (ERP), would respond to several major country
development strategy concernst promoting agricultural exports (e.g.,
coffee, tea, cashewnuts, cotton, tobacco) and thereby increasing foreign
exchange earnings; giving greater emphasis to market forces to increase
efficiency of resource utilization; and advan-ing institution building by
strengthening the capability of CRDB to engage in medium- to long-term
lending to the agricultural sector.
3.02 The Project aims to achieve its objectives by:
(a) providing long-term financial support for investment projects for
the rehabilitation and expansion of agricultural export enterprises
and for improving the quality of Tanzania's exports;
(b) providing foreign exchange to finance up to three years of the
annual recurrent import requirements (excluding seasonal inputs) of
sub-borrowers;
(c) restructuring CRDB and transforming it into a viable agricultural
financial intermediary;
(d) advancing the process of agricultural reform in the sector and
enabling the cooperative unions and the private agricultural
enterprises to take advantage of the recent liberalization of
agricultural input supply and distribution, export crop marketing,
and producer pricing; and
(e) providing technical assistance funds for the recruitment of short-
term consultants to carry out sub-project feasibility studies and
for long-term advisors to support the management capability of sub-
borrowers.
B. Project Design
3.03    The lessons learnt from past IDA involvement in the Tanzanian
economy, and in particular IDA involvement, in the agricultural sector
(para 1.20), have been taken into consideration in designing this Project.
The proposed Project would restructure CRDB and strengthen its capability
to make loans in accordance with sound banking practices. The Project's
line of credit would be made available to both public and private
agricultural enterprises for the purpose of assisting productive and viable
activities in export agriculture. Because of the high credit risks
inherent in agricultural projects and the relatively weak capability of
CRDB, the Project's design has specified necessary quality criteria sub-
borrowers would need to meet before they could participate under the Credit
(Annex VII). Essentially, the Project design seeis to ensure that the
Project's risks are minimized.



- 16 -
C. Proiect Description
3.04    The proposed Project would be implemented over a period of up to
eight years, and would include the following two componentss
(a) a credit component to finance the capital and recurrent import costs
required to rehabilitate or expand agricultural export enterprises;
and
(b) an institution building component to assist in a program to
restructure CRDB; and strengthen its agricultural lending
capabilities.
D. Detailed Features
Credit Component
3.05     Eligible Sub-proiects.  US$26.7 million of the Credit proceeds
would be committed over an expected period of up to six years to finance
sub-projects involved in agricultural export broadly defined to include
traditional agricultural export crops of Tanzania (e.g., coffee, cotton,
tea, cashewnuts, sisal, tobacco). Sub-projects which increase or sustain
existing agricultural exports through rehabilitation or expansion of
existing enterprises would be eligible. All agricultural enterprises that
meet the following criteria would be eligible for financing under the
proposed Project they should:
(i) produce agricultural export commodities and need loans to
rehabilitate or expand viable productive activities for
export commodities;
(ii) engage in financially viable productive activities with good
credit performance and proven experienced management or have
potential to be financially viable within a reasonable period
acceptable to CRDB;
(iii) agree to maintain an escrow account in NBC to meet all
foreign debt obligation under the Project; and
(iv) have no outstanding arrears to CRDB or have plans to clear
such arrears within a reasonable period acceptable to CRDB.
Assurances were obtained at Negotiations on the eligibility criteria
specified above (para 6.01 [i]). A more detailed description of the
eligibility criteria of sub-projects is contained in paras 5-7 of Annex
VII. The above eligibility criteria is necessary to ensure that CRDB's
financial position is not further eroded while ensuring that viable
cooperative unions would qualify for participation under the Project.
3.06     The line of credit would finance machinery, equipment, spare
parts, vehicles, and recurrent inputs (except seasonal inputs) of eligible



- 17 -
sub-projects. The costs of locally procured imported items would also be
eligible for financing. The investment requirements of the sub-borrowers
would be mainly the purchase of agricultural equipment, power generators,
irrigation equipment, agro-processing machinery (coffee hullers, cotton
gins, tea cutters, sisal decorticators, etc.), transport equipment, and
related spare parts. It is anticipated that the main categories of
expenditure by each sub-sector would be as followss coffee, (pulperies,
farm machinery and irrigation equipment); cotton (ginneries, power
generators, baling equipment and storage); tea (factory rehabilitation and
farm machinery); sisal (harvesting equipment, drying sheds and baling
equipments and tobacco (curing barns, collection centers, central
processing facilities and power generators). Based on the current
pipeline, the typical sub-project loan is expected to average US$250,000.
3.07     Beneficiaries.  The Project-intended beneficiaries include
cooperative, parastatal and private firms which are creditworthy
enterprises, or have the potential of becoming creditworthy during the
project period, located in Tanzania and which are engaged in export
agriculture. They should earn foreign exchange through direct export or
through receipt of foreign exchange from export undertaken on their behalf
by duly registered enterprises in Tanzania. Assurances were obtained from
the Government at Negotiations that no eligible export enterprise would be
discriminated against in the administration of the credit (para 6.01 (ii]).
3.08     The demand for the proposed credit is indicated by the initial
pipeline of 37 sub-projects submitted to IDA and whose detailed preparation
is underway. These sub-projects are distributed among cooperative,
parastatal and private firms as detailed in Annex X. In terms of export
crop coverage, the pipeline of sub-projects obtained at project appraisal
includes all the major export crops except cashewnuts and pyrethrum. The
viability of the sub-projects in the pipeline would be determined by
feasibility studies which are in progress. However, a substantial
percentage of them in the cotton, coffee and tea sub-sectors have already
been pre-appraised to a standard satisfactory to IDA and show high rates of
return. The demand from intended private sector sub-borrowers is expected
to be strong, particularly from medium- and large-scale coffee farmers and
from owners of sisal and tea estates. To spread the potential benefits of
the Project to as many sub-borrowers as possible, and reduce the credit
risk concentration of the Project, the maximum foreign exchange sub-loan
size would be US$500,000 with lending to any one sub-borrower not exceeding
US$1.0 million, unless it is previously agreed with IDA.
The Institution Building Component
3.09     US$3.3 million of IDA Credit would be made available to CRDB for
institution building. The institution building component would finances
(i) a program to restructure CRDB which includes studies to develop the
restructuring plan and its implementation; (ii) management assistance and
training for CRDB staff to strengthen CRDB's project promotion and
appraisal capability; and (iii) technical assistance to assist CRDB and
sub-borrowers to prepare feasibility studies for sub-projects.
3.10     Restructuring of CRDB.  The effort to restructure CRDE and improve
its effectiveness would represent an intensification of IDA's long



- 18 -
association with CRDB, the latest of which was through a project (Credit
987-TA) which was completed in December 1985.  While there have been some
improvements in CRDB's institutional capability as a result of the earlier
project, as well as through the recent appointment of an experienced
General Manager, continued efforts are necessary to achieve satisfactory
improvements in its lending, credit risk management, and financial
operations. As a first step, funds from the PPF (US$1.5 million) were used
to finance two studies to develop an action program for CRDB. The studies
are as followss (a) a detailed portfolio review whereby qualified
independent auditors conducted a special review of CRDB's portfolio
condition, revalued the underlying guarantees in support of bad or doubtful
accounts, and recommended changes in loan loss reserves and an appropriate
level of provisions. This permits CRDB to establish an accurate basis for
the valuation of its assets and the setting of a new capital adequacy
level. The need for the review by qualified auditors was agreed with the
Tanzania Audit Corporation; and (b) a CRDB restructurins study whereby
banking specialists reviewed its structure, policies, finances and
operations and made recommendations, including a phased plan for
restructuring the bank. A financial information system study whereby
banking computer systems specialists would review the existing accounting
system and develop an effective financial system appropriate for CRDB's
current and future needs and determine the training needs of the staff
would also be financed with PPF funds.
3.11     The Government agreed to convert its outstanding loans to CRDB
into equity capital. In addition, Government also agreed to timely
measures in the form of a clearly defined and monitorable action program
which are considered necessary to strengthen CRDB. Assurances on the
monitorable action program obtained from Government at negotiations are
summaried in Table 3.1.



- 19 _
Table 3.1: Monitorable Action Program
Elements                            Actions to be Taken
1.  Organization Restructurint
a)  Organizational Structure    CRDB Board should approve a new organiza-
tional structure acceptable to the
Association by not later than September 30,
1988 (6.01 (iii]).
b)  Restructuring Commencement  Restructuring of CRDB would commence
immediately following approval by the CRDB
Board of the new organizational structure,
but not later than October 1, 1988 including
maintaining a policy of financial viability
for new bank branches (6.01 Liii]).
c)  Staffing                     Finalize staff profile and size by September
30, 1988 and complete staff redeployment &
retrenchment by September 30, 1989 (6;01
[iv]).
d)  Loan Committee               CXDB would restructure and maintain its Loan
Committee with membership and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association
before Credit effectiveness (6.02 [i]).
2. Financial Rehabilitation
a)  Capital Restructuring   (i) CRDB would establish a sound asset base by
not later than September 30, 1988 (6.01
tlv).
(ii) As of June 30, 1987, CRDB bad debts and
arrears ranged within TSh86O million of
which TSh798 million are estimated as bad
debts. CRDB has made provisions for TSh210
million for its bad debt. Before Credit
effectiveness CRDB would write off from its
books the estimated bad debts of TSh588
million from Government loans to CRDB which
Government has converted to CRDB equity
(6.02 Li]);
(iii) CRDB arrears as of June 30, 1987 would be
written off in three equal installments, but
by not later than June 30, 1991 (6.01 [vl);
and



- 20 -
(iv) CRDB would maintain a capital adequacy ratio
(ratio of assets to capital funds) of lO0l
or at a level acceptable to IDA (6.01 jv]).
b)  Cost Controls & Revenue
Enhancement                  CRDB would submit to IDA by not later than
September 30, 1988, a financial plan leading
to the following (6.01[vi])t
(i) achieving and maintainini liquidity
ratio of at least 1.5 by June 30, 1990;
(ii) achieving and maintaining a rate of
return of at least 1.22 on total average
assets by June 30, 1990;
(iii) achieving and maintaining operating
profit margin of at least 102 by June
30, 1990;
(iv) achieving and maintaining a rate of
return of at least 102 on equity by June
30, 1990;
(v) achieving and maintaining fixed charges
coverage of at least 1.25 times; and
(vi) reducing and maintaining operating costs
that would not exceed 502 of CRDB's
income by June 30, 1990 (6.01 [vi]).
c) Portfolio Management          (i) CRDB would establish by not later than
December 31, 1988, a portfolio
management policy including guidelines
for provision for bad debt, portfolio
monitoring, supervision and appraisal
which are acceptable to the Association
(6.01 [vii]);
(ii) CRDB would not have more than 102 of its
term-loan portfolio with any single sub-
borrower without prior clearance with
IDA (6.01 (viii]); and
(iii) CRDB would not make-a loan to any sub-
borrower whose debt service coverage
ratio is less than 1.5 without prior
clearance with IDA.
d)  Credit Risk Management       CRDB would establish by not later than
December 31, 1988, a credit risk management
policy on how to handle credit, customer,
loan and sector risks, respectively (6.01
Evii]).



- 21 -
3. Olerational Policy
a)  Staff Manual                 CRDB would prepare staff manual and obtain
Board approval by September 30, 1988 (6.01
1ix]).
b) Organizational & Function
Statements                  CRDB would finalize and obtain Board
approval of organizational & function
statements by December 31, 1988 (6.01 [ix]).
c) Appraisal, Supervision &
Inspection Manual           CRDB would update Appraisal, Supervision and
Inspection manual by September 30, 1988
(6.01 [ix]).
d) Credit and Portfolio
Management Manual            CRDB would prepare and obtain Board approval
of credit and portfolio management manual by
not later than September 30, 1988 (6.01
(ix]).
4. Information System
a) Review of Accounting and
Computer System              CRDB would complete the review of its
accounting and computer system by September
30, 1988 (6.01 [x]).
b)  Accounting System            CRDB would update the accounting system
based on recommendations of the accounting
system review by June 30, 1989 (6.01 (x]).
c) Financial Information
System                      CRDB would establish and implement
appropriate Financial Information System by
June 30, 1989 (6.01 [x]).
d) Management Information
System                      CRDB would establish and implement
appropriate Management Information System by
June 30, 1989 (6.01 [x]).



- 22 -
3.12    The implementation of the action program would take at least 18 months.
The Project would finance 36 man-4onths of short-term consultancies to assist
CRDB management to implement different aspects of the action program, including
financing the procurement of computer hardware and devel.oping specialized
banking operation software.  The computerization -f CRDB's financial information
system is urgently needed to initiate and monitor CRDB portfolio performance and
improve its current banking operations.
3.13    Management Assistance and Training.  Under the Project, local and
overseas training would be provided to CRDB staff aimed at increasing their
technical expertise in project appraisal, portfolio management, risk assessment,
bank financial management, and preparing them for their role as advisors to
their sub-borrowers. This would take the form of:
(i) Fellowships. 60 man-months of six-month overseas training courses
on project appraisal techniques for 10 staff members. Not more than
two staff members would be on training at any given period;
(ii) On-the-Job Training.  12 man-months of on-the-job training for each
staff involved in the financial information system, portfolio
management and risk analysis. CRDB would contract with the faculty
of University of Dar es Salaam and computer specialists to provide
this training;
(iii) Management Training.  15 man-months to conduct five annual
management training seminars in Tanzania for senior level staff of
CRDB and the sub-borrowers; and
(iv)  Study Tours.  24 man-months of study tours for senior staff of the
sub-borrowers to visit similar successful enterprises in other
countries.
3.14     Technical Assistance.  Besides financing technical assistance to
assist in the restructuring of CRDB and providing in-house training to CRDB
staff, the Project would finance management consultants to assist CRDB and
the sub-borrowers to prepare feasibility studies for sub-projects. The
cost of the assistance provided to the sub-borrowers would be capitalized
and recovered as part of the sub-loan. The technical assistance would
include:
(i) Feasibility Studies. 120 man-months to conduct feasibility studies
of sub-projects. It is expected that three man-months would be
required for each sub-project;
(ii) Technical Staff. A project accountant (36 man-months), a project
officer (24 man-months), financial analyst (24 man-months),
industrial enginear (12 man-months), and management specialist (12
man-months). The project accountant would be responsible for CRDB's
accounting system and the project officer, financial analyst and
industrial engineer would be responsible for project appraisal and
supervision while the management specialist would assist CRDB
management with its restructuring efforts; and



- 23 -
(iii) Management Assistance. 24 man-months of short-term consultancies
for non-resident advisors (Visiting Agent in plantation business)
and Company Secretaries (firms which manage the affairs of other
companies) would be recruited to assist some sub-borrowers,
particularly cooperatives, to strengthen their management
capabilities.
3.15     Assurances were obtained at Negotiations that recruitment of
consultants or technical assistance staff would be based on Bank Guidelines
(para 6.01 [xi]). Prior to engaging such staff: (i) detailed Terms of
Reference for their employment would be reviewed and agreed with IDA; and
(ii) the consultants would have qualifications and experience acceptable to
IDA.
S. Proiect Costs
3.16     The total Project costs during the implementation period of up to
eight years are estimated at US$40.0 million, of which about US$28.0
million or 702 would be in foreign exchange. Project costs are estimated
at February 1988 prices and include contingencies on the institution
building component. The price contingency estimates assume, for both
foreign and local costs, price escalation of 1U for the years 1988-1990 and
3.5Z per year thereafter. Price contingencies have been calculated on the
assumption that differences between domestic and international inflation
rates would be offset by the exchange rate adjustments. The Project costs
are presented in U.S. dollars because of frequent adjustments in the
exchange rate of Tanzania Shilling. Project costs net of taxes are
summarized in Table 3.2 and in Annex IX.
Table 3.2: Proiect Cost Summary
' of
Total
Local   Foreign     Total    Cost
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Credit Component
Investment and Working Capital         10.0     24.1        34.1     85.2
Feasibility Studies for Sub-projects   0.3       0.8         1.1      2.8
Management Assistance and Training      0.1      0.4         0.5      1.2
Total Credit Component                 10.4     25.3        35.7     89.2
Institution Buildina ComDonent
Restructuring of CRDB                   0.9      1.2         2.1      5.0
Computer Equipment                      0.1      0.4         0.5      1.2
Training to CRDB Staff                  0.3      0.3         0.6      1.5
Technical Assistance                    0.2      0.7         0.9      2.3
Contingencies                           0.1      0.1         0.2      0.8
Total Inst. Building Component          1.6      2.7         4.3     10.8
Total Costs                            12.0     28.0        40.0    100.0



- 24 -
F. Financint Plan
3.17     The proposed IDA Credit of US$30.0 million would finance about 75
percent of total project costs. This includes 100 percent of foreign costs
and 16 percent of tocal costs. The balance of the project costs would be
financed by CRDB (US$2.0 million) and beneficiaries (US$8.0 million). CRDB
and the beneficiaries would finance about 84 percent of the local costs.
The financing plan is presented in Table 3.2 below.
Table 3.3: Financing Plan
Local      Foreign      Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
IDA                                     2.0        28.0          30.0
CRDB                                    2.0           -           2.0
Beneficiaries (Sub-borrowers)           8.0           -           8.0
Total                             12.0        28.0         40.0
G. Procurement
3.18      Consistent with development finance company types of lending
operations where individual sub-projects would be mostly small in size,
procurement of goods would be in accordance with standard commercial
practices (para 3.06). Procurement of equipment and goods under the line of
the credit component would not be suitable for international competitive
bidding (ICB) given that loan proceeds are expected to finance mostly
rehabilitation operations involving replacement or upgrading of numerous
particular equipment and spare parts, and would involve piecemeal
procurement over an implementation period of up to eight years. CRDB as a
matter of policy would ensure that the goods and services to be financed
under the Project are the most appropriate for the profitable operation of
the sub-project and obtained at reasonable prices, and for non-proprietary
stocks sub-borrowera would be required to obtain price quotations from
several suppliers. Compliance by the CRDB with these requirements, which
are in conformity with its procurement policies and practices, would be
reviewed by IDA during project supervision missions. Procurement of a
computer under the institution building component involves upgrading the
existing CRDB computer system. It would be purchased from the original
manufacturer and would, therefore, not be suitable for ICB. Procurement of
services for technical assistance, consultancies and studies would be in
accordance with 'Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" (1981).



- 25 -
H. Disbursements
3.19      A  special account of US$1.0 million would be set up at the Bank
of Tanzania in US dollars on terms acceptable to IDA. This amount
represents an estimated average disbursement of funds over a four-month
period and would be used for IDA-financed sub-loans or expenditures.
Disbursements would be made against full documentation except for
expenditures claimed against purchase orders and contracts below US$30,000
which would be claimed under Statement of Expenditures (SOE) procedures.
Withdrawal applications for replenishment of the special account would be
accompanied by a statement showing all transactions in the Special Account
for the relevant period. Supporting documentation for the SOE should be
retained by CRDB for IDA review during supervision missions. The SOE would
be subject to special audit each year (para 3.21).
3.20      The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed to finance 100
percent of the foreign exchange cost of imported goods, studies, training
and technical assistance, and 70 percent of total costs of previously
imported goads in the country. The project disbursement schedule is shown
in Annex VI. The estimated disbursement profile for the proposed Project
is in lir,e with the Bank standard profile for financial intermediary loans.
Disbursiments are expected to be closed by June 30, 1996. It is, however,
possible that if the Project is implemented more efficiently and with fewer
delays, the disbursement period could be significantly reduced.
I. Accounts and Audits
3.21      CRDB would maintain separate project accounts for the proposed
Project in accordance with sound and consistent accounting principles and
methods. The project accounts and related basic financial statements
including SOE would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA, in accordance with appropriate auditing procedures consistently
applied. CRDB would be required to submit to IDA within six months after
the end of every fiscal year during project implementation, a certified
copy of the auditors' report including a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of disbursements made on the basis of statement of expenditures.
CRDB would also be required to submit to IDA an audit of its entire
accounts. Assurances were obtained at Negotiations on the conditions
specified in this paragraph (para 6.01 [xii]).
J. Environmental Impact
3.22      The production and processing of the export crops which would be
financed under the Project (coffee, tea, cotton, tobacco, sisal,
cashewnuts, etc.) are a source of several known environmental polluting
agents resulting from either fumigation, wet processing, dust, or smoke.
To limit such risks, sub-projects financed under this Project would
include appropriate measures to minimize environmental damage. To monitor
the environmental impact of the Project, CRDB would ensure in its



- 26 -
supervision of sub-projects that the sub-projects operate according to
environmentally sound guidelines. In addition, CRDB would limit its
financial support under the Project to chemicals with a narrow spectrum and
short persistence.



- 27 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Organization and Management
4.01     The Project would be implemented by CRDB within the framework of
work programs agreed with its Board of Directors and IDA. CRDB would be
responsible for all aspects of sub-project identification and promotion,
and for assistance in preparation, appraisal and supervision of sub-
projects. CRDB would make project decisions independently and apply
selective technical and solvency criteria included in its appraisal
procedures and policy statement, and as specified in Annex VII.
4.02     Proiect Management.  CRDB would have full autonomy to approve or
reject sub-projects financed under the Project. To facilitate project
implementation, CRDB would restructure its Loan Committee (Table 3.1)
comprising five members (General Manager, Director of Development Banking
and Director of Finance from CRDB and two experienced bankers from the
Government and the private sector). This committee would review all Loan
applications above TSh5.0 million and recommend to the Board of CRDB which
Loan applications should be approved or rejected in accordance with the
criteria as agreed with IDA. The restructuring and maintenance of such a
Loan Committee whose members' qualifications and experience, particularly
members outside CRDB, are acceptable to IDA is a condition of Credit
Effectiveness (para 6.02 [ii]).
4.03     Two of CRDB's Departments would have direct responsibility for
project implementation: the Planning and Development Department (PDD) and
the Development Banking Department (DBD). Since the Project would
considerably increase CRDB's project promotion and appraisal business, CRDB
would need increased professional staffing. Therefore, under the Project,
CRDB staff would be reinforced by ten local professionals. Seven of them,
namely, two economists, a statistician/economist, two financial analysts
and two agronomists, would be assigned to DBD and would be responsible for
project identification, preparation, appraisal and supervision. The
remaining three professionals, including an engineer, a financial analyst
and an economist, would be assigned to the PDD and would be responsible for
promotion activities. Assurances were obtained during Negotiations that
all these positions would be filled not later than )ecember 31, 1988 and
would remain filled during the Project period (para 6.01 [xiii]).
4.04     Sub-loan appraisal would be done by the DBD for all CRDB loan
requests under the Project. Appraisal reports would be reviewed by the
Director of the DBD before presenting them to the Credit Committee.
Current appraisal procedures are weak and need improvement. A technical
assistance expert (project officer) experienced in project appraisal
procedures and analysis would assist CRDB in appraising its sub-projects
while CRDB staff are trained in economic and financial appraisal of sub-
projects. The training would take the form of on-the-job training and
supplemented, if necessary, by structured and organized training at the
University.
4.05     The Annual Work Program.  CRDB would prepare a draft annual work
program for each project year. The program would include: (i) the



- 28 -
pipeline of dub-projects identified, those being prepared, appraised,
approved, or implemented as well as the execution schedule and comments on
each sub-project; (ii) CRDB recruitment and training programs under the
Project; (iii) the project work plan and budget; (iv) project commitments
and disbursements under the Project indicating projected IDA disbursements,
CRDB's loan, investors' contribution plus arrears analysis and loan
collection data; (v) a comprehensive assessment of progress or problems
relating to the implementation of CRDB's monitorable action plan; (vi)
CRDB's projected balance sheets, operating accounts and Profit and Loss
accounts; and (vii) discussion of serious problems which might arise and
actions to deal with them. The annual work program would be submitted to
IDA with copies to the technical ministries (Finance and Agriculture) by
the end of March of every year for the following CRDB's fiscal year.
B. Reporting and Monitorinx
4.06     Revorting.  CRDB would submit to IDA quarterly reports which would
include a summary cf operations, financial statements, resource position,
statement of arrears, collection ratios and notes on projects in
difficulty. The reports would also include details of the subloans
approved and committed, a summary analysis of the status of implementation
and performance of sub-projects financed under the credit component, and
compliance by CRDB of the financial covenants referred to in para 18 of
Annex VII. CRDB would also convey to IDA annual progress reports on the
progress of its monitorable action plan including audited financial
statements referred to in para 3.21. In addition, the CRDB annual work
program (para 4.05) for each project year would be submitted to IDA by the
end of March of every year for the following CRDB fiscal year. CRDB would
also submit a draft Project Completion Report when the Project is
completed. Assurances to this effect were obtained at Negotiations (para
6.01 [xiv]).
4.07     Monitoring.  A mid-term project review would be essential.  A
major review of the overall Project performance vould be carried out by
CRDB to be submitted to IDA not later than June 30, 1991, paying particular
attention to progress of institutional reforms. CRDB would discuss the
findings of the review with IDA and agree _. an action program for the
remainder of the project period not later than October 31, 1991. The
agreement of CRDB and IDA on the action program would be a condition of
continued disbursements of new commitments on all project components except
contracts specifically approved by the Association before that date (para
6.03). Agreement to this effect was reached at Negotiations (para 6.01
Exv]).
C. Lendina Policies and Procedures
4.08     Lending Procedures.  Sub-projects financed under the Project would
be justified on the basis of a full economic and financial analysis,
including calculation of the financial rate of return (FRR) for all sub-
projects and the economic rate of return (ERR) for sub-projects above the
free limit of US$250,000. The minimum ERR would be 15Z while the minimum



- 29 -
FRIR would be 7U points above the cost of borrowing to the beneficiary. in
addition, all selected sub-projects should meet the project criteria of
solvency and credit rating as specified in Annex VII. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at Negotiations (para 6.01 [xvi]).
4.09     Lending Policies.  A free limit for loans under the Project would
be set at the equivalent of US$250,000 at or under which CRDB would have
the right to approve loans without prior reference to IDA. IDA would
approve each sub-loan over US$250,000 prior to CRDB authorization. IDA
would also approve the first five sub-projects under the Project prior to
CRDB's authorization, irrespective of the amount. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at Negotiations (para 6.01 [xvii]). There would be no
limitations on the financing of eligible, individual sub-projects, but in
order to ensure maximum distribution of Project benefits, the IDA
contribution would be set at a maximum loan size of US$500,000. The
aggregate sub-loan amount to any one sub-borrower would not exceed US$1.0
million without prior approval by IDA.
4.10     Lending Terms.  The Project proposes the following lending terms
for IDA Credits (i) the proceeds of the Credit would be passed on to CRDB
and on-lent to sub-borrowers for each sub-project in dollars; (ii) sub-
borrowers would pay a fixed rate of interest of 8.0 percent in US dollars
for the term of the loan; (iii) CRDB would receive the funds at 2.0 percent
which would accrue to the Government; (iv) CRDB would retain 6.0 percent to
cover its credit risks, administrative costs, margins and taxes; and (iv)
the loan repayment to the Government by CRDB would be one year longer than
the due date of the receipt of sub-borrower loan amortisation payments,
subject to a maximum of 16 years including up to five years grace period.
The line of credit would be committed over a period of up to six years.
The terms of each individual sub-loan and the grace period granted would be
determined on the basis of the characteristics of each respective sub-
project. However, the maximum term of sub-loans would not exceed fifteen
years with up to three years grace period. The interest costs on the sub-
loans during the grace period may be capitalized. Details of sub-loan
terms and conditions are presented in Annex VII. Assurances on the lending
terms were obtained at Negotiations (para 6.01 [xviii]). It was also
agreed at Negotiations that CRDB shall ensure that in all its ordinary
operations, it maintains an adequate financial spread between its lending
and borrowing rates to cover its operating costs and ensure a reasonable
profit margin (6.01 (xix]). CRDB would enter into a Subsidiary Loan
agreement along the lines described in this paragraph and in a form
acceptable to IDA. CRDB signing a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the
Government acceptable to IDA is a Condition of Credit Effectiveness (para
6.02 (iii]).
4.11     Exchanae Rate Risks.  The foreign exchange risks of foreign
exchange loans would be borne by sub-borrowers. For this purpose, the sub-
loans would be denominated in US dollars and the sub-borrowers borrow and
repay the loans in US dollars. To ensure that the sub-borrowers have the
foreign exchange available to repay CRDB the principal and interest, they
would be required to hold foreign exchange escrow accounts at NBC that
would be credited with proceeds of their export sales in an amount not less
than 120 percent of the amount due to CRDB under the Project in the next 12
months. This measure would cushion the sub-borrower from the foreign



- 30 -
exchange risk without resulting in capital flight since the account would
be held in NBC and would be jointly operated with CRDB. Besides, NBC has
significant experience in operating foreign exchange escrow accounts. The
amount of 20 percent over the debt service requirements at each payment
period is a hedge against possible future fluctuations in the sub-
borrowers' export earnings. This measure substantially reduces credit and
foreign exchange risks to CRDB. Since many sub-borrowers would be
enterprises whose current export earnings already exceed their foreseeabl-t
debt-service obligations under the Project, the repayment and foreign
exchange risks to CRDB are likely to be low. Annex VIII explains how this
mechanism for handling foreign exchange risk would work. Assurances were
obtained at Negotiations that the Government would permit sub-borrowers to
operate foreign exchange escrow accounts jointly with CRDB for the explicit
purpose of repaying their debt obligations under the Project (para 6.01
(xxl).
D. Proiect Implementation Plan
4.12     A total PPF advance of US$1,500,000 was approved for the Project
(US$800,000 in July 1987 and US$700,000 in January 1988). Terms of
reference have been prepared for the studies to be financed under the PPF.
The CRDB restructuring study and detailed portfolio review were completed
before project negotiations. Feasibility studies of sub-projects (Annex X)
are also being financed under the PPF. CRDB would be responsible for the
overall project implementation.



- 31 -
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Proiect Benefits
5.01     The benefits of this Project would accrue through the
beneficiaries to the economy as a whole, and to CRDB. Benefits to the
beneficiaries would result froms (i) alleviation of two key constraints-
lack of foreign exchange and lack of term funds; and (ii) advice and
technical assistance provided to them by CRDB and its consultants. The
upper limit of these benefits cannot be quantified as it will be the
aggregate of benefits of a number of sub-projects which are only under
preparation or at the identification stage. The lower limit, however, is
determined by the minimum acceptable FRR for all eligible sub-projects and
ERR for eligible sub-projects above the free limit, which has been set at
152. Given the large demand among beneficiaries, it is likely that the
actual FRR and ERR would substantially outstrip this minimum. Also, the
improving policy environment, with increasing farmgate prices for major
commodities and more leeway given by Government to the private sector to
produce and export, should be strongly beneficial to credit demand. The
rehabilitation and expansion of viable enterprises expected to result from
this Project would help to increase the production and processing capacity
of export crops and provide investment opportunities to processing and
marketing activities in the agricultural sector.
5.02     Benefits to CRDB would come through the institution building
component, which would strengthen its role as an agricultural bank, through
enhanced term lending to agriculture which would improve its asset
structure, and through the on-lending spread which would enhance its
profitability. Thus, the Project would support the further strengthening
of CRDB institutional capabilities to play a more effective role ini
promoting productive agricultural activities. By developing its project
appraisal capabilities, CRDB would be able to expand and diversify its
operations towards lending to the private sector. The Project would also
enable CRDB to create new investment and employment opportunities for
Tanzanian nationals by promoting and financing agricultural sub-projects.
B. Proiect Risks
5.03     The greatest risk would be the waning of the Government's
determination to maintain the momentum of policy reform in the agricultural
sector, particularly as it relates to liberalization of crop and export
marketing, and producer pricing. Thus far, indications are that the
Government's determination is strong, and this Project would, in fact, help
consolidate the reform process by providing inputs required to obtain an
export response and ensuring direct market access for sub-borrowers who are
producers, processors, or marketing agents for all major agricultural
exports. The other project risk would be the failure of the restructuring
of CRDB to achieve its objectives because of Government interference and a
slowing down in credit disbursement. In this regard, the commitment shown
so far by CRDB senior management and the Government to CRDB's
rehabilitation is encouraging. Moreover, the development of a detailed



- 32 -
monitorable action program for CRDB restructuring (Table 3.1) which was
agreed to at Negotiations would minimize this risk. In addition, the
Project provides for an annual review of project activities and a detailed
mid-term review of overall project performance. These reviews would detect
any slack in CRDB restructuring and would allow the Government and IDA to
make the necessary corrections in a timely manner. The Project also
finances technical assistance to assist CRDB management to overcome any
obstacles encountered in the implementation of the restructuring program.



- 33 -
VI. ASSURANCES. CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     Assurances and Agreements Obtained at Negotiations
(i) Government would ensure that Credit proceeds are on-lent to
agricultural enterprises that (a) produce agricutural export
commodities and need loans to rehabilitate or expand their
viable on-going enterprises, (b) engage in viable activities
with good credit performance, (c) agree to maintain escrow
accounts, and (d) have no arrears to CRDB or have plans to
repay such arrears to CRDB within a reasonable period (para
3.05);
(ii) Government would ensure that no eligible export enterprise
would be discriminated against in the administration of the
Credit (para 3.07);
(iii) CRDB Board would approve a new organizational structure
acceptable to the Association by not later than September 30,
1988 and would commence its restructuring immediately
thereafter, but not later than October 1, 1988 including
maintaining a policy of financial viability for all new bank
branches (Table 3.1);
(iv) As part of CRDB restructuring program, CRDB would finalize
its staff profile and size by September 30, 1988, and
complete staff redeployment and where warranted retrenchment
by September 30, 1989 (Table 3.1);
(v) CRDB would establish a sound asset base and maintain a
capital adequacy ratio of 10:1 or at a level satisfactory to
IDA by not later than September 30, 1988, and write-off its
loan arrears as of June 30, 1987 in three equal installments,
but by not later than June 30, 1991 (Table 3.1)
(vi) CRDB would start implementing a financial restructuring plan
by not later than October 1, 1988 with a view to controlling
operating costs and increasing revenue annually as to achieve
and maintain by not later than June 30, 1990 (a) rate of
return of at least 1.21 on total average assets and 10 on
equity, (b) an operating profit margin of at least 10Z, (c) a
liquidity ratio of at least 1.5, (d) ratio of operating costs
to income of not more than 0.5, and (e) a fixed charges
coverage of at least 1.25 times (Table 3.1);
(vii) CRDB would establish by not later than December 31, 1988 a
portfolio and credit management policy including guidelines
for provision for bad debt, portfolio monitoring, supervision
and appraisal, and how to handle credit, customers loan and
sector risks, respectively satisfactory to the Association
(Table 3.1);



- 34 -
(viii) CRDB would not concentrate more than 101 of its long-term
portfolio with any single customer or make loan to any
customer whose debt service coverage ratio is less than 1.5
without prior clearance with the Association (Table 3.1);
(is) CRDB would prepare, update or finalize its operational policy
manuals for staff, credit and portfolio management,
organization and functions statement and appraisal,
supervision and inspection by not later than September 30,
1988 (Table 3.1);
(s) CRDB would complete the review of its accounting and computer
system by September 30, 1988 and thereafter undertake to
update its accounting system, establish and implement
appropriate financial and management information system by
not later than June 30, 1989 (Table 3.1);
(xi)  CRDB would recruit technical assis ance staff based on Bank
Guidelines (para 3.15);
(xii)  During the Project period, the project accounts including
SOEs and the CRDB accounts as a whole would be audited by
auditors acceptable to IDA (para 3.21);
(xiii) CRDB would fill the agreed staff positions in its DBD and PDD
by not later than December 31, 1988 (para 4.03);
(xiv)  CRDB would submit to IDA its annual work program by the end
of March each year and copies of its quarterly progress
report covering all items included in the annual work program
and in the financial covenants and submit a draft Project
Completion report within six months of project completion
(para 4.06);
(xv) CRDB would prepare a mid-term report on overall project
performance by June 30, 1991 and agree with IDA on an action
program for the remainder of the project period by October
31, 1991 (para 4.07);
(xvi)  All sub-projects financed under the Project would meet
project criteria of solvency and credit rating as specified
in Annex VII (para 4.08);
(xvii) IDA would approve each sub-loan over US$250,000 and the first
five sub-projects under the Project prior to CRDB's
authorization (para 4.09);
(xviii) Government and CRDB agreed on the on-lending terms summarized
in para S.10 (para 4.10);
(xix)  CRDB shall ensure that in all its ordinary operations, it
maintains an adequate financial spread to cover its operating
costs and ensure reasonable profit margin (para 4.10); and



- 35 -
(xx) Government would permit the sub-borrowers to operate foreign
exchange escrow accounts jointly with CRDB for the explicit
purpose of repaying their debt obligations under the Project
(para 4.11).
6.02     Prior to Credit Effectiveness
(i) CRDB would write-off from its books TSh588 million in bad
debts from Government loans to CRDB which were converted to
CRDB equity (Table 3.1).
(ii) CRDB would restructure and maintain its Loan Committee whose
functions and membership are defined in para 4.02 (para
4.02);
(iii)  CRDB would sign Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Government
which would be acceptable to IDA (para 4.10); and
6.03     Condition of Disbursement
Continued Credit disbursement after the mid-term review would be
conditional upon agreement between CRDB and IDA on the action program for
the remainder of the project (para 4.07).
6.04     Under these assurances and conditions, the proposed Project is
suitable for IDA Credit of SDR 22.0 million (US$30.0 million equivalent) to
the Government of Tanzania on standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.



TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Historical Interest Rate and Inflation
Period     Bank of Tanzania's    Treasury        Prime        Bank Deposits    Inflation
Crop Rediscounts       Bills        Lending    31 days  12 months    Rate
1980             6.0               4.27        7.5-12.0      5.0       6.0         30.3
1981             6.0               4.27        7.5-12.0      6.0        7.5        25.7
1982             6.0               4.27        8.0-12.5      7.5        8.25       28.9
1983              6.0               4.95       9.50          7.5        9.0        27.0
1984             6.0                4.95       9.50          7.5        9.0        36.2
1985               -                5.55      11.0-16.0    10.0         9.0        33.3
1986                                  -       11.0-16.0    10.0         9.0        30.OE
1987                                  -       18.0-29.0    14.5        17.75       25.OE
Inflation rates for 1986 and 1987 are estimates.
Source:  Bank of Tanzania, Economic Bulletin:  Volume XVI, Mirch 1986



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Table 1 of 2
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cooperative and Rural Development Bank (CRDB)
Actual Balance Sheet (1982 - 1986)
1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86
-- - - - -Tsh Million- -- ----
ASSKTS
Loan Portfolio            902        945       1,002      1,324       1,392
Less Provision for
Doubtful Debts         145        155         167        178         185
757        790         835      1,146       1,207
Fixed Assets               64         82         116         126        170
Less Accumulated
Depreciation            17         19          23         28          37
Net Fixed Assets           47         63          93         98         133
other Assets                3           2          8           7          -
Current Assets
Inventories                36         51           7          2           7
Sundry Debtors             22         59          74         86       1,083
Cash & Bank Balances       58         62          36        267         631
Sub-Total                 116        192         117        355       1,721
Less Current
Liabilities             37         49          60        207         836
Net Current Assets         79         123         57         148        885
Total Assets              886        978         993      1,399       2,225
FJinance By:
Long term
Liabilities               293        308         312        114         288
Govt. Grants              401        477         477        946       1,464
Share Capital             172        172         172        298         425
Retained Earnings          20         22          31         41          48
Total                     886        978         993       1,399      2,225
1._



_ 38 -
ANNEX II
Table 2 of 2
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cooperative and Rural Development Bank
Proiected Balance Sheet
Fiscal Years 1987-1992 endinR June 30
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
-----------------Tsh Million----------------
Assets
Current Assets                        Actual
Cash & Deposits in Banks              236      359     387    1194    1257    1437
Due from Banks & House Float          142      870     700     800      600     600
Overdrafts & Short Term Loans        1035    1707    2400    2740    3240    3740
Crop Finance                         1100      1220   1600    1800    2000    2500
Current Portion of Term Loans         753      361     487     513      400     350
Subtotal                           3266    4517    5574    7047    7497    8627
Long-Term Assets
Long-Term Loans (net of provisions)  920    1445    2097    3163    4329    5087
Fixed Assets & Works in Progress      229      320     539     678      818     568
Miscellaneous Stocks                  604      608     512     239      200     200
Subtotal                          1161    2373    3148    4080    5347    5855
Total Assets                    5019    6890    8722   11127   12844   14482
Liabilities & Capital
Current Liabilities
Demand Deposits                       783    1000    1200    1400    1600    1800
Savings & Time Deposits              1038    1685    1885    2085    2285    2485
Due to Banks                          598      600     650     550      500     500
Creditors & Accruals                  223      903     825     504      393     350
Current Portion of Term Debt           52      273     289     258      250     324
Subtotal                          2693    4461    4849    4797    5028    5459
Long-Term Liabilities
Debtt  Domestic                      1197      612     650    1000    1100    1200
Foreign                          -       -      650    1690    2730    3471
Bonds and Term Deposits                 7      402     872    1392    1240    1184
Subtotal                          1204    1014    2072    4082    5070    5855
Capital Account
Paid-in-Capital                       441      500     600     700      800     900
General Reserves                       99      134     220     367      565     787
Grants                                581      781     981    1181    1381    1481
Total Primary & Secondary         1129    1415    1801    2248    2746    3168
Total Liabilities               5019    6890    8722   11127   12844   14482



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Table I of 2
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Coogratlve and Rural Development Bank (CRDB)
Actual Income Statement (1982 - 1986):
(Tsh Nilllon)
1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85   1985/86
1.  Interest Income        73         70          79         98         163
2.  Other Income            2          1           2         20          20
3.  Total Revenue          75         71          81        118         183
4.  Cost of Funds          12         15          15         19          48
5.  Gross Revenue          63         56          66         99         135
6. Admin. Expenses
6.1 Salaries           13         15          16         25          43
Benefits
6.2 Transport          18         23          27         42          52
6.3 Occupancy           1          1           2          5          10
6*4 Depreciation       4           3           4         10          12
SUBTOTAL               36         42          49         82         117
7.  Bad debts              24         12          11         11          17
8.  Net Income              3          2           6          6           1
C.                            S . 



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Table 2 of 2
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cooperative and Rural Development Bank
Projected Income Statement
Fiscal Years 1987-1992 ending June 30
(Million Tsh and Percentages)
1987       1988        1989        1990      1991      1992
Million    Million    Million    Million   Million  Million
TSh        TSh         TSh         TSh       TSh       TSh
(Actual)
Interest Income        365         922       1277        1501       1701     1874
Less Interest
Income               137         654        782         798        843      930
Net Interest
income               228         268        495         703        858      944
Provision for
Loan Losses           26          34        150         217        202      210
Gross Operating
Profit               202         234        345         486        656      734
Staff Costs             56          80          96        115        139       166
Administrative
Costs                113         135        189         264        370      400
Net Operating
Profit (loss)         33          19         60         107        147      168
Other Income            40          50         66          88        109      124
Other Expenses          28          34         40          48         58       70
Net Income              45          35          86        147        198       222



- 41 -
ANNEX IV
Ta-bl1elof 2
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cooperative and Rural Development Bank (CRDB)
Actual Financial Ratios (1982-1986)
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Income Statement Elements
as % of Total Assets
1.  Total Income                       8.5      7.2     8.1     8.4      8.2
2.  Finance Charges                    1.4      1.5     1.5     1.4      2.2
3. Administrative Expenses             4.1      4.3     4.9     5.8      5.3
4.  Net Profit (lose)                  0.3      0.2     0.6     0.4      0.04
Profitability Indicators (1)
5.  Net Profit (loss)/Net               1.6     1.0     3.0     2.5      0.2
Worth
6.  Income from Investment             9.6      8.9     9.5     8.6    13.5
Total Investment
7.  Cost of Debt/Total Debt            4.1      4.9     4.8    16.7    16.7
Liquidity and Creditworthiness
8.  Current Ratio                       3.1     3.9     2.0      1.7     2.1
9.  Long-term Debt/Equity              1.5'    1.6      1.5     0.5      0.6
10. Debt Service Coverage              3.2      1.9     2.1     1.9      1.4
Ratio
I



- 42 -
ANNEX IV
Table 2 of 2
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REUABILITATION PRO;.ET
Cooperative and Rural Develoament I)*
Proiected Kel Financial and Operational Ratios
Fiscal Years 1987-1990 endint June 30
1987     1988     1989      1990     1991      1992
Profitability  X                  Actual
Return on Average Assets          1.0       0.6      1.4      1.5       1.7      1.6
Return on Average Primary
Capital                        10.8      6.0      11.8     15.6      16.3     14.6
Return on Average Total
Capital                         4.6      2.7       5.3      7.3       8.0      7.5
Liquidity & Capital Adequacy
Current Ratio (ratio)             1.06      1.0      1.1      1.5       1.5      1.6
Total Capital to Total
Assets Z                       22.5      20.5     20.4     19.3      19.9     20.0
Primary Capital to Total
Assets Z                       10.7       9.2      9.0      8.7       9.2      9.8
Debt to Total Equity (ratio)      3.5       3.9      3.9      4.2       4.0      4.0
Efficiency
Average Interest Earning
Assets to Total Assets X       76.0      69.0     75.0     74.0      75.0     76.0
Net Interest Marginl              6.0       6.5      8.4      9.5       9.5      9.1
Overhead Margin2                 68.9      74.2     52.3     48.2      53.2     54.2
1/ (Interest Income - Interest Expense)/Average Earning Asset.
2/ Overhead + Other Costs - Other Income/Net Interest Income.



- 43 -
ANNEX V
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cooperative and Rural Develo=ment Bank
Projected Sources and Uses of Funds
Fiscal Years 1987-1990 ending June 30
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
-------------Tsh Million-
Sources of Funds
Cash Balance (opening)               236      359     387    1194    1257
Operating Income                      35       86     147     198      222
Provisions                            34      150     217     202      210
Loan Recovery                       1774    2493    3236    4526    5574
Grants Received                      200      200     200     200      100
Deposits                             864      400     400     400      400
Short-Term DebtlDue to Banks        1782    1310    1000    1000    1000
Long-Term Debt                       145      822    1418    1362    1375
Capital Contribution                  59      100     100     100      100
Total                            5129    5920    7235    9182   10238
Uses of Funds
Short-Term Lending                  2000    3000    3500    4500    5990
Long-Term Lending                    796      888    1090    1090      791
Fixed Assets                         109      219     139     140    (250)
Repayments                          1365    1351    1500    2000    2000
Reduction of Creditors
& Other Accounts Payable             -       75     142     195      270
Cash Balance (closing)               359      387    1194    1257    1437
Total                            5129    5945    7235    9182   10238



- 44 -                    &MV
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
MAJOR ASSUMPTIONS USED IN FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
The main assumptions used in the financial projections are as
followst
A. Loan A2proval and Disbursement
(i)  Short-term loans are disbursed in year approved (40X for crop
finance, 60X for other loans).
(ii) Long-term loans are disbursed in three years starting in year of
approval, 301, 501 and 202.
(iii) Line of credit on IDA Credit is disbursed as follows: US$5.0
million in 1989, US$8.0 million in 1990-91 and US$5.7 million in
1992.
B.  Loan Collections
(i)  Short-term loanss  2 years - 801 in year 1 and 201 in year 2.
(ii) Long-term loans: 8 years including up to 3 years grace period,
201 of long-term loans are treated as current portion after the
grace period.
C.  Debt Repayments
(i)  Short-term debt:  Repaid over two years.
(ii)  Long-term domestic borrowingss  Repayment tied to repayment of
sub-borrowers.
(iii) Long-term foreign debt (IDA): Repaid over 16 years (rep%yment
starts in 1993).
(iv) Long-term foreign debt (other): Repayment tied to repayment of
sub-borrowers.
D. Provision for Doubtful Debt
CRDB would take a ona time write off of TSh588 million by end of the
1988 financial year to clear its books of bad debt. Thereafter,
through 1992, it would make provision for bad debt of 1.5 percent of
total average assets and write-off TSh 62 million in 1989-1991.
E. Interest and Other Income
Interest Incomes



- 45 -                   ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 2
(i) Crop finance 242 constant during project period.
(ii) Domestic loans 282 in 1988-89 and 24? thereafter.
(iii) Foreign denominated loans 8? constant.
F. Expenses
1.   Intereot Chargess
ti) 22? for 1988-89 and 18? thereafter on average debt balances
except IDA loans (foreign debt).
(ii) 2? for IDA loans.
(iii) 22? for 1988-89 and 18X thereafter on deposits.
2.  General and Administrative Expenses are projected to increase by
approximately 40? p.a. except staff costs which increase by 20?
p.a.
3.   Taxes:  CRDB would not pay taxes or dividends during project
period.
4.   Foreign Exchange Rate:  Assumed at TSh100 to one US dollar in 1988
and TShl30 to one US dollar thereafter.
G. Others
1.   Demand deposit:  Increases by TSh20G million annually (1989-1992).
2.   Savings and time deposits:  Increase by TSh200 million annually
(1989-1992).



- 46 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 5
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
POLICY AND OPERATING GUIDELINES FOR CREDIT IMPLEMENTATION
Framework
1.    This statement sets forth the objectives and basic principles of
policy and operating procedures for implementing the Credit by CRDB. The
policies and procedures will apply to all lending operations of CRDB
financed by the IDA Credit.
2.       The detailed legal terms and conditions for the on-lending of
funds from the Government of Tanzania to CRDB will be set down in a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and CRDB.
A. OBJECTIVES
3.       The principal objective of CaDB is the implementation of the
Credit. To achieve this objective, CRDB will administer IDA Credit
resources made available to it by the Government of Tanzania under the
Credit for financing of the medium- and long-term funding requirements of
eligible agricultural export enterprises.
Eligible Expenditures
4.       Funds made available to CRDB under the Agricultural Export
Rehabilitation Project may only be used to finance economically and
financially viable projects that promote abzicultural export rehabilitation
and expansion. An eligible sub-borrower must be an enterprise located in
Tanzania which is engaged in export agriculture. It would, in addition
export directly or through an agent or broker and have the capacity to earn
foreign exchange. It should have viable marketing channels, and official
authorization to open a foreign exchange escrow account with NBC with
respect to the payment of loan principal and interest. It is the
responsibility of CRDB to ensure that each sub-borrower is a good credit
risk, i.e. should have good (a) credit performance which includes not being
in arrears or default or shows a satisfactory plan to repay existing
arrears within a reasonable period; (b) sound financial ratios (liquidity,
turnover, leverage, profitability and solvency) which are standard for its
industry: and (c) proven and experienced management. Sub-projects which
are designed for expansion, modernization, balancing or restructuring of
existing enterprises are eligible to participate provided they have an
economic rate of return of 152. The credit would finance: (a) 100 percent
of the cost of imported machinery, equipment, spare parts; and (b) 70
percent of domestic procurement of these items. The Credit would not
finance previous debt.



- 47 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 5
Sub-Loan Eliaibility Criteria
5.       Only projects which have been appraised and found viable on their
own financial, technical, and economic merits by the CRDB will be financed.
Financial viability would be determined by examining the existing and
proposed capital structure, anticipated profitability and debt service
coverage and the adequacy of collateral. Technical feasibility refers to
suitability of the production process, the overall engineering viability, a
realistic implementation plan, and the availability and sufficiency of
inputs, machinery and equipment, as well as managerial and technical
capability. Economic viability refers to the benefits generated for the
economy, including foreign exchange savings and earnings, and employment
generation. It also measures the sustainability of a project under
conditions where subsidies and Government transfers are removed and a freer
market prevails.
6.       Financial Analysis.  For the financial appraisal of sub-projects,
CRDB would include at least five-year financial projections (balance sheet,
income statement and cashflow) and compute the following ratios:
(a)  Return on equitv.  net income after taxes divided by average
equity during that year;
(b) Operating profit margin. pre-tax earnings divided by total
revenue;
(c) Return on assets. Net income after taxes divided by average
total assets during the year;
(d) Current ratio. Current assets divided by current
liabilities;
(e) Leverage ratio. Total debt divided by net worth; and
(f) Debt service coverage. Pre-tax earnings plus interest and
depreciation divided by interest charges plus loan repayment.
Sub-borrowers would maintain debt service coverage of at
least 1.5.
7.       Economic Analysis.  For loans greater than US$250,000, the
appraisal report would include a calculation of both the projected internal
financial rate of return (FRR) and economic rate of return (ERR) for the
sub-project. The ERR would be at least 15Z and FRR at least 7X above the
lending rate. The PRR would be calculated for all sub-projects
irrespective of the loan size.
B. PROCEDURES
8.       CRDB will engage in the selection and appraisal of projects for
financing, and approve or reject loan applications. This will be done in
accordance with established and agreed criteria.



- 48 -
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 5
9.       CRDB will have access to the resources of the Credit which would
be administered on a 'first come, first served" basis. That is to say that
there will be no pre-allocation of funds to sub-borrowers, and it is the
receipt of a complete sub-loan application that will determine, subject to
its eventual approval, the actual commitment of funds to the sub-borrower
within the available resources. CRDB may, however, make exceptions from
this general principle in special circumstances, subject to IDA's approval.
10.      Sub-proiect Size.  No minimum specific size limitations, in terms
of project cost, have been established. A maximum subloan limit on the
financing of each investment sub-project will, however, be established from
the outset at US$500,000. The limit to each sub-borrower enterprise will
be cumulative, taking into account the outstanding balance of previous CRDB
sub-loans to the same enterprise, but may not excied US$1.0 million. CRDB,
in consultation with IDA, may agree to make exceptions to these limits,
which will be subject to review and revision from time to time.
11.      Subloan Applications.  An application for a sub-loan above the
free limit of US$250,000, would, as a minimum, include the following
documentations
(a) An appraisal report on the investment enterprise and the
investment project along guidelines established by CRDB;
(b) The proposed terms and conditions of the loan, or a copy of
the loan agreement with the ultimate borrower;
(c)  The proposed amortization schedule; and
(d) A list and description of goods, equipment and services to be
financed, by foreign currency required.
12.      Free Limits.  The sub-projects are divided into A and B sub-loans.
The B sub-loans are sub-project loans below the limit of US$250,000. CRDB
would provide IDA with copies for the approval of all B sub-loans which IDA
would review during Project supervision. However, all A sub-loans and
first five appraisal reports of B sub-loans should first be submitted to
IDA for review and approval before they are authorized by CRDB Board for
financing. The appraisal report of all sub-projects would include the
CRDB's assessment of:
(a) Project description. Activities to be undertaken, total
estimated cost of fixed assets and working capital to be
invested, sources of financing and project timetable;
(b) Profile of the firm. Ownership, credit check. management
capabilities (particularly engineering and financial) and
relevant experience;
(c)  Market aspects.  Demand/supply analysis, distribution
channels, competition, project and sales; and
(d) Technical aspects. Machinery and equipment to be acquired,
civil works/premises necessary, projected production volume



- 49 -
ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 5
land capacity utilization, and realistic implementation plan.
A network analysis of the implementation of sub-projects is
appended to these Guidelines to assist CRDB and sub-borrowers
to prepare realistic implementation plans.
A detailed table of contents of a typical appraisal report is on attachment
3 to this Annex.
C. TERMS AND CONDITIONS
13.      Foreign Exchange Risk.  CRDB will on-lend funds to the sub-
borrowers in US dollars. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the
sub-borrower, or in the event of default, ultimately by CRDB.
14.      From the proceeds of the interest charges payable by the sub-
borrowers, CRDB will establish a loan loss reserve account, in foreign
exchange, initially equal to 2 percentage points to cover possible loan
losses in foreign exchange. These loan loss reserves would be adjusted
from time to time as experience is gained under the Project. The foreign
exchange loan loss reserve account would be liquidated by CRDB at the
prevailing exchange rate after all the sub-loans are repaid.
15.      Interest and Charges.  The interest rate charged by the Government
on sub-loans to CRDB would be fixed at 2.0 percent per annum on the
outstanding principal and interest. From the date of commitment, CRDB
would have to pay, in addition to interest, the applicable commitment
charge on the undisbursed portion of the sub-loan committed to it.
16.      CRDt would re-lend the funds to sub-borrowers at a fixed 8.0
percent per annum on the outstanding principal and interest.
17.      Repayment.  CRDB must undertake to repay their sub-loans from the
Government punctually according to the established amortization schedule,
regardless of whether they have been reimbursed or not by their sub-
borrowers. The maximum sub-loan repayment period to CRDB will be one year
longer than the due date of the receipt of sub-borrower loan amortization
payments, but subject to a maximum of 16 years, and the maximum grace
period 5 years. The maximum repayment period for a sub-borrower on a CRDB
sub-loan would be 15 years, and the maximum grace period 3 years. CRDB
will also pass on to the Government any repayments received in advance from
sub-borrowers. CRDB may not reschedule a sub-loan without the prior
approval by IDA, which will specify the minimum level of provisions that
must be made by CRDB against all rescheduled Project sub-loans.
18.      Financial Covenants.  CRDB would observe the following financial
covenants:
Debt-Service Capability. CRDB will maintain a fixed charges
coverage of at least 1.25 times. Fixed charges coverage is
defined as pre-tax earnings plus fixed charges divided by fixed
charges.



- 50 -
ANNEX VII
Page 5 of 5
Liquiditv Ratio. CRDB will maintain a liquidity ratio of at least
1.5. Liquidity ratio is defined as current assets (cash,
securities and loans with maturity of one year or less) divided by
current liabilities (obligations due within one year).
Portfolio Concentration. CRDB would have no more than 1OX of its
loan portfolio with any single sub-borrower.
D. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
19.      Monitoring of Performance of Projects.  CRDB will be responsible
for monitoring and supervising the implementation and operations of
projects financed by it. CRDB will ensure that the supervision function is
being effectively carried out and, in particular, that projects facing
problems are being constantly reviewed, their difficulties analyzed,
remedial measures prescribed and all necessary steps taken to assist such
projects in overcoming their problems while, at the same time, protecting
CRDB's investment in the project.
20.      Monitoring of CRDB.  To effectively perform the monitoring
functions, the IDA will require CRDB to submit quarterly reports in a
prescribed form, (see attachment 2) and will from time to time during
supervision missions discuss and inspect its financial, operational and
project supervision records.
21.      Proiect Completion Report.  CRDB will prepare, at the completion
of the Project, but not later than six months after disbursements under the
Project have ceased, a Proiect Completion Report (PCR). CRDB could use
consultants who are familiar with the Project in a team constituted for
this purpose.
E. ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS
22.      Status of CRDB.  Within the parameters of its duties and
responsibilities as defined by the Government in the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and subject to such regulations as the Government may from time
to time prescribe, CRDB has the sole responsibility for implementing the
Project. In pursuing its objectives, CRDB will operate within the broad
scope of CRDBs rules and regulations as approved by its Board.
23.      Staffina.  CRDB will adopt all necessary measures to ensure that
it is adequately staffed with qualified persons. Recruitment will
emphasize professional skills. CRDB will provide training opportunities to
its staff to upgrade their skills as necessary.
24.      Accounting and Auditing.  CRDB will maintain Project accounts in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and will have them
audited by appropriate qualified and competent external auditors.



- 51 -
ANNEX VII
Attachment 1
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
CRDB Quarterly Reports to IDA
(To be sent within one month after end of each quarter as applicable)
1. Statement of Resources.
2. Summary of Operations.
3. Statement of Rents and Loans in Arrears.
4. Unaudited Financial Statements.
5. Professional Staffing Summary.
6. Summary of Follow-up Extension Services and Entrepreneurial
Development Activities.
7. Follow-up Reports on Projects Facing Problems.
8. A Five-Year Forecast of Operations and Estimate of Resource
Requirements from July 1 Each Year.
9. Audited Financial Statements and Auditors' Report Prepared
Substantially Along the Lines Indicated in the "Illustrative Form of
Audit Report for Development Finance Companies".
10. Copy of Annual Report.



- 52 -
ANNEX VII
Attachment 2
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT RESABILITATION PROJECT
Subproiect Appraisal Report
Table of Contents:
1.   Introduction
- General purpose of the subproject
- Subproject owners
- Loan financing required
2.   Description of the Subproject
2.1 Subproject location and area
2.2 Topography, rivers, irrigation potential
2.3 Soil, hydrology and drainage
2.4 Energy supply
2.5 Present agricultural use and common crops in the area
2.6 Structures and farm development under the subproject (in detail,
drawings as annexes)
2.7 Planned agronomy practices
2.8 Phasing of project implementation
3.   Legal Aspects
3.1 Legal basis of the investors (private, limited company cooperative
society, other society)
3.2 Meeting of environmental requirements
4.   Management and Marketing
4.1 Organization and managerial staff of the investing company, farmers
group, or emerging or commercial farmer
4.2 Labor availability
4.3 Arrangements for technical advice
- for irrigation and crop production
- for crop processing
4.4 Operation and maintenance of the structures and machinery
4.5 Marketing arrangements
4.6 Roads and transport
4.7 Construction supervision and inspection
5.   Production and Financiai Plan
5.1 Projected Production by year (20 years)
5.2 Investment and operating costs by category and phasing
5.3 Cash flow projection
5.4 Financial Rate of Return (based on sub-project life)
5.5 Economic Rate of Return (based on sub-project life)



- 53 -
ANNEX VIII
Page i of 3
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
A Mechanism for Handling the Foreign Exchange Risk
1.        The Government of Tanzania (GOT) has stated that it would not
assume the foreign exchange risks of the proposed Agricultural Export
Rehabilitation Project. Thus, CRDB and/or the sub-borrowers would need to
assume the exchange risk that would arise from the fact that sub-loans
would be disbursed and repaid in U.S. dollar.
2.        All of the parties involved in the proposed credit program agreed
that it would be financially and economically imprmdent to advance a credit
facility unless: (i) the ultimate borrowers manage their foreign exchange
exposures; (ii) CRDB could manage its exchange exposure arising from bad
debt or delayed loan repayments; and (iii) the Government could be assured
that they would not bear the ultimate burden of a weakened agricultural
bank resulting from CEDB's bad management of foreign exchange risk
problems. With respect to CRDB a policy of financial prudence embodied in
its policy statement would prohibit it from lending to projects in which it
could bear uncovered exchange risks particularly at this time when it is
restructuring its operations. The mechanism presented below is designed to
help: (a) the sub-borrower, CRDB and the Government to manage the costs
and risks of the proposed foreign exchange operations; and (b) reduce the
prospects of loan defaults and financial weakening of a vulnerable CRDB.
3.        Under the proposed project, the sub-borrowers would borrow in
foreign exchange to procure needed equipmentf Because the proceeds of the
IDA credit would only be channeled to credit worthy agricultural
producers/exporters that are direct earners of foreign exchange, the
sub-borrowers' foreign exchange risks could be almost perfectly hedged by
allowing sub-borrowers to retain, from the proceeds of their exports,
amounts at least equal to their annual costs of debt service under the
Project (repayments of principal and interest). These amounts could be
held in a managed escrow account by the National Bank of Commerce (NBC),
jointly with CRDB. Since this account would be opened at NBC for debt
service under the Project and jointly operated with CRDB, it would not
result in capital flight.
4.        One major problem involving foreign exchange risk remains to be
resolved. CRDB normally assumes the ultimate credit risk of the project as
CRDB is obligated to repay to the Government the amount it borrowed to
finance each sub-loan, even if a sub-borrower fails to repay its
obligations to CRDB. In the case of this project, however, CRDB's credit
risks also include CEDB's bearing the ultimate foreign exchange risks of
failed sub-projects. Normally, credit risk costs are covered by about one
point of the financial margins paid by the borrower which permits CRDB
tomake provisions for ordinary loan losses. In the case of this project,



- 54 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 3
the Government would channel the credit funds to CRDB to on-lend to
exporting agriculture enterprises. The Government would charge CRDB 2.0
percent for the use of the credit funds. CRDB would on-lend the funds to
sub-borrowers at 8.0 percent. The 6.0 percent spread retained by CRDB
would cover the high administrative costs and risk of agricultural lending,
and provide CRDB with a reasonable level of general reserves.
5.        There are several practical measures that can be taken to reduce
the risk of loss due to default or substantially delayed loan repayment.
These measures would also serve to reduce the prospective high financial
costs to the cooperatives and other sub-borrowers while ensuring that: (i)
there is full participation in the Project by CRDB; and (ii) the
Government's main project objectives of increasing agricultural production,
exports and foreign exchange earnings are achieved. The measures would
include the following:
(a)   The sub-borrowers would be required to retain from their
total foreign exchange proceeds an amount equal to 120X of
their annual debt service requirements under the Project.
The retention process would be managed by the NBC from the
proceeds of the letters of credits for export sales. NBC
and CRDB would be authorized to use the proceeds from the
export sales of sub-borrowers to establish and manage an
escrow account for each sub-loan (or sub-borrower). They
= wcild be further authorized to make periodic payments of
debt service from the escrow account to CRDB, in line with
the amortization schedule established for each sub-loan (or
sub-borrower).
(b)   To ensure that these accounts are transitory in nature and
do not measurably reduce the flow of foreign exchange into
the economy, the repayment cycle for each subloan would be
tightly linked to the borrower's export marketing cycle and
to CRDB's schedule for repayment of borrowed foreign
exchange to the Government. The 20X annual reserve could
be drawn down by CRDB, in conjunction with NBC as trustee,
in the event of: (i) a default of a scheduled payment by
the sub-borrower or; (ii) as a component of the
sub-borrowers final payment of interest and principal under
the loan. The sub-borrower would have final access to its
escrow account in local currency after it had fulfilled its
debt service repayment obligation to CRDB. It is expected
that the accounts would be managed by the NBC so that
interest is earned in foreign exchange and that NBC would
earn a fee of one percentage point of the interest earned
to defray costs of trust account operations.
(c)   In the likely event of default of a sub-borrower to repay
its debts to CRDB in the earlier stages of the loan
repayment cycle, CRDB would need to have access to



- 55 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 3
additional foreign exchange for them to repay their debts
to the Government. It would therefore be necessary for the
CRDB to maintain a foreign exchange loan loss reserve
account with NBC. It would be expected that CRDB would
deposit into the account, from the p:oceeds of debt service
repayments an amount equal to a provisional estimated two
percentage points of the annual payments of interest made
by each of the sub-borrowers. Draw-downs from this account
would be for the purpose of debt repayment to the
Government in the event of the failure of sub-borrowers to
meet their obligations under the project. CRDB would have
final access to this Loan Loss Reserve Account in local
currency after it had fulfilled its debt service repayment
obligations to the Government.
6.        Thus, the above arrangements ensure that:  (i) the sub-borrower
would have available the foreign exchange needed to cover its debts; (ii)
CRDB would have foreign exchange available on a priority basis from the
proceeds of export sales which could make some marginally credit worthy
cooperatives fully credit-worthy; (iii) in the event of failure by a
sub-borrower, CRDB would have Loan Loss Reserves in foreign exchange to
repay its debts to the Government without suffering the additional
potential of high foreign exchange losses.
7.        The above description for handling the foreign exchange risks
offers the basis for preparing operational details for handling the foreign
exchange escrow accounts. The officials of NBC have experience in
operating foreign exchange escrow accounts. It would be necessary,
therefore, for the officials of NBC and CRDB to collaborate in designing
the appropriate forms and procedures for operating these accounts before
credit effectiveness.



- 56 -
AMX IX
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Detailed Cost Table
I. Credit Component
Local    Foreign    Total
(USS Million)
Sub-loans to Sub-projects               10.0      24.1      34.1
Feasibility Studies a/                   0.3       0.8       1.1
Management Assistance and Training bi  0.1         0.4       0.5
Total Credit Component                  10.4      25.3      35.7
-I. Institution Building Component
Restructuring of CRDB c/                 0.8       1.2       2.0
Computerization of CRDB Accounts d/      0.1       0.4       0.6
Training of CRDB staff e/                0.3       0.3       0.7
Technical Assistance f                   0.2       0.7       0.9
Contingencies                            0.2       0.1       0.3
Total Inst. Building Component             1.6       2.7       4.3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                       12.0      28.0      40.0
a/ 120 months for feasibility studies of sub-projects at US$10,000 per
month. This would be capitalized as part of the credit.
b/ 24 months of short-term consultants of non-resident advisors at
US$10,000 per month and 24 months of study-tours at US$5,000 per month
and 10 months of management training at US$15,000 per month. This
would be capitalized as part of the credit.
C/ Three studies estimated at US$900,000, 24 months of technical support
at US$10,000 per month and CRDB expenditures particularly in staffing
and operational activities (US$500,000).
d1 Computerization of CRDB financial information system including purchase
of computer hardware and software.
e/ 60 months of training abroad US$200,000 12 months on-the-job training
for accounting and computer staff and US$400,000
fl Nine man-years of long-term technical assistance for project
accountant, project officer, financial analyst, industrial engineer and
management specialist at US$100,000 per man-year.



- 57, -
ANNEX X
Page 1 of
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
List of Intended Beneficiaries'
Expected2
Loan
Investor                          Activity           Ownership   Amount
(US$' 000)
Arusha Duluti Ltd.                Coffee estate       Private      246.0
rehab.
Arusha Region Cooperative         Coffee rehab.       Coopera-   1,850.0
Union                                                 tive
Ambangulu Tea Estate              Expansion of        Private      160.0
tea estate
Balangei Estate Limited           Tea estate         Private       300.0
expansion
Bergfrieden Estate Ltd.           Coffee estate       Private      100.0
rehab.
Biharamulo Cooperative Union      Improvement of     Coopera-      794.0
transport          tive
facilities
Brooke Bond Ltd.                  Expansion of       Private    1,348.0
tea estate
Farmlands Limited                 Sisal and           Private      500.0
tobacco rehab.
Kagera Co-Operative Union         Improvement of      Coopera-   2,000.0
coffee storage     tive
and transport
Karamu Coffee Estate Ltd.         Rehab. of           Private      360.0
coffee estate
Karimjei Jivanjee Tea Ltd.        Rehab. of           Private      403.0
tea estate
Kibaranga Estate                  Sisal estate       Private       500.0
rehab.
Kibo Match Corp.                  Sisal estate        Private      780.0
rehab.
Kilimanjaro Native Cooperative   Coffee rehab.       Coopera-   2,840.0
tive
Klngani Estate Ltd.               Rehab. of           Private      340.0
coffee estate
Kitisa Estate                     Sisal estate        Private      500.0
rehab.
Kwamkoro Tea Estate               Tea rehab.          Parastatal   471.0
Loliondo Coffee Estate Ltd.       Coffee farm         Private       80.0
rehab.
1/ Some beneficiaries applied for more than one project.
2/ Actual loan amount will be determined at sub-project appraisal.



- 58 -
ANNEX X
Page 2 of 2
Mara Cooperative Union            Cotton ginneries   Coopera-   2,000.0
rehab.             tive
Mara Cooperative Union            Modernization of   Coopera-       80.0
coffee curing      tive
factory
Merunga Sisal Estate Ltd.         Sisal estate        Private      823.0
rehab.
Muheza Mkimbi Estate              Sisal estate        Private      500.0
rehab.
Mungust Estate Ltd.               Coffee estate       Private      200.0
rehab.
Nyanza Cooperative Union          Cotton ginneries   Coopera-   6,300.0
rehab.             tive
Union
Rally Estate Ltd.                 Sisal estate       Private       882.0
rehab.
Shah Plantation Ltd.              Coffee rehab.      Private       450.0
Shinyanga Region Cooperative      Cotton ginneries   Coopera-   1,500.0
Union                           rehab.             tive
Southern Highlands Tobacco        Expansion of       Coopera-   1,000.0
Growers Association             tobacco            tive
operations
Tanganyika's Coffee Growers       Expansion of       Coopera-   1,500.0
Association                     coffee operations  tive
Tanzania Instant Coffee Ltd.      Expansion of       Para-         500.0
coffee operations  statal
Tanzania Shipping Co. Ltd.        Sisal estate       Para-       1,440.0
rehab.             statal
Tanzania Sisal Authority          Sisal estate       Para-         510.0
rehab.             statal
Tan-ania Tea Blenders             Expansion of       Para-       4,400.0
blended & packed   statal
coffee
Tingo-Tinga Coffee Estate         Coffee estate      Private       200.0
rehab.
Tukuyu Estate Ltd.                Expansion of       Private       344.0
tea estate
United Farm Corporation Ltd.      Cotton rehab.      Private    1,623.0
Utengude Coffee Plantation        Rehab. of          Private       250.0
coffee
plantation
TOTAL                                                        38,074.0



- 59 -
ANNEX XI
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule'/
---- ----- -US$ Million------
Quarter                             Quarterly             Cumulative
Ending_                           Disbursements          Disbursements
FY 19892/
September 30, 1988                          0.8                    0.8
December 31, 1988                           0.3                    1.1
March 31, 1989                               0.3                   1.4
June 30, 1989                               0.3                    1.7
FY 1990
September 30, 1989                          0.8                    2.5
December 31, 1989                           0.8                    3.3
March 31, 1990                               1.2                   4.5
June 30, 1990                                1.2                   5.7
FY 1991
September 30, 1990                          1.5                    7.2
December 31, 1990                           1.5                    8.7
March 31, 1991                               1.5                  10.2
June 30, 1991                                1.5                  11.7
FY 1992
September 30, 1991                           1.5                  13.2
December 31, 1991                           1.5                   12.7
March 31, 1992                               1.5                  16.2
June 30, 1992                               1.5                   17.7
FY 1993
September 30, 1992                          1.2                   18.9
December 31, 1992                           1.2                   20.1
March 31, 1993                               1.2                  21.3
June 30, 1993                                1.2                  22.5
/ Based on IDF disbursement profiles region-wide adjusted to include PPF
repayment in the first year.
2/ The fiscal year runs from July 1 to June 30.



- 60 -
AEX XI
Page 2 of 2
Quarter                             Quarterly             Cumulative
Ending                            Disbursements          Disbursements
PY 1994
September 30, 1993                          0.9                   23.4
December 31, 1993                           0.9                   24.3
March 31, 1994                               0.8                  25.1
June 30, 1994                               0.8                   25.9
fY 1995
September 30, 1994                           0.8                  26.7
December 31, 1994                           0.8                   25.5
March 31, 1995                               0.5                  28.0
June 30, 1995                               0.4                   28.4
FY 1996
September 30, 1995                          0.4                   28.8
December 31, 1995                           0.4                   29.2
March 31, 1996                               0.4                  29.6
June 30, 1996                               0.4                   30.0



- 61
DIRECTORATES          DEPARTMENTS            DIVISIONS
"4 O                                                      usiness
4 u              _             |nDevelopment
redit Education
Planining
Research &            Organization
6 Methods
____________Q_______     Research
§1anpower    _    Manpower
B ~ ~~~~ h                 apwr<lManpower
;4 __Development                 T   ower
Training
Personnel            Administrative
Administration       j Services
.__ __ _   j ersonnel
--Loan Accounts
z
'1 c-< BAdministrative Accounting
~~~~~44J~~~~~~~~~~~V
34           '-1  G   oan Accounts
>S ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     pria                 gricullture l
>~~~~~~~~~
0 3    h               %     w+_g 
r. $4                    ad O04
Q C                                    I 14@I 
OUe  . p4Od X                        f                   |      gro-Industry
o                           M                                Supervis       io griculture
O          I     | > 0 1            ffi r                 I r~~~~~~~~~~~~^8ro-Industry
| g < ~~~~~Appraisal giutr
IV G        QX        Cooperatives 
,.                              lo' 
1~~~~ 1    A.fi|<                        Inspectio
co° E  4i a 0 0   l      l   --  
.    41  0 Q  |   " 8  X                    ntra  Audit 
I °   be I< o 
I    1, " 0W 



- o*   
1
N                         j?  j
N >                   
z                          
I                                                                  -
-4                                                 .1       >
\ E
-                                                     0        a
4,                                           /
Cl                                                    4/
.        
/
4,        /
4, -4
/-
        :-
                          
/     4..
IriHi                                 .,     -
N
,    usnufful                                    -k
I          K
*
-                        g                               ''N.          (-4.
                                         -----          r
                                         I  I                                    /
-                                        I           j
'4-'     
I                                                                             4'    1                0
5
'U                                                                         _______________
______________________
______________________________                                                                         II



