Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16204-TA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1891-TA)
December 30, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Operations
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Jun-96   US$1.00 = T Sh623.3
Jun-95   US$1.00 = T Sh604.8
Jun-94   US$1.00 = T Sh516.2
Jun-93   US$1.00 = T Sh395.0
Jun-92  US$1.00 = T Sh 300.0
Jun-91   US$1.00 = T Sh227.0
Jun-90   US$1.00 = T Sh193.2
Jun-89   US$1.00 = T ShI45.0
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AERP          Agricultural Export Rehabilitation Project
BOT           Bank of Tanzania
CRDB          Cooperative and Rural Development Bank
ERP           Economic Reform Program
GOT           Government of Tanzania
IPC           Investment Promotion Centre
MOF           Ministry of Finance
SPU           Special Programs Unit
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Tanzania
July I - June 30
Cooperative and Rural Development Bank
July I - June 30 until June 30, 1994
January 1 - December 31 from January 1, 1995
Vice President              C. Madavo
Country Director            J. Adams
Technical Manager           S. Ganguly
Task Team Leader            A. Thompson



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1891-TA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ......................................................  i
Evaluatio n Su mm ary          .           .    .. .................................................................
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                                     I
A. Statement/Evaluation of Obbectives
B. Achievement of Objectives .2
Summary.2
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Expansio                  .3
Institutional Development                          .5
Economic and Financial Objectives                      .6
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project                         ..7
D. Project Suusainabbiltty.8
E. Bank Performancee.9
F. Borrower Performance .10
G. Future Operations..1l
H. Assessment of Outcome..11
I. Key Lessons Learned.l12
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary ofAsssseesmtt.13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits1 15
Table 3: Project Timetable1 15
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual.16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation.1 6
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation.1 6
Table 7: Studies Included in Project.1 7
Table 8A: Project Costss 18
| This documcnt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of theirl
offioEcial duties. Its contents may not otheruise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.l
F .   B r o  e    e f r a c  ..............................................................       



Table 8B: Project Financiig ..........................................                                                                                                     19
Table  9: Economic Costs and Benefits ..........................................                                                                                           20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ..........................................                                                                                            21
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..........................................                                                                        24
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..........................................                                                                                         24
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ..........................................                                                                                             25
APPENDICES
A ........................................... Aide Mmoire
B ........................................... B                                                                                orrower's Contribution to the ICR
C .......................................... AERP  Portfolio Tables
-T



Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Export
Rehabilitation Project (AERP) in Tanzania, for which IDA Credit 1891 -TA in the amount of SDR 22.0
million (US$30.0 million equivalent) was approved on 29 March 1988, and became effective on 14
November 1988. The Mid-Term Review took place in May 1995 and the credit was closed on 30 June 1996
at which time a balance of SDR 9.2 million was cancelled.
This ICR was prepared by a mission' from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, on
behalf of the Africa Technical Division Agriculture Group I (AFTA I) of the World Bank. Preparation of
the ICR commenced with the mission's visit to Tanzania from 25 August to 14 September 1996. Comments
were provided by Tony Thompson, James Coates, Fred King and Jeri Larson (AFTA 1) and Jacomina de
Regt, AFTSI. This report is based on material gathered from the project files and supervision reports, as
well as discussions with Bank and Government of Tanzania (GOT) staff associated with the project. In
addition, the mission undertook intensive discussions and field investigations with staff of the implementing
agency, the Cooperative and Rural Development Bank (CRDB) now privatised and known as CRDB (1996)
Limited, and sub-borrowers of the credit for export crop rehabilitation purposes. CRDB staff contributed to
the preparation of the ICR through the arrangements for field visits and meetings, and provided useful
comments on the mission's Aide-Memoire. The ICR was reviewed by Sushma Ganguly, Technical
Manager, Agricultural Operations 1, Eastern and Southern Africa.
'The mission comprised Tim Lamrock (FAO TCIR - Economist/Mission Leader) and Peter Beeden (Agronomist - Consultant). The ICR for the
Cashew and Coconut Tree Crops Project (Cr 2050-TA) was prepared during the same mission.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT (AERP)
(Cr. 1891-TA)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
The Agricultural Export Rehabilitation Project was conceived in the mid-1980s at a time
when the financial sector in Tanzania was performing poorly due to lack of competition, excessive interest
rate controls and minimal bank supervision. Credit was directed on the basis of Government priorities
without regard to creditworthiness, and banks were convenient agents of fiscal policy. Non-bankable
activities were financed, with a misallocation of resources to the parastatals and agricultural co-operatives.
This resulted in a large accumulation of non-performing loans (around two-thirds of the total) and by 1988
the banking system was technically insolvent.
At that time, there was a critical shortage of foreign currency to import the machinery and
consumables necessary for Tanzania's traditional export agricultural industries.
The project formed part of the World Bank's development strategy for Tanzania and was
designed to support the Government of Tanzania's (GOT) objectives for the provision of medium- and long-
term assistance for the rehabilitation and expansion of agricultural enterprises. The institutional component
also addressed a major GOT objective; namely the strengthening of the agricultural lending capability of
financial intermediaries, in this case of CRDB.
The project was signed in August, 1988 and became effective in November, 1988.
Project Objectives
The objectives of the project were (i) to promote agricultural exports in the traditional crop
sector (coffee, tea, sisal, cashewnuts, cotton and tobacco) through a medium/long-term credit for
rehabilitation, thereby increasing foreign exchange earnings; (ii) to provide greater emphasis to market
forces to improve the efficiency of resource allocation and, (iii) to advance institution building by
strengthening the capability of the Cooperative and Rural Development Bank (CRDB) to engage in
medium- and long-term lending in the agricultural sector.
Implementation Experience and Results
The first subloans under the project were approved by May 1989, and disbursements for the
lending program commenced in August, 1990. A total of 23 sub-projects were financed under the project.
ii



Approved loans from CRDB to sub-borrowers under AERP totalled US$ 15.4 million or 57% of the
projected level of US$ 26.7 million. A recognised deterioration in performance of the loan portfolio,
coupled with the real isation that CRDB and not the Government, was liable for any losses incurred, led IDA
to advise CRDB in February 1994 to discontinue the processing of new loans, and to review each loan on a
case-by-case basis before further disbursements were made. No new loans were approved after December
1993, and disbursements on existing commitments effectively ceased by the end of 1994. The Mid-Term
Review took place in May 1995 and the project closed on 30 June 1996. US$ 12.1 million of the original
US$ 30 million (the equivalent of SDR 9.2 million of the original SDR 22 million) was cancelled.
Achievement of Objectives
The project partly achieved its development objective of foreign exchange lending to export-
oriented agricultural investment, and the project provided a valuable adjunct to the Investment Promotion
Centre (IPC) scheme established by GOT in 1990 which was designed to attract investment to Tanzania by
offering tax exemptions on imported capital items. The project was closed at the end of June 1996, in line
with the schedule foreseen at appraisal, although the credit disbursements to agricultural producers did not
reach the anticipated level. The intention to on-lend to co-operative unions and parastatals did not
materialise, largely due to their lack of credit worthiness. Consequently all approved sub-loans were to the
private sector. The project was expected to lend to enterprises involved in all the traditional export crops
(cotton, tea, sisal, coffee and tobacco). However, due to lack of liberalisation in the marketing of some of
these crops, the coverage of the project was widened to include non-traditional export enterprises.
The institutional strengthening objectives were not met. The impact on the restructuring of
CRDB and on its overall financial and organisational management was negligible and by 1992 institutional
change aspects of the project were left to the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit, which was dealing with
all financial institutions, including CRDB. Considering the failure of the previous IDA efforts to restructure
CRDB (Credit 987-TA), and a relative lack of success in this area of the subsequent IDA-supported
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC - Credit 2308-TA), it is perhaps unreasonable to have expected
significant improvements without the accompaniment of serious political and CRDB management support
for such changes. In the event, it required the enactment of the legislation associated with the Banking and
Financial Institutions Act (1991), the involvement of DANIDA in CRDB's affairs from late-l 992, and the
strengthened supervision of banks by the BOT, for significant achievements to be made in the restructuring
of CRDB.
Sustainability
The project is unlikely to be suustainable2. Under CRDB's present policy of decentralization. it
is intended that staff at branch level will monitor and supervise the AERP portfolio, including the
restructuring of loans where appropriate. However, the branches have neither the capacity nor capability
to undertake these tasks, and unless reinforced with staff experienced in handling major and complex
loans, are likely to fail to effectively manage the difficult task ahead of ensuring eventual loan
repayments.
2 The Borrower rates the sustainability as likely, a view the Bank does not agree with.
iii



The performance of the individual sub-borrowers has been higlhly variable. The floriculture
enterprises appear already in profit, while those for sisal, which is of much longer term development,
require additional working capital resources to be successful. Tea enterprises are intermediate and could
reach profitable levels within the next 2 years. Apart from the 7 sub-borrowers under litigation, there is
sufficient equity in the remaining enterprises to provide substantial motivation for their private sector
owners. However, CRDB will need to determine rapidly the appropriate approach (loan restructure or
the legal option) for the recovery of loans from each sub-borrower.
Project Costs
Total project costs were estimated during appraisal at US$ 40 million, to be financed as follows:
IDA credit US$ 30 million (SDR 22 million equivalent), CRDB US$ 2.0 million and sub-borrowers US$
8.0 million. Foreign exchange costs were estimated at US$ 28.0 million or 70% of total project costs.
Loans were disbursed to 23 sub-borrowers totaling US$ 15.4 million, equivalent to 57% of the
projected level of US$ 26.7 million. IDA's disbursements total US$17.9 million.
Categorized and itemized project costs are not available from CRDB, despite an external audit of
AERP's accounts for the period ending 30 June 1996, and their subsequent certification by the CRDB
Board of Directors. There has been no attempt to assess the contribution to total project costs by either
the sub-borrowers, CRDB or GOT.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
Most significantly, the project was negatively affected by the lack of substantial
organizational and financial management strengthening in CRDB during the period of loan disbursement,
and the lack of progress in building appraisal capacity and capability during the period of activity of sub-
loan appraisal and supervision between 1989 and 1994. In addition the project was negatively impacted by
both sector and macroeconomic policies during the period of implementation. These tended to make
investments less attractive and also affected the viability of the financial system.
Bank Performance
The project was adequately designed to address the foreign exchange issues that were limiting
further investment in the agricultural sector at the time. However, the necessary prerequisites for the
reform of CRDB, the major factor for project success, were underestimated. There were several
assumptions in the project design which proved to be invalid. A majority of potential borrowers identified
in the SAR were co-operative unions or parastatals, recognised as being commercially unviable, yet forming
the basis of the estimated credit demand, and with no proposals under the project or other concurrent
programmes to make the necessary changes.
Over the 92 month project period, only nine supervision missions visited the project.
Supervision was satisfactory until November 1991, after which no full supervision was undertaken from
headquarters until February 1994. Some oversight of the project was taken on by the resident mission
during this period, but in retrospect this informal follow-up, which focused on subloan administration,
iv



was insufficient as a majority of sub-loan activities were undertaken during this period, the mid-term
review was rescheduled, CRDB restructuring commenced, and the marketing and foreign exchange
reforms were put in place. This was a critical time for the project and inadequate levels of monitoring
and advice were provided to CRDB. From February 1994 however, substantial efforts were made during
and between supervisions to restructure the project, by limiting the exposure of CRDB and assisting in
better management of the existing portfolio.
Borrower Performance
The project had a history of either delayed compliance or noni-complianlce of the assurances and
covenanits which were central to the project's design. In addition, there were delays in preparing and
submitting reports and accounts that were required by IDA under the project agreements, and these
appeared not to form part of the routine management information system required by CRDB.
Project Outcome
The overall outcome of the project is considered unsatisfactory due to the poor loan repayment
record, the uncertain repayment outlook for the tea and sisal sub-loans, the large number of loans now
subject to legal proceedings, and the negligible impact on the restructuring of CRDB.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
As part of the continuing Programme of CRDB privatization, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) has
agreed to assume responsibility for loan liabilities under AERP, as well as those of the two IFAD-
supported lines of credit and the Pilot Credit Scheme under the IDA-supported Cashew and Coconut
Treecrops Project that have been implemented by CRDB. The CRDB expects to act as the agent for loan
recovery, and details of the Memorandum of Understanding involving the financial arrangements are
currently under negotiation. It would be in the Government's interest to ensure that CRDB is adequately
rewarded in its capacity as management agent, so that CRDB is provided with sufficient motivation to
pursue sub-loan repayments.
The key lessons learned from the project were as follows:
it was unreasonable for the Bank preparation/appraisal missions to have expected significant
restructuring of CRDB without the political will that was not evident until after the enactment
of the Banking and Financial Institutions Act (1991);
the negotiation of assurances and covenants between IDA and GOT is only meaningful if
IDA is prepared to take action in the event of subsequent non-compliance;
the disruptive effect of the eventual CRDB restructuring on staff morale, continuity and
efficiency was known at appraisal, and this contributed to the poor monitoring and
supervision of sub-projects;
v



the international technical assistance personnel were directly involved in project
implementation and contributed little to the capacity of CRDB, to the extent that CRDB staff
derived little benefit from their presence;
CRDB was able to make multiple loans to individual sub-borrowers, and to considerably
exceed the individual loan limits established at appraisal, with insufficient evidence of
management commitment. This contributed substantially to CRDB's exposure to risk of loan
default;
sub-borrowers with substantial and commercially operating enterprises, require a timely and
efficient banking service for effective and profitable business operation. CRDB was not able
to provide this service;
the mid-tenn review should have been undertaken at its appointed time in PY 3, particularly
as the AERP performance had already been rated by IDA as unsatisfactory;
supervision missions for agricultural credit programmes should include staff with
technical/agronomic skills. so to be better able to assess agricultural businesses; and
the absence of headquarters supervision from November 1991 until February 1994, to
complement the monitoring being undertaken by the resident mission at a critical period in
both sub-borrower development and CRDB restructuring, may have contributed substantially
to the poor performance of the project.
vi



I i



IMPLEMENTATION COMEPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT (AERP)
(Cr. 1891-TA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
I.         The objectives of the project were (i) to promote agricultural exports in the traditional crop
sector (coffee, tea, sisal, cashewnuts, cotton and tobacco) through a medium/long-term credit for
rehabilitation, thereby increasing foreign exchange earnings; (ii) to provide greater emphasis to market
forces to improve the efficiency of resource allocation and, (iii) to advance institution building by
strengthening the capability of the Cooperative and Rural Development Bank (CRDB) to engage in
medium- and long-term lending in the agricultural sector.
2.         The two project components designed at appraisal, comprised:
(a)    a line of foreign exchange credit (US$ 26.7 million) managed by CRDB and
financed under a subsidiary loan agreement between CRDB and the Ministry of
Finance, designed to:
(i) provide long-term financial support for the rehabilitation and expansion of
agricultural enterprises (sub-borrowers) in the traditional export crop sector and
to improve the quality of Tanzania's exports; and
(ii) provide foreign exchange to finance capital investment and up to three years of
the recurrent import requirements (excluding seasonal inputs) of sub-borrowers.
(b)    institutional building in CRDB (US$ 3.3 million) including technical assistance,
staff training, equipment and studies, with a view to:
(i) restructure CRDB and transform it into a viable agricultural financial
intermediary; and
(ii) advance the process of agricultural reform in the sector and enable co-operative
unions, parastatal agencies and the private sector to take advantage of the recent
liberalisation of agricultural input supply and distribution, export crop
marketing and producer pricing.
3.         The project formed part of the World Bank's development strategy for Tanzania and was
designed to support the Government of Tanzania's (GOT) objectives for, amongst other things, the
provision of medium- and long-term assistance for the rehabilitation and expansion of agricultural



enterprises. The institutional component also addressed a major GOT objective; namely the strengthening
of the agricultural lending capability of financial intermediaries, in this case of CRDB.
4.         The AERP was conceived in the mid- 1 980s at a time when the financial sector in Tanzania
was performing poorly due to lack of competition, excessive interest rate controls and minimal bank
supervision. Credit was directed on the basis of Government priorities without regard to creditworthiness,
and banks were convenient agents of fiscal policy. Non-bankable activities were financed, with a
misallocation of resources to the parastatals and agricultural co-operatives. This resulted in a large
accumulation of non-performing loans (around two-thirds of the total) and by 1988 the banking system was
technically insolvent.
5.         The Government introduced an Economic Reform Programme (ERP) in 1986 to improve
macroeconomic management, tackle underlying structural weaknesses and encourage more active private
sector participation. Economic measures designed to reduce the budget deficit and improve the balance of
payments included a substantial depreciation of the overvalued exchange rate, trade liberalisation, the
removal of most price controls and the easing of restrictions on the marketing of most food crops.
Nevertheless, foreign exchange remained in short supply, severely constraining the essential rehabilitation
of export enterprises.
6.         Following the Commission of Enquiry of 1988 into the Monetary and Banking System, the
Government acknowledged the perverse impact on the sector caused by a lack of competition and
Government interference, and through the enactment of the Banking and Financial Institutions Act (1991)
permitted the entry of private banks, with an expanded and enhanced supervisory and regulatory control
vested in the Bank of Tanzania (BOT).
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Summary
7.         The project partly achieved its development objective of foreign exchange lending to export-
oriented agricultural investment, and a valuable adjunct was provided to the Investment Promotion Centre
(IPC) scheme established by GOT in 1990 which provided tax exemptions on imported capital items, and
was designed to attract investment to Tanzania. The project was closed at the end of June 1996, in line with
the schedule foreseen at appraisal, although the credit disbursements to agricultural producers did not reach
the anticipated level. The intention to on-lend to co-operative unions and parastatals did not materialise,
largely due to their lack of credit worthiness. Consequently all approved sub-loans were to the private
sector. In addition, sub-borrowers were expected from the traditional export crop sector (cotton, tea, sisal,
coffee and tobacco) which, in the event, were unable to absorb the available credit, and in 1989 project
objectives were widened to include non-traditional export enterprises.
8.         The institutional strengthening objectives were not met. The impact on the restructuring of
CRDB and on its overall financial and organisational management was negligible and by 1992 institutional
change aspects of the project were left to the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit, which was dealing with
all financial institutions, including CRDB. Considering the failure of the previous IDA efforts to restructure
2



CRDB (Credit 987-TA), and a relative lack of success in this area of the subsequent IDA-supported
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC - Credit 2308-TA), it is perhaps unreasonable to have expected
significant improvements without the accompaniment of serious political and CRDB management support
for such changes. In the event, it required the enactment of the legislation associated with the Banking and
Financial Institutions Act (1991), the involvement of DANIDA in CRDB's affairs from late-1992, and the
strengthened supervision of banks by the BOT, for significant achievements to be made in the restructuring
of CRDB.
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Expansion
9.           The project sought to provide finance for the capital (machinery, equipment, spare parts and
vehicles) and recurrent costs (although not for seasonal costs) required to rehabilitate or expand existing
agricultural export enterprises, through lending to co-operative, parastatal and private firms which were
creditworthy. In line with the project design of expanding the capability for term lending by existing
institutions, 3 financial institutions were identified prior to appraisal, from which CRDB was finally
selected as the sole implementing agency for the project line of credit. Under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between CRDB and GOT in which CRDB assumed responsibility for sub-loan liabilities, CRDB
on-lent at a fixed rate of interest of 8% in US dollars for the term of the sub-loan, retaining 6% to cover
credit risks, administrative costs, margins and taxes, with the balance of 2% accruing to GOT. Exchange
rate risks were bome by the sub-borrower, whose repayments in foreign exchange came from an escrow
account established specifically to handle export receipts.
10.         An initial pipeline of 38 sub-projects was identified at appraisal of which only five were
creditworthy and eventually participated. The co-operative unions and parastatals that were to form a
substantial proportion of project beneficiaries, could not be supported due to their ineligibility on the
grounds of substandard management and inadequate creditworthiness, largely as a result of their past
excessive and non-retumed borrowings. A large number of proposals for rehabilitation in the cotton and
coffee industries were also rejected, due to a lack of progress with market liberalisation in the cotton sector.
Ginnery operators continued to be prevented from direct export and thus retention of foreign exchange, and
the Govemment continued to use coffee revenues as part of a barter exchange for petroleum products. It
was therefore necessary to redefine the project's investment focus to include both traditional and non-
traditional agricultural exports, as well as start-up ventures, and to revise upwards the loan limits.
Following this change in 1989. there was a delay before new, non-traditional sub-projects were designed,
appraised and approved, the majority of which were in cut flower and other horticultural production in the
Arusha and Kilimanjaro regions.
11.         With an initial Project Preparation Facility (PPF) that enabled feasibility studies to be
undertaken for those enterprises identified at appraisal as potential borrowers, some 84 sub-projects were
put forward for consideration by CRDB3 and either approved (23), rejected on non-viability grounds (27),
loans approved but not taken up (7), or were in the pipeline at the time of the closure on new loans in 1994
(27). A considerable proportion of CRDB staff time was devoted to the evaluation and appraisal of new
sub-projects that failed to result in further loan disbursements, rather than to the supervision and monitoring
3     Including: tea 12; sisal 10: cotton 18: tloriculture 5; horticulture 9: coffee 9; honey/beeswax 2; tobacco 2; miscellaneous agro-processing
8; aquaculture 3; and miscellaneous 6.
3



of existing loans. This may have enabled approved sub-projects to deteriorate beyond the point at which
disbursements should prudently have been curtailed. Although sub-project appraisals were generally of
adequate quality, there was a tendency towards over-optimistic yield and production assumptions, with too
little attention given to the availability of the working capital contributions of individual sub-borrowers.
This was to have important consequences, particularly for the sisal sub-sector.
12.        To assist CRDB to fulfil its lending objectives, the project provided resources for
internationally recruited technical assistance, which included a project accountant (50 months), financial
analyst (33 months) and a project officer (22 months). An industrial engineer was anticipated at appraisal,
but was not recruited. Terms of reference of the technical assistance personnel were not available in the
SAR, and were not developed by CRDB. The consultant team was involved mainly in sub-project
evaluation and appraisal. The project accountant frequently acted for extended periods as the Chief
Accountant for CRDB and was unable to develop an effective system for the allocation of project costs and
expenditures. There were three incumbents of the Financial Analyst position, including a banking specialist
inexperienced in project appraisal and evaluation.
13.        Feasibility studies totalling some US$ 539,000, were undertaken through short-term contracts
with local and international consultants, probably equating to the 120 months anticipated in the SAR.
However, none of the 24 months of short-term consultancies for management assistance to sub-borrowers
was undertaken. Adequate vehicles and office equipment were supplied to CRDB as envisaged.
14.        Loans were disbursed to only 23 sub-borrowers (Appendix C-I, Table 1), as against some 100
anticipated at appraisal, with total of US$ 17.8 million approved, of which only US$15.4million was
disbursed, equivalent to 57% of the projected level of US$ 26.7 million.
15.        It became clear as early as 1991 that the sub-loan portfolio was of mixed quality; with an
accumulation of interest arrears, apparently without action being taken, as well as principal defaults by
many sub-borrowers. In February 1994, IDA advised CRDB to discontinue the processing of new loans,
and to review each existing sub-loan on a case-by-case basis before further disbursements were made.
Recognising the problems within the portfolio, CRDB complied and no new loans were approved after
December 1993. Disbursements on existing commitments effectively ceased by the end of 1994 although
some smaller disbursements were made up to the end of the project.
16.        It was also at this time that CRDB realised that it, and not the Government, was liable for any
losses incurred under the project. The accounts of CRDB never reflected the AERP portfolio, or other
special donor-supported credit programs up until this point.
17.        The average loan size was some US$ 772,500, considerably in excess of the US$ 500,000
indicated as the maximum size of foreign exchange sub-loan at appraisal. The loan ceiling was
subsequently increased as major capital investments were put forward, and there were 4 loans approved of
US$ I million or more. In line with the SAR, the purposes of sub-loans advanced included mainly the
development and rehabilitation of on-farm infrastructure (agro-processing equipment, growing houses and
storage facilities), purchase of field equipment (tractors, implements, graders and bulldozers), and vehicles.
4



18.         Sub-loan repayment performance has been highly unsatisfactory (Appendix C-I, Table 2). At
project completion, only 8 of the 23 disbursed sub-loans were not in default, and 7 of these were still within
the grace period. Seven sub-projects, with loans totalling some US$ 5.2 million, were the subject of legal
action by CRDB and of the remaining projects, 15 were at the least in default of interest repayments. The
result is a portfolio of mainly non-performing loans that require review and where necessary, restructure or
legal action to recover assets.
Institutional Development
19.        The objective of strengthening CRDB through a restructuring process was not achieved as a
result of the project. Institution building was anticipated to derive from the development and
implementation of a program to restructure CRDB, and the provision of management assistance and
training to strengthen CRDB's project promotion and appraisal capability. As an initial measure, funds
from a PPF of US$ 1.5 million were available for studies to develop a Monitorable Action Programme for
CRDB's restructure, that included: organisational and financial restructure with a financial plan with target
liquidity ratios, rates of return on assets and equity, profit margins, and the development and
implementation of strategies for portfolio and credit risk management, including operational policy. These
ambitious targets were to be achieved through: a detailed portfolio review by independent auditors to
recommend changes in loan loss reserves and an appropriate level of provisions; and a study by banking
specialists to develop a phased plan for restructuring CRDB. In addition, a financial information system
study was expected to develop an effective system appropriate for CRDB's current and future needs and
determine the training requirements of bank staff. There is no evidence that these PPF studies played any
useful role in the restructuring of CRDB that has taken place since the early 1990s.
20.         The training program for CRDB staff was abbreviated, unstructured, and failed to gain IDA
approval. None of the anticipated 60 months of overseas fellowship training in appraisal techniques was
provided, and study tours were restricted to some 8 months, rather than the 24 months envisaged at
appraisal. On-the-job training was limited to that provided by the technical assistance group, rather than by
the University of Dar es Salaam as indicated in the SAR. Computer training to CRDB staff was provided
however, and an accounting system was developed by short-term consultants for use throughout CRDB.
This system is only now being replaced as CRDB decentralisation is implemented.
21.         The project was designed so that the experience gained through the operation of a line of
medium- to long-term credit, supported by technical assistance in portfolio management, would filter
through to the remainder of CRDB lending operations. This implementation strategy became ineffective
with the approval by the IDA supervision of October 1989, of the formation of a special AERP
implementation unit to maintain the staff, funds and accounting for AERP activities separate from mainline
bank programmes, pending CRDB's financial and organisational restructure. This major shift in strategy
may have contributed to two outcomes: first, the failure to transfer project appraisal experience to other
banking operations; and second, the misconception that the liabilities incurred under the AERP were not
those of CRDB and thus need not be recorded in CRDB's annual accounts. This misconception was not
corrected until the Supervision Mission of February 1994, and may have contributed to a lack of attention
from senior CRDB management to the discipline required to successfully appraise and monitor the sub-
projects. For example, no effective system of sub-loan supervision appears to have been designed or
5



implemented, with the result that the financial condition of some sub-borrowers was allowed to deteriorate
alarmingly before being fully appreciated and remedial action taken.
22.         The eventual restructuring and privatisation of CRDB led to reduced staff resources being
dedicated to AERP matters; with 8 staff in the AERP Unit in 1989 reducing to 4 in 1994. Ten professionals
were anticipated at appraisal to be required to manage the AERP issues, in addition to existing staff of
CRDB's Planning and Development Department and Development Banking Department. This level of
staffing was never achieved. Currently only 2 of the Special Programme Unit (the successor to the AERP
Unit in the restructured CRDB), are fully experienced in AERP portfolio management.
Economic and Financial Objectives
23.         Total project costs were estimated during appraisal at US$ 40 million, to be financed as
follows: IDA credit US$ 30 million (SDR 22 million equivalent), CRDB US$ 2.0 million and sub-
borrowers US$ 8.0 million. Foreign exchange costs were estimated at US$ 28.0 million or 70% of total
project costs.
24.         Categorised and itemised project costs are not available from CRDB, despite an external audit
of AERP's accounts for the period ending 30 June 1996, and their subsequent certification by the CRDB
Board of Directors. Discrepancies exist in the documentation within CRDB, and there has been no attempt
to assess the contribution to total project costs by either the sub-borrowers, CRDB or GOT.
25.         The overall economic rate of return was not calculated at appraisal. However, the economic
justification for the project was that only sub-loans with ERRs in excess of 15% were to be approved.
Whilst the sub-loan appraisal process involved an ERR assessment and each satisfied the 15% cut-off point,
the sensitivity to major physical and price assumptions was high in many cases. An attempt was made to
reassess the ERR of the investments which contributed to on-going businesses but, in these cases, a true
assessment of the effect of the project supported investment was not possible for two reasons: (i) it was not
possible to determine the extent of the borrower's contribution to the investment and therefore the total sub-
project cost; and (ii) further investments had been made since the original project-financed investment,
financed from a mixture of external debt, equity, or from internally generated funds, which made it
impossible to identify the benefits deriving from the original investment alone.
26.         Whilst the impact on1 foreign exchange earnings was not estimated in the SAR, two factors
may have depressed the net foreign exchange benefits that were anticipated at appraisal. First, a malority of
the individual sub-projects have not been able to generate the foreign earnings as anticipated due to
marketing and management problems. This applies particularly to tea and sisal enterprises, for whichi world
market prices have decreased. Second, almost one-half of sub-project investments were in floriculture
enterprises that have operating costs with a higher contenit of foreign exchange than the traditional export
agriculture enterprises.
27.         Of the traditional export crops envisaged, only tea and sisal were included in the portfolio
with 5 and 8 loans respectively, representing 14% of the total disbursements in the case of tea and 27% for
sisal. However, since several loans were given to individual sub-borrowers, these represent only 7 effective
borrowers, considerably increasing the exposure of the portfolio to risk of default. Apart from a silgle loan
6
1



that has been repaid in full, all loans are in arrears of interest or capital repayments or both. Loans for sisal
rehabilitation are of particular concern, given the labour-intensive nature of the industry, the long period
between crop establishment and harvest, and the poor world market outlook. Four sub-loans, totalling US$
2.5 million were approved for one newly-formed sisal producing company without an agricultural track
record, and insignificalit quantities of fibre have been produced from these four estates in recent years.
28.         Of the 10 sub-borrowers il the non-traditional export crop category, 4 are producers of cut
flowers (mainly roses) in Arusha and Kilimanjaro, for export to Europe, with loans totalliig US$ 5.3
million or 34% of the AERP portfolio. These represent AERP's most successful venture that, with CRDB's
aggressive promotion, attracted investors from the much larger flower producing areas of neighbouring
Kenya, throughi cheap loans and with IPC tax exemptions as an additional incentive. This potentially
profitable sub-sector has a high associated risk however, as sub-borrowers appear to prefer to expand their
production rather thaln repay loans. Sub-projects in vegetable horticulture and essential oil production have
failed, and those in crocodile farming, seaweed production and fishing, have yet to prove their viability.
This demonstrates the inherent risk in bank lending to new enterprises for which venture capital might be a
more appropriate source of investnent finance.
29.         The project has made a substantial contribution through the increase in local employment
opportunities, particularly for women and youth in the sisal, tea and floriculture enterprises (Appendix C-I,
Table 3). An estimated 10,000 additional opportunities have been created directly as a result of AERP
activities.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Project Management
30.         CRDB. Although the restructuring of CRDB was a major objective of AERP and was
achieved by means other than through the project, little attention was given at appraisal to the effect on the
operation of CRDB in general, and of the AERP Unit in particular, of the restructuring process itself. Over
the period 1992 to 1995, the CRDB staff complement was reduced from almost 1,600 to less than 500, and
all staff reapplied for positions within the restructured bank, with an inevitable negative impact on staff
morale and performance. With management attention directed elsewhere, AERP activities proceeded with
little professional guidance or monitoring from senior CRDB personnel. The resulting shortfall in AERP
Unit staff numbers and lack of staffing continuity, has contributed to the project's unsatisfactory
performance.
31.         Sub-project Approval. Considerable delays were experienced in the feasibility, appraisal
and approval of loans to sub-borrowers, caused variously by inadequate staff capacity for appraisal and
evaluation, and the time consuming process of approval by the Credit Committee, "no objection" from IDA,
and final approval by CRDB's Board of Directors. After loan approval, the disbursement procedure also
proved cumbersome and time consuming. There were considerable delays in the opening of letters of credit
for the provision of capital items, which may have contributed to the ultimate poor performance of some
sub-borrowers. Although CRDB's selected external bank recognised the delays and made some efforts to
expedite disbursements, this ultimately proved ineffective. CRDB assistance to sub-borrowers in
negotiating these procedures appeared minimal, although one workshop for sub-borrowers was held and a
7



simple guideline prepared. However, the performance of CRDB as implementing agency was not aided by
the disruption in the early 1990s when CRDB reorganisation occurred and almost two-thirds of staff were
retrenched.
32.         Sub-Loan Supervision. In many cases there was a lack of clearly defined implementation
arrangements in the sub-loan agreements that led to borrowers not being subjected to pressure to follow
agreed repayment schedules. A number of borrowers continued to draw down after the expiry of the grace
period under their loan agreements, and in some cases the equipment purchased was different from that
specified in the proposal. This can be attributed directly to the inadequate supervision of individual sub-
projects during the implementationi phase. In many cases, little if any attempt has been made to enforce
sub-borrower compliance with loan conditions agreed at negotiation. This may have contributed to a late
appreciation by CRDB of poor sub-borrower performance, as regular reporting procedures and CRDB's
presence on1 company boards have not been implemented.
33.         Delay in Mid-term Review (MTR). At appraisal, the MTR for the project was scheduled for
the end of June 1991. This was considered to be essential as particular attention would be paid to the
progress of institutional reforms, with a major review setting out an action program for the remainder of the
project period. CRDB management requested a postponement of the MTR so that the conclusions of the
portfolio audit and assessment of CRDB's financial position to be carried out under the Financial Sector
Restructuring Project (FSRP) under FSAC could be incorporated. A second postponement was agreed by
IDA to avoid the period of major changes in CRDB which started during 1993. The review was eventually
carried out in May 1995, some 4 years after its original schedule and 7 years after project initiation, and far
too late to influence the course of the project.
34.         Given the risks inherent in the project that were identified at appraisal, the changes to the
focus and implementation mechanism of the credit program that had already been necessary during the
early stages of the project, and the recognition by World Bank supervision missions that the progress of
project implementation was unsatisfactory, the MTR should have taken place as planned. This would have
enabled the implementation issues to have been addressed, particularly those relating to the poor
performance of the loan portfolio. As it was, the MTR took place after new loan disbursement had ceased,
the technical assistance program had been completed and the project was effectively over.
Macro and Sectoral Policies
35.    The project was being implemented at a time of general deterioration of the Tanzanian economy
as reflected in worsening terms of trade, prolonged drought, insufficient producer incentives and
resources being allocated to the agricultural sector. There was a deteriorating balance of payments and
liberalization of prices and controls were not carried out. Fluctuations in the exchange rate adversely
affected CRDB's operations and the financial viability of the subborrowers. Within the agricultural
sector, there were continued price controls, marketing restraints and other insufficient producer
incentives. Agricultural input supplies were deficient. The cyclical nature of international prices also
adversely impacted the producers of primary products. In this environment, shortfalls in project design
or implementation were only magnified.
8



D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
36.         The project is unlikely to be suustainable4. Under CRDB's present policy of
decentralisation, it is intended that staff at branch level will monitor and supervise the AERP portfolio,
including the restructuring of loans where appropriate. However, the branches have neither the capacity nor
capability to undertake these tasks, and unless reinforced with staff experienced in handling major and
complex loans, are likely to fail to effectively manage the difficult task ahead of ensuring eventual loan
repayments.
37.         Currently only two CRDB staff in the Special Programme Unit (SPU) have been continuously
involved in sub-loan appraisal and evaluation. There is little assurance of a continuity of staff involvement
in the AERP portfolio for the future. Few other CRDB personnel possess the necessary appraisal skills for
large-scale investment programmes, despite the current and on-going staff training programmes associated
with decentralisation. In addition, the computer expertise essential for rapid enterprise evaluation is not
available at the branch level.
38.         The performance of the individual sub-borrowers has been highly variable. The floriculture
enterprises appear already in profit, while those for sisal, which is of much longer term development,
require additional working capital resources to be successful. Tea enterprises are intermediate and could
reach profitable levels within the next 2 years. Apart from the 7 sub-borrowers under litigation, there is
sufficient equity in the remaining enterprises to provide substantial motivation for their private sector
owners. However, CRDB will need to determine rapidly the appropriate approach (loan restructure or the
legal option) for the recovery of liabilities from each sub-borrower, and to pursue the chosen option with
vigour.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
39.         Project Design. The project was adequately designed to address the foreign exchange issues
that were limiting further investment in the agricultural sector at the time. However, the necessary
prerequisites for the reform of CRDB, the major factor for project success, were underestimated. The
project aimed at the restructuring of CRDB through the provision of technical assistance and studies which,
whilst potentially valuable exercises in themselves, needed to be provided in the context of a visible and
internally generated motivation for change in organisational behaviour. There was little evidence of this in
1988, although it was subsequently prompted by legislation, Government action and the involvement of
DANIDA from 1992. The legal covenants in the SAR that relate to the financial parameters in CRDB's
restructure were unrealistic given the prevailing economic and political climate at the time.
40.         There were several assumptions in the project design which proved to be invalid. A majority
of potential borrowers identified in the SAR were co-operative unions or parastatals, recognised as being
commercially unviable, yet forming the basis of the estimated credit demand, and with no proposals under
the project or other concurrent programmes to make the necessary changes. Therefore, at project start-up,
the identification of other borrowers was immediately necessary, and this contributed to delayed and
reduced project impact. The lack of reform in the marketing of coffee and cotton was recognised as a risk,
4 The Borrower rates the sustainability as likely, a view the Bank does not agree with.
9



but free marketing of these commodities could reasonably have been expected by AERP start-up, with their
subsequent inclusion as sub-projects.
41.        The procedure for disbursements on1 sub-loans was complicated and proved to be a significant
drawback to project implementation. Many sub-borrowers apparently did not fully understand the
procedures and felt constrained by the conditions. Indeed, several approved sub-borrowers declined to take-
up their loans on discovering the complexities of the disbursement procedures. A study on AERP
disbursements that was financed in early 1994, recognised the absence of a supervision schedule for
disbursement activities for each sub-loan and made several recommendationis including the strengthening of
staff at the Foreign Exchange Department in the Azikiwe Branch of CRDB that was responsible for
communication with the correspondent bank. Neither this nor other procedural recommendations from the
study were implemented.
42.        Supervision. Over the 92 month project period, only nine supervision missions visited the
project from headquarters. Supervision was satisfactory until November 1991, after which no full
supervision from headquarters was undertaken until February 1994. During this period, the internal
reorganisation of the World Bank divisions transferred project responsibility from AF6AE to AF2AE, and
some oversight of the project was given to the resident mission. However, in retrospect this informal
follow-up, which focused on subloan administration, was insufficient as a majority of sub-loan activities
were undertaken during this period, the mid-term review was rescheduled, CRDB restructuring
commenced, and the marketing and foreign exchange reforms were in place. This was a critical time for the
project and inadequate levels of monitoring and advice were provided to CRDB. From February 1994
however, substantial efforts were made during and between supervisions to restructure the project, by
limiting the exposure of CRDB and assisting in better management of the existing portfolio. In addition,
project performance may have suffered through the absence of a technical perspective in supervision that
would have more readily identified problems with sub-loan enterprises.
F. BORROWERS PERFORMANCE
43.        The project management was entrusted to the CRDB for the implementation, monitoring and
supervision of both the institutional building and credit components. There was no steering or co-ordinating
committee at senior level, although a Credit Committee (CC) met at irregular intervals until its 26th meeting
in March 1994 to consider loan applications and other AERP matters. The CC was chaired by the
Managing Director (previously General Manager) of CRDB, with as members: a university economist; an
accountant from a commercial company; CRDB staff from Legal Services and Commercial Banking; and
AERP Unit staff including the technical assistance group. A single field visit only was made by the CC, in
early 1994, so little opportunity was gained of first-hand experience of enterprise management levels and
field performance. Effective day-to-day implementation of a major loan portfolio was therefore the
responsibility of the Project Co-ordinator, a middle-rank CRDB staff member.
44.        At appraisal, an additional 10 professionals were considered necessary to reinforce CRDB's
staff for the increased promotion and appraisal activities of AERP. Initially, some 8 professionals formed
the AERP Unit; but this figure was often lower and there was little continuity of staff.
10



45.        Implementation has been generally unsatisfactory througlhout the life of the project, both for
the credit disbursement and institutional building components. Most significantly, the project was
negatively affected by the lack of substantial organisational and finanicial management change in CRDB
during the period of loan disbursement, and the lack of progress in building appraisal capacity and
capability during the main period of sub-loan appraisal and supervision between 1989 and 1994. This was
identified as a major risk at appraisal and was to be covered by a Monitorable Action Plan for restructuring,
written into the Development Credit Agreement. This was not undertakeni.
46.        The project had a history of either delayed compliance or non-compliance of the assurances
and covenants whiclh were central to the project's design. However, the covenants relating to the
ilstitutional and financial restructuring of CRDB were superseded by the FSAC operating from 1991 to
1993, after which AERP's role in strengthening CRDB was subsumed by the involvement of DANIDA as a
major sharelholder of the new CRDB.
47.        Many of the legal covenanits relating to CRDB's financial and management performance were
not complied with. In addition, there were delays in preparing and submitting reports and accounts that
were required by IDA under the project agreements, and these appeared not to form part of the routine
management infornation system required by CRDB. Although AERP's most recently audited accounts to
30 June 1996 were certified, the account documentation appears in some disarray.
48.        Although the SAR specifically excluded working capital as a credit item for sub-borrowers,
the supervision mission of November 1991 agreed that part of the loan proceeds could be utilised for local
cost financing, but on a case-by-case basis. In the event, the issue remained unattended to by CRDB,
apparently due to foreign exchange complications, and an opportunity was lost to provide an additional
service to sub-borrowers and assist those facing local currency constraints.
G. FUTURE OPERATIONS
49.        As part of the continuing program of CRDB privatisation, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) has
agreed to assume responsibility for loan liabilities under AERP, as well as those of the two IFAD-supported
lines of credit and the Pilot Credit Scheme under the IDA-supported Cashew and Coconut Treecrops Project
that have been implemented by CRDB. CRDB expects to act as the agent for loan recovery, and details of
the Memorandum of Understanding involving the financial arrangements are currently under negotiation. It
would be in the Government's interest to ensure that CRDB is adequately rewarded in its capacity as
management agent, so that CRDB is provided with sufficient motivation to pursue sub-loan repayments.
50.        With the transfer of AERP liabilities to MOF, sub-loans are effectively covered by a
Government guarantee. Thus the BOT provisions under the Banking and Financial Institutions Act (1991)
that relate to those conditions under which sub-loan restructuring can take place, do not apply.
Accordingly, CRDB may reschedule individual loans as deemed appropriate.
51.        Following requests from several sub-borrowers, CRDB has agreed that sub-loans may be
repaid in local currency, assuming the exchange rate at the time of repayment. This may be particularly
valuable for producers of sisal, for whom domestic sales of fibre for process and subsequent export, can
represent a substantial proportion of their total production.
11



H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
52.        Overall, the project objective of strengthening CRDB's capability to engage in medium- and
long-term lending in the agricultural sector has been partially achieved. The objective of promoting the
financial and management restructure of CRDB was not successful and was overtaken by subsequent
legislation for financial institutional reform, and the involvement of the private sector in CRDB's
management. The other objective of export development through credit has been partially achieved to the
extent that production and the quality of produce has improved in those enterprises that remain viable. The
final outcome may depend ultimately upon CRDB's ability to restructure existing sub-loans to ensure sub-
project survival and the subsequent repayment of money borrowed. Support for export rehabilitation and of
new ventures has helped in improving rural incomes and employment, and AERP provide a valuable
stimulus to the development of the floriculture sub-sector in Tanzania. However, overall outcome of the
project is considered unsatisfactory due to the poor loan repayment record, the uncertain repayment outlook
for the tea and sisal sub-loans, the large number of loans now subject to legal proceedings, and the
negligible impact on CRDB of the project.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
53.        The key lessons learned from the project were as follows:
it was unreasonable for the Bank preparation and appraisal missions to have
expected significant restructuring of CRDB without the political will that was not
evident until after the enactment of the Banking and Financial Institutions Act
(1991);
-      the negotiation of assurances and covenants between IDA and GOT is only
meaningful where IDA is prepared to take action in the event of subsequent non-
compliance;
-      the disruptive effect of the eventual CRDB restructuring on staff morale, continuity
and efficiency was known at appraisal, and this contributed to the poor monitoring
and supervision of sub-projects;
-      the international technical assistance personnel were directly involved in project
implementation and contributed little to the capacity of CRDB, to the extent that
CRDB staff derived little benefit from their presence;
-      CRDB was able to make multiple loans to individual sub-borrowers, and to
considerably exceed the individual loan limits established at appraisal, with
insufficient evidence of management commitment. This contributed substantially to
CRDB's exposure to risk of loan default;
12



sub-borrowers with substantial and commercially operating enterprises, require a
timely and efficient banking service for effective and profitable business operation.
CRDB was not able to provide this service;
the mid-term review should have been undertaken at its appointed time in PY 3,
particularly as the AERP performance had already been rated by IDA as
unsatisfactory;
supervision missions for agricultural credit programmes should include staff with
technical/agronomic skills, so to be better able to assess agricultural businesses; and
the absence of headquarters supervision from November 1991 until February 1994,
to complement the monitoring being undertaken by the resident mission at a critical
period in both sub-borrower development and CRDB restructuring, may have
contributed substantially to the poor performance of the project.
13



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives          Substantial  Partial   Negligible    Not Applicable
(V)         (V/)      (/)           (7)
Macro policies                     L           [] E 
Sector policies                      I         1LI 0 
Financial objectives               LI                    LI               -II
Institutional development          LI          LI       11              LI
Physical objectives                LI                    LI             LI
Poverty reduction                  LI            I       L I
Gender issues                      LI                L     I            [I
Other social objectives              -I        LI        LI              [
Environmental objectives           LI          LI        LI             [FI
Public sector management           LI          LI      FkI              L I
Private sector development         LI                    LI             LI
Other (specify)                    LI          LI        LI             LI
B. Project sustainability             Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
(7)         (7)         (7)
4I    ZI                L
1 4



Highly
C. Bank perfornance                       satisfactory   Satisfactoly  Deficient
Identification                         E             E           E:
Preparation assistance                  7           z             z
Appraisal                                                           i 7  E
Supervision                            7             E
Highy
D. Borrower performance                   satisfactory    Satisfactorv   Deficient
(/)           (/)          (/)
Preparation                            F            FII
Implementation                                                    Z] E  
Covenant compliance                                 LZ E         E
Operation (if applicable)
LliHbly
E. Assessment of outcome                satisfactory   SatisfactQrv    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
15/)    (/)            01)             V)
1 5



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title       Purpose                     Year of approval    Status
Preceding operations
987-TA                 TRDB (Rural Development)   1980                  Completed
Following operations
2308-TA                Financial Sector Adjustment    1991              Completed
Credit
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                       Date Planned        Date Actual/Latest
Estimate
Identification                                                   Jul-86
Preparation                                                       Nov-86
Pre-Appraisal
Appraisal                                     Apr-87              Apr-87
Negotiations                                 Jul-87               8-Feb-88
Board presentation                            Sep-87              29-Mar-88
Signing                                                           16-Aug-88
Effectiveness                                                     14-Nov-88
Midterm review                               Jun-91               May-95
Project completion                            30-June-96          30-June-96
Credit closing                                30-June-96          30-June-96
16



Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY                                 88/89          89/90           90/91          91/92          92/93           93/94        94/95         95/96
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate (cumulative)         1.7             5.7           11.7           17.7           22.5            25.9         28.4       30.0
Actual (cumulative)                     0.4             1.5            3.0            5.0             8.1           13.6         17.4       17.9
Actual as % of estimate                25%            26%             26%            28%            36%             52%          61%       60%
(SDR Million)
Appraisal Estimate (cumulative)         1.2            4.2             8.6           13.0            16.5           19.0         20.8        22.0
Actual (cumulative)                     0.3             1.1            2.2            3.7             5.8           10.2         12.5        12.8
Actual as % of estimate                25%            27%             26%            28%            35%             54%          60%       58%
Note: At the time of the ICR mission, the reconciliation of the Special Account had not yet been completed
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Item                                    Unit                       At Appraisal  Adjusted at                     Actual/
I              I MTR
Loans Disbursed                         US$                        24.1                 n/a                      15.4
Training
- Overseas fellowships                  months                     60                   n/a                      0
- Study tours                           months                     24                   n/a                      8
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I.  Key operating indicators in
SAR/President's Report                  Estimated                                    Actual
n/a                                          n/a
17



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined at
Study                  appraisal/redefined        Status                Impact of Study
Detailed portfolio     Recommend changes in       Completed             Negligible
review                 loss reserves and
provisions
CRDB Restructuring     Phased plan for            Completed             Negligible
study                  restructuring
Financial Information  Effective financial systems   Completed          Negligible
Systems study          for CRDB's future needs
18



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate                     Actual /1
(US$ m)                                (US$ m)
Item                                     Foreign    Local          Total        Foreign    Local          Total
Credit Component Costs
Investment and Working Capital           24.1         10.0         34.1         15.6         n/a
Feasibility Studies for Sub-
projects                                 0.8          0.3          1.1          0.9          0.03
Management Assistance and
Training                                 0.4          0.1          0.5          0.04         n/a
Sub-total                                25.3         10.4         35.7         16.5         n/a          n/a
Credit Component Costs
Restructuring of CRDB                    1.2          0.9          2.1          0.05         n/a
Computer Equipment                       0.4          0.1          0.5          0.1          n/a
Training to CRDB staff                   0.3          0.3          0.6          0.1          n/a
Technical Assistance                     0.7          0.2          0.9          1.1          0.13
Contingencies                            0.1          0.1          0.2
Sub-Total                                2.7          1.6          4.3          1.4          n/a          n/a
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       28.0          12.0        40.0         17.9          n/a          n/a
Note: /1 There is no record of local costs incurred either by sub-borrowers, or CRDB except for costs of appraisal and supervision costs by AERP
Unit and CRDB staff as set out in the CRDB document "Profitability Analysis for the AERP Programme (1996)".
At the time of the ICR mission, the reconciliation of the Special Account had not yet been completed
19



Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)    Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Source                  Foreign   Local    Total     Foreign      Local    Total
IDA                     28.0     2.0       30.0      17.9         n/a       n/a
CRDB                    -        2.0       2.0       -            0.17      n/a
Beneficiaries           -        8.0       8.0       -            n/a       n/a
TOTAL                   28.0     12.0      40.0      17.9         n/a       n/a
20



Table 9: Economic and Financial Costs and Benefits
i)          Categorised and itemised project costs are not available from CRDB, despite an external audit
of AERP's accounts for the period ending 30 June 1996, and their subsequent certification by the CRDB
Board of Directors. Discrepancies exist in the documentation within CRDB, and there has been no attempt
to assess the contribution to total project costs by either the sub-borrowers, CRDB or GOT.
ii)         The overall economic rate of return was not calculated at appraisal. However, the economic
justification for the project was that only sub-loans with ERRs in excess of 15% were to be approved.
Whilst the sub-loan appraisal process involved an ERR assessment and each satisfied the 15% cut-off point,
the sensitivity to major physical and price assumptions was high in many cases. An attempt was made to
reassess the ERR of the investments which contributed to on-going businesses but, in these cases, a true
assessment of the effect of the project supported investment was not possible for two reasons: (i) it was not
possible to determine the extent of the borrowers contribution to the investment and therefore the total sub-
project cost; and (ii) further investments had been made since the original project-financed investment,
financed from a mixture of external debt, equity, or from internally generated funds, which made it
impossible to identify the benefits deriving from the original investment alone.
iii)        Whilst the impact on foreign exchange earnings was not estimated in the SAR, two factors
may have depressed the net foreign exchange benefits that were anticipated at appraisal. First, a majority of
the individual sub-projects have not been able to generate the foreign earnings as anticipated due to
marketing and management problems. This applies particularly to tea and sisal enterprises, for which world
market prices have decreased. Second, almost one-half of sub-project investments were in floriculture
enterprises that have operating costs with a higher content of foreign exchange than the traditional export
agriculture enterprises.
iv)         The project has made a substantial contribution through the increase in local employment
opportunities, particularly for women and youth in the sisal, tea and floriculture enterprises, with an
estimated 10,000 additional opportunities created directly as a result of AERP activities.
21



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section        Covenant                                 Status    Comments    Description
Type
Credit        2.02(a)      Management aspects                       CP        DANIDA        Restructuring of CRDB
project      and strengthening of its
overtook     agricultural lending
IDA's role.   capabilities through
management assistance
and training (schedule 2).
Credit       2.01(b)       Finance. performance                     C         Complied.    Borrower to open and
maintain in dollars a
special account at BOT
in accordance with
schedule 3 provisions.
Credit       3.01 (b)      Flow & util of funds                     CP        Partial       Borrower to relend credit
compliance.  proceeds in accordance
with a subsidiary loan
agreement entered
between borrower and
CRDB.
Credit       3.05(b)       Finance. performance -Counterpart funding   CP     Complied re.: CRDB to maintain a
escrow       foreign exchange escrow
account but   account from its earnings
not funded    utinder the project in an
with the     amount equivalent to
amount of the provisions created to
provision.    cover bad doubtful debts.
Credit       4.0 1(b)      Accounts/audit                           CD/P      Complied      Borrower to have project
with delay.   records and accounts
Audits       required to be maintained
frequently    under 4.01 (a) and those
overdue      for the special account
and/or       audited and furnished to
qualified.    IDA not later than six
months after the end of
the year.
Project      2.02          Management aspects                       C         Complied.    CRDB to employ
consultants withl
qualifications, experience
and terms satisfactory to
IDA.
Project      2.03(a)       Flow & util of funds                     PC        Partial       CRDB to make sub-loans
compliance.  in accordance with
procedures, terms and
conditions in schedule I
of PA.
Project      3,01(b)       Flow & util of funds                     C         Complied.    CRDB to lhave its
records, accounts and
financial statements
audited and furnished to
IDA not later than six
moutlhs after each fiscal
year.
Project      3.02(a)       Finance. performance                     NC        Not complied. CRDB to earn for each ot
its fiscal vear alter June
30, 1990. an anIual rate
of return of not less than
1.2% of thc total average
value of its assets in
operation.
22



Table 10: (Continued)
Agreement   Section         Covenant                                   Status    Comments    Description
Type
Project       3.02(b)       Management aspects -Monitoring & report  NC          Not complied. Belbre March in each of
its fiscal years, CRDB to
review whether it would
meet the requirement
under pa3 02(a). based
on forecasts prepared by
CRDB and acceptable to
IDA.
Project       3.02(c)       Management aspects -Implementation        NC         Not complied. If any such review shows
that CRDB would not
meet the requirement in
pa 3.02(a) CRDB shall
promptly take all
necessary actions to meet
such requiremenlt.
Project       3.03          Finance. performance                      NC         Not complied. After its fiscal year
ending June 30. 1990.
CRDB to maintain a ratio
ot current asscts to
currcnt liabilities ot'not
less than 1.5: 1.
Otherwise it shall take
steps similar to those in
3.02(b) and 3 02(c)
above.
Project       3.04          Finance. performance                      NC         Not complied. For each of its fiscal year
after June 30. 1990,
CRDB to carn an annual
rate of return of not less
than 10% on its equity.
Otherwise, it shall take
steps similar to those
indicated in 3.02(b) and
3.02(c) above.
Project       3.05          Finance. performance -Implementation      NC         Not complied. CRDB take steps. as
shall be necessary to
protect itseilfagainst the
risk of loss resulting
from changes in rates of
exchange betwceen the
various currencies used
in its operations
Project       3.06          Finance. performance                      C         Complied       Not later thani September
30, 1988, CRDB to. (a)
provide evidence
satisfactory to IDA that it
has established a sound
asset base, and (b)
prepare a plan otf actionl
i'or reducing the
remainiina loan arrears as
of June 30, 1987 by
33 1/3% annually.
23



Table 10: (Continued)
Agreement   Section        Covenant                                 Status    Comments    Description
Type
Project      2.01(b)       Management aspects -Implementation       NC        Not complied CRDB to carry out
implementation program
in sche.2 relating to its
organizational
restructuring; staffing;
finanlcial rehabilitation;
operating costs and profit
margin, establishing a
portfolio management
and operational policies;
information systems;
Project      Schedule 2,   Management aspects                       CP        Partial       Not later than 12/31/88,
Para 4                                                          compliance   CRDB to employ the
following professionals:
(i) for its Dev. Bank
dept., two economists, a
statistician/economist.
two financial analysts
and two agronomists; &
(ii)for its Planning. and
Dev. Dept., an engineer,
a financial analyst.
Project      Schedule 2.   Monitoring & report.-Implementation      CP        Draft report   CRDB to undertake a
Para 13                                                         received May major review of overall
1995         project performance and
furnish report thereof to
IDA by not later than
Juiie 30, 1991, and
discuss the findings of
the review with IDA by
not later thain October
1991, and reach
agreement on an action
program for the
remainder ot 'roject
Implementationi.
Present Status:
C - Covenant complied with
CD - Complied with after delay
CP - Complied with partially
NC - Not complied with
24



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle   Planned                  Revised                 Actual l/
Preparation to                       n/a                      n/a         113        234.2
appraisal
Appraisal                            n/a                      n/a         63.1        149.6
Negotiations through                                                      9.7        23.3
Board approval
Supervision                          n/a                      n/a         129.4      386.0
Completion 2/                        n/a                      n/a         14.0       48.1
1                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
1Including travel costs
2/ Carried out by FAO/CP
n/a - Not available - not recorded on Cost Accounting System
25



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number   Days in       Specialized Staff  Implementation    Development
Stage of Project   Month/Year    of          Field        Skills            Status             Objectives       Types of
Cycle                             Persons                 Represented                                           Problems
Pre-appraisal     5/85            5          n/a          n/a               -                  -                -
Appraisal         4/87            4          n/a          E, FA, B          -                  -                -
Supervision       5/89            2          7            FA, FA            U                  U                PM, F
11/89          2           25          FA, FA             U                 U                PM, F
4/90            2          17           FA, FA            S                  S                -
11/90          2           13          FA, FA            U                  U                PM
5/91            2          12          FA, FA             U                 U                 PM, F
11/91           1          14          FA                 U                 U                PM, F
2/94            4          9           Ops, E, E, FA      U                 U                 F
5/95            2          5           FA, Ops            S                 S                 -
3/96            3          28          FA, AE, Ops        U                 U
Completion /1     9/96            2           12          AE, Ag
Abbreviations:     AE = Agricultural Economist; Ag = Agronomist; FA = Financial Analyst; Ops = Operations Officer; B = Banking
Specialist; E = Economist.
U = Unsatisfactory; S = Satisfactory
PM = Project Management; F = Financing
1/ Carried out by FAO/CP
26



APPENDIX A
MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE



FOOD AND AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION
OF THE UNITED NATIONS
Investment Centre Division
TANZANIA: Agricultural Export Rehabilitation Project (AERP) (Cr 1895-TA)
Implementation Completion Report Mission
Aide-Memoire
A. Introduction
An FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (CP) mission1 visited Tanzania
from 25 August to 13 September 1996 to prepare the ICR for the
above  project.    Discussions  were  held  with  the  concerned
officials from the Ministry of Finance (MOF), Ministry of
Agriculture and Co-operatives (MOAC), Bank of Tanzania (BOT) and
staff of the World Bank Resident Mission in Dar es Salaam,
including the Task Manager of AERP.  The mission worked closely
with CRDB (1996) Limited, the restructured Cooperative and Rural
Development Bank, which was the implementation agency of the
project.  Contact was made with the enterprises of 13 of the 23
sub-borrowers of project funds in the Arusha, Kilimanjaro and
Tanga Regions.  A wrap-up meeting was held on 12 August 1996 in
Arusha.   The FAOR, Tanzania was kept informed of progress and
briefed on the outcome of the mission.
The mission would like to express its appreciation for the
assistance given by the officials of the Government of Tanzania,
and for the cooperation and courtesy of the management and staff
of CRDB
B.   Background
The AERP was conceived during the mid-1980s at a time when
the financial sector was performing poorly due to lack of
competition, excessive interest rate controls and minimal bank
supervision.   Credit was directed on the basis of Government
priorities without regard to creditworthiness, and banks were
convenient  agents of  fiscal policy.   Non-bankable  activities
were financed, with a misallocation of resources to the
parastatals and agricultural cooperatives.   This resulted in a
large accumulation of non-performing loans (around two-thirds of
the total) and by 1988 the banking system was technically
insolvent
An Economic Reform Programme (ERP) was introduced in 1986
to   improve   macroeconomic   management,   tackle   underlying
structural weaknesses and encourage more active private sector



participation.   Economic measures designed to reduce the budget
deficit  and  improve  the  balance  of  payments  included  a
substantial depreciation of the overvalued exchange rate, trade
liberalisation, the removal of most price controls and the
easing of restrictions on the marketing of most food crops.
Nevertheless,   foreign  exchange  remained  in  short  supply,
severely constraining the essential rehabilitation of export
enterprises.
Following the Commission of Enquiry of 1988 into the
Monetary and Banking System, the Government acknowledged the
perverse impact on the sector caused by a lack of competition
and Government interference, and through the enactment of the
Banking and Financial Institutions Act (1991) permitted the
entry of private banks, with expanded and enhanced supervisory
and regulatory controls vested in the Bank of Tanzania (BOT)
C. Project Objectives and Components
The objectives of the project were to:
(i) promote agricultural exports in the traditional crop
sector (coffee, tea, sisal, cashewnuts, cotton and tobacco) and
thereby increase foreign exchange earnings;
(ii) give greater emphasis to market forces to increase the
efficiency of resource allocation; and
(iii)advance institution building by strengthening the
capability of CRDB to engage in medium and long-term lending in
the agricultural sector.
The project consisted of two components: (i) a credit
component (US$ 26.7 million) consisting of sub-loans to be
managed by CRDB, and financed under a subsidiary loan agreement
between  CRDB  and  the  Ministry  of  Finance;   and  (ii)  an
institutional building component (US$ 3.3 million) for CRDB
comprising   technical   assistance,   training,   equipment   and
studies.   Although 3 possible  implementing agencies had been
identified during preparation, the project was implemented
solely by CRDB, which had close links with the cooperative
unions and parastatals that were expected to be the main
beneficiaries of the project
To achieve its objectives, the project was to:
(i) provide  .long-term  financial  support  for  investment
projects for the rehabilitation and expansion of agricultural
export enterprises (sub-borrowers) and for improving the quality
of Tanzania's exports:
(ii) provide foreign exchange to finance capital investment
and up to three years of the recurrent import requirements
(excluding seasonal inputs) of sub-borrowers;
(iii) restructure CRDB and transform it into a viable
agricultural financial intermediary;



(iv) advance the process of agricultural reform in the
sector and enable cooperative unions, parastatal agencies and
the private agricultural enterprises to take advantage of the
recent   liberalization   of   agricultural   input   supply   and
distribution, export crop marketing and producer pricing; and
(v) provide technical assistance funds for the recruitment
of short-term consultants to carry out sub-project feasibility
studies and for long-term advisors to support the management
capability of sub-borrowers.
Total project costs were estimated during appraisal at US$
40 million to be financed as follows: IDA credit US$ 30 million
(SDR 22 million equivalent), CRDB US$ 2.0 million and sub-
borrowers  US$  8.0  million.       Foreign  exchange  costs  were
estimated at US$ 28.0 million or 70% of total project costs.
The AERP was appraised in April 1987 and approved by IDA in
March 1988.  The Credit was signed on 16 August 1988 and became
effective on 14 November 1988.   The project was intended for a
period of up  to  8 years.   Although  appraised and  initially
supervised by the Southern Africa Department of the World Bank,
the Credit was transferred during implementation to the Eastern
Africa Department in July 1992.
Approved loans from CRDB to sub-borrowers under AERP
totalled only US$ 17.8 million, of which only US$ 15.3 million
or 57% of the projected level of US$ 26.7 million. A recognised
deterioration in performance of the loan portfolio, and the
realisation that CRDB and not the Government, was liable for any
losses incurred, led IDA to advise CRDB in February 1994 to
discontinue the processing of new loans, and to review each loan
on a case-by-case basis before further disbursements were made.
No  new  loans  were  approved  after  December  1993,   and
disbursements on existing committments effectively ceased by the
end of 1994. The Mid-Term Review took place in May 1995 and the
project closed on 30 June 1996.
D. Achievement of Project Objectives
The project at least partly achieved its development
objective of foreign exchange lending (at an interest rate of 8%
per annum)  to export-oriented agricultural investment.   Thus a
valuable adjunct was provided to the Investment Promotion Centre
(IPC) scheme which provided tax exemptions on imported capital
items, established by the Government in 1990 to attract
investment to Tanzania
Loans were disbursed to only 23 sub-borrowers, due mainly
to the limited number of proposals forwarded that were eligible
for  project  support.      In  addition,   commodity  prices  for
traditional export crops had deteriorated, rendering investment
in rehabilitation and expansion marginal in some cases. The



cooperative unions and parastatals that had been targeted at
appraisal,   were   unable   to  be   supported   due   to   their
ineligibility   on   grounds   of   substandard   management   and
inadequate creditworthiness.   Thus the sub-borrowers were all
companies in the private sector, initially in the tea and sisal
industries and latterly in the horticultural sub-sector
The project was operational during the period following
market liberalisation and reform, and commercial investments,
mainly in the tea, sisal and horticulture industries, were
possible as a result of freedoms in exports and imports, as well
as foreign exchange flows.   The very large number of proposals
for rehabilitation in the cotton and coffee industries could not
be supported however.   This was due to a lack of progress with
market liberalization in the cotton sector that did not allow
export by producers themselves and thus retention of foreign
exchange, and the use by the Government of coffee revenues as
part of a barter deal for oil purchases.
Whilst the impact on foreign exchange earnings was not
estimated at appraisal, two factors have depressed the net
foreign exchange benefits  that were anticipated.   Firstly,  a
majority of the individual sub-projects have not been able to
generate foreign earnings as anticipated due to marketing and
management problems.   Secondly,  more than 50% of investments
were in floricultural enterprises that have operating costs with
a high content of foreign exchange. The project has contributed
to a substantial increase in local employment opportunities,
particularly in the sisal, tea and floriculture enterprises.
The institutional strengthening objectives were not met as
a result of the project.   The technical assistance concentrated
on subloan appraisal and supervision of the AERP portfolio, as
opposed to the strengthening of CRDB's overall capacity for
medium and long-term lending as the project had intended.   The
training programme was abbreviated and unstructured, and there
were few study tours for CRDB staff and none for sub-borrowers.
There was no overseas fellowship training in appraisal
techniques.
The project had little impact on the overall financial and
organisational management of CRDB.   Considering the failure of
the previous IDA efforts to restructure CRDB (Credit 987-TA),
and a relative lack of success in this area of the subsequent
IDA-supported Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC), it is
perhaps unreasonable to have expected significant improvements
without  the  accompaniment  of  serious  political  and  CRDB
management support for such changes.   In the event, it required
the enactment of the legislation associated with the Banking and
Financial Institutions Act (1991), the involvement of DANIDA in
CRDB's affairs, and the strengthened supervision of BOT, for
significant achievements to be made.   The mission notes  that
these events and interventions have resulted in a substantially



restructured CRDB by the time of project completion, more
market-oriented and able to survive in a competitive business
environment.
E. Implementation Experience and Results
General
Implementation has been generally unsatisfactory throughout
the life of the project, both for the credit disbursement and
institutional  building  components.    Most  significantly,  the
project was negatively affected by the lack of substantial
organizational and financial management change in CRDB during
the period of loan disbursement, and the lack of progress in
building appraisal capacity and capability during the period of
activity of sub-loan appraisal and supervision between 1989 and
1994.  This was identified as a major risk at appraisal and was
to be covered by a Monitorable Action Plan for restructuring,
written into the Development Credit Agreement.   The project had
a history of either delayed compliance or non-compliance of the
assurances and covenants which were central to the project's
design.   However,  the covenants relating to the institutional
and financial restructuring of CRDB were superseded by the
Financial Sector Restructuring Project (FSRP) under FSAC which
operated from 1991 to 1993.  Following this, the project's role
in strengthening CRDB was subsumed by the involvement of DANIDA
as a major shareholder of the new CRDB.
The Credit Component
The project sought to provide finance for the capital
(machinery, equipment, spare parts and vehicles) and recurrent
costs (although not for seasonal costs) required to rehabilitate
or   expand   agricultural   export   enterprises,   lending   to
cooperative,   parastatal   and   private   firms   which   were
creditworthy.    An  initial  pipeline  of  38  sub-projects  were
identified at appraisal of which only five were creditworthy and
eventually participated.  It was therefore necessary to redefine
the  investment  focus  to  include  both  traditional  and  non-
traditional agricultural exports, as well as start-up ventures,
and to revise upwards the loan limits.   Following this change,
there was a delay before new, non-traditional sub-projects were
designed, appraised and approved, the majority of which were in
flower   and  horticultural   production   in  the  Arusha   and
Kilimanjaro regions.
Nevertheless, some 84 sub-projects were put forward for
consideration by CRDB1 and either approved (23), rejected on non-
viability grounds (27), loans approved but not taken up (7), or
were in the pipeline at the time of the closure on new loans in
1994 (27).  A considerable proportion of project staff time was



devoted to the appraisal of new sub-projects which failed to
result in further loan disbursements, rather than to the
supervision and monitoring of existing loans.   This may have
enabled approved sub-projects to deteriorate beyond the point at
which disbursements should prudently have been curtailed.   Of
the 23 loans disbursed, only 8 are currently not in default of
payments, and 7 of these are still in their grace period. Seven
sub-projects are currently the subject of legal action, while
all but one of the remaining loans require review and where
necessary,  restructure.   Generally,  sub-project appraisals are
of good quality, although several make over-optimistic yield and
production assumptions, and pay too little attention to the
availability of the working capital contributions of individual
sub-borrowers.
Delays were experienced in the feasibility, appraisal and
approval of loans to sub-borrowers.   After loan approval,  the
disbursement procedure proved cumbersome and time consuming.
There were considerable delays  in the opening of letters of
credit  for  the  provision  of  capital  items,  which  may  have
contributed to the ultimate poor performance of some sub-
borrowers.   Although CRDB's selected external bank recognised
the delays and made some efforts to expedite disbursements, this
ultimately proved ineffective. CRDB assistance to sub-borrowers
in negotiating these procedures appeared minimal, although one
workshop for sub-borrowers was held and a simple guideline
prepared.    However,  the performance of CRDB as  implementing
agency was not aided by the considerable disruption to staff
effectiveness in the period 1991-1995, during which CRDB
reorganisation occurred and almost two-thirds of total staff
were retrenched.
In many cases there was a lack of clearly defined
implementation arrangements in the sub-loan agreements that led
to borrowers not being subjected to pressure to follow time
schedules.   A number of borrowers continued to draw down, even
after the expiry of the grace period under their loan
agreements, and in some cases the equipment purchased was
different from that specified in the proposal.   This can be
attributed directly to inadequate supervision of individual sub-
projects during the implementation phase. In many cases, little
if any attempt has been made to force sub-borrower compliance
with loan conditions agreed at negotiation.   This may have led
to a late appreciation by CRDB of poor sub-borrower performance,
as regular reports and CRDB's presence on company boards has not
been enforced.
Traditional Export Crops. Only tea and sisal were included
in this category with 5 and 8 loans respectively, representing
14% of the total disbursed portfolio in the case of tea and 28%
for sisal. However, these represent only 7 effective borrowers,
considerably increasing the exposure of the portfolio to risk of
default.   Apart from  the loan to the Mufindi Tea Company Ltd



that was repaid in full, all loans are in arrears of interest or
capital repayments or both.   Loans for sisal rehabilitation are
of particular concern, given the nature of the industry and the
poor world market situation. Four sub-loans were approved for a
single company without an agricultural track record, and non-
significant quantities of fibre have been produced in recent
years.
Non-Traditional Export Crops.   Of the 10 sub-borrowers in
this category, 5 are producers of cut flowers (mainly roses) in
Arusha and Kilimanjaro, for export to Europe, with loans
totalling US$ 7.5 million or 49% of the AERP portfolio.   These
represent AERP's most successful venture and with CRDB's
aggressive promotion, attracted investors from the much larger
producing areas of neighbouring Kenya, through cheap loans and
the IPC incentive. This potentially profitable sub-sector has a
high associated risk, particularly as sub-borrowers appear to
prefer to expand their production rather than repay loans.
Other sub-borrowers in horticulture, essential oil production,
crocodile farming, seaweed production and fishing, appear less
satisfactory, and provide a demonstration of the inherent risk
in bank lending to new enterprises for which venture capital
might be the normal source of investment finance.
The Institutional Building Component
CRDB institution building was expected in the form of (i) a
programme to restructure CRDB, including the development of the
restructuring  plan  and  its  implementation  (ii)  management
assistance and training for CRDB staff to strengthen CRDB's
project promotion and appraisal capability, and (iii) technical
assistance   to  assist  CRDB  and  sub-borrowers   to  prepare
feasibility studies for the sub-projects.
As an initial measure, funds from a PPF of US$ 1.5 million
were available for studies to develop a Monitorable Action
Programme for CRDB restructure including: a detailed portfolio
review by independent auditors to recommend changes in loan loss
reserves and an appropriate level of provisions; and a study by
banking specialists to develop a phased plan for restructuring
CRDB.   In addition,  a financial information system study was
expected to develop an effective system appropriate for CRDB's
current and future needs and determine the training requirements
of bank staff. There is no evidence that the PPF studies played
any useful part in the restructure of CRDB that has taken place
since the early 1990s.
Although some 111 months of technical assistance were
provided for both long-term and individual sub-loan feasibility
studies, the TA team was involved in sub-project appraisal and
supervision and there was little effective staff training and



strengthening of CRDB's overall capacity for medium and long
term lending as the project had intended.
The project was designed so that the experience gained
through the operation of a line of medium to long-term credit,
supported by technical assistance in portfolio management, would
filter through to the remainder of CRDB lending operations.
This implementation strategy was altered almost as soon as the
project  had  started,  and  in  late-1989,  a  special  Project
Implementation Unit was created to keep the staff, funds and
accounting for AERP activities separate from mainline bank
programmes.
Whilst the mission recognises the uncertainties concerning
CRDB restructuring prevailing at that time, this change may have
contributed to two outcomes: firstly the failure to transfer
AERP experience to other banking operations;  and secondly the
misconception  that  the  AERP  liabilities  were  not  CRDB's
liabilities and thus need not be recorded in the CRDB's annual
accounts.    This  in turn may have  contributed to  a  lack of
attention from senior CRDB management to the discipline required
to successfully appraise and supervise the sub-projects.   For
example, no effective system of routine sub-project review and
supervision appears to have been designed or implemented, with
the result that the financial condition of some sub-borrowers
had been allowed to deteriorate alarmingly before the condition
was fully appreciated and remedial action taken.
The eventual restructuring and privatization of CRDB led to
reduced staff resources being dedicated to AERP matters; falling
from 8 staff in 1989 to 4 in 1994.   Currently only 2 of the
Special Programmes Unit (including the Chief Manager)  are fully
experienced in AERP sub-loan management.
It became clear as early as 1991 that the portfolio was of
mixed  quality.    Interest  arrears  had accumulated,  apparently
without action being taken, and principal repayments were not
being met by sub-borrowers. At project completion, legal action
is being taken over debt recovery from 7 of the sub-loans,
amounting to some US$ 5.2 million, and 15 of the remaining
projects are at least in default of interest repayments.   The
result is a portfolio of currently non-performing loans.
Mid-term Review (MTR)
At appraisal, the MTR for the project was scheduled for PY
3,  at  the  end  of  June  1991.    This  was  considered  to  be'
essential, and particular attention was to be paid to the
progress of institutional reforms, with a major review setting
out an action program for the remainder of the project period.
At the time scheduled for the MTR, CRDB management requested a
postponement so that the conclusions of the portfolio audit and



assessment of CRDB's financial position to be carried out under
the FSRP could be incorporated.   However,  as a result of the
major changes at CRDB which started during 1993, a further
postponement was agreed by IDA, and the review was not carried
out until May 1995, some 4 years after its original schedule and
7 years after project initiation.
Given the risks inherent in the project that were
identified  at  appraisal,   the  changes  to  the  focus  and
implementation mechanism of the credit program that had already
been necessary during the early stages of the project, and the
recognition  by  World  Bank  supervision  missions  that  the
implementation progress was unsatisfactory, the MTR should have
taken  place  as  planned.       This  would  have  enabled  the
implementation issues to have been addressed, particularly those
relating to the performance of the loan portfolio.   As it was,
the MTR took place after new loan disbursement had ceased, TA
had been completed and the project was effectively over.
F. Institutional Performance
World Bank Performance
Project Design.   The project was adequately designed to
address foreign exchange issues that were limiting further
investment in the agricultural sector at the time.  However, the
necessary prerequisites for the reform of CRDB, the major factor
for project success, were underestimated. The project aimed at
the  restructuring  of  CRDB  through  studies  and  technical
assistance which, whilst potentially valuable exercises, needed
to be provided in the context of visible, internally generated
motivation for change in organizational behaviour.   There was
little evidence of this in 1988, although it was subsequently
prompted by legislation, Government action and the involvement
of  DANIDA  from  1993.    The  legal  covenants  relating  to  the
financial   and   management   restructuring   are   considered
unrealistic targets given the prevailing economic and political
climate at the time.
There were several assumptions in the project design which
proved  to be  invalid.    The majority  of potential  borrowers
identified in the SAR were co-operative unions or parastatals.
At appraisal these were recognized as being commercially
unviable, yet they formed the basis of the estimated credit
demand, with no proposals under the project or other concurrent
programs to make the necessary changes.   Therefore, at project
start-up, the identification of other borrowers was immediately
necessary, and this contributed to delayed and reduced project
impact.   The lack of reform in the marketing of coffee and
cotton was recognized as a risk, but free marketing of these
commodities could reasonably have been expected at project
start-up.



The procedure for disbursements on the sub-loans was
complicated and proved to be a significant drawback to project
implementation.    Many of  the enterprises  apparently did not
fully understand the procedures and felt constrained by the
conditions.
Supervision.    The  supervision  of  the  project  has  been
satisfactory   until   November   1991,   after  which   no   full
supervision was undertaken until  February  1994.   During  this
time, the internal reorganization of the World Bank divisions
transferred project responsibility from AF6AG to AF2AG, and the
task management to the resident mission.   However, during this
period  of  project  implementation,   a  majority  of  sub-loan
activities were undertaken, the mid-term review was rescheduled,
CRDB was restructured, and the results of the marketing and
foreign exchange reforms were in place.   This was a critical
time for the project and an inadequate level of monitoring and
advice  were  available  to CRDB.    The mission  recognizes  the
significant efforts made since 1994 to restructure the project,
by limiting the exposure of CRDB and assisting in better
management  of  the  existing portfolio.    Supervision may  have
suffered through the absence of a technical perspective that
would have more readily identified problems with sub-loan
enterprises.
CRDB Performance
The project management was entrusted to the CRDB for the
implementation,   monitoring   and   supervision   of   both   the
institutional  building  and credit  components.    There  was  no
steering or coordinating committee at senior level, although a
Credit Committee (CC) met at irregular intervals until March
1994 (26th meeting) to consider loan applications and other AERP
matters.     The  CC  was  chaired  by  the  Managing  Director
(previously General Manager), with a university economist, an
accountant from a commercial company, CRDB staff from Legal
Services  and Commercial Banking,  as well  as AERP Unit  staff
including the technical assistance group.  A single field visit
only was made by the CC, in early 1994, so little opportunity
was gained of first-hand experience of enterprise management
levels and field performance.
At   appraisal,   an   additional   10  professionals   were
considered necessary to reinforce CRDB's staff for the increased
promotion  and  appraisal  under  AERP.         Initially,   some  8
professionals formed the AERP Unit; but this figure was often
lower and there was little continuity of staff.
As mentioned above, many of the legal covenants relating to
CRDB's financial and management performance were not complied
with.     In  addition,  there  were  delays  in  preparing  and



submitting reports and accounts that were required by IDA under
the project agreements.   The most recently audited accounts to
30 June 1996 were certified.
G.  Future Operations
CRDB is in default of the subsidiary loan agreement,
commencing September 1995.   The Treasury has agreed to assume
responsibility for loan liabilities under AERP (as well as those
of IFAD, and the Pilot Credit Scheme under the IDA-supported
Cashew and Coconut Treecrops Project), and CRDB expects to act
as the agent for loan recovery. It would be in the Government's
interest to ensure that CRDB is adequately rewarded in its
capacity as management agent, so that CRDB is provided with
sufficient motivation to pursue sub-loan repayments with vigour.
With the transfer of AERP loan liabilities to the Treasury,
there  is  an  effective  Government  guarantee.    Under  these
conditions, the BOT provisions under the Banking and Financial
Institutions Act (1991) that relate to conditions under which
loan restructuring can take place, do not apply.   Accordingly,
CRDB may reschedule individual loans as considered appropriate.
Several sub-borrowers have requested that loans be repaid
in  local  currency.    This  may  be  particularly  valuable  for
producers of sisal, for whom domestic sales of fibre for process
and subsequent export, can represent a substantial proportion of
their total production.
H. Project Sustainability
Currently there are only 2 CRDB staff in the Special
Programme Unit (SPU) that have been continuously involved in
sub-loan appraisal and evaluation. Although other SPU staff are
receiving training, there is little assurance of a continuity of
staff involvement in the AERP portfolio for the future.   Few
other CRDB staff possess the necessary appraisal skills for such
large investment programmes, despite the current and on-going
training  programmes  at  headquarters  and  branch  level.    The
computer expertise essential for rapid enterprise evaluation is
not available at the branch level.
Under the CRDB decentralisation policy, it is intended that
staff at branch level will monitor and supervise the AERP
portfolio,   including   the   restructuring   of   loans   where
appropriate.   The mission believes that branches have neither
the capacity nor capability to undertake these tasks, unless
reinforced with staff experienced in handling major and complex
loans.



The performance of the individual sub-borrowers is highly
variable.   The floriculture enterprises are already in profit,
while those for sisal, which is of much longer term development,
require additional working capital resources to be successful.
Tea enterprises are intermediate and could reach profitable
levels within the next 2 years.  Apart from the 7 sub-borrowers
under litigation, there is sufficient equity in the remaining
enterprises to provide substantial motivation for their private
sector owners. However, CRDB will need to determine rapidly the
appropriate approach (loan restructure or the legal option) for
the recovery of liabilities from each sub-borrower, and to
pursue these with all the vigour at their disposal.
I. Main Lessons Learned
The key lessons learned from the project were as follows:
-  it  was  unreasonable  to  have  expected  significant
restructuring of CRDB without the political will that was not
evident until after the enactment of the Banking and Financial
Institutions Act (1991);
-  CRDB was  able  to make multiple  loans  (up to  4)  to
individual   sub-borrowers,   and  to  considerably  exceed  the
individual loan limits established at appraisal without evidence
of  enterprise  profitability  or management  commitment.    This
contributed significantly to the bank's exposure to risk;
-  commercial  businesses  require  a timely and efficient
banking service for effective and profitable operation.   CRDB
was not always able to provide this service;
-  a mid-term review  is an essential  tool  at which  an
independent assessment can be made of project progress, and
should have been undertaken at its appointed time, particularly
as   the   AERP   performance   had   already   been   rated   as
unsatisfactory;
-  supervision missions for agricultural credit programmes
should consider the inclusion of technical; and
-  the absence of formal supervision from November  1991
until February 1994, at a critical period of both sub-borrower
development and CRDB restructure, may have contributed to the
poor performance of the project.
J. Items Outstanding
Closing of the Special Account.   CRDB is continuing the
process of reconciliation. All accounts should be finalised and
closed by 31 October 1996.



Project  Costs.    CRDB  has  yet  to  provide  an  itemised
breakdown of project costs.
K. Follow-up
On return to Rome by 15 September 1996, the mission will
prepare a draft ICR to be forwarded to IDA by mid-October 1996.
The Borrower's contribution to the ICR is expected from CRDB
and/or the Treasury before the mission leaves Tanzania.
13.9.96



APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOR THE
AGRICULTURAL EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1891 TA)
CRDB (1996) LIMITED PERSPECTIVE
1.0    PREFACE:
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Export Rehabilitation
Project (AERP) launched in the United Republic of Tanzania; for which a credit in the amount of
SDR 22,000,000 (equivalent to US$ 30.0 million) was approved in 1988. Of the total US$ 30.0
million US$ 26.7 million and US$ 3.3 million was for credit and institution building components
respectively.
The project's credit was closed on 30th June 1996 for all disbursements except for those which
IDA had approved prior to that date. As at the close of the project period, US$ 17.8 million of
the credit component amount (65%) had been approved by CRDB's Board of Directors. Of the
total amount approved, US$ 15.3 million - which is 88% and 57% of the approved and disbursed
amounts respectively - had been disbursed. The last disbursement is expected to take place in
September 1996. The remaining amount in the credit component is US$ 11.4 million (43%).
The Institution Building Component remaining as at the close of the project period amounts to
US$ 2.7 million (82%) of the total amount in that component. The remaining amount in both the
credit and institutional building components amounting to US$ 12.0 million has been cancelled.
2.0    EVALUATION SUMMARY:
2.1    Projects Objectives:
The project objectives, as set out in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) are as follows:
(a)    Providing long-term financial support for investment projects for the rehabilitation and
expansion of agricultural export enterprises and for improving the quality of Tanzania's
export;
(b)    Providing foreign exchange to finance up to three years of the annual recurrent import
requirement (excluding season inputs) of sub-borrowers;
1



(c)    Restructuring  CRDB  and transforming  it into  a viable  agricultural financial
intermediary;
(d)    Advancing the process of agricultural reform in the sector and enabling the cooperative
unions and private agricultural enterprises to take advantage of liberalization of
agricultural inputs supply and distribution, export crop marketing and producer pricing,
and
(e)    Providing technical assistance funds for the recruitment of short-term consultants to
carry out sub-project feasibility studies and for long-term advisors to support the
management capability of sub-borrowers.
2.2    Modification of Objectives:
At the inception of the project, it was assumed that funds from the credit components would be
disbursed to the traditional crops sub-sector; which included coffee, cotton, sisal and tea.
However, that was not the case due to the following reasons:
(a)    Most of the traditional crops and agro-processing businesses being run by cooperative
unions which due to high degree of inefficiency and poor financial position failed to
meet the project's conditionalities; and
(b)    Syndication of coffee by the Government of Tanzania for purposes of oil importation.
Slow disbursement resulting from the above reasons prompted CRDB to make marketing to the
non-traditional crops sub-sector. The material modification was studied and considered by IDA
and incorporated in the project's objectives in early 1990.
2.3    Project's Loan Agreements:
To promote achievement of the project's objectives the following loan agreements were signed in
the year 1988:
(a)    Development Credit Agreement between the Government of Tanzania and the IDA;
(b)    The Project Agreement between the IDA and CRDB; and
(c)    Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government of Tanzania and CRDB;
In addition to the legal documents mentioned above, there was a Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
which provided all the project's implementation pre-requisites and criteria.
2



2.4    Evaluation of the Objectives:
For continued country's economic growth, the project's objectives were of utmost importance.
The same were just complementing the already existing Economic Recovery Program (ERP).
The goals were clear, and they were expected to bring about direct response to the country's
priority sector, that is agricultural production, especially of export crops.
3.0    IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS:
3.1    Achievement of project objectives:
As a result of implementation of the project the following achievements are registered:
(a)    According to the 1995 AERP mid-term review findings, the project has had a significant
social economic impact on the country by increasing employment to the tune of 2,740 in
the agricultural export sub-sector. Majority of the employees in the projects financed
under this loan in the non-traditional crops sub-sector are women;
(b)    New export commodities have been put on the market (Floriculture, Horticulture and
Aquaculture) with a great potential to earn vital foreign exchange. Of the project's
portfolio, 63% (US$ 8.9 million) is invested in new businesses of export oriented non-
traditional crops sub-sector;
(c)    The 1995 AERP mid-term review revealed a combined annual export business generated
by new businesses as a result of the project amounting to US$ 4.0 million.
(d)    Provision of technical assistance in conducting feasibility studies, appraisal of sub-
projects and training of the AERP Implementation Unit (PIU) in administration of sub-
loans. By 1993, the PIU had a total of eight (8) full time professionals as required by the
SAR. However, most of these professionals have left CRDB;
(e)    Computer equipments were purchased for computerization of the projects operations and
the bank at large.
3.2    Sustainability of the project's achievements:
It is likely that the achievements generated by the project in relation to its major objectives will
be sustained. This is due to the following reasons:
(a)    It has been learnt through CRDB's supervision missions and the sub-borrowers' finanicial
commitment that the current effective n1on1 traditional sub-projects sector will contilLie
providing the current level of employment and otlher economic benefits suchi as
3



generation of foreign exchange through export of the project's products.  This is
evidenced by the fact that the sponsors are now putting in their own money for
expansion, much as the AERP has closed up; and
(b)    CRDB restructuring through AERP did not achieve much. However CRDB through
DANIDA assistance using a different model has carried out its own restructuring in the
areas of organizational, operational, financial, human resources and cultural which
assures sustainability of the bank and the projects it has financed.
There is in place loans and portfolio management tools such as credit policy, operations
manual, credit operating manual, authority manual, accounting manuals, and staff
service manual. CRDB has also, conducted credit training for all levels of its technical
staff; starting from Directors to Credit Officers.
CRDB is currently working out guidelines for administration of donor funded projects;
for which training will also be conducted.
As a result of that, customer services have been brought down to branches where the
sub-borrowers are located, there will be uniform way of managing credit operations in
all branches, and reporting will be immediate through the decentralized structure.
3.3    Factors affecting achievements of the major objectives:
Below are the major factors which affected the project implementation. The same are rated as
substantial, partial and negligible:
(a)    Failure to capture the original customers in coffee and cotton industries as envisaged in
the SAR; which slowed down disbursement (Substantial);
(b)    Failure of the IDA/CRDB to conduct project mid-term review in 1991 as scheduled in
the SAR (Substantial);
(c)    The economic decline of the country reflected by worsening terms of trade, prolonged
drought, insufficient producer incentives and resource allocated to agricultural sector
(Substantial);
(d)    Continued inappropriate price policies, reliance on administrative controls for allocating
resources and excessively expansionary fiscal and monetary policies (substantial);
(e)    Deteriorating balance of payment (partial);
(f)    Deficiencies in the agricultural inputs and implements (Substantial);
(g)    Fluctuation in the exchange rate, adversely affecting CRDB's operations; and the sub-
borrowers by increasing the costs of imported equipments, spares and supplies
4



(Substantial);
(h)    Chronicle disbursement delays (Substantial);
(i)    The cyclic nature of commodity prices in international markets for tea and sisal
(Substantial),
(j)    Low knowledge of international market by local producers (partial);
(k)    Failure to carry out CRDB restructuring earlier as planned (Substantial);
(I)    Failure by IDA to agree to finance CRDB staff training (Substantial);
3.4    Performance of the IDA and the Treasury:
3.4.1  The IDA Performance:
The IDA performance can be said to have been effective in the initial stage of the project
implementation; and later on it became passive; only to pick up later when the current Task
Manager was appointed.
In the initial stage the Bank's supervision team was much concerned about the project
performance; especial when they realized diversion from the original plan.
Change in the IDA's supervision team in early 1990s, changed even its attention to the project
such that supervision visits were substantially reduced. Thus, variances in the project's actual
implementation was left to continue contrary to the requirement in the projects documents,
especially the SAR.
3.4.2  The Borrower Performance:
The borrower (Government of Tanzania) did not implement its commitments on time as agreed
during project negotiations. Such commitments included the following:
(a)    To increase producer prices;
(b)    To widen quality producer margin;
(c)    To liberalize the marketing of foodgrain;
(d)    To liberalize the marketing of the major export crops and dissolve the related marketing
parastatals;
5



(e)    To permit all private estates and cooperatives to export directly instead of exporting
through marketing boards;
(f)    To restore the role of private sector in commercial agriculture, privatization of several
agricultural enterprises (eg coffee, tea, and sisal estates); and
(g)    Removal of the National Milling Corporation monopoly.
3.5    Assessment of outcome:
The AERP project has been operating with a lot of difficulties throughout its existence. The
conceived objectives and the implementation whiclh could lead to their achievements was not
accorded due attentioni by all parties. Fulfillment of commitments by the parties concerned, was
not to the level set out in the project documents. As a result of that the achievement of the
intended outcome is rated as unsatisfactory.
4.0    SUMMARY  OF FINDINGS, FUTURE  OPERATION  AND  KEY  LESSONS
LEARNED:
4.1    Summary of Findings:
(a)    Through implementation of the project, it has been learnt that there were problems in the
project original design assumptions.
(b)    It was originally planned that the project's funds will be disbursed to the cooperative
unions which were known to be highly inefficient. This shows that no thorough study
was done at the appraisal stage to that effect;
(c)    Lack of clear action plan and supervision of the CRDB restructuring process made the
whole idea abortive;
(d)    Lack of management and legal input in the project implementation unit (PIU); although
the same requirement was planned in the SAR brought about existence of porous sub-
loan agreements;
(e)    The consultants initially attached to the project implementationL unit were ineffective;
were not monitored actively so as to measure their performance;
(f)    Capacity building components failed as IDA constantly turned down CRDB traililig
programmes as submitted; and
(g)    Low knowledge in international banking by CRDB in the initial years and poor
cooperation by Citibank NY seriously affected timely disbursements and disturbed
6



borrowers implementation plans.
4.2    Future Operations:
Future operations of the AERP project will be characterized by the following factors:
(a)    Decentralization of the AERP including strengthening of CRDB branch capacities will
bring better results in supervision of the projects.
(b)    Working as agents will put CRDB on alert to follow up and realize the agency fee;
(c)    Project operations and sustainability will only be achieved if the sub-borrowers will
continue supporting the already funded sub-projects; and
(d)    Export tax recently introduced will act as a disincentive to AERP exporters. To date all
sub-borrowers are complaining.
4.3    Key Lessons Learned:
In the course of implementing the Agricultural Export Rehabilitation project, the following
lessons have been learnt:
(a)    So much evolutions have taken place during the actual project implementation period
such that some basic assumptions have been taken by events, for example while the
project targeted traditional export crops, 63% of its portfolio is invested into the non-
traditional export sub-sector.  This diversion came in the middle of the project
implementation due to problems in the original design assumptions;
(b)    The design of the project was not critically analysed by CRDB management and risk
determined;the requirement to keep separate books of accounts as per SAR, this misled
CRDB on the risk aspect, and such oversight has costed the bank enormously;
(c)    Non inclusion of the legal inputs in the project implementation unit brought about
existence of poorly done sub-loan agreements.  The bank had relied on its legal
department which however failed to capture the special characteristics of such a project;
as a result most agreements are porous;
(d)    Diversion into non-traditional crops should have been done along with equipping the
7



project implementation unit with requisite training to be able to monitor projects
effectively and be ahead of the sub-borrowers:
(e)    Giving loans for capital items alone is not helpful if the policy on1 working capital is left
vague.
(f)    Lack of aggressive and effective supervision of sub-projects has resulted in alarmingly
high rate of default; the bank has learned this and has already addressed the issue; and
(g)    IDA and CRDB having failed to appraise regularly the performance of the consultants
attached to the project implementation un1it, gave them a room to offer poor services to
the bank. From this lesson, IDA and CRDB should in future address this deficiency if
the two will undertake any project of same design in future.
8



APPENDIX C
AERP PORTFOLIO TABLES



Appendix C-1
Table 1 AERP Credit Component - Disbursements to Sub-borrowers - 31 August 1996
Total Loan                                    Annual Disbursement (US $)                                       Total Loan % of Loan
Sub-borrower                   Approved   1989       1990       1991      1992        1993          1994          1995           1996       Disbursement Disbursed
I    Ambangulu Estates Ltd            225,231     0       162,437    49,125    11,950        0             0             0             0             223,512        99
2    Arusha Farns Ltd                  950,000    0          0         0      609.897        0           13,200           0             0             623,097       66
3    Balangai Estates Ltd              550.000    0          0         0       72,993     115,436        11,620           0             0            200,049        36
4    Centrepoint Investment Ltd        443,416    0        15,460    289,017    18.314       0             0             0              0             322,791       73
5    DamascenaEss. Oils Ltd            550,000    0          0         0      291,553     200,267        18,368          0              0             510,188       93
6    Florissa Ltd                      801,001    0          0         0         0           0           796,057          0             0             796,057       99
7    Hortanzia Ltd                   1.800,000    0          0         0         0        1,241,983     509,773        24.692           0           1,776,448       99
8    J.Z.Makuri Farms Ltd               70,000    0          0         0       69,427        0             0             0              0             69.427        99
9    Karimjee Agric. Ltd - Sisal       981,000    0          0       15,416      0        816,043          0           143,310       64,325         1,039,094       106
10    Karimjee Agric. Ltd - Tea        757,000     0         0       11,895      0         549.235         775         t18.354          0             680,259        90
11    Kiliflora Ltd                  1,793,070     0         0         0      324,494    1,015,713       449,369          0             0           1.789,576       100
12    Kingsway Int.ernational Ltd      215,000     0         0         0         0         22,931        41,650           0           72,795          137,376        64
13    Makinyumbi Estates Ltd           700,000     0         0         0      428.466        0              0             0             0             428,466        61
14    Mamba Ranch Ltd                  878,300     0         0         0         0        222,844        555,650          0           99,762          878,256       100
15    Marungu Estates Ltd              463,124     0         0      425,345    17.483        0              0             0             0             442,828        96
16    Mufindi Tea Company Ltd          585,643     0      568.037      0         0           0              0             0             0             568,037        97
17    Prawtan Ltd I/                               0         0         0       14,850        0              0             0             0              14.850        na
18    Ralli Estates Ltd              1,000,000     0         0      277,525    78.586      122,157       80.600           0             0             558,868        56
19    Sumagro Ltd                      660,000     0         0      168,237   124.421      92,428        25,109         14.376          0             424,571        64
20    Sunripe Kilimanjaro Ltd        2,600,000     0         0         0       204.003    1,583,373      419,242          0             0           2,206,618        85
21    Tanfarms Ltd                     363,549     0       9.240    346,354      0            0             0             0             0             355.594        98
22    Tanzania Flowers Ltd             950,004     0         0         0         0         950,004          0             0             0             950,004       100
23    Tukuyu Estates Ltd               432,720     0      359,572    53,486    23,689         0             0             0             0             436,747       101
17,769,058    0     1,114,746  1,636,400  2,290,126   6,932,414.00   2.921,413.00  300.732.00   236,882.00    15,432,713        87
Note:     Derived from CRDB computations.
1/ Prawtan loan was approved but not taken up. Disbursement for feasibility study only.



Appendix C-i
Table 1 AERP Credit Component - Disbursements to Sub-borrowers - 31 August 1996
Total Loan                                    Annual Disbursement (US $)                                       Total Loan % of Loan
Sub-borrower                   Approved   1989       1990       1991      1992        1993          1994          1995           1996       Disbursement Disbursed
I    Ambangulu Estates Ltd            225,231     0       162,437    49,125    11,950        0             0             0              0            223,512        99
2    Arusha Farms Ltd                  950,000    0          0         0      609,897        0           13,200           0             0             623,097        66
3    Balangai Estates Ltd              550,000    0          0         0       72,993      115,436       11,620           0             0             200,049       36
4    Centrepoint Investment Ltd        443,416    0        15,460    289,017    18,314       0              0             0             0             322,791        73
5    Damascena Ess. Oils Ltd           550,000    0          0         0      291,553     200,267        18,368           0             0             510,188       93
6    Florissa Ltd                      801,001    0          0         0         0           0           796,057          0             0             796,057       99
7    Hortanzia Ltd                   1,800,000    0          0         0         0        1,241,983      509,773       24,692           0           1,776,448       99
8    J.Z.Makuri Farms Ltd               70,000    0          0         0       69,427        0             0              0             0              69,427       99
9    KarimjeeAgric. Ltd-Sisal          981,000    0          0       15,416      0        816,043          0           143,310       64,325         1,039,094       106
10    Karimjee Agric. Ltd - Tea        757,000     0         0       11,895      0         549,235         775         118,354          0             680,259        90
11    Kiliflora Ltd                   1,793,070    0         0         0      324,494    1,015,713       449,369          0             0           1.789,576       100
12    Kingsway Int.emational Ltd       215,000     0         0         0         0         22,931        41,650           0           72,795          137,376        64
13    Makinyumbi Estates Ltd           700,000     0         0         0      428,466        0              0             0             0             428,466        61
14    Mamba Ranch Ltd                  878,300     0         0         0         0         222,844       555,650          0           99,762          878,256       100
15    Marungu Estates Ltd              463,124     0         0      425,345    17,483        0              0             0             0             442,828        96
16    Mufindi Tea Company Ltd          585,643     0      568,037      0         0           0              0             0             0             568,037        97
17    PrawtanLtd I/                                0         0         0       14,850        0              0             0             0              14,850        na
18    Ralli Estates Ltd               1,000,000    0         0      277,525    78,586      122,157       80,600           0             0             558,868        56
19    Sumagro Ltd                      660,000     0         0      168,237   124,421      92,428        25,109         14,376          0             424,571        64
20    Sunripe Kilimanjaro Ltd         2,600,000    0         0         0       204,003    1,583,373      419,242          0             0           2,206,618        85
21    Tanfarms Ltd                     363,549     0       9,240    346,354      0            0             0             0             0             355,594        98
22    Tanzania Flowers Ltd             950,004     0         0         0         0         950,004          0             0             0             950,004       100
23    Tukuyu Estates Ltd               432,720     0      359,572    53,486    23,689         0             0             0             0             436.747       101
17,769,058    0     1,114,746  1,636,400 2,290,126   6,932,414.00   2,921,413.00    300,732.00    236,882.00  15,432,713        87
Note:     Derived from CRDB computations.
1/ Prawtan loan was approved but not taken up. Disbursement for feasibility study only.



Appendix C-1
Table 3 AERP Credit Component - Impact of Sub-projects on Employment
Total Loan           Sub-project          Employment
Sub-borrower                     Disbursed             Enterprise           Created 2/
1     Ambangulu Estates Ltd              223,512                tea                   80
2     Arusha Farms Ltd                    623,097              sisal                   0
3     Balangai Estates Ltd               200,049                tea                    ?
4     Centrepoint Investment Ltd          322,791               sisal                  0
5     Damascena Ess. Oils Ltd            510,188               ess.oil                40
6     Florissa Ltd                       796,057              flowers                 50
7     Hortanzia Ltd                     1,776,448             flowers                 170
8     J.Z.Makuri Farms Ltd                 69,427          prawn fishing               ?
9     Karimjee Agric. Ltd - Sisal       1,039,094              sisal                 3,000
10    Karimjee Agric. Ltd - Tea           680,259               tea                    0
11    Kiliflora Ltd                     1,789,576             flowers                 750
12    Kingsway Int.ernational Ltd         137,376             seaweed                 500
13    Makinyumbi Estates Ltd              428,466               sisal                  0
14    Mamba Ranch Ltd                     878,256            crocodiles               20
15    Marungu Estates Ltd                 442,828               sisal                 250
16    Mufindi Tea Company Ltd             568,037               tea                   200
17    Prawtan Ltd 1/                        14850          prawn farming               0
18    Ralli Estates Ltd                   558,868              sisal                  350
19    Sumagro Ltd                         424,571               sisal                 50
20    Sunripe Kilimanjaro Ltd           2,206,618            vegetables               40
21    Tanfarms Ltd                        355,594               sisal                  0
22    Tanzania Flowers Ltd                950,004              flowers                265
23    Tukuyu Estates Ltd                  436,747                tea                   ?
15,432,713                                   5,765
Note:     Derived from CRDB, Mid-term Review and mission estimates.
1/ Prawtan loan was approved but not taken up. Disbursement for feasibility study only.
2/ Reflects total enterprise that may include investments other than AERP.









IT
C-i
l. I
jCm
Z~~~~~~ ~~4-.J
A Ci  )
r'1 ~  ~     I  H,
"..I             j_j    , 
t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~         ~                                 I



