Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1891 TA
           (Agricultural Export Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
              COOPERATIVE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
                       Dated August 16, 1988
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  August   16,  1988  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)  and  COOPERATIVE AND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (CRDB).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the  United  Republic  of Tanzania (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association  has agreed to make available
to the Borrower  an  amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to
twenty-two million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 22,000,000), on the
terms and conditions set  forth  in  the Development Credit Agree-
ment, but only on  condition  that  CRDB  agrees to undertake such
obligations toward  the  Association  as  are  set  forth  in this
Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and CRDB, part  of the proceeds of the Credit
provided for under the  Development  Credit Agreement will be made
available to CRDB on the  terms  and  conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS CRDB, in consideration  of the Association's entering
Page  2
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project;
                 Management and Operations of CRDB
     Section 2.01. (a) CRDB declares  its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project and
conduct its  operations  and  affairs,  in  accordance  with sound
financial  standards  and   practices   and   with  qualified  and
experienced management.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section  and  except  as  the  Association  and CRDB shall
otherwise agree, CRDB shall  carry  out  the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program  set  forth  in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.02. In order to assist  CRDB in carrying out Part B
of the Project,  CRDB  shall  employ  consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and  conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  The  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
     Section 2.03. (a) CRDB  undertakes  that, unless the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree,  Sub-loans  will be made in accordance
with the procedures and on  the  terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  CRDB shall  exercise  its  rights  in  relation  to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Association and of  CRDB;  (ii) comply with its obligations
under  this  Agreement  and  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
     Section 2.04. CRDB shall carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections  9.03,  9.04,  9.05,  9.06  and  9.07  of  the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans  and  schedules,   records   and  reports  and  maintenance,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.05. CRDB  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree, CRDB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of assigning, amending, abrogating or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provisions thereof.
     Section 2.06. (a) CRDB shall,  at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange  views  with  the  Association  with  regard to the
progress of the Project, the  performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  CRDB shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tions which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
Page  3
of the Project, the accomplishment  of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by CRDB of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) CRDB  shall maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the  progress of the Project and of
each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it) and  to  reflect, in accordance with consistently
maintained  sound   accounting   practices,   the  operations  and
financial condition of CRDB.
     (b)  CRDB shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year:  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited;
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     Section 3.02. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, CRDB shall earn  for  each  of  its  fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on June 30,  1990,  an annual rate of return of
not less than 1.2% of the total average value of the CRDB's assets
in operation.
     (b)  Before March in each of its fiscal years, CRDB shall, on
the basis of forecasts  prepared  by  CRDB and satisfactory to the
Association, review whether  it  would  meet  the requirements set
forth in paragraph  (a)  in  respect  of  such  year  and the next
following fiscal year  and  shall  furnish  to the Association the
results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  CRDB would not meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  for CRDB's fiscal years
covered by such  review,  CRDB  shall  promptly take all necessary
measures in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the annual return  shall  be calculated by dividing
               CRDB's net operating income  for the fiscal year in
               question by one half of  the sum of the total value
               of CRDB's assets in  operation at the beginning and
               at the end of that fiscal year;
         (ii)  the  term  "net   operating   income"  means  total
               operating revenues less total operating expenses;
        (iii)  the term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations;
         (iv)  the  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses   related    to    operations,   including
Page  4
               administration,  adequate  maintenance,  taxes  and
               payments  in  lieu  of  taxes,  and  provision  for
               depreciation  on   a   basis   acceptable   to  the
               Association,  but  excluding   interest  and  other
               charges on debt; and
          (v)  the  total  average  value   of  CRDB's  assets  in
               operation shall be  calculated  as  one half of the
               sum  of  the  gross   value  of  CRDB's  assets  in
               operation at the beginning  and  at  the end of the
               fiscal  year,  as  valued  from  time  to  time  in
               accordance with  sound  and consistently maintained
               methods   of   valuation    satisfactory   to   the
               Association.
     Section 3.03. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, CRDB shall, after its fiscal  year ending on June 30, 1990,
maintain a ratio of current  assets  to current liabilities of not
less than 1.5:1.
     (b)  Before March in each of its fiscal years, CRDB shall, on
the basis of  forecasts  prepared  by  it  and satisfactory to the
Association, review whether  it  would  meet  the requirements set
forth in paragraph  (a)  in  respect  of  such  year  and the next
following fiscal year and  shall  furnish  to the Association, the
results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  CRDB would not meet the
requirements set  forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for  its fiscal years
covered by such  review,  CRDB  shall  promptly take all necessary
measures in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "current  assets"  means  cash, all assets
               which could in the  ordinary  course of business be
               converted into cash within twelve months, including
               accounts    receivable,    marketable   securities,
               inventories and pre-paid  expenses properly charge-
               able to operating  expenses  within the next fiscal
               year.
         (ii)  The term "current  liabilities"  means all liabili-
               ties which will  become  due  and  payable or could
               under circumstances  then  existing  be  called for
               payment within  twelve  months,  including accounts
               payable, customer  advances,  debt service require-
               ments, taxes and  payments  in  lieu  of taxes, and
               dividends.
        (iii)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (iv)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
     Section 3.04. (a)  Except  as  the  Association may otherwise
agree, CRDB shall earn  for  each  of  its  fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on June 30,  1990,  an annual rate of return of
not less than 10% on its equity.
     (b)  Before March in each of its fiscal years, CRDB shall, on
the basis of forecasts prepared  by  CRDB, and satisfactory to the
Page  5
Association, review whether  it  would  meet  the requirements set
forth in paragraph  (a)  in  respect  of  such  year  and the next
following fiscal year  and  shall  furnish  to the Association the
results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  CRDB would not meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  for CRDB's fiscal years
covered by such  review,  CRDB  shall  promptly take all necessary
measures in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  for the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the annual return  shall  be calculated by dividing
               CRDB's net operating income by paid-up capital plus
               general reserves;
         (ii)  the  term  "net   operating   income"  means  total
               operating revenues less total operating expenses;
        (iii)  the term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations;
         (iv)  the  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses    related    to    operations   including
               administration,  adequate  maintenance,  taxes  and
               payments  in  lieu  of  taxes,  and  provision  for
               depreciation  on   a   basis   acceptable   to  the
               Association,  but  excluding   interest  and  other
               charges on debt;
          (v)  paid-up capital means the  owners' share capital in
               CRDB; and
         (vi)  the general reserves are the retained earnings from
               all of CRDB's operations.
     Section  3.05.  CRDB  shall  take  such  steps,  as  shall be
necessary, to protect itself  against  the  risk of loss resulting
from  changes  in  the  rates  of  exchange  between  the  various
currencies used in its operations.
     Section 3.06. CRDB  shall,  by  not  later than September 30,
1988, provide evidence, satisfactory  to  the Association, that it
has:
     (a)  established a sound asset base; and
     (b)  prepared a plan  of  action  for  reducing the remaining
loan arrears as of June 30,  1987, by 33 1/3% annually, leading to
the elimination of such arrears by not later than June 30, 1991.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 4.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of CRDB  hereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate; or
         (ii)  a date 16 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If the  Development  Credit  Agreement terminates before
the date specified  in  paragraph  (a)  (ii)  of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify CRDB of this event.
Page  6
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made under  this  Agreement, and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For CRDB:
          Cooperative and Rural Development Bank
          P.O. Box 268
          Dar es Salaam
          United Republic of Tanzania
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                MTAJI                          41643
                Dar es Salaam
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of CRDB, or  by CRDB on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit  Agreement,  may be taken or executed
by the Chairman  and  Managing  Director  or  such other person or
persons as the  Board  of  Directors  of  CRDB  shall designate in
writing, and  CRDB  shall  furnish  to  the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  7
                    By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    COOPERATIVE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
                    By /s/ Asterius M. Hyera
                                        Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
                  Lending Policies and Procedures
1.   Eligible Investment Enterprises
     To be eligible, an Investment Enterprise shall:
     (a)  produce an agricultural export  commodity and be in need
of a loan to rehabilitate  or  expand a viable productive activity
for such commodity;
     (b)  engage   in   viable   activities   with   good   credit
performance;
     (c)  agree to maintain a  foreign  exchange escrow account to
enable it to  meet  its  foreign  exchange  debt-service under the
Project; and
     (d)  owe no outstanding  arrears  to  CRDB,  or have plans to
clear such arrears within a reasonable period.
2.   (a)  Investment Projects shall be  justified  on the basis of
an economic and financial  analysis.  The minimum economic rate of
return for all Investment  Projects  above the free-limit shall be
fifteen percent per annum (15%), and the minimum financial rate of
return for  all  Investment  Projects  shall  be  seven percentage
points above the cost of borrowing to the Investment Enterprises.
     (b)  The principal  amount  of  each  Sub-loan  shall  be the
equivalent in dollars  (determined  as  of  the date or respective
dates of withdrawal from the  Credit  Account) of the value of the
currency or currencies so withdrawn or  paid out on account of the
cost of goods and services  required  for  the carrying out of the
Investment Project.
     (c)  Each Sub-loan  shall  be  made  on  the  basis of CRDB's
applicable terms and conditions,  provided, however, that: (i) the
interest to be paid by the  Investment Enterprise shall be a fixed
rate of eight percent  (8%)  per  annum; (ii) the maximum Sub-loan
repayment period shall be  fifteen  (15) years including a maximum
grace period of  three  (3)  years;  (iii)  interest  costs may be
capitalized during  the  grace  period;  and  (iv)  the Investment
Enterprise shall bear the foreign exchange risk.
3.   No expenditures for goods or services required for an Invest-
ment Project shall be eligible  for  financing out of the proceeds
of the Credit unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Association and  such expenditures shall have been
made not earlier than ninety days  prior  to the date on which the
Association shall have  received  the  application and information
required under paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such
Sub-loan. For the purposes of the Development Credit Agreement and
this Agreement,  the  maximum  Sub-loan  limit  shall  be $500,000
equivalent per Investment Project; or
Page  8
     (b)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-loan  for  which  the  Association has authorized
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  and such expenditures shall
have been made not earlier than  ninety  days prior to the date on
which the Association shall have received the request and informa-
tion required under paragraph 4 (b) of this Schedule in respect of
such free-limit  Sub-loan.  For  the  purposes  of the Development
Credit Agreement and this  Agreement,  a free-limit Sub-loan shall
be a  Sub-loan  for  an  Investment  Project  in  an  amount to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit which shall not exceed
the sum of:  (i)  $250,000  equivalent,  when  added  to any other
outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; or  (ii) $1,000,000 equivalent, when added
to all  other  free-limit  Sub-loans  financed  or  proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the Credit, the foregoing amount
being subject to change  from  time  to  time as determined by the
Association.
4.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Association for  approval,  CRDB shall furnish to the
Association an application, in  form  satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, which shall include  inter  alia:  (i)  a description of the
Investment Enterprise and an  appraisal of the Investment Project,
including  a  description  of  the  expenditures  proposed  to  be
financed out of  the  proceeds  of  the  Credit; (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions  of  the  Sub-loan  including the schedule of
amortization of the Sub-loan or of  repayment of the amount of the
Credit to  be  used  for  the  Investment;  and  (iii)  such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each  request  by   CRDB   for   authorization  to  make
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  in  respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain: (i)  a  summary description of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and the  Investment  Project, including a descrip-
tion of  the  expenditures  proposed  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and  (ii)  the terms and conditions of the
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
     (c)  Applications and requests  made  pursuant  to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  of  this paragraph shall be
presented to the Association on or before December 31, 1994.
     (d)  In any case CRDB  shall  present the first five sub-loan
applications   to   the   Association,   prior   to   giving   its
authorization.
5.   Sub-loans and  Investment  Projects  shall  be  made on terms
whereby CRDB shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment
Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to
protect the interests of  the  Association and CRDB, including, in
the case of any Sub-loan the right to:
     (a)  require  the  Investment  Enterprise  to  carry  out and
operate the Investment Project  with  due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with  sound  technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that: (i) the goods  and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the  Credit shall be purchased at a reason-
able price, account  being  taken  also  of other relevant factors
such as time of  delivery  and  efficiency  and reliability of the
goods and availability of  maintenance  facilities and spare parts
therefor, and, in the case  of  services, of their quality and the
competence of the parties rendering  them; and (ii) such goods and
services shall be  used  exclusively  in  the  carrying out of the
Investment Project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Association if the  Association  shall so request, such goods,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
Page  9
     (d)  require that: (i)  the  Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts,  as shall be consistent with sound
business  practice;   and   (ii)   without   any  limitation  upon
theforegoing, such insurance shall  cover  hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery  of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit  to  the  place of use or installation,
any indemnity thereunder to be  made  payable in a currency freely
usable by the  Investment  Enterprise  to  replace  or repair such
goods;
     (e)  obtain all such information  as  the Association or CRDB
shall reasonably request  relating  to  the  foregoing  and to the
administration, operations and financial  condition of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Invest-
ment Project; and
     (f)  suspend or terminate the  right of the Investment Enter-
prise to the use of  the  proceeds  of  the Credit upon failure by
such Investment Enterprise  to  perform  its obligations under its
contract with CRDB.
6.   CRDB shall ensure  that  Investment  Projects are operated in
accordance with sound environmental guidelines.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
Organizational Restructuring
1.   CRDB shall restructure and  maintain its Loan Committee, with
terms of reference satisfactory to  the Association, to advise the
CRDB Board of  Directors  on  Investment  Project  approval and to
review all loan applications  above  Tsh 5 million. Such Committee
shall  comprise  three  senior  CRDB  staff  members,  the General
Manager, Head of Development Banking  and Head of Finance, as well
as two outside members  whose  qualifications and experience shall
be acceptable to the Association.
2.   CRDB's  Board  of   Directors   shall,   by  not  later  than
September 30, 1988, approve  an organizational structure for CRDB,
acceptable to  the  Association.  CRDB  shall  promptly thereafter
commence implementation of such structure.
Staffing
3.   CRDB  shall  finalize   its   staff   profile   and  size  by
September 30,  1988,  and  shall  complete  staff redeployment and
where warranted retrenchment by September 30, 1989.
4.   CRDB shall, by not later  than  December 31, 1988, employ the
following professionals to staff positions within its organization
for   the   purposes   of   Investment   Project   identification,
preparation, appraisal and supervision:
          (i) for its Development Bank Department; two economists,
              a statistician/economist, two financial analysts and
              two agronomists; and
         (ii) for  its  Planning  and  Development  Department: an
              engineer, a financial analysts and an economist.
Financial Rehabilitation
5.   CRDB shall furnish  to  the  Association,  by  not later than
September 30, 1988, a  financial  plan  of  action  with a view to
achieving and maintaining:
     (a)  in all  its  ordinary  operations  an adequate financial
spread over its borrowing rate to cover its costs of operation and
Page  10
ensure a reasonable profit margin;
     (b)  a liquidity ratio of at least 1.5 by June 30, 1990;
     (c)  an operating profit margin of  at  least 10% by June 30,
1990;
     (d)  a fixed charges coverage of at least 1.25 times; and
     (e)  reducing and maintaining operating costs to a maximum of
fifty percent of CRDB's income by June 30, 1990.
     For the purposes of this paragraph:
     "Liquidity Ratio" means current  assets (cash, securities and
loan with  maturity  of  one  year  or  less)  divided  by current
liabilities (obligations due within one year).
     "Operating Profit  Margin"  means pre-tax earnings divided by
total revenue.
     "Fixed Charges Coverage"  means  pre-tax  earnings plus fixed
charges divided by fixed charges.
     "Operating Costs" means  Staff  costs plus administrative and
general expenses plus depreciation.
     "Debt Service Coverage" means  pre-tax earnings plus interest
and depreciation divided by interest charges plus loan repayments.
     "Capital Funds" means paid-in  capital plus retained earnings
plus legal reserves plus provision for loan losses.
6.   CRDB shall, by not later  than December 31, 1988, establish a
portfolio management policy, including, inter alia, guidelines for
provisions for  bad  debt,  portfolio  monitoring, supervision and
appraisal.
7.   Except as the Association  shall  otherwise agree, CRDB shall
not: (a) concentrate more than 10%  of its loan portfolio with any
single Investment Enterprise; and  (b)  make a Sub-loan unless the
Investment Enterprise's debt service coverage is at least 1.5.
8.   CRDB shall, by not later  than December 31, 1988, establish a
credit risk management  policy,  including,  inter  alia, how CRDB
shall handle credit, customer, loan and sector risks.
Operational Policy
9.   CRDB's Board of Directors shall by not later than:
      (a) September 30,  1988,  approve;  (i)  a staff manual; and
(ii) a credit and portfolio management manual; and
     (b)  by not later than  December  31, 1988, approve organiza-
tional and function statements.
10.  CRDB shall update  its  Appraisal, Supervision and Inspection
Manual by September 30, 1988.
Information Systems
11.  CRDB shall: (a) by September 30, 1988, complete the review of
its accounting and computer  systems;  and  (b)  by June 30, 1989,
(i) update its accounting  system  based on the recommendations of
the accounting system review,  and  (ii) establish and implement a
Financial Information System and  a Management Information System,
acceptable to the Association.
Annual Work Programs:
12.  (a)  CRDB shall annually prepare  a draft work program, which
Page  11
shall, inter alia, include:  (i)  the  list of Investment Projects
identified, being  prepared,  appraised,  approved or implemented,
plus execution Schedules and  comments on each Investment Project;
(ii) its  recruitment  and  training  programs  under the Project;
(iii) the Project budget;  (iv)  Project commitments and disburse-
ments; (v) a comprehensive assessment  of progress relating to the
implementation  of  its  restructuring  action  program;  (vi) its
projected balance sheets, operating  accounts  and Profit and Loss
Accounts; and (vii) discussion  of  any  serious problem which may
arise and actions to deal with them.
     (b)  CRDB shall  submit  such  annual  work  programs  to the
Association for its review and  comments,  not later than March 31
of  each  year   during   Project   Implementation,  and  promptly
thereafter  implement  such  program  taking  due  account  of the
Association's comments.
13.  CRDB shall undertake a  major  review of overall Project per-
formance and furnish the report  thereof to the Association by not
later  than  June  30,  1991.  Such  review  shall  pay particular
attention to the  progress  of  institutional reforms within CRDB.
CRDB shall discuss the findings of the review with the Association
by not later than  October  31,  1991,  and  reach agreement on an
action program for the remainder of Project Implementation.
