OFFICIALf
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1891 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Export Rehabilitation Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA                       o
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated        Auusi li             , 1988


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1891 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      u3us     lb    , 1988, between UNITED
REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Project -will be carried out through the Cooperative
and Rural Development Bank (CRDB) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available'
to CRDB the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and CRDB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
(the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and CRDB of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;


﻿-2-
(b) "CRDB" means the Cooperative and Rural Development Bank,
established and operating pursuant to the Cooperative and Rural
Development Bank Act, 1971, as amended from time to time;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CRDB pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement as such agreement may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d) "Sub-Loan" means a loan in foreign currency or Tanzania
shilling for imported inputs, made or proposed io be made by CRDB
to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to CRDB under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(e) "free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined
which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provi-
sions of paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Project'Agreement;
(f) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
CRDB proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(g) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(h) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(i) "Project Preparation Advances" mean the project
preparation advances granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to exchanges of letters, dated June 15, 1987 and July 14,
1987, and December 2, 1987, and January 14, 1988, rdspectively,
between the Borrower and the Association; and
( )"TSh" means 'Tanzania Shilling the currency of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred io in this


﻿-3-
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
two million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 22,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions ofs,
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or if the
Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by CRDB on account
of withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan
to meet the reasonable cost of goods ahd services required for the
Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the
Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goodc and services required for Part B of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower and CRDB of such
later date.
Section-2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the
Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the, Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the


﻿Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of sthat
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each May 1 and, November 1
commencing May 1, 1998 and ending November 1, 2027. Each
installment to and including the installmern payable on
November 1, 2007 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
(b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with th_ Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the


﻿-5-
Borrower's economip condition ho*- deteiorated significantly, the
CAssociation may, it so reques:6f by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above,
Section 2.08. The currency of United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. CRDB is designated as representative of the"
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.92 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall
cause CRDB to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of CRDB therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable CRDB to perform such
obligations, an shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit for
Part A to CRDB under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and CRDB, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association and which shall
provide, inter alia, that the proceeds of the Credit shall be
relent at an interest rate of two percent (2%) per annum for a
term of sixteen years including a grace period not exceeding five
years.
(c) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit for
Part B of the Project available to CRDB as a grant.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish


﻿-6-
s purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
-therwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
,  aive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06
and 9.07 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports and
maintenance, respectively) shall be carried out by CRDB pursuant
to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall permit all eligible
Investment Enterprises, to have equal access to the proceeds of
the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) permit Investment
Enterprises to maintain foreign exchange escrow accounts with a
commercial bank, acceptable to the Association, which shall be
credited with the proceeds of their export sales, in an amount of
not less than 120 percent of their annual debt service obligations
to CRDB, under the Project; and (b) cause CRDB ,to maintain a
foreign exchange escrow account, from its earnings under the
Project, in an amount equivalent to provisions created to cover
bad and doubtful debts, arising from its operations under the
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)


﻿-7-
evidencing such expenditures are retained until at
least one" year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made;
and
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;     C
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each'such year the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested,
including a separate opinion by,said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) CRDB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.


﻿0
-8-
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that CRDB will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The Cooperative and Rural Development Bank Act, 1971
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or repealed so as to
affect materially and adverselyithe ability of CRDB to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of CRDB or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section Z.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a  period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 2.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and CRDB;"
(b) CRDB has restructured its Loan Committee referred to in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and
(c) CRDB has written off its bad debts as of June 30 1987.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:


﻿-9-
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by CRDB and is legally binding upon CRDB in accordance
with its terms; and
O
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CRDB and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and CRDB in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04oof-the General.Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the minister of the Borrower at the time responsible
for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance,
Economic Affairs and Planning
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Reoublic of Tanzania
Cable address:                     Telex:
TREASURY                         41329
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development, Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿po
I-0
10
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By ,s/ Ate~s           M. Hljn
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                         E. MadaVO
Ajy5      Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Goods and services        18,700,000        100% of foreign
"for Investment                             expenditures and
Projects under                             70% of local
Part A of the                              expenditures
Project
(2)  Consultants'              1,470,000        100%
services,
training and
studies under
Part B of the
Proj ect
(3) Computer and                 370,000        100%
associated
equipment under
Part B of the
Proj ect
(4) Refunding of               1,100,000       Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advances                              2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(5) Unallocated                  360,000
TOTAL                22,000,000


﻿-12-
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures"   aeans expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement and
has been approved or authorized by the Association, pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
(c) any payments for expenditures under the Project after
October 31, 1991, unless, after the mid-term review, the
Avsociation is satisfied with the action program for the remainder
-f the Project.


﻿13-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to increase Tanzania's
agricultural exports through support to export-related
agricultural enterprises; and (ii) to strengthen CRDB's capacity
to undertake medium- and long-term agricultural lending with a
view to making CRDB a viable agricultural lending institution.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
The financing of specific development projects through loans
to agricultural export enterprises.
Part B
Restructuring of CRDB and strengthening its agricultural
lending capabilities through management assistance and training.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to SDR 730,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿-15-
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from th, Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such and
other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories of the Project,
minus the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any


﻿-16-
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special kccount will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Modifications of the General Conditions
For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(2) The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"5. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning
set forth in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement."
(3) The words "the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving
of such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be
cancelled" set forth at the end of Section 6.03 are
deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"or (e) by the date specified in sub-paragraph
4 (c) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement the
Association shall, in respect of any portion of the
Credit: (i) have received no applications or requests
permitted under sub-paragraphs (a) or (b) of said
paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such applications or
requests, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, terminate the right to submit such
applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account, as the case may be, with respect to such
amount or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such
notice, such amount or portion of the Credit shall be
cancelled."


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


