Document or
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
69, /)?/-ŽoA
Report No. P-4431-DOM
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
FOR A
POWER PROJECT
MARCH 6, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents msy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit                   -          Eastern Caribbean dollar (EC$)
EC$ 1.00 - 100 cents                       US$ 0.37
US$ 1.00                        -          EC$ 2.70
USS 1.00                                   SDR 0.80
SDR 1.00                        -          USS 1.25
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE          -      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CDB           -      Caribbean Development Bank
CDC           -      Commonwealth Development Corporation
CIDA          e       Canadian International Development Agency
DOMLEC                Dominica Electricity Services Limited
EIB                  European Investment Bank
MCW           =      Ministry of Communications and Works
SDR           =       Special Drawing Rights
TOE           -       Ton of oil Equivalent
USAID                 United States Agency for International Development
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 t (metric ton)                 -      1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 kilovolt (kV)                         1,000 volts (V)
1 kilowatt (KW)                  =      1,000 watts (W)
1 megawatt (MW)                  =      1,000 kilowatts (KW)
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)            =      1,000 watt hours (Wh)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)                   1,000,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
1 megavolt ampere (MVA)                 1,000 kilovolt ampere (KVA)
1 kilometer (km)                        0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)         =      0.386 sguare mile (sq. mi.)
1 hectare (ha)                   =      0.01 km1
1 ton of oil equivalent (TOE)   =       107 kilocalories (kecl)
1 barrel (bbl) of gasoline              0.124 TOE
1 barrel (bbl) of kerosene       =      0.131 TOE
1 barrel (bbl) of diesel                0.138 TOE
1 barrel (bbl) of heavy fuel
(Bunker C)                   -      0.148 TOE
1 barrel (bbl)                   =      42 US gallons = 159 liters
FISCAL YEARS
Dominica Electricity Services Limited - January 1 to December 31
Government                              - July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DOMrNICA
POWER PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Commonwealth of Dominica
Beneficiary:                 Dominica Electricity Services Limited (DOMLEC)
Amount:                       SDR 2.40 million (US$3 million equivalent)
Terms:                       Standard
Relending Terms:             20 year term. including 5 years grace, at the
IBRD's interest rate at the time of credit
approval; DOMLEC would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Prolect Description:         The project is DOMLEC's 1988-1993 investment
program. It would provide about 4 MW of
additional hydro generation capacity, expansion
and improvements to the transmission and
distribution system, equipment, tools, vehicles
for operation and maintenance; training and
technical assistance; expansion planning
studies and a feasibility study for a dispatch
center and engineering services for project
implementation.
Benefits:                    The project would (a) enable DOMLEC to meet
expansion requirements until 1994; (b) reduce
Dominica's dependence upon imported fuels; (c)
improve the reliability of DOMLEC's
distribution system and reduce power losses;
(d) strengthen DOMLEC's management and
technical capability; and (e) assist the
company in planning its long-tern investment
needs.
Risks:                       There are no major construction risks.  To help
ensure effective construction and operation of
the project facilities, the project includes a
project manager, and a training component to
strengthen DOMLEC's management and technical
capabilities.
is document ha a rstricted distribution and may be used byrecipients only in the performance
oftheir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs a/
Local     ForeiRn    Total
$--  US$ millions-------
(a)  Generation facilitites                    2.20       7.01       9.21
(b)  Transmission and distribution             0.52       0.96       1.48
(c)  Equipment, tools and vehicles              -         0.40       0.40
(d)  Training and technical services           0.09       1.16       1.25
(e)  Engineering services for generation
feasibility study, design and
construction supervision bI               0.10       1.55       1.65
(f)  Miscellaneous                             0.15       0.15       0.30
(g)  Studies for expansion planning
and for dispatch center                   0.04       0.31       0.35
Total Base Cost                                3.10      11.54       14.64
Physical contingencies                         0.33       0.77        1.10
Price contingencies                            0.30       0.64       0.94
Total project cost                             3.73      12.95       16.68
Interest during construction                   0.51       1.07        1.58
Total financing requirements                   4.24      14.02       18.26
a/ Goods imported for the project are free of duty.
b/ Feasibility study and basic design were completed in February 1987 under
CDB financing.
Financing Plan
Local     Foreitn    Total
8 US$ millions ---
IDA                                            0.16       2.84       3.00
CDB                                            1.66       2.24       3.90
EIB                                            0.26       3.66       3.92
CCCE                                           0.73       2.26       2.99
CIDA                                           ----       1.61        1.61
DOMLEC                                         1.43       1.41       2.84
4.24     14.02       18.26
Estimated Disbursements
IDA FY                 1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
-----------------------US$ millions ----------
Annual                 0.34    0.44    0.66    0.69    0.48    0.30   0.09
Cumulative             0.34    0.78    1.44    2.13    2.61    2.91   3.00
Rate of Return - 11%
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 6560-DOM, dated March 6, 1987.
Map: IBRD No. 20375



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT FOR A
TOTAL AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $3 MILLION
TO DOMINICA
FOR A POWER PROJECT
INTRODUCTION
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Dominica for a total amount of SDR 2.40 million (US$3
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a First Power
Project. The proceeds of the credit would be relent to Dominica
Electricity Services Ltd. (DOMLEC) on terms of 20 years, including a five-
year grace period, at the IBRD interest rate at the time of approval. The
subloan would be denominated in US dollars.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report (Dominicu:  Report No. 5421-DOM, dated April
15, 1985) was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 29, 1985.
The Statistical Annex contains the basic country data.
Background and Economic Structure
3.       Dominica is a sma11 (750 sq. km.) and mountainous island, the
economy of which is based primarily on agriculture. Its principal natural
resources are its largely unexploited tropical forests and its many swift
rivers, which have potential for hydropower. Extraction difficulties have
so far constrained the development of the forest resources.
4.       Dominica faces serious development problems.  Rapid progress is
hampered by the difficult terrain, the paucity of financial and skilled
human resources, the low institutional capability and the limited economic
policy tools available. The productive base is narrow (primarily bananas),
productivity is low (average banana yield is 4 tons per acre compared with
11-14 tons in some Latin American countries), and while labor is still
cheap by North American standards, real wages have increased rapidly in
recent years, partially eroding the margin of wage competitiveness that
Dominica once had over its Caribbean neighbors.
5.       A major policy constraint has been the fixed exchange rate system
(EC$2.7 per US$1 since July 1976), coupled with a tendency to strong wage
pressures. Dominica shares a common currency and central bank as one of
the seven members of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS),
all with different economic structures. This institutional arrangement
limits exchange rate action as a realistic policy option, as it is
difficult to reach the unanimous agreement required for a rate adjustment.
Independent action on trade policy is also constrained by Dominica's
membership in the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), the regional custos
union. The country, moreover, is subject to periodic natural disasters,



-2-
such as hurricanes, which have caused severe destruction of large parts of
its productive base and infrastructure. Substantial external assistance
since Independence eight yearg ago has helped Dominica maintain an
investment rate of about 30% of GDP on average in recent years. The per
capita income is estimated at some US$1,160 in 1985.
Recant Economic Performance
6.       Recent economic growth in Dominica has been strongly influenced by
the substantial reconstruction and rehabilitation investments that followed
the 1979 and 1980 hurricanes. After a rapid recovery in 1980-81, real
growth averaged 2.3% during 1982-83, then climbed to 6% in 1984 at the peak
of the major roads reconstruction program. Growth slowed in 1985 to 1.2%,
reflecting completion of the major roads program and a decline in
agricultural output. However, growth recovered to 4% in 1986, based on
strong growth in agriculture, particularly bananas. Increase, in the
consumer price index have slowed considerably, influenced by the decline in
international inflation. They averaged 2% in both 1984 and 1985, and 3% in
1986. Real wages rose sharply by 6% to 8% annually during 1982-84.
7.       Stabilization programs supported by the IMF brought about
significant improvements in the public finances. The Central Government's
current balance moved from a deficit of 10.2% of GDP in 1980/B1 to a
surplus of 0.9% in FY85186, as a result of expenditure restraints and
revenue measures. The public enterprises, which had been a drain on the
budget, have also improved their financial performance, from a current
account deficit of 7% of GDP in 1r'0181 to an estimated surplus of 0.3% of
GDP in 1985/86. This trend reflects better expenditure controls, regular
reviews of pricing policy and a strengthening of management. Despite these
savings improvements, public sector investment continues to be financed
almost entirely with foreign aid.
8.       The external accounts improved with the economic recovery and the
current account deficit narrowea from 35% of GDP in 1981 to 14% of GDP in
1983. However, this trend was not sustained. As investment-related
imports increased during execution of the major roads project and export
growth faltered with the slowdown in production in 1985, the deficit
widened to 21Z of GDP in 1984 and 1985. These deficits have been financed
mainly by project-related capital inflows on grant and soft-loan terms.
9.       Dominicats development efforts in recent years involved a rapid
accumulation of external debt, which almost doubled between 1981 and 1985.
The external debt of US$48.5 million now represents 51% of GDP. While the
average terms are concessional, the debt service, including service of the
IMF debt, is 11% of exports of goods and nonfactor services and 15% of
government revenues.
10.      The Government is in the process of designing a structural
adjustment program aimed at increasing public sector savings, stimulating
production and exports and improving the programming and monitoring of
public sector investment. The program is supported by an IMF SAP
arrangement. The fiscal effort will focus mainly on expenditure restraint
given that, as a result of several revenue measures taken in the past five



year., the ratio of current revenue to GDP is already high, at 312 of GDP
in 1985186. The growth of the wage bill is expected to be contained by
pursuit of a prudent wage policy. The Government has abolished automatic
annual salary increases and has begun to rationalize the civil service with
a view to increasing its productivity. It intends nof to examine the level
of public employment with a view to making reductions where possible. On
the revenue side, the Governriwnt has launched a program with technical
assistance to strengthen the tax collection procedures. While considerable
progress has been made in improving the performance of the public
enterprises, further steps need to be taken to streamline their
operations. The Central Water Authority has been dissolved pending
reconstitution into a more efficient agency, and the Government intends to
revise water and electricity rates as part of an overall reorganization and
expansion program including the expansion under the proposed power project.
Development Policy Issues
11.      The basic development issue is to stimulate investment and
exports. In the absence of a flexible exchange rate policy tool, wages
policy becomes a critical tool of macroeconomic policy. The Government
intends to introduce legislation to improve the wage bargaining process,
and to stiffen its policy of wage restraint. Further Improvements in the
policy environment are to be sought through a proposed tax reform to reduce
disincentives in the tax system. Art in-depth study of the tax system is
underway to lay the basis for the reform.
12.      Sectoral policies and programs are aimed at enhancing productivity
in Dominica's traditional sectors, diversifying and expanding the economic
base and providing infrastructural and institutional support for private
investment. The chief objective in agriculture is to diversify the sector
into high value crops such as mountain coffee, and exotic fruits while
strengthening the traditional crops of bananas and citrus fruits. The
Government has promoted the development of nontraditional crops by
establishing a tree-crop diversification scheme, the planting phase of
which was completed in 1985. The success of the diversification program
depends on how quickly export markets are established.  To increase land
utilization and create employment, external assistance has been obtained
for credit to small farmers within the framework of an integrated rural
development project.
13.      Dominica's strategy to develop manufacturing has focused on
establishing agro-processing such as timber and coconut products, utilizing
the country's agricultural and other natural resources. Strong efforts are
also being made to attract export-oriented light manufacturing such as
garments and electrical appliances, with emphasis on overseas promotion.
Dominica's tourism could play a larger role than in the recent past in
creating employment and strengthening the country's foreign exchange
earnings. The Government proposes to reconstruct access roads to the main
tourist attractions and to revise its tourism promotion strategy, placing
greater emphasis on special target groups and on tour operators in the
region.



-4-
Public Sector Investment Program
14.      The public sector investment program envisages expenditures of
EC$175 million over the period 1986/87 through 1988189. The program is
consistent with the Government's objective of stimulating private
investment to spur economic growth. Overall the Government's strategy is
to support the development of productive activities by rehabilitating the
social and economic infrastructure, and providing other necessary services.
Investment in supporting infrastructure and services for the directly
productive sectors (agriculture, manufacturing and tourism) will amount to
282 of expenditures during the three-year period, consisting mainly of
provision of agricultural inputs and credit to private farmers, the
construction of access roads to farm lands and to natural attractions, and
the construction of factory shells. Investment in economic infrastructure
will continue to be the largest element of the PSIP with expenditures
amounting to 46% of all outlays. However, while investment in the roads
subsector will continue to feature prominently in the investment program,
the Government plans to place a greater emphasis on power, water and air
transport. The Government's strategy also entails increased investment in
social infrastructure with housing accounting for 8% of all expenditures
compared with 3% attained in the previous three-year program.
Medium-term Prospects and Creditworthiness
15.      Dominica's major macroeconomic objective for the next three years
is to increase GDP growth from an estimated 1.2% in 1985 to 3.5-4.0%
annually on a sustained basis. This target would imply maintaining
relatively high investment rates of about 282 of GDP and raising exports
(particularly of agriculture and also of tourism). This is to be
accompanied by a containment and rationalization of government expenditures
and a prudent external debt management policy. Central Government savings
are targeted to grow from an estimated 0.9% of GDP in 1985186 to 2-3% of
GDP by 1988/89. This improvement will result primarily through a reduction
of current expenditures from about 30.6% of GDP in 1985186 to 28% of GDP in
1988(89, with the revenue to GDP ratio remaining at about 31%. The balance
of payments wo;-ld be strengthened through the growth of exports led by
growth in the volume of banana exports. As a result, the current account
deficit is expected to decline by about 4 percentage points between 1985
and 1988.
16.      Despite the projected improvements, Dominica's fiscal and balance
of payments positions have to be strengthened even further. The projected
debt service obligatiorns in the medium term, averaging about IIZ of exports
of goods and nonfactor services and about 16% of goverrment revenue,
suggest that Dominica can only be considered marginally creditworthy for
borrowing on nonconcessional terms. While it is expected that, with
adequate levels of external financing and appropriate polIcies and
programs, Dominica's economy would be strengthened, the cc.Astraints
inherent in the country's physical structure and the susceptibility of the
productive structure to devastation by natural disasters may affect the
pace of attainment of external viability. Thus, Dominica's dependence on
concessional external assistance may persist beyond the medium-term, albeit
at reduced rates.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.      Dominica gained independence from the United Kingdom in November
1978. It become a member of the Bank and IDA in September 1980. The first
direct credit was for Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation - US$5 million
approved in 1982 and completed satisfactorily in May 1985.
18.      The Bank Group lending strategy has been to channel resources to
the OECS countries through the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) and to lend
directly only in cases, such as the two projects mentioned above, where the
projects proposed were beyond CDB's financial or technical capabilities.
The Bank has provided to CDB under this approach two IDA credits totalling
US$14 million and a US$3 million Third Window operation. The IDA credits
contained three sub-credits to Dominica for a total of US$5.3 million. The
sub-credits were for restoration of port facilities damaged by hurricanes -
US$2.0 million; DFC equity capital contribution - US$0.3 million; and
feeder roads - USy3.0 million. Dominica would also benefit from a Fourth
CDB, a Regional VocationAal and Technical Education project, scheduled for
Board presentation in FY87.
19.      The proposed lending strategy for the OECS, including Dominica, is
guided by the broad principles spelled out in the Board document entitled
'Terms of Lending to Small Island Economies Graduating from IDA," dated
November 18, 1985. Though per capita income is above the IDA cutoff point,
the country is not fully creditworthy for Bank lending. The Bank will
facilitate the transition from IDA to full Bank eligibility by providing
limited access to IDA over the medium tern for operations which would
address critical economic policy issues and thus strengthen
creditworthiness by the end of the decade. A proposed Structural
Adjustment Credit of US$3 million scheduled for Board presentation in FY87
would be the first such operation for the OECS.
20.      Since the creation of the Caribbean Gro-up for Cooperation in
Economic Development, the Bank has carried out substantial amounts of
economic work in Dominica, and in the other OECS countries. For several
years, Bank economic memoranda were prepared annually (now every 18
months), in the process of which the Bank has developed a dialogue with the
Government on its development priorities and policies. The Bank has helped
the Government in the formulation of realistic investment programs and
financing plans and, as Chairman of the Caribbean Group, has played a lead
role in obtaining and coordinating external assistance for Dominica, most
notably for the Government's major roads program to which IDA contributed
in 1982.
21.      IFC's role in the OECS countries has been limited to the
assistance provided through the Caribbean Project Development Facility
(CPDF), which was established under the aegis of the Caribbean Group. CPDF
assists small private sector enterprises in putting together financing
packages. CPDF is currently involved in two operations in Dominica, one a
poultry processing operation, and the other a furniture-making enterprise
aimed at exporting. Both operations are scheduled to be completed in the
next two months.



-6-
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
22.      Energy Consumption and Resources.  Energy consumption in 1985 at
about .23 ton of oil equivalent (tos)/inhabitant was  uong the lowest In
the Caribbean community. Petroleum products accounted for about 762 of
commercial energy consumption, hydroelectricity for about 20% and LPG for
about 4%. The use of diesel for electricity amounted to 352 of total
diesel consumption in 1985. The country has no known fossil fuel
resources, but has considerable hydro potential and possibly soae usable
geothermal resources. Efforts to promote fuel conservation and the use of
indigenous resources is now a major Government concern as the volume of
petroleum products imported increased from 75,000 barrels in 1983 to
115,000 barrels in 1985 causlng an increase of expenditures from US$3.8
million to US$6.1 million. In an attempt to curb consumption and as a
means of increasing its revenues, Government has set prices for gasoline,
kerosene, diesel and LPG some 20% above efficiency prices, through a
consumption tax that has increased in direct proportion with receni falls
in the price of petroleum products in the international market.
23.      The country is endowed with substantial hydro resources.  A 1984
survey has ascertained that an average production of some 110 GWh per year
(about 5 times the generation energy requirements in 1985) could be
developed at a cost not exceeding US cents 6.3IKWh, which would make them
competitive with diesel-fired generation at a wholesale diesel price in
Dominica of about $23Ibbl. corresponding to US$1ZIbbl. of crude oil in the
international market.
24.      Dominica's main non-commercial energy sources are vegetable
charcoal and wood, which are mostly used for domestic purposes in the rural
areas. The limited availability of bagasse and other agricultural wastes
as well as animal manure would yield a very minor contribution to the
country energy needs, either in terms of gas for domestic use or power
generation. Wind power and solar heating may have localized applications.
25.      Sector Organization.  The Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism
regulates petroleum imports and prices. The Ministry of Finance analyses
the impact of petroleum imports and the retail price structure on the
balance of payments, Government revenues and internal inflation. An
agreement between these two ministries is needed before imports are
contracted or retail price policies are changed. The Ministry of
Communications and Works (MCi) supervises the electric power utility
(DOMLEC) and handles directly the activities concerning new or less
conventional technologies. The Ministry of Agriculture regulates and/or
operates the activities regarding wood, vegetable charcoal, biogas, biomass
and solar heating.
26.      Given the scarcity of administrative and human resources, the
Government has relied on the Secretariat of Economic Affairs of the
Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) to formulate energy
policies. The Government's objective in the sector is to increase self-
reliance through improved energy demand management and reduction in
petroleum dependence. In addition to the continued use of OECS technical
assistance, it is desirable that a coordinating mechanism be established



within the Government to assure that prices for diesel, LPG and electricity
continue to be set in a consistent way with due regard to efficiency. The
Government has agreed to appoint not later than December 31, 1987, under
terms of reference acceptable to the Association, an Inter-Hinistry Energy
Committee consisting of representatives of HCW, Ministry of Finance, and
Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism to coordinate the pricing of energy
products.
27.      The Power Market.  Slightly over one half of the population has
access to electricity services with a per capita consumption of about 214
kWhlyear.   Hurricane David caused complete interruption of the eleetLicity
supply in August 1979 and destroyed much of the transmission and
distribution installations. Restoration work was completed by the end of
1983 and in that year consumption recovered its 197B level. The Government
with the help of a USAID grant: (i) strengthened the generation system in
1985; and (ii) is completing the electrification of the East Coast and
providing a transmission ring around the coast, where nearly all population
Is concentrated.
28.      Electricity consumption grew at an average rate of 11.2% p.A.
between 1983, when it recovered to pre-hurricane level, and 1986, reaching
19.6 GWh in 1986. Residential consumption has traditionally accounted for
slightly over half of the demand, whereas the industrial consumption has
accounted for less than 102. Taking account of a moderate growth of the
economy (about 31 per year) and assuming a wider access of the population
to electricity services, it Is expected that consumption will reach about
30.5 GWh in 1995, representing an average increase of 5% per year.
29.      Electricity losses have been high in the post-hurricane years
averaging over 20% of net generation between 1980 and 1983. As a result of
measures taken following a 1983 study, losses dropped to 17.8% in 1984 and
15.1% in 1985. It is expected that continuing surveillance of non-
technical losses and implementation of the distribution component under the
Project will progressively reduce losses to 13% by 1989 and keep them at
that level during Project implementation.
30.      The Power Company. DOMLEC is a government-owned corporation which
was incorporated under the Companies Ordinance in 1975. Under the 1976
Electricity Supply Act DOMLEC is given a mole and exclusive licence to
generate, trasnmit, distribute and sell electricity for a 25-year period
commencing June 1, 1976. Government appoints DOMLEC's Chairman and its
Board of Directors who have all been drawn from the private sector. Up to
1983, when Government purdhased its shares, the Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC) had a majority interest in DOMLEC. Government wishes to
encourage local citizens and employees of DOMLEC to participate in the
ownership of the company and has recently offered 60% of its shares for
public subscription.
31.      The major responsibilities of DOMLEC's Board include approval of
annual budgets, major capital investments, and senior staff appointments
and compensation. MCW approves tariff increases, mcuitors DOMLEC's
operations through regular reports, assists in majox investment planning
and is consulted by DOMLEC's Chairman on all matters of major Importance.
These arrangements are working well.



- 8 -
32.      DOMLEC's organizational wtructure is -atifsctory and Its staff is
expected to be capable of running the company'. day-to-day operations
effectively. The company employs about 125 people lncluding four
professional engineers and one graduate technician. DOMLECso staff
turnover has been low. Its Managing Director Is a qualified and capable
engineer. DOMLEC's financial staff is to bo strengthened by the
appointment of a Financial Controller. DOMLEC has agreed to only appoint
to the positions of Managing Director and Financial Controller persons
having qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association. It
has further agreed that a Finaicial Controller with such qualifications and
experience would be appointed not later than September 30, 1987.
33.      A recent USAID-financod project includes training for DOMLEC's
oenior managers. However, few of DOMLEC's technicians have had any formal
training and the level of their technical skills needs to be improved if
they are to cope effectively with DOMLEC's onlarging operations and with
more advanced technology. The project would include a training component
to be implenented under the responsibility of the Human Resources
Development Committee, which comprises oenior management as well as
DOMLEC's personnel officer.
34.      Tariffs.  Under the Electricity Supply Act DOMLEC is authorized to
change its electricity rates with the approval of the Minister responsible
for electricity, presently the Minieter of Communications and Works. Thera
are provisions in the Act for changes even when not approved by the
Minister but DOMLEC never had to use them. Although DOMLEC's average
tariff is reasonable by reference to long-term supply costs, adjustments In
its tariffs are necessary to strengthen its financial position as it
expands its generating capacity (para. 54). Some improvements to the
company's tariff structure were introduced in June 1984 upon the
recommendation of consultants. A flat rate per kWh was replaced by
separate rate levels for each customer class. Domestic consumers are
charged at an increasing block rate, industrial consumers are charged time-
of-day rates and commercial consumers are charged for each KW of installed
capacity together with a flat energy charge. A fuel surcharge is applied
to recover additlonal fuel costs in excess of a basic cost established in
1978. A 1985 study concluded that present tariffs for industrial and
commercial consumers were higher than marginal costs while those for
domestic consumers were lower. DOMLEC has agreed that, by March 31, 1988,
it will propose a new program establishing a tariff structure and rates
taking into account the recommendations of the study and its targeted
revenue requirements (para. 55), and promptly implement these proposals
after having taken into account the conuents of the Association.
35.      Power Sector Constraints.  Because of its small size, DOMLEC
lack's in-house specialist expertise to deal with planning and tuchnical
problems outside its day-to-day operations. The Project addresses these
issues by providing finance for a project manager, a technical assistance
component, and a comprehensive training program.



PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.      The Expansion Prokram.  The existing generation facilities have an
effective capacity of 6.6 MW and en annual energy capability of 2B.6 GWh
firm and 37.8 GWh averaga. Taking into account reserve requirements and
market forecast, additional generation facilities would ideally be requited
in 1990, but they are unlikely to be completed before 1991. Even though
the 1990 reserves would be below a normally planned level, DOMLEC will be
able to get through this critical year by concentrating its efforts on a
maintenance program for generation units. The Project addresses this issue
by assisting in the training of diesel maintenance staff.
37.      A 1984 study financed by the CDB and carried out by consultants
(Shawinigan/Lavalin) showed the economic feasibility of expanding
generation through the use of hydro-electric resources. A survey of the
major basins indicated that the least-cost options were in the Roseau River
where the two existing hydro plants were developed. Since the oil prices
dropped sharply in late 1985, a re-evaluation of the feasibility of the
hydro scheme selected in the 1984 study against a diesel alternative was
necessary. The hydro-based expansion is more economical than an all-diesel
alternative for a wide range of credible oil price scenarios. A break-even
discount rate favorable to an all-diesel alternative of 9% would require
oil price to drop to US$Bbbl. in 1995, a most unlikely event. The
decision to base the system expansion on hydro resources is therefore
clearly justified.
38.      Project Background.  The proposed project would cover DOMLEC's
1988-93 investment program. The Project, identified in May 1984, was
prepared by Government and DOMLEC with the assistance of consultants and
was appraised in October 1986. Negotiations were held in WashLngton from
February 17 to 19, 1987. The Dominican delegation was led by Mr. Frank
Baron, Chairman of the Board of DONLEC.
39.      Project Objectives.  The project objectives are to:  (a) expand
generation, transmission and distribution facilities as required by
expected demand growth between 1989 and 1994; (b) strengthen DOMLEC
institutionally by providing outside management services and training of
technical personnel; and (c) assist DOMLEC in planning system expansion to
meet its long-term energy requirements. The project would help Dominica
reduce its dependence on imported fuels, reinforce the power sector
institutions and prepare for further development of its energy resources to
meet long-term requirements.
40.      Project Description.  The Project would include the expansion of
an existing hydroplant (Trafalgar) and the building of a new one (Laudat)
on the Roseau river, diversion of water flow from the Clarke's River into
the Fresh Water Lake and a dam at this lake to increase its capacity. This
would provide the system with some additional 22.7 KWh of yearly average
energy capability, 11.8 GWh of yearly firm energy, 4.6 MW of peak capacity
in the dry season and 4.0 MW of peak capacity in the wet season. The
project would also include transmission and distribution facilities, the
acquisition of equipment, tools, vehicles for operation and maintenance,
and minor investment in facilities for administrative purposes. Finally,



- 10 -
the project would help develop a training program and provide engineering
and conaultant services. Mhe training program would consist of
scholarships abroad for DOMLEC tochnical staff, specific in-house training
and training materials and equipment. Consultants services for about
US$1.9 million would be provided to help DOMLEC in the management and
supervision of the project and the preparation of its long-term expansion
program. The management of the National Park would need to be reinforced
to prevent possible ecological damages associated with the construction of
generation facilities under the project. The Forestry Department of the
Ministry of Agriculture would receive services of an expert to review and
recommend staffing and training needs for this purpose.
41.      Project Cost.  The total project cost, including physical and
price contingencies, is estimated at US$16.7 million, of which US$13.0
million (772) would be in foreign exchange. This estimate does not include
import taxes and other duties because DOMLEC is exempt from these levies.
Total financing requirements, including interest during construction
(US$1.6 million) are estimated at US$18.3 million, of which US$14.0 million
would be in foreign exchange. Project component costs are based on
estimates at January 1987 prices, including detailed engineering at the
bidding stage for the generation works.
42.      Physical contingencies amount to 7.6Z of the project base costs
and they have been calculated on the basis of experience with similar
projects as follows: 12.52 for the generation civil works; 5% for the
generation electromechanical works and pipeline supplies; 101 for
transmission, distribution, expansion planning and dispatch center studies,
and general investment; and 8% for generation works engineering and
construction supervision. Price contingencies amount to 6.52 of the base
cost including physical contingencies. They have been calculated at the
following annual rates (i) for foreign costs: 3% for 1987, 12 for 1988 to
1990, 3.5Z for 1991 to 1993; and (ii) for local costs: 4% for 1987 and 1988
and equal to foreign costs for the remaining years.
43.      Financing Plan.  The proposed US$3 million IDA credit would be
equal to about 16Z of the project financing requirements and would be used
to finance equipment, tools and vehicles for operation and maintenance,
training and technical assistance, engineering consulting services for
construction and supervision of the hydro scheme and studies for expansion
planning and for a dispatch center. Other financing would come from Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) (civil works for expansion of the
Trafalgar hydroplant and steel pipeline), European Investment Bank (EIB)
electromechanical and transmission and distribution equipment), CDB (civil
works for zhe Laudat hydroplant, Clarke's diversion and Fresh Water Lake
dam), and Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) (woodstave
pipe). As a condition of credit effectiveness, CCCE, CDB, CIDA and EIB
should have notified the Association that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness or of the first disbursement of their finance have been aet.
CIDA finance is expected to be approved in the second quarter of 1987 and
will be made available to DOMLEC as a grant. CCCE, CDB and EIB conducted
their appraisals at the same time as the Association. Their finance, which
is scheduled for approval in the first quarter of 1987, is expected to be
made available to DOCLEC through Government on the following terms.



- 11 -
Interest   Grace Period    Amortization
Rate  %       (yeers)     Period (rears)
CDB                                     8.5         5           20
CCCE                                    3.75        5           15
EIB                                     5           5           20
44.      Relending Terms.  The Government would onlend the proceeds of the
IDA credit to DOMLEC for a 20-year term, including a 5-year grace period,
at the Bank's interest rate at the time of credit approval. DONLEC would
bear the foreign exchange risk and as a proxy for this and to simplify the
administrative burden on the company the Government loan would be
denominated in US dollars. It was also agreed that the outstanding balance
due by DOMLEC to Government would [mmediately become repayable, in the
event of DOMLEC's license to generate and supply electricity, which expires
in 2001, not being renewed by Government (para. 30). The execution of the
subsidiary loan agreement would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
45.      Prolect Implementation.  Basic design and bidding documents for
the hydro scheme were completed in February 1987 by consultants
(ShawiniganlLavalin) retained by the Goverment under a contract funded by
CDB. As a condition of effectiveness, DOMLEC would be required to employ
ronsultants on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, for the
tendering process as well as for detailed engineering design and
construction supervision of the hydro scheme. It is most likely that the
contract of the existing consultants will be extended. All the engineering
required for distribution and transmission works will be provided by DOMLEC
which has adequate expertise. Any special problems related to the
transmission that exceed DOMLEC's technical capability would be handled
with the technical assistance provided by the Project. Distribution and
transmission works would be carried out by force account by DONLEC which
has handled satisfactorily, time and cost-wise, a similar volume of works
during the last few years. The project would be completed by end-1993.
46.      DONLEC has already appointed a Project Manager with qualifications
and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. It has
agreed that, not later than December 31, 1987, it will employ consultants,
under terms of reference already approved by IDA to provide technical
assistance in the management, financial and technical areas, and review the
staffing and training needs of the Forestry Department (para. 61). The
broad outline of the training component has also been agreed. DOMLEC will
submit, not later than September 30, 1987, a detailed implementation plan
for this component, and not later than December 31 each year thereafter,
until Project completion, a progress report and a detailed plan for the
following year. Finally, it has agreed that not later than January 31,
1991, DOWLEC would employ consultants to carry out studies related to
system expansion planning and to the feasibility of a dispatch center on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.



- 12 -
47.      Procurement.  Procurement arrangamunts would be as follows:
(Amounts in US$ Thousand equivalent)
Project Element                          Procurement Method           Total
ICB A  DPIS_  F.Ac   Other"        Cost
A) Hydro Generation Works
Civil Works                    3,135                     1,014     5,149
Equip. & Materials                                       5,377     5,377
Feasibility and
Basic Design                                              761e      761
Detailed Engin. and
Construct. Superv.                                      1,oi5f    1o015
(1,015)   (1,015)
B) Tranam. and Distrib.                            627      1,123     1,750
C) Equipment, Tools and
vehicles for O&M                434     50                          484
(434)  C 50)                        (484)
D) Training                                377                105       482
(377)              (94)f    (471)
E) Technical Assist.                                          860       860
(597)f    (597)
F) Generation and
Dispatch Center
Studies                                                   433       433
(433)f    (433)
G) General Investment                                         367       367
Total Project                  3,569    427    627      12,055    16,678
(434)  (427)           (2,139)   (3,000)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by IDA
a)  ICB - International Competitive Bidding.
b)  DPIIS - Direct Purchase/International Shopping.
c)  F.A. = Force Account (by DOMLEC).
d)  Subject to DOMLEC's or the respective donor's (CCCE, EIB, CIDA)
procurement policies, except where noted by f and g.
e)  Consultants were hired in accordance with CDB guidelines.
f)  Consultants' services to be procured in accordance with IDA guidelines.
48.      Five contracts with a total estimated value of US$10.5 million
would be awarded to carry out the hydro generation works in accordance with
procedures of the financing agencies involved (CCCE, CDB, EIB and CIDA).
Equipment, tools and vehicles for operation and maintenance would be
procured under international competitive bidding in accordance with the
"Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credlts, except for
off-the-shelf goods estimated not to exceed US$50,000 in total which would
be procured through international shopping in contracts less than US$15,000
each, to enable the Borrower to have such small valued goods readily
available. Consultant services to be financed by IDA would be procured in
accordance with "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency". The training program



- 13 -
to be financed by IDA (US$471,000) in addition to expert services for in-
house training (about US$94,000) would include such items as scholarships
abroad (about US$263,000), and training equipment and materials (about
US$114,000) which would be procured through direct purchase and
international shopping respectively.
49.      Three contracts for the supply of equipment and materials for the
distribution and transmission expansion with a total estimated value of
US$1.8 million would be procured under EIB guidelines. Goods and services
which are related to general investment needs of DOMLEC (about US$370
thousand) will be procured according to DOMLEC's own regulations, which are
adequate to handle in an efficient way small purchases through the duration
of the project. During the procurement and construction stages of the
project IDA will review the timing of the procurement and supply of goods
and services financed by other donors to ensure that it is consistent with
the project implementation schedule.
50.      Disbursements.  Proceeds from the proposed IDA credit would be
disbursed for: (a) 100% of the expenditures related to the consulting
services for: (i) the engineering and supervision of the construction of
the hydro generation works; (ii) studies related to system expansion
planning and to the feasibility of a dispatch center; (iii) technical
assistance in the managerial, financial and technical areas; (b) 1002 of
the foreign expenditures related to the training program for scholarships
and training experts services; Cc) 100X of the foreign expenditures for
equipment, tools, vehicles for operation and maintenance, and for training
equipment and materials.
51.      The proposed credit would be disbursed over a period of seven
years, in accordance with the applicable IBRDIIDA standard disbursement
profile. The closing date for the credit would be June 30, 1994.
Di3bursement requests would be fully documented, except for imported goods
whose value is less than US$200,000 equivalent which would be based on
presentation of a statement of expenditures. A special account would be
established in the National Commercial Bank of Dominica with a deposit of
US$250,000.  Periodic replenishme:t would be made to this account against
withdrawal applications received from DOMLEC and supported by such
documents as the Association requires. The Borrower would be required to
have annual audits for the project accounts, special account and
withdrawals based on statement of expenditures. Retroactive financing for
up to US$100,000 is proposed for the payment of consultants for detailed
engineering and construction supervision for expenses incurred and paid by
the Borrower after February 1, 1987.
52.      Project Benefits and Justification.  The proposed project would
help improve the power sector's efficiency and meet load growth
requirements. The project is the least-cost solution for the power systems
expansion (para. 37). A measure of the minimam benefits associated with
this program is given by the incremental sales revenue and by the saving of
diesel fuel through increased hydro generation. Based on valuing the
former at the current average tariff and the latter at the prices of diesel
in Dominica derived from expected evolution of crude oil prices in the
international market, the rate of return of the project is estimated to be
about 11 percent, which compares favorably with the opportunity cost of



- 14 -
capital in Dominica (10 percent). The project, however, is likely to
generate additional social benefits accruing from increased eaploymuent
opportunities and expanded residential and public use of electricity, as
well as additional economic benefits accruing to production from a more
reliable electricity supply. Sensitivity analysis shows that rates of
return of 10% would still result if investment costs nre 10% higher or
benefits are 102 lower than now estimated.
53.      Financial Prospects.  In the five-year period 1981-85 DOMLEC's
finances have been marked by good but declining rates of return varying
from 20% for 1982 to 13% in 1985, and a much improved capital structure
with A debtlequity ratio of 30170 at December 31, 1985 mainly resulting
from the reinvestment of earnings. Nevertheless, as DOMLEC's earnings were
absorbed by capital spending, the company was left with a weak liquid
position in 1986 with bank overdraft facilities being fully utilized and no
access to further facilities. Furthermore, DOMLEC's average costs have
been increasing more rapidly than its average revenues. After taking into
account the fuel surcharges (para. 34) DOMLEC's average revenue per kwh
sold increased by about 122 between 1981 and 1985 as a result of an
increasing proportion of electricity production from oil. This trend will
be reversed as the hydro-facilities provided by the project come into
operation. 1985 average electricity rates of 16 US cents per kWh are lower
than some countries in the West Indies but nevertheless high by world
standards.
54.      A 10% tariff increase (excluding the fuel surcharge) was approved
for implementation on April 1, 1987. This would reduce DOILEC's future
dependance on limited bank overdraft facilities. The overall effect of the
tariff increase, after taking into account the fuel surcharge, is estimated
to increase the average rate charged to consumers by about 7%. Despite the
tariff increase it is expected that DONLEC's rate of return would decline
to about 5% in 1987 because a USAID grant-funded rural electrification
project would considerably add to fixed assets in service this year.
Although some further increases in electricity rates (excluding fuel
surcharges) would be required during project implementation it is expected
that these would be more than offset by reductions in fuel surcharges as
the project hydro facilities are placed in operation. It is estimated that
by 1993 the average price to the consumer would have declined by about 13%.
To raet the minimum rate of return requirements it is estimated that
betreen 198B and 1993 the following nominal tariff increases to the basic
tariff (excluding fuel surcharges) would be needed 1988 2.2%; 1989 2.3%;
1990 3.9%; 1992 11.4Z; 1993 6%.
55.      To help finance its immediate and future capital needs DOMLEC has
agreed to maintain its tariffs at a level sufficient to earn a rate of
return on average net fixed assets in operation, revalued from time to time
when required by the Association, of not less than 6% in 1988 and 1989, and
7X thereafter. It has also agreed that, before October 1 each year, DOMLEC
will furnish to the Association a preliminary estimate of its rate of
return for the current fiscal year and a forecast for the next fiscal year.
This would help DOMLEC take, in consultation with IDA, appropriate measures
to meet the rate of return covenant. The Government has also agreed to
authorize any tariff increases required to meet the agreed rates of return.



- 15 -
56.      By project completion DOMLEC is expected to strengthen its
finances considerably and to reduce its present over-reliance on debt to
finance its future investments. As a result of the project, fuel is
expected to decline from 321 of operating costs in 1987 to 3% in 1993 while
depreciation would increase from 17X to 322 in the same period. After
project completion, DOMLEC would have a satisfactory debt service coverage
of 1.3 as well as a strong debt/equity ratio of 54146.
57.      DOMLEC has agreed (a) not to incur any new debt (other than for
the project) without the prior approval of the Association unless its
future debt service coverage ratio is 1.5 or higher and (b) not to
undertake any investments in excess of $250,000 (other than the project)
until project completion unless it has furnished the Association with
satisfactory evidence that such investments are technically, financially
and economically justified and that DOMLEC will have adequate financial
resources to carry out the investments.
58.      As mentioned in para. 30 Government has recently offered to sell
60% of its shares to the general public. Although DOMLEC's immediate cash
position would not be adequate to pay dividends, it is expected that,
provided the agreed rates of return are achieved, DOMLEC will be able to
pay dividends in the future without jeopardizing the financing of the
project. Until project completion, however, dividends will not be paid
except out of net income for the year and not in excess of 10% of the
issued and paid-up value of its ordinary shares. It is estimated that
during project implementation such dividends, if any, would not exceed 2%
of the estimated project costs.
59.      DOMLEC's accounting records, a substantial part of which are
computerized, have been vell maintained and financial statements are
prepared monthly and compared with annual budgets. The level of
receivables has been gradually reduced and should reach a satisfactory
level of about 60 days by the end of 1986. Annual audits have been carried
out by the international firm, Cooper and Lybrand, and audit reports have
been issued within six months of the company's fiscal year end.  DOMLEC has
agreed to continue to engage independent auditors satisfactory to the
Association and that DOHLEC's audited accounts will be submitted to the
Association not later than six months after the end of its fiscal year.
60.      Environmental Aspects.  The Project is not expected to have any
major detrimental effect on the environment, mainly because the nature and
small size of the generation works would not cause any material changes to
the natural conditions. There will be no people directly affected by the
Project who would require resettlement or any other special action.
However as part of project works would be carried out in the National Park
special care would be taken to preserve the environment. The National
Park has a total area of 6400 ha. of which only about 5.5 ha. would be
flooded; the land flooded is of no special importance and is well
represented elsewhere in the National Park. The water reservoir would
enhance its value. Only minor improvements would be required to the
existing roads giving access to the construction sites. Small construction
equipment and labor intensive techniques would be used. Work crews would
be brought into the area daily. No transmission facilities would be built
in the National Park. The new 11 kV transmission line would be built



- 16 -
parallel to an existing 11 kV line, with minimum addition of right-of-way
requirements. Distribution expansion in the urban centers would be
implemented in accordance with DOMIEC's standards which are considered
appropriate.
61.      DOMLEC has agreed to employ by December 31, 1987: (i) an expert to
assist, from time to time, in the management of the National Park during
project construction (par&. 40): (a) to help ensure that such construction
would have a minimum effect on the National Park flora and fauna, and would
not interfere with the normal use of the National Park by the public; and
(b) to provide technical assistance in the preservation of the wildlands of
the National Park; and (ii) a consultant to review the staff and training
needs of the forestry department. The Government and DONLEC have also
agreed that they would: (i) install road signs and warnings on access
2.ads to the construction sites identifying the National Park and
restricting speed limits; (ii) forbid work night shift; (iii) ensure that
construction material would be normally obtained from sources outside the
National Park; however if it were necessary to obtain such material inside
the Park to avoid significant additions to material costs, then the areas
thus used would be restored to their initial state to the extent possible;
and (iv) ensure that no spoils would be dumped in the National Park.
62.      Project Risks.  The generation component is subject to the risks
normally associated with the construction of civil works in areas where dry
and wet seasons are well marked. Most of the work on the dams associated
with the power plants, are to be implemented during the dry seasons. If
this was not the case, a delay of up to nine months in the completion of
the generation facilities could occur. Based on field investigations and
given the small size of the civil works and its simplicity of design, the
hydro scheme is believed to be free of major geological problems. The
other project components face no special physical risk. Design standards
for generation, transmission and distribution facilities take into account
wind gust velocity and seismic factors as appropriate. A Project Manager
has been engaged and technical assistance would be provided (pars. 46) to
assist DOMLEC during the implementation of the proposed project and to
strengthen DONLEC's managerial and technical capacity. The project cost
estimates include adequate allowances for physical and price contingencies,
and no major cost overrun is expected (para. 42). The successful operation
of the hydro scheme is closely linked to the skills of the operating
personnel which would be upgraded under the project. DOMLEC has agreed
that its hydro installations will be monitored and inspected after
completion at least once every two years by experts acceptable to IDA and
that a copy of the inspection report will be submitted to IDA.



- 17 -
PART V.- RECOMMENDATION
63.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachements
March   , 1987
Washington, D.C.



- 18 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
Populatimn  (OOS): 85 (19151
OMP pe capitat US$I160 (19953
DONINICA - ECONINIC DATA
Amount
IuSS uIn. at                      Growth Rate III
current pricesl      -----------------------------------------
1995               1981     1982      1983     1984      395
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Doestic Product            95.3               10.0      4.1       3.0       6.7      2.0
Aqriculture                   23.2                21.9      2.4       1.0       5.7     -1.3
Industry                       6.3                15.9     17.5       1.1      2.1       8.2
Services                      49.7                -0.6      0.5       2.8       7.0      1.3
Consumption                      92.0                5.4     -4.2      -0.6       3.3     30.1
Bross Investment                 27.1              -30.2     -7.9       0.7      30.3    -10.5
Ekports of GNF5                  37.5               51.3     26.3       3.8      10.7     -3.7
Imports of INFS                 61.4                -5.8     -2.0       0.4      14.2      2.7
Gross Domestic Savings            3.3
PRICES
SiP at up. deflator (1977 - 1001                  160.1    167.8    179.8    186.3    197.7
Exchange rate (ECUIUSSi                             2.7      2.7       2.7       2.7      2.7
Share of GOP at Market Prices (11               Average Annual Increase (Xl
(at current prices) a/                        (at constant pricesi
1901     1992      1983     1904      1995             1901-83  1983-05  1981-85
Gross Domestic Product                             100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0                  5.7       3.9      5.1
Agriculture                                       27.1     25.6      24.6     23.9      24.3                9.1       1.8      5.7
IndustrV                                          6.4       7.6       7.2      6.4       6.6               11.2      3.8       8.8
Services                                          52.1     50.9      51.7     52.9      52.2                0.9       3.7      2.1
Consumption                                        110.0     97.3      90.0     91.1      96.6               -2.6       6.6      1.9
Gross Investment                                    33.4     29.2      20.2     33.9      29.5                0.0       9.0      3.9
Exports of GSlS                                     35.2     43.9      45.1     41.9      39.4               14.5       3.2      6.7
Imports of 6IFS                                     78.7     69.5      63.3     66.9      64.5               -0.8      8.3        .7
Gross Domestic Savings                                .       2.7      10.0      9.9       3.4
As 1 of GOP
1I99     1993    1395
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current Revenue                                   50.4     51.9      54.4
Current Expenditure                               59.7     51.9      50.9
Surplus (+3 or deficit (-I                        -.3      -0.1       3.5
Capital Expenditure                               £1.5     17.5      19.6
Foreign Financing (netl                           23.0     19.4      17.3
a/ Components are expressed at factor cost and uill not add to SDP at market prices due to exclusion
of net indirect taxes and subsidies.



- 19 -
Annex E
Populatim   (WI: sU                                                                                           Page  2 of 2
C1  par capita: 51110 IY5951
WNIICA - ECOSEIC IAT1
unt              Cmesitim  of             AvrW4a  AInne1l Ilcrease It)
oUst all. at    l1bchaedlu trade I2)            at cadtt pricne
ctrret prics)    Cat crrent pricnl            -
ti               fil       sm             Iou-u  :9Ua-us  iz-8n
EITEREL TRUE
erthchadisi Dlnatic Elpwrts             26.2             100.0    00.0               10. 5     0.1     5.2
mnuam                                 1S.3              46.7    511P                4.0      7.2     5.1
Othe                                  12.9              51.3    49.2               16.4    -5.1       5.0
Nerchamdise Imports                     5r.2             200.0   200.0              -1.5               3.19.o
Fhd                                   12.5              25.2    22.6                ...
Chmicals                               6.3              12.5     11.4               ...      ...      ...
flhufactured Gods                     25.6              29.4    21.2                ...
Capital  ssds                         12.4              17.5    22.5
other                                 11.0              16.4    16.3
IIII    192     19113    194       1995
Prices 11977 a 1002
apeLt Price Indn                                       147.8    159.2   173.2   154.1   167.1
laLt Price Indn                                       164.4   161.6   162.0   165.7   160.2
Tfas of frade Inoe                                     09.9       7.9    107.6    93.0    Q9.8
1991    1992     1913    2994       1995
BALNCE OF PATNTS                                       fin iilliuem  sf U9 dllars ait current prices)
Expwrts, GIS                                              23.3     31.7    35.7    36.9    37.5
*i whict Nlerchiedise                                   129.1    24.5    27.5    15.6       2. 4
imparts, S1F5                                            52.0    50.1    50.1       589      61.4
of which: HIrchadise                                    49.7    67.5    47.1    55.0    57.2
Net Factor Services                                      -0.4    -0.     -1.5    -2.7    -3.0
Transfers a/                                               5.9      4.6      5.0     6.3 I     .s
Curret ccost kalasce                                     -23.3   -14.6   -10.9    -1.4   -20. 4
Direct levetet                                            0.0      0.2       0.2      2.3      1.7
Public Capital (met)                                      12.3   12.0       q.0      17.5    17.6
Grants                                                  9a6       5.9      4.4    14.6    14.a
LosU  isbmrsmnt                                          3.4      9.9     5.7       5.3     5.3
Amortization                                            0.7       0.1      1.1     2.4      2.3
Coercial iBnks  tot)                                      0.7    -1.6    -2.4         3.0      . I
Other Capital                                              2-13     1.9      4.5    -4.6      2.1
(ham   is Reservn i-  incfeasel                           -2.0      0.2    -0.4      0.2       .2 
11TERIIAL C(1IkL AN  DOT
Sross Disrcsumt                                          I 3.0    14.1    10.1    19.t    19.9
Official Grants Ipublic capital                         9.6      5.9       4.4    14.6    14.6
Lons                                                    3.4      0.9      5.7      51       5.3
Extrnal Debt Detstadiam L Disbursed U/                   16.9    24.1    29.        32.1    31.4
Debt Service
Total SDevice Paymnts                                    2.1     1.4               4 .. 44  4.3
Paymts as I oF Exports, GWS                             4.0      4.5      7.0    t2.0    11.3
Avrage Interest Rate IX                                   2. 7     3. 2     4.4      5.1      4.7
ai Privet. trmsfrs oaly.
bi Exclses debt to the IIIaF a  EIA bt ieclnie publicly  ueranttd det.



- 20 -
Annex II
Page 1 of I.
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN DOMINmCA P
A. Statement of IDA Credits as of Seutember 30, 1986
---- US$ million----
Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                             (Less cancellation)
No.     Year      Borrower       Purpose                  ID_A    UndlsbursE'd
1221    1982      Dominica       Road 'aintenance          S.0          O.Z
Total (Not of cancellations)           5.0
of which has been paid                  -
Total Now Outstanding                  5.0
Total Undisburaed                                   0.2
B.  Statement of IFC Investments as of September 30. 1986
None



- 21 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project Preparation:             Project was prepared by Government and
DOMLEC
(b)  Appraisal Mission:               October 1986
(c)  Completion of Negotiations:      February 19B7
(d)  Planned Date of Effectivenesst June 1987
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Government to relend the proceeds of the credit to DOMLEC on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association (pars. 44).
(b) Prior to effectiveness of the IDA credit, (1) all conditions precedent
to the effectiveness of CDB, CCCE, CIDA ad EIB must be met; (ii) a
satisfactory subsidiary loan agreement has been executed between
Government and DONLEC, and (iii) DOMLEC is to employ consultants for
detailed engineering design and construction supervision of the
hydroelectric facilities (paras. 43, 44 and 45).
(c)  DOMLEC to employ consultants for management services under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association (para. 46).
(d)  Until project completion and on a yearly basis, DOMLEC to submit an
implementation plan for the project training component to the
Association (para. 46).
(e) DOMLEC to maintain its tariffs at a level sufficient to earn an annual
rate of return on its average net fixed assets in operations, as
revalued from time to time, of not less than 6Z in fiscal years 1988
and 1989 and 7X thereafter (para. 55).
(f) DONLEC not to incur new debt (other than for the project) unless its
future debt service coverage is 1.5 or higher and not to undertake any
new investments in excess of US$250,000 until project completion
without furnishing the Association with satisfactory evidence that
they are justified (para. 57).



- 22 -
ANNEX XI 1
Page 2 of 2
(g) DOMLEC to employ an expert in Forestry Department Management by
December 31, 19871 to employ consultants to carry out expansion
planning and dispatch center feoasbility studies not later than
January 31, 1991 (pare. 46); and to employ experts acceptable to the
Association to inspect the hydro facilities at least once every two
years after completion of construction (pera. 62).
(h)  DOMLEC not to pay dividends or mdke any other distribution with
respect to its share capital during project implementation except out
of net incoame for the fiscal year in which the payment or distribution
is made and not in excess of 1OS of the Lisued and paid up value of
the ordinary shares (para. 58).
(i)  Government shall take, or cause DONLEC to take, all measures as shall
be required to ensure that the project is carried out with due regard
to ecological and environmental factors (para. 61).



IBRD 20375
.A'AICA        tot
13 40 lNlI'11|   
.  .~"I   /   S11   flhIMuiftA
-   \  Atrt-;AvA Wm                                   -- .---S-~-hA.
q- HSOUtH  AMERICA
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ WPP sAt A.   - n4 *Avw9.. -5
\$:-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ee.a -.'  ',--. - he W.e   se
t\>.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.Ci --; ,inW tAe.a}an le
jPOWER PROJECT,,,    ,                                                 %. W
PRIMARY DISTRIBUTION                    X r             f             
N"w -roii.o0 I ilAs S. At -  - A                                                                   - l>
"    1dre Ploxnl           tnwou                 ,| 
_Traommision linrs e.itngi or ordelr  **47J i
srBiuirwclion to bL compkiavd J.n. 1r987 t o;.4 K 
*Di-Ir Pr,"    Pknls k fd!.i  5r
* Hydra Pio,ts                                            hw'_    - ,=            r 
N.1a-1lCopiio:      
O   Salwted Trwn                                       _s~ m>49 -z6 
-15 20'           1 _Inernrlimal bou l sri-sfzss;6 
r__brnl m M_s                        &  K>D  ,Siw F                            5        2nsto  to Pbbu
U3  tna                               ROSEAU  i                   
-15-1 5',                      o     .;                                                        -
a ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ar
POWER- WI
II kV TRANSMISSION AND                ...O'
PRIMARY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AC D1TR9UIO



I



