OFFICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1771-DOM
Project Agreement
(Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
DOMINICA ELECTRICITY SERVICES LIMITED
Dated                              , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1771-DOM
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGr  -MENT, dated           V                , 1987, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT A SOCIATION (the Association) and
DOMINICA ELECTRICITY SERVICES LIMITED (DOMLEC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Commonwealth of Dominica (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to two
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 2,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that DOMLEC
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and DOMLEC, the proceeds of the credit pro-
vided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to DOMLEC on the terms and conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS DOMLEC, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
term "fiscal year" means DOMLEC's fiscal year which begins on
January 1 and ends on December 31.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. DOMLEC declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity


﻿-2-
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule and
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. DOMLEC shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. DOMLEC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, DOMLEC shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) DOMLEC shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) DOMLEC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by DOMLEC of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) In order to assist DOMLEC in the carrying
out of Parts D and E of the Project and in the carrying out of the
inspection referred to in Section 3.03 (c) of this Agreement,
DOMLEC shall employ experts and consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association, such experts and consultants to
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the World Bank in
August 1981.


﻿- 3 -
(b) The consultants and experts required for the carrying
out of Part E (i), (ii) and (iii) of the Project shall be employed
not later than:
(i)    December 31, 1987, for Part E (i);
(ii)    December 31, 1987, for Part E (ii); and
(iii)    January 31, 1991, for Part E (iii).
Section 2.07. DOMLEC shall:
(i) not later than September 30, 1987, submit to the
Association, for its approval, an implementation
plan for the carrying out of the training program
under Part D of the Project; and
(ii) not later than December 31 every year thereafter,
until the completion report referred to in Section
9.07 (c) of the General Conditions has been furn-
ished to the Association, submit to the Association,
for its review and comments, a report on the
activities undertaken during the year and on those
to be carried out the following year.
Section 2.08. DOMLEC shall, in consultation with the
Borrower:
(i)    not later than March 31, 1988, prepare a program
for establishing a new structure and rate levels
for the sale of electricity by DOMLEC, taking into
account the recommendations of the tariff study
financed by the Caribbean Community and Common
Market (CARICOM);
(ii)    exchange views with the Association on such
program; and
(iii)    implement such program as modified in order to take
into consideration the comments of the Association
thereon.
Section 2.09. In the event that DOMLEC's license to generate
and supply electricity under the 1976 Electricity Supply Act is
terminated, DOMLEC shall promptly pay to the Borrower any out-
standing balance due by DOMLEC to the Borrower in accordance with
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿4-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of DOMLEC
Section 3.01. (a) DOMLEC shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)
above, DOMLEC shall:
(i)    maintain, until the completion report referred to
in Section 9.06 (c) of the General Conditions has
been furnished to the Association, a Managing
Director with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association; and
(ii)    not later than September 30, 1987, employ and
thereafter maintain, until the completion report
referred to in Section 9.06 (c) of the General
Conditions has been furnished to the Association, a
Financial Controller with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. DOMLEC shall at all times maintain its
existence and right to carry on its operations and shall, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, take all necessary steps
that are required to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in
the conduct of its business.
Section 3.03. (a) DOMLEC shall at all times operate and
maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
(b) Without limiting the generality of paragraph (a) above,
DOMLEC shall, under arrangements satisfactory to the Association,
cause the dams owned by DOMLEC to be: (a) periodically inspected
in accordance with sound engineering practice in order to
determine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of
such dams, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or
methods of operation of the same, which may endanger their safety;
and (b) at all times adequately maintained, correcting any


﻿-5-
deficiencies that may be found pursuant to paragraph (a) of this
Section.
(u; Without limiting the generality of paragraph (a) above,
DOMLEC shall inspect the hydroelectric facilities constructed
under Part A of the Project at least once every two years after
completion of their construction and shall promptly submit to the
Association for its review the reports of such inspections.
Section 3.04. DOMLEC shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, DOMLEC shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose
of its property or assets which shall be required for the
efficient operation of its business, including the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) DOMLEC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including separate records and accounts for the Project.
(b) DOMLEC shall:
(i)    have its records, accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and


﻿-6-
(iii)    furnish to the Association such other informa-
tion concerning said records, accounts and
financial statements as well as the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, DOMLEC shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in
accordance with sound accounting practices,
records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures;
(ii)    ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained
until at least one year after the Association
has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure that such separate accounts are
included in the annual audits referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report thereof contains, in respect of such
separate accounts, a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the proceeds of the
Loan withdrawn in respect of such expenditures
were used for the purposes for which they were
provided.
Section 4.02. DOMLEC shall:
(a) whenever the Association shall reasonably request,
revalue its fixed assets in accordance with a methodology
satisfactory to the Association and reflect the results of such
revaluation in separate accounting statements; and
(b) furnish to the Association such separate accounting
statements together with the financial statements referred to in
Section 4.01 of this Agreement.


﻿- 7 -
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, DOMLEC shall earn, for each of its fiscal years after
fiscal year 1987, an annual return on the average current net
value (, its fixed assets in operation as follows: 6% in fiscal
years 1988 and 1989, and 7% in each fiscal year thereafter.
(b) Before October 1 in each of its fiscal years, DOMLEC
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by DOMLEC and
satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the
Association the results of such review upon its completion.
(c) If any such review shows that DOMLEC would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for DOMLEC's fiscal years
covered by such review, DOMLEC shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such
requirements.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
DOMLEC's net operating income for the fiscal year
in question by one half of the sum of the current
net value of DOMLEC's fixed assets in operation at
the beginning and at th, end of that fiscal year.
(ii)    The term "net operating income" means total operat-
ing revenues less total operating expenses.
(iii)    The term "total operating revenues" means revenues
from all sources related to operations.
(iv)    The term "total operating expenses" means all
expenses related to operations, including adminis-
tration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on
a straight-line basis at a rate of not less than
5.5% per annum of the average current gross value
of DOMLEC's fixed assets in operation, or other
basis acceptable to the Association, but excluding
interest and other charges on debt.
(v)    The average current gross value of DOMLEC's fixed
assets in operation shall be calculated as one half
of the sum of the gross value of DOMLEC's fixed


﻿-8-
assets in operation at the beginning and at the end
of the fiscal year, as valued from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.02 of
this Agreement.
(vi)    The term "average current net value of DOMLEC's
fixed assets in operation" means the average gross
value of DOMLEC's fixed assets in operation less
the amount of accumulated depreciation, as valued
from time to time in accordance with the provisions
of Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
Section 4.04. (a) Exrept as the Association shall otherwise
agree, DOMLEC shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of
DOMLEC for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such
incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the
date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at
least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of
DOMLEC for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of DOMLEC,
including the debt to be incurred.
(b) For purposes of this Section:
(i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of DOMLEC
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii)    Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii)    The term "net revenues" means the difference
between:
(A) the sum of revenues from all sources related
to operations adjusted to take account of
DOMLEC's rates in effect at the time of the
incurrence of debt even though they were not
in effect during the twelve-month period to
which such revenues relate and net non-operat-
ing income; and


﻿-9-
(B) the sum of all expenses related to operations
including administration, adequate mainte-
nance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
but excluding provision for depreciation,
other non-cash operating charges and interest
and other charges on debt.
(iv)    The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A) revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B) expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
of taxes, incurred in the generation of
revenues in (A) above.
(v)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
funds payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(vi)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a
rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.05. (a) Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, DOMLEC shall not, until the Closing Date, undertake or
permit to be undertaken on its behalf any major investment other
than the Project, unless it has furnished to the Association
evidence satisfactory to the Association that: (i) such investment
is technically, financially and economically justified; and (ii)
DOMLEC has or will have adequate financial resources for the
carrying out of such investment.
(b) For purposes of this Section, the term "major invest-
ment" means an investment costing the equivalent of two hundred
fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) or more.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, DOMLEC shall not, until the completion report referred to


﻿- 10 -
in Section 9.06 (c) of the General Conditions has been furnished
to the Association, pay any dividends or make any other
distribution with respect to its share capital except olt of net
income for the fiscal year in which the payment or disti- ation is
made and not in excess of ten per cent (10%) of the issued and
paid up value of the ordinary shares of DOMLEC.
(b) For purposes of this Section, the term net income means
the difference between: (A) the sum of revenues from all sources;
and (B) the sum of all expenses, including administration,
depreciation, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of
taxes, and interest and other charges on debt.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of DOMLEC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i)    the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with
its terms; or
(ii)    the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify DOMLEC
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                      440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For DOMLEC:
Dominica Electricity Services Limited
P.O. Box 13
Castle Street
Roseau
Commonwealth of Dominica
Cable address:                   Telex:
DOMLEC                        8655 DOMLEC DO
DOMINICA
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of DOMLEC, or by DOMLEC on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or
executed by the Manager of DOMLEC or such other person or persons


﻿- 12 -
as the Manager shall designate in writing, and DOMLEC shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such p-. -on.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
DOMINICA ELECTRICITY SERVICES LIMITED
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $15,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $50,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
*of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


