OFFICIAL1
CREDIT NUMBER 1771-DOM
Development Credit Agreement
(Power Project)
between
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1771-DOM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   }-e'                        1987, between
the COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Dowinica Electricity
Services Limited (hereinafter called DOMLEC) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to DOMLEC the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the Caribbean
Development Bank (hereinafter called CDB) a loan (the CDB Loan) in
an amount equivalent to $3,800,000 to assist in financing part of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the CDB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and CDB;
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (hereinafter called CCCE) a
loan (the CCCE Loan) in an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 to
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the CCCE Loan Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and CCCE;
(E) the Borrower intends to contract from the European
Investment Bank (hereinafter called EIB) a loan (the EIB Loan) in
an amount equivalent to $3,900,000 to assist in financing part of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the EIB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and EIB;
(F) the Borrower expects to receive from the Canadian
International Development Agency (hereinafter called CIDA) a grant
(the CIDA Grant) in an amount equivalent to $1,600,000 to assist
in financing part of the Project on terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (the CIDA Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and CIDA; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and DOMLEC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meani.gs therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreer,ent between the
Association and DOMLEC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and DOMLEC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(d) "1976 Electricity Supply Act", as amended, is the law of
the Borrower which gave DOMLEC a sole and exclusive license to
generate, transmit, distribute and sell electricity in the terri-
tory of the Borrower.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to two million four-hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 2,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required. for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the National
Commercial Bank of Dominica on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of


﻿-4-
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1997, and ending
February 1, 2037. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on February 1, 2001 shall be one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. DOMLEC is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause DOMLEC to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of DOMLEC
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable DOMLEC to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
DOMLEC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and DOMLEC, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association which shall include
the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph (c) of this
Section.


﻿-5-
(c) The Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall provide, inter alia,
that: (i) the loan under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be
denominated and repaid in dollars; and (ii) DOMLEC shall: (A)
repay the proceeds of the credit relent to DOMLEC over a period of
twenty years including five years of grace; and (B) pay interest
at the rate of 7.92% per annum on the principal amount withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule and
Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out by DOMLEC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall:
(a) have the Special Account audited annually, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said account and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 6 -
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1987, appoint an Inter-Ministry Energy Committee, consisting of
representatives of the Ministry of Communications and Works,
Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism,
to coordinate the pricing of energy products within the territory
of the Borrower, and shall provide all funds and other resources
required for the operation of such Committee.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, within ninety days from the
submission by DOMLEC of each rate increase application, take all
action necessary on its part to enable DOMLEC to set and maintain
its electricity rates and charges at levels sufficient at all
times to fulfill DOMLEC's obligations under Section 4.03 of the
Project Agreement.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take or cause DOMLEC to take
all measures as shall be required to ensure the prompt imple-
mentation by DOMLEC of the program referred to in Section 2.08 of
the Project Agreement.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take or cause DOMLEC to take
all measures as shall be required to ensure that the Project is
carried out with due regard to ecological and environmental
factors.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) DOMLEC shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that DOMLEC will
be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The 1976 Electricity Supply Act shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect mate-
rially and adversely the ability of DOMLEC to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of DOMLEC or for the suspension of its operations.


﻿-7-
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
ceeds of the CDB Loan, the CCCE Loan, the EIB
Loan or the CIDA Grant shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the CDB Loan
Agreement, the CCCE Loan Agreement, the EIB
Loan Agreement and/or the CIDA Agreement,
respectively, or
(B) the CDB Loan, the CCCE Loan or the EIB Loan
shall have become due and payable prior to the
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematurity is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower or DOMLEC to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower and DOMLEC from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower and DOMLEC under this Agreement and
the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower;
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) the event specified in paragraph (e)(i)(B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.


﻿-8 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and DOMLEC;
(b) the execution and delivery of the CDB Loan Agreement,
the CCCE Loan Agreement, the EIB Loan Agreement and the CIDA
Agreement, on behalf of the respective parties thereto, have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action, and all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of such agreements or the right to make withdrawals
thereunder, except only the effectiveness of this Agreement, shall
have been fulfilled;
(c) all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be per-
formed or given by the Borrower or its agencies in order to
authorize DOMLEC to start carrying out the Project have been per-
formed or given; and
(d) DOMLEC shall have employed, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, consultants for detailed
engineering design and construction supervision of the hydro-
electric facilities under Part A of the Project referred to in
Part E (iv) of the Project.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by DOMLEC, and is legally binding upon DOMLEC in accor-
dance with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and DOMLEC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and DOMLEC in accordance with its terms;
(c) that DOMLEC is duly authorized and existing under the
laws of the Borrower and has full power and authority to carry out


﻿-9-
and operate the Project, to own assets and properties and to own
and carry on the business which it owns and carries on and pro-
poses to own and carry on; that all acts, franchises, concessions,
consents and approvals necessary to start carrying out the Pro-
ject, including those referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement, have been duly and validly performed or given;
and that all easements, licenses, consents, franchises or other
rights or privileges as may be necessary or useful to start carry-
ing out the Project have been duly obtained or that the arrange-
ments for the acquisition thereof are valid and binding obliga-
tions of the parties thereto; and
(d) that the CDB Loan Agreement, the CCCE Loan Agreement,
the EIB Loan Agreement and the CIDA Agreement have been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, ,he respective parties thereto and are legally binding upon
such parties in accordance with their respective terms.
Section 6.03. The date(-LLysA-- , /97Yis hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles
III and IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance
and planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Government Headquarters
Roseau
Commonwealth of Dominica


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
EXTERNAL                         8613 EXT DO
Dominica
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS ,                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By''
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Equipment, tools              430,000        100% of foreign
and vehicles under                          expenditures
Part C of the
Project and
equipment and
materials under
Part D (iii) of
the Project
(2) Consultants' and
experts' services,
training and
related expendi-
tures
(a) under Part D(i)          200,000       100%.of foreign
of the Project                         expenditures
(b) under Parts D(ii)      1,610,000       100%
and E of the
Project
(3) Unallocated                   160,000
TOTAL                 2,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 80, 000, may
be made in respect of Category (2) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after February 1, 1987.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises DOMLEC's 1988-1993 investment program,
and its objectives are to provide adequate expansion of DOMLEC's
generation, transmission and distribution facilities to effect
fuel savings and to meet the growth of electricity consumption
between 1989 and 1994; strengthen DOMLEC institutionally by pro-
viding outside management services and training of technical
personnel; and assist DOMLEC in planning its expansion to meet its
long-term energy requirements.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Generation
(i)    diversion of an average flow of about 0.20 cubic meters
per second from the Clarke's River into the Fresh Water
Lake;
(ii)    construction of a concrete dam at Fresh Water Lake to
increase the storage volume to about 500,000 cubic
meters;
(iii)    construction of a 1131 kilowatt hydroplant at Laudat, in
the Roseau River; and
(iv)    construction of a 2844 kilowatt expansion to the
Trafalgar hydroplant, in the Roseau River.
Part B: Transmission and Distribution Systems
(i)   construction and reconductoring of about 20 kilometers of
11 kilovolt transmission lines;
(ii)   construction and improvement of about 20 kilometers of 11
kilovolt primary distribution lines and about 32
kilometers of 400/230 volt secondary lines;
(iii)   installation of about 4 capacitor banks of 150 kilovolts-
amperes each for loss reduction; and
(iv)   installation of distribution transformers of about 1,500
kilovolts-amperes, customers' metering equipment for


﻿- 14 -
about 3,000 customers, electricity connections and street
lighting.
Part C: Equipment, Tools and Vehicles
Acquisition and utilization of:
(i)   about 5 mobile and fixed meter calibration sets;
(ii)   micro-computer hardware and software;
(iii)   tools for generation, transmission and distribution
maintenance;
(iv)   radio communication equipment; and
(v)   about 20 light trucks and specialized vehicles for
operation and maintenance.
Part D: Training
Carrying out of a training program addressed to upgrade
DOMLEC's staff skills, consisting of:
(i)   scholarships abroad for DOMLEC's technical staff;
(ii)   specific in-house training programs for plant operators
and maintenance staff and linemen with the assistance of
outside experts; and
(iii)   acquisition of training equipment and materials.
Part E: Technical Assistance
Carrying out of:
(i)   a program to assist DOMLEC in the managerial,
administrative, financial and technical areas;
(ii)   a program to assist the Borrower's Forestry department in
the management of the national park system of the
Borrower during the execution of the Project and to
review the staffing and training needs of the Borrower's
Forestry department;
(iii)   studies for planning the expansion of DOMLEC and a
feasibility study for a dispatch center; and


﻿- 15 -
(iv)   consultants' services for detailed engineering and
supervision of the construction of the hydroelectric
works under Part A of the Project.
Part F: General Investment
Investment in building expansion, office furniture and
other items related to DOMLEC's operations.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $250,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
.Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replnish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall


﻿- 17 -
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such and
other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, show-
ing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i)    the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(ii)    the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the
amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligi-
ble Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment


﻿- 18 -
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account and immediate cancellation.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


