Page  1
Mr. P. J. Ngumbullu
April 24, 2002
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Finance
P. O. Box 9111
Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania
Re: Tanzania Second Integrated Roads Project (Cr. 2598-TA)
    Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
(Cancellation of US$70 million)
Dear Mr. Ngumbullu,
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (Agreement) for the above-mentioned Project, 
dated June 24, 1994, between United Republic of Tanzania (the Borrower) and International 
Development Association (the Association), as amended to date and to your letter dated April 18, 
2002, requesting the  amendment of the Agreement to cancel the equivalent of US$ 70,000,000 
(SDR50.7 million) related to the Singida- Shelui Road rehabilitation.
We are taking into consideration your request for additional financing related to the Singida- 
Shelui Road rehabilitation and look forward to be discussing with you in the future the different 
options for financing this road.   
We are pleased to inform you that the Association accedes to your request for cancellation and 
consequently proposes to hereby amend the Agreement as follows:
1.  
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Agreement is amended to read as in 
Attachment A to this letter.
2.
Schedule 2 to the Agreement is amended to read as in Attachment B to this letter.
All other provisions of the Agreement, except as amended herein, shall remain in full force and 
effect.
Please confirm your agreement to the amendment by countersigning, dating and returning to us 
the enclosed copy of this letter, while keeping one original for your records.  The amendment 
shall become effective as of the date of confirmation of this letter by you.
Page  2
Sincerely,
Ted Ahlers
Acting Country Director for Tanzania and Uganda
Africa Region
CONFIRMED
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By: _________________________________
       Authorized Representative
Date:  _______________________________
Attachments
cc:
Mr. J. Kijazi
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Works
Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania
Mr. Abdu K. Abdalla
Principal Secretary
Minister of Communications and Transport
Zanzibar, Tanzania
Mr. O. Ellevset
Chief Executive
Tanzania National Roads Agency
Page  3
Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania
To be cleared with
 & cc:  Messrs/Mme:  Dubois (LEGAF); Gaginis (LOAG2)
cc:  Messrs/Mme:  Patel (AFTIE); Ndulu, Sakaya (AFTMZ); Brigish, Ahuja (AFCO4); Abeille, 
Koen (AFTQK); Plessis-Fraissard, Kedia, Kamhi, Kawasumi, Rudge, Khan, Jones (AFTTR); 
Kim (LOAG2), IRIS3 File
FKhan/fk
Q:Word/Tanzania/RoadsII/Ltr_to_MoF_Cancellation.doc
Attachment A
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
SECOND INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT (CR. 2598-TA)
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amount of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category.
Category
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
% of Expenditures to be 
financed
(1)
Civil Works for:
100% of foreign and 50% of 
local expenditures
(a) Part B (8) of the Project
9,120,000
(b) Part B (2), B (4), and B (6) of the 
Project 
14,244,000
(c) Part B (7) of the Project
0
(d) Part B (1) (c) of the Project
14,489,000
(e) Part D of the Project
7,884,000
(2
)
Part B (9) Vehicles and Equipment
1,220,000
100% of foreign expenditures
Page  4
(3
)
Consultants’ Services for Parts A, 
B(1)(a), B(1)(b), B(3), B(5), C(1) and 
C(2)
17,400,000
100%
(4
)
Training, workshops and institutional 
support
3,209,000
100%
(4
)(
a)
Operating Costs
250,000
100% up to May 1, 2000 and 
90% thereafter
(5
)
Refunding of Project Preparation 
Advance
188,000
Amount due pursuant to 
Section 2.02(c) of this 
Agreement 
(6
)
Unallocated
4,586,000
TOTAL
72,590,000
Attachment B
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
SECOND INTEGRATED ROADS PROJECT (CR. 2598-TA)
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) support the Borrower’s Economic Recovery 
Program by reducing transportation costs and improving accessibility to economically 
productive areas, primarily agriculture, tourism and mining; (ii) develop an efficient and 
viable transportation sector through the implementation of sustainable improvements in the 
administration and coordination of sector activities and in the organization, management and 
financing of road infrastructure; (iii) improve management of road transport services; and (iv) 
increase accessibility and mobility in rural areas.
The project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives;
Part A: Policy and Institutional Support
Page  5
1.
Development of a National Transport Policy, strategic plan, other relevant studies and 
capacity building for MCT.
2.
Preparation of a Ten-Year Road Sector Investment Program taking into account the role 
of different modes of transport, priority of transport relative to other sectors, and institutional 
capacity among other factors.
3.
Carrying out a feasibility and environmental study of an alternative to the 
Makuyuni-Ngorongoro road for the purpose of routing traffic to Musoma to avoid the 
Ngorongoro and Serengeti National Parks and degradation of conservation areas.
4.
Carrying out of studies for the divestiture of RETCOs, and a civil aviation study of 
commercialisation of the management of airports and improving regulation and licensing of the 
operators.
5.
Designing and implementation of a basic project accounting and monitoring system for 
the Project Monitoring Unit within MCT.
6.
Implementation of an active plan for the establishment of a Road Agency within the 
framework of the Borrower’s Executive Agencies Act (1997).
7.
Strengthening Technical and Managerial Capacity
(a)
carrying out training by local and regional Institutions in procurement and contract 
administration transport policy and planning, engineering and finance for planners, lawyers, 
engineers and finance officers.
(b)
Design and presentation of short-term courses and workshops by the Training Sections of 
the Ministry of works and the Ministry of Communication and Transport.
(c)
Provision of management and executive development training for the Ministry of Works 
and the Ministry of Communications and Transport.
(d)
Provision of technical assistance to IDA financed and special development projects unit 
in the Tanzania National Roads Agency (TANROADS).
(e)
Provision of one mechanical engineering for  technical assistance to the Coordination 
Office for Donor Assisted Projects in the Ministry of Communications and Transport in 
Zanzibar.
8.
Development of a national transport sector strategic plan for Zanzibar.
Part B:
Road Upgrading Rehabilitation and Backlog Maintenance Program
Page  6
Emergency Construction/Repairs and Maintenance of Bridges and Roads 
Approaches and Preparation of Studies for Urgent Roads Rehabilitation 
Support Program
1.
(a) Carrying out an engineering survey of bridges damaged by flooding; (b) preparation of 
final designs and bidding documents for about 22 bridges selected; and (c) construction of such 
bridges.
2.
Emergency rehabilitation and maintenance of 132 km of the Shelui-Nzega road, 135 km 
of the Dodoma-Manyoni road, 162 km of the Singida-Babati road, 165 km of the 
Lindi-Nangurukuru road, 128 km of the Muhutwe-Biharamulo road and 240 km of the 
Sumbawanga-Mpanda road.
3.
Design and supervision of emergency rehabilitation and maintenance of 
Mtuhaliwa-Chake road (24 Km) in Zanzibar.
4.
Emergency pot hole repair and pavement overlay works for Mtuhaliwa-Chake road (24 
Km) in Zanzibar.
5.
Urgent Road Rehabilitation Support Program preparatory feasibility studies and detail 
designs for (i) Sections of Tanzam Highway, (ii) Mkumbara – Same road, (iii) 2 main roads in 
Zanzibar, and (iv) up to 5 ferries; and preparation of a national road safety study covering 
Tanzania mainland and Zanzibar.
Emergency Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Rural and Feeder Roads
6.
Emergency rehabilitation and maintenance of rural and feeder roads in the Dodoma, 
Singida, Mwanza, Shinyanga, Kigoma, Rukwa and Tabora regions.
7.
Technical advisory services for engineering design of the Singida-Shelui road (110 
km).
8.
Upgrading of the Magogo River – Shinyanga Border Road, 47 km.
Commercialization and Management of Roads Construction Equipment
9.
Acquisition of equipment to be provided to a private sector managed plant and equipment 
hire pool.
Part C:
Village travel and Transport Pilot Program
1.
Rural Transport Infrastructure
(a)
Training of district engineers, road inspectors and foremen in road planning and 
Page  7
labour-base methods.
(b)
Preparation of road network plans.
(c)
Rehabilitation and maintenance of village roads, footpaths and tracks.
(d)
Road works supervision support services for participating villages.
2.
Promotion of IMTs
(a) Training of villagers in the production and maintenance of IMTs.
(b)
Improvement in the design of IMTs selected by the districts.
(c) Carrying out studies on the demand for credit in the Project area to assess the 
demand related to IMTs and non-transport interventions and on district resource 
mobilization potential.
Part D:
Civil Aviation
1.
Resurfacing of the runway at the Kilimanjaro International Airport.
2.
Resurfacing of the runway at the Zanzibar Airport. 
