Page  1
January 30, 2002
Mr. P.J. Ngumbullu
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania 
Dear Mr. Ngumbullu:
Re: Tanzania Second Integrated Roads Project (Cr. 2598-TA)
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
(Reallocation of Credit Proceeds/Description of Project/Implementation)
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the Agreement) dated June 24, 1994, for 
the above mentioned project, as amended to date, between the United Republic of Tanzania (the 
Borrower) and the International Development Association (the Association). We also refer to (i) 
your letter dated December 10, 2001, requesting reallocation of credit proceeds, and (ii) the letter 
of the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Works, dated September 7, 2001, proposing improved 
implementation arrangements for the project.
We are pleased to confirm, therefore, our consent to amend the Agreement as follows, with 
the changes marked in bold letters:
1.
The Table in paragraph 1of Schedule 1 to the Agreement will be amended as shown in 
Attachment A to this letter. 
2.
The Schedule 2 “Description of the Project” and the Schedule 4 “Implementation 
Program” will be amended as shown in the Attachments B and C, attached to this letter, 
reflecting the reallocation of the funds and the newly established reorganization of the 
coordination unit and of the implementation agencies.
All other provisions of the Agreement, except as amended herein shall remain in full 
force and effect.
Kindly acknowledge receipt by countersigning and dating the enclosed copy and returning 
it to us. The amendment shall be effective as of the date of countersignature. 
Sincerely,
/s/ James W. Adams
Page  2
James W. Adams
Country Director for Tanzania and Uganda
Africa Region
CONFIRMED 
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By: /s/ P.J. Ngumbullu
Authorized Representative
Date: February 22, 2002
cc:
Mr. J. Kijazi
Permanent Secretary
Ministry  of Works
Dar Es Salaam
Mr. Abdu K. Abdalla
Principal Secretary
Minister of Communications and Transport
Zanzibar
Mr. O. Ellevset
Chief Executive
Tanzania National Roads Agency
Dar Es Salaam
Page  3
Cleared with & cc:  Messrs:/Mme.: Dubois (LEGAF), Gaginis (LOAG2)
cc: Messrs/Mmes: Patel (AFTIE), Ndulu, Sakaya (AFTMZ), Brigish, Ahuja (AFCO4), Abeille, 
Koen (AFTQK), Plessis-Fraissard, Kedia, Kamhi, Kawasumi, Rudge, Khan, Jones (AFTTR); 
Kim (LOAG2), IRIS3 File
Attachments
Attachment A:  Schedule 1 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Attachment B:  Schedule 2 Description of the Project
Attachment C:  Schedule 4 Implementation Program
Attachment A
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The Table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the 
allocation of the amount of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category.
Category
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
% of Expenditures to be 
Financed
(1)
Civil works for:
100% of foreign and 50% of 
local expenditures
(a) Part B(8) of the Project
9,120,000
(b) Parts B(2) B(4), and B(6) of the Project
14,244,000
(c) Part B(7) of the Project
33,324,000
(d) Part B(1)(c) of the Project
14,489,000
(e) Part D of the Project
7,884,000
(2)
Part B(9) Vehicles and Equipment
1,220,000
100% of foreign expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ services for Parts A, B(1)(a), 
B(1)(b), B(3), B(5), C(1) and C(2)
18,852,000
100%
(4)
Training, workshops and institutional 
support
3,209,000
100%
(4)(a)
Operating Costs
250,000
100% up to May 1, 2000 and 
90% thereafter
Page  4
(5) 
Refunding of Project Preparation Advance
188,000
Amount due pursuant to Section 
2.02 (c) of this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
20,520,000
TOTAL
123,300,000
Page  5
Attachment B
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) support the Borrower’s Economic Recovery 
Program by reducing transportation costs and improving accessibility to economically 
productive areas, primarily agriculture, tourism and mining; (ii) develop an efficient and 
viable transportation sector through the implementation of sustainable improvements in the 
administration and coordination of sector activities and in the organization, management and 
financing of road infrastructure; (iii) improve management of road transport services; and (iv) 
increase accessibility and mobility in rural areas.
The project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives;
Part A: Policy and Institutional Support
1.
Development of a National Transport Policy, strategic plan, other relevant studies and 
capacity building for MCT.
2.
Preparation of a Ten-Year Road Sector Investment Program taking into account the role 
of different modes of transport, priority of transport relative to other sectors, and institutional 
capacity among other factors.
3.
Carrying out a feasibility and environmental study of an alternative to the 
Makuyuni-Ngorongoro road for the purpose of routing traffic to Musoma to avoid the 
Ngorongoro and Serengeti National Parks and degradation of conservation areas.
4.
Carrying out of studies for the divestiture of RETCOs, and a civil aviation study of 
commercialisation of the management of airports and improving regulation and licensing of the 
operators.
5.
Designing and implementation of a basic project accounting and monitoring system for 
the Project Monitoring Unit within MCT.
6.
Implementation of an active plan for the establishment of a Road Agency within the 
framework of the Borrower’s Executive Agencies Act (1997).
7.
Strengthening Technical and Managerial Capacity
(a)
carrying out training by local and regional Institutions in procurement and contract 
Page  6
administration transport policy and planning, engineering and finance for planners, lawyers, 
engineers and finance officers.
(b)
Design and presentation of short-term courses and workshops by the Training 
Sections of the Ministry of works and the Ministry of Communication and Transport.
(c)
Provision of management and executive development training for the Ministry of 
Works and the Ministry of Communications and Transport.
(d)
Provision of technical assistance to IDA financed and special development 
projects unit in the Tanzania National Roads Agency (TANROADS).
(e)
Provision of one mechanical engineering for  technical assistance to the 
Coordination Office for Donor Assisted Projects in the Ministry of Communications and 
Transport in Zanzibar.
8
..
Development of a national transport sector strategic plan for Zanzibar.
Part B:
Road Upgrading Rehabilitation and Backlog Maintenance Program
Emergency Construction/Repairs and Maintenance of Bridges and Roads 
Approaches and Preparation of Studies for Urgent Roads Rehabilitation 
Support Program
1.
(a) Carrying out an engineering survey of bridges damaged by flooding; (b) preparation of 
final designs and bidding documents for about 22 bridges selected; and (c) construction of such 
bridges.
2.
Emergency rehabilitation and maintenance of 132 km of the Shelui-Nzega road, 135 km 
of the Dodoma-Manyoni road, 162 km of the Singida-Babati road, 165 km of the 
Lindi-Nangurukuru road, 128 km of the Muhutwe-Biharamulo road and 240 km of the 
Sumbawanga-Mpanda road.
3.
Design and supervision of emergency rehabilitation and maintenance of 
Mtuhaliwa-Chake road (24 Km) in Zanzibar.
4.
Emergency pot hole repair and pavement overlay works for Mtuhaliwa-Chake road 
(24 Km) in Zanzibar.
5.
Urgent Road Rehabilitation Support Program preparatory feasibility studies and 
detail designs for (i) Sections of Tanzam Highway, (ii) Mkumbara – Same road, (iii) 2 main 
roads in Zanzibar, and (iv) up to 5 ferries; and preparation of a national road safety study 
covering Tanzania mainland and Zanzibar.
Page  7
Emergency Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Rural and Feeder Roads
6.
Emergency rehabilitation and maintenance of rural and feeder roads in the Dodoma, 
Singida, Mwanza, Shinyanga, Kigoma, Rukwa and Tabora regions.
7.
Upgrading of the Singida-Shelui road to Bitumen Standard (110 km), including technical 
advisory services for engineering design and construction supervision.
8.
Upgrading of the Magogo River – Shinyanga Border Road, 47 km.
Commercialization and Management of Roads Construction Equipment
9.
Acquisition of equipment to be provided to a private sector managed plant and equipment 
hire pool.
Part C:
Village travel and Transport Pilot Program
1.
Rural Transport Infrastructure
(a)
Training of district engineers, road inspectors and foremen in road planning and 
labour-base methods.
(b)
Preparation of road network plans.
(c)
Rehabilitation and maintenance of village roads, footpaths and tracks.
(d)
Road works supervision support services for participating villages.
2.
Promotion of IMTs
(a) Training of villagers in the production and maintenance of IMTs.
(b)
Improvement in the design of IMTs selected by the districts.
(c) Carrying out studies on the demand for credit in the Project area to assess the 
demand related to IMTs and non-transport interventions and on district resource 
mobilization potential.
Part D:
Civil Aviation
1.
Resurfacing of the runway at the Kilimanjaro International Airport.
2.
Resurfacing of the runway at the Zanzibar Airport. 
Page  8
Attachment C
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The 
Chief Executive, Tanzania National Road Agency 
on behalf of the Permanent 
Secretary, Ministry of Works, will have overall responsibility for the implementation of the 
Project.
2.
(a)
The Borrower shall continue to maintain 
International Development 
Association/ Specific Donor Projects (IDA/SDP) Unit
 with staffing, satisfactory to the 
Association, until completion of the Project, to coordinate Project implementation both internally 
among the executing agencies and externally with donors. 
IDA/SDP Unit
 shall continue to 
handle Project accounting, auditing, disbursements and performance reporting.
(b)
IDA/SDP Unit
 shall coordinate the preparation of a Project Implementation 
manual, satisfactory to the Association which shall, inter alia, include the following: (i) a brief 
description of project components; (ii) a description of project implementation responsibilities; 
(iii) implementation schedules by component including details of procurement and execution 
targets; (iv) procurement procedures including charts of document flow; (v) details of the project 
monitoring and supervision system, showing sample formats for periodic reports to be produced 
by the executing agencies at stated time intervals; and (vi) disbursement procedures.
3.
The Borrower shall carry out the following workshops and conference on Project 
implementation: (a)  annual workshops; (b)  workshops on special issues; and (c)  workshops on 
sector policies and plans prior to each budget session.
4.
The Borrower shall, by march 31 of each year, carry out with the Association annual 
reviews of: (a) the road upgrading, rehabilitation and maintenance programs; and (b) proposals 
for the next three years of road investment and maintenance program, including physical, 
financial and training aspects. Following such review, the Borrower and the Association shall 
reach agreement on the budget estimates for the upgrading, rehabilitation and maintenance 
programs for the following fiscal year.
5.
(a) 
The Borrower shall, by no later than 
June 30, 2002
, carry out a mid-term review 
with the Association. Such review shall, inter alia, focus on the status of progress in: (i) 
separating management of operations for MWCT, in particular decisions regarding formation of 
semi-autonomous roads agency and management arrangements for the major airports; (ii)  
Increasing road fund revenues to sufficient levels to cover routine and normal periodic 
maintenance costs and achieving faster transfer of Road Fund revenues to users; (iii)  
implementing measures to broaden the Road Fund’s revenue base and to reduce the delays in 
collection and disbursement of funds; (iv) developing organizational and management systems 
for the road network; (v) implementing a restructuring and/or divestiture program for the 
Page  9
RETCOS and UDA; (vi) preparation of a manual establishing sound environmental design and 
management strategies for inland surface transport projects; (vii) training of domestic 
contractors; and (viii) achieving the physical works targets related to km completed, and road 
conditions.
(b)
The Borrower shall, three months before such review, prepare and furnish to the 
Association the reports needed to undertake the review.
(c)
Promptly after the completion of the mid-term review referred to above, the 
Borrower shall take all necessary actions to implement the recommendations emanating from 
such review.
6.
The Borrower shall, by March 31 in each year, confirm the contents of regional roads 
(including essential district and feeder roads) rehabilitation and periodic maintenance programs.
7.
The Borrower shall train MWCT staff in transport planning, operations, information 
technology and vehicle licensing in accordance with a detailed program satisfactory to the 
Association.
8.
The Borrower shall, by November 30, 1996, review the effectiveness of its environmental 
guidelines, and prepare a manual establishing sound environmental design and management 
strategies for inland surface transport projects.
9.
The Borrower shall, by July 1, 1995, ensure that allocation of funds from the Road Fund 
to district and urban areas is based on needs and capacity criteria, satisfactory to the Association.
10.
The Borrower shall, by April 30, 1995, furnish to the Association an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Association for the restructuring of the civil aviation subsector.
