Page  1
February 13, 1995
The Honourable Jakaya Kikwete
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
TANZANIA: Credit No. 2598-TA (Second Integrated Roads Project)
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Dear Sir:
      We refer to the Development Credit Agreement for the
above-mentioned Project, dated June 24, 1994, between United
Republic of Tanzania (the Borrower) and International
Development Association (the Association), as amended to date
and to the letter from the Principal Secretary of your
Ministry, dated February 2, 1995, requesting the  amendment of
the Development Credit Agreement to reflect agreements reached
with the recent supervision mission from the Association.
      This letter is to inform you of our agreement to this
request and to propose the following amendments to the
Development Credit Agreement.
1.    Article III is amended by the addition of a new Section
      3.08 to read as follows:
      þSection 3.08.  The Borrower shall: (a) by June 30, 1995,
      appoint new management for PEHCOL; (b) by January 31,
      1996, commence an independent review of divestiture
      options and recommendations for PEHCOL; and (c) by June
      30, 1996, release an offer document for the divestiture
      of PEHCOL. For purposes of the Section, the term þrelease
      of an offer documentþ means  the issuance of a prospectus
      or other appropriate document, for the purposes of
      soliciting private sector investment in PEHCOL.þ
2.    A new paragraph 11 is added to Schedule 4 to read as
      follows:
      þ11.   The Borrower shall: (a) by March 31, in each year
      carry out with the Association a review of the
      remuneration package for the roads staff of the Ministry
      of Works, Communications and Transport; and (b) promptly
      thereafter implement such adjustments to said package as
      shall have been agreed with the Association.þ
      All provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, except
as amended herein, shall remain in full force and effect.
       Kindly countersign, date and return to us the enclosed
copy of this letter. These amendments shall be effective as of
the date of countersignature by your authorized representative.
Sincerely,
Francis X. Colaco
Director
Eastern Africa Department
Africa
Page  2
CONFIRMED:
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By: Peter Ngumbullu
     Authorized Representative
Date: March 13, 1995
