Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2598 TA
                       Development Credit Agreement
                     (Second Integrated Roads Project)
                                  between
                        UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated June 24, 1994
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2598 TA
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 1994, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated  March 7,
1994, from the Borrower describing a program of action, objectives and
policies designed to achieve an adjustment of the Borrower's transport
sector (hereinafter called the Program) and declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program;
      (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (C)   the Borrower has requested from the European Economic Community
(EEC), a grant in an amount approximately equivalent to one hundred seventy-
eight million one hundred thousand dollars ($178,100,000) (the EEC Grant)to
assist in financing part of the Project;
      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the African Development
Fund (AfDF), a credit (the AfDF Credit), in an amount approximately
equivalent to one hundred and eight million nine hundred thousand dollars
($108,900,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and AfDF;
Page  2
      (E)   the Borrower has requested from the Kingdom of Norway (Norway),
a grant in an amount approximately equivalent to forty-one million seven
hundred thousand dollars ($41,700,000) (the Norwegian Grant) to assist in
financing part of the Project;
      (F)   the Borrower has requested from the Organization for Petroleum
Exporting Countries (OPEC), a loan in an amount approximately equivalent to
thirty-eight million three hundred thousand dollars ($38,300,000) (the OPEC
Loan) to assist in financing part of the Project;
      (G)   the Borrower has requested from the Government of Japan (Japan),
a grant in an amount approximately equivalent to twenty-two million eight
hundred thousand dollars ($22,800,000) (the Japan Grant) to assist in
financing part of the Project;
      (H)   the Borrower has requested from the Kuwait Fund, a loan in an
amount approximately equivalent to fourteen million nine hundred thousand
dollars ($14,900,000) (the Kuwait Fund Loan) to assist in financing part of
the Project;
      (I)   the Borrower has requested from the Swiss Confederation, a grant
in an amount approximately equivalent to five million one hundred thousand
dollars ($5,100,000) (the Swiss Grant) to assist in financing part of the
Project;
      (J)   the Borrower has requested from the Republic of Finland through
Finnish International Development Agency (FINNIDA), a grant in an amount
approximately equivalent to five million four hundred thousand dollars
($5,400,000) (the Finnish Grant) to assist in financing part of the Project;
and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "ATC" means the Air Tanzania Corporation, established pursuant
to Establishment Order No. 45 of 1977, under the Public Corporations Act,
No. 17 of 1969;
      (b)   "MWCT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Works, Communications
and Transport;
      (c)   "NCC" means the National Construction Council, established
pursuant to the National Construction Council Act, No. 20 of 1979;
      (d)   "NIT" means the National Institute of Transport, established
pursuant to the National Institute of Transport Act, No. 24 of 1982;
      (e)   "NTC" means the National Transport Corporation, a public
corporation, established under the Public Corporations Act, No. 17 of 1969;
      (f)   "RETCO" means a regional transport company;
      (g)   "CODAP" means the Coordination Office for Donor-Assisted
Projects within MWCT;
Page  3
      (h)   "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year beginning July 1 and
ending June 30;
      (i)   "REO" means a Regional Engineer's Office within MWCT;
      (j)   "KM" means kilometers;
      (k)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to letters from
the Association dated February 3, 1993 and September 17, 1993, and
countersigned by the Borrower on May 11, 1993 and November 8, 1993,
respectively;
      (l)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (m)   "UDA" means Kampuni ya Usafiri Dar es Salaam, the Dar es Salaam
City Bus Company;
      (n)   "CML" means MWCT's Central Materials Laboratory;
      (o)   "DRA" means the Directorate for Roads and Aerodromes within
MWCT;
      (p)   "IMT" means Intermediate Means of Transport;
      (q)   "MAG" means the Management Action Group within DRA;
      (r)   "PEHCOL" means the Plant and Equipment Hire Company Limited,
established by the Borrower under the Companies Ordinance;
      (s)   "Road Fund" means the fund established by the Borrower pursuant
to a Parliamentary Resolution dated August 8, 1991, into which the following
revenue is to be paid: the road toll, motor vehicle licenses, motor vehicle
registration tax, motor vehicle tax on transfer, car benefit tax and motor
vehicle road licenses.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred twenty-
three million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 123,300,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  4
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each March 1 and September 1 commencing September
1, 2004, and ending March 1, 2034. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on March 1, 2014, shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
North Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
Page  5
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and,
to this end, shall carry out the Project through MWCT, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial
and transport sector practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and, except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall not undertake any proposed new
investment in the road sector, estimated to cost more than $3,000,000,
unless it has an estimated economic rate of return of at least 12%, taking
into account socio-economic criteria, acceptable to the Association.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall increase revenue collection from user
charges, with a view to fully funding routine maintenance costs, with the
exception of the backlog periodic maintenance by FY 1995/96.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that, pending its
privatization, Air Tanzania Corporation shall not enter into aircraft or
equipment leasing agreements or invest in aircraft equipment costing more
than $1,500,000, without the prior approval of the Association.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, by April 30, 1995, furnish to the
Association a plan of action, satisfactory to the Association, for the
restructuring of the RETCOs and UDA, based on the recommendations of the
Road Transport Services Restructuring Study.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall consult with the Association, prior
to making any proposed changes in the internal organizational arrangements
of MWCT which will materially affect the implementation of the Project.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
Page  6
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment
                  out of the Special Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year, a certified copy of the
audit of the accounts of the Road Fund.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; and
      (b)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                        of any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the
                        financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
                        cancelled or terminated, in whole or in part,
                        pursuant to the terms thereof, or
                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and payable
                        prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
           (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                  Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
                  Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
                  termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure
                  of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                  such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project
                  are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
                  and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
                  Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of
that Section.
                                ARTICLE VI
Page  7
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association the audit reports
for the Road Fund accounts for trunk and regional roads and urban and
district roads, respectively, for FY 1992/93;
      (b)   the Borrower has adopted a plan of action, satisfactory to the
Association, to broaden the Road Fund's revenue base, and to reduce the
delays in collection and disbursement of funds;
      (c)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association, evidence of the
execution of the agreement between PEHCOL's Board of Directors and
management on performance monitoring indicators, satisfactory to the
Association, and their linkage to management remuneration; and
      (d)   the Borrower has commenced implementation of an incentives
package, satisfactory to the Association, for MWCT staff involved in the
management and implementation of the Project.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister at the time responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 9111
            Dar es Salaam
            Tanzania
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  TREASURY                   41329
                  Dar es Salaam
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
Page  8
                        By /s/ Charles Nyirabu
                        Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                        Regional Vice President
                        Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                              Credit Allocated         % of
                              (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                      SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)     Civil Works:                                100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures and
                                                    50% of local
                                                    expenditures
(a)     For Part                  15,100,000
        B.1 (a) (i) of
        the Project
    (b) For Part                  12,800,000
        B.1 (a) (ii) of
        the Project
    (c) For Part                   9,600,000
        B.1 (a) (iii)
        of the Project
    (d) For Part                   3,600,000
        B.1 (a) (iv) of
        the Project
    (e) For the rest              53,200,000
        of the Project
(2)     Equipment and              4,500,000        100% of foreign
    vehicles                                        expenditures
(3)     Consultants'               9,600,000        100%
    services
(4)     Training,                  3,200,000        100%
    workshops,
    seminars
    and studies
(5)     Refunding of               1,100,000        Amounts due
    Project                                         pursuant to
    Preparation                                     Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                         of this Agreement
Page  9
(6)     Unallocated               10,600,000
                                  __________
        TOTAL                    123,300,000
                                 ===========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for works, goods or services supplied from the territory
of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures under
Categories (1) (b), (c) and (d) until the Borrower has provided evidence
satisfactory to the Association that (i) budget allocations acceptable to
the Association, for the year in question have been made, and (ii) adequate
and timely releases of funds from the previous fiscal year's budget for road
rehabilitation and maintenance of all trunk and rural roads, have been made.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under
contracts for goods and works not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, under such
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to: (i) support the Borrower's
Economic Recovery Program by reducing transportation costs and improving
accessibility to economically productive areas, primarily agriculture,
tourism and mining; (ii) develop an efficient and viable transportation
sector through the implementation of sustainable improvements in the
administration and coordination of sector activities and in the
organization, management and financing of road infrastructure; (iii) develop
the domestic construction industry; (iv) improve management of road
transport services; and (v) increase accessibility and mobility in rural
areas.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Policy and Institutional Support
1.  Strengthening Road Network Management:
    (a)   Carrying out assessments on organizational and management systems
development needs, and dissemination and implementation of best practices.
    (b)   Carrying out of studies to define the most appropriate
organizational arrangements for road network management including, inter
alia, the possibility of creating a semi-autonomous road agency.
    (c)   Reduction of the rate of road accidents through (i) trial
improvements of identified black spots, and (ii) establishment of Regional
Road Safety Councils on a pilot basis in Dar es Salaam, Tanga and Mbeya.
    (d)   Carrying out a program to improve the utilization of materials for
road construction, including research into the use of marginal quality
construction materials, pavement monitoring and monitoring of trial sections
and strengthening the organization and management of material laboratories.
2.  Strengthening Technical and Managerial Capacity
Page  10
    (a)   Carrying out training by local and regional institutions in
procurement and contract administration, transport policy and planning,
engineering and finance for planners, lawyers, engineers and finance
officers.
    (b)   Design and presentation of short-term courses and workshops by the
Training Section of MCWT in collaboration with MAG.
    (c)   Provision of management and executive development training.
3.  Developing the Domestic Construction Industry
    (a)   Assistance to NCC in training about 36 contractors in regions with
limited numbers of qualified contractors (especially Tabora, Singida,
Dodoma, Mara, Rukwa and Kigoma).
    (b)   Assistance to NCC in designing and offering training to existing
and new contractors in other regions and to consultants.
    (c)   Assistance to NCC in addressing specific issues in
contractor/consultant development.
    (d)   Training workshops and seminars for NCC staff.
    (e)   Acquisition of equipment and vehicles for contractor training in
the regions referred to in (a) above, replication of Kilimanjaro labor-based
contractor development scheme in other regions and for NCC's head office.
4.  Improving Management of Road Transport Companies
    (a)   Carrying out studies to determine actions needed for completion
of deregulation of intra-regional tariffs and restructuring and/or
divestiture of RETCOS and UDA.
    (b)   Review of regulatory conditions needed to ensure safety standards
of road operations.
    (c)   Implementation of recommendations of studies under (a) above.
5.  Improving regulation and Management of Civil Aviation
    (a)   Carrying out studies to determine actions required for
commercialization of management of airports, and improving regulation and
licensing of operators.
    (b)   Implementation of recommendations of studies under (a) above.
6.  Development of Policies and Future Projects
    Carrying out studies for the development of transportation policies and
for future projects.
Part B:   Road Upgrading, Rehabilitation and Backlog Maintenance Program
1.  Trunk Roads, Culverts and Bridges Program
    (a)   Rehabilitation of about 855 km comprising 650 km of paved roads
and 205 km of gravel roads; upgrading to paved or double surface dressed
standards of about 785 km of gravel roads, and spot improvements on a
further 1285 km, including the following roads sections:
          (i)   commencing in FY1994/95, spot improvement of about 116 km
                of Tabora-Nzega, rehabilitation of about 71 km of Namtumbo-
                Songea and 47 km of Shinyanga Border-Magogo River;
          (ii)  commencing in FY1995/96, spot improvement of about 338 km
                of Nangomba-Namtumbo, 240 km of Sumbawanga-Mpanda, 91 km of
                Ipole-Tabora and rehabilitation of 50 km of Masasi-
                Nangomba;
          (iii) commencing in FY1996/97, spot improvement of about 137 km
                of Inyonga-Ipole, 129 km of Mpanda-Inyonga, rehabilitation
                of 83 km of Kigoma-Kasulu and upgrading to double surface
Page  11
                dressing of 110 km of Singida-Shelui; and
          (iv)  commencing in FY1997/98, spot improvement of 233 km of
                Kasulu-Nyakanazi.
    (b)   Carrying out backlog periodic maintenance on about 520 km.
    (c)   Rehabilitation of about 186 bridges and replacement of another 33
damaged or washed away bridges totalling about 5,530 meters.
    (d)   Acquisition of culverts.
2.  Rural Roads, Culverts and Bridges Program
    (a)   Rehabilitation of about 1,800 km of selected essential districts
and 1,200 km of regional roads.
    (b)   Carrying out backlog periodic maintenance on about 1,370 km of
regional roads.
    (c)   Rehabilitation of 864 meters of bridges and replacement of about
22,500 meters of culverts on priority road sections.
Part C:   Village Travel and Transport Pilot Program
1.  Rural Transport Infrastructure
    (a)   Training of district engineers, road inspectors and foremen in
road planning and labor-based methods.
    (b)   Preparation of road network plans.
    (c)   Rehabilitation and maintenance of village roads footpaths and
tracks.
    (d)   Road works supervision support services for participating
villages.
2.  Promotion of IMTs
    (a)   Training of villagers in the production and maintenance of IMTs.
    (b)   Improvement in the design of IMTs selected by the districts.
    (c)   Carrying out studies on the demand for credit in the Project area
to assess the demand related to IMTs and non-transport interventions and on
district resource mobilization potential.
Part D:   Civil Aviation
    Resurfacing of the runway at the Kilimanjaro International Airport.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component
Page  12
of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Bidders for civil works contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of
$10,000,000 or more per contract shall be prequalified as provided in
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.  To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Tanzania may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
    In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to
domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Items or groups of items for works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$3,000,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$30,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.  Contracts for small emergency works and under NCC's domestic
construction development program estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$5,000,000, may be awarded on the basis of unit prices established by
independent consultants.
3.  Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of prequalification:
    With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2
hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
2.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, or for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
Page  13
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Part F:   Pre-shipment Inspection
    For the purposes of the pre-shipment inspection of goods imported under
the Project, no price verification shall be conducted in respect of those
goods to which Part A of this Section applies.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each. However,
this exception to prior Association review shall not apply to the terms of
reference for such contracts or to the employment of individuals, to single
source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Association or to amendments of contracts raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
1.  The Principal Secretary MWCT will have overall responsibility for the
implementation of the Project.
2.  (a)   The Borrower shall continue to maintain CODAP with staffing,
satisfactory to the Association, until completion of the Project, to
coordinate Project implementation both internally among the executing
agencies and externally with donors. CODAP shall continue to handle Project
accounting, auditing, disbursements and performance reporting.
    (b)   CODAP shall coordinate the preparation of a Project Implementation
manual, satisfactory to the Association which shall, inter alia, include the
following: (i) a brief description of project components; (ii) a description
of project implementation responsibilities; (iii) implementation schedules
by component including details of procurement and execution targets; (iv)
procurement procedures including charts of document flows; (v) details of
the project monitoring and supervision system, showing sample formats for
periodic reports to be produced by the executing agencies at stated time
intervals; and (vi) disbursement procedures.
Page  14
3.  The Borrower shall carry out the following workshops and conferences on
Project implementation: (a) annual workshops; (b) workshops on special
issues; and (c) workshops on sector policies and plans prior to each budget
session.
4.  The Borrower shall, by March 31 of each year, carry out with the
Association annual reviews of: (a) the road upgrading, rehabilitation and
maintenance programs; and (b) proposals for the next three years of road
investment and maintenance program, including physical, financial and
training aspects. Following such review, the Borrower and the Association
shall reach agreement on the budget estimates for the upgrading,
rehabilitation and maintenance programs for the following fiscal year.
5.  (a)   The Borrower shall, by no later than November 30, 1997, carry out
a mid-term review with the Association. Such review shall, inter alia, focus
on the status of progress in: (i) separating management of operations for
MWCT, in particular decisions regarding formation of semi-autonomous roads
agency and management arrangements for the major airports; (ii) increasing
road fund revenues to sufficient levels to cover routine and normal periodic
maintenance costs and achieving faster transfer of Road Fund revenues to
users; (iii) implementing measures to broaden the Road Fund's revenue base
and to reduce the delays in collection and disbursement of funds; (iv)
developing organizational and management systems for the road network; (v)
implementing a restructuring and/or divestiture program for the RETCOS and
UDA; (vi) preparation of a manual establishing sound environmental design
and management strategies for inland surface transport projects; (vii)
training of domestic contractors; and (viii) achieving the physical works
targets related to km completed, and road conditions.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, three months before such review, prepare and
furnish to the Association the reports needed to undertake the review.
    (c)   Promptly after the completion of the mid-term review referred to
above, the Borrower shall take all necessary actions to implement the
recommendations emanating from such review.
6.  The Borrower shall, by March 31 in each year, confirm the contents of
regional roads (including essential district and feeder roads)
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance programs.
7.  The Borrower shall train MWCT staff in transport planning, operations,
information technology and vehicle licensing in accordance with a detailed
program satisfactory to the Association.
8.  The Borrower shall, by November 30, 1996, review the effectiveness of
its environmental guidelines, and prepare a manual establishing sound
environmental design and management strategies for inland surface transport
projects.
9.  The Borrower shall, by July 1, 1995, ensure that allocation of funds
from the Road Fund to district and urban areas is based on needs and
capacity criteria, satisfactory to the Association.
10.       The Borrower, shall by April 30, 1995, furnish to the Association
an action plan, satisfactory to the Association for the restructuring of the
civil aviation subsector.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
Page  15
$12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
Page  16
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
