Documen; of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10754-HO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HONDURAS
MORAZAN DAM EMERGENCY PROJECT
JULY 10, 1992
Country Department II
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 10, 1992)
Currency Unit = Lempira
US$1.0         = L5.55
L1.0           = US$0.18
SDR 1.0        = US$1.36
On June 18, 1992 the Central Bank introduced
a freely floating exchange rate regime.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
kVA  = Kilovolt Ampere
kW   = Kilowatt
kWh  = Kilowatt hour
GlWh (Gigawatt hour)  = 1,000,000 kWh
kV (Kilovolt)  = 1,000 Volts
MW   = 1,000 kW
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CNA       National Energy Commission (Comisi6n Nacional de Energia)
ENEE      National Power Company (Empresa Nacional de Energia El6ctrica)
ENP       National Port Authority (Empresa Nacional Portuaria)
ESAP      Energy Sector Adjustment Program
UOH       Government of Honduras
HONDUTEI.  National Telecommunications Company (Empresa Hondurena de
Telecomunicaciones)
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IDA       International Development Association
IDB       Interamerican Development Bank
LRMC      Lcng Run Marginal Cost
MORP      Management and Operations Restructuring Program
PCR       Project Completion Report
PLP       Petroleum Liberalization Program
PPAR      Project Performance Audit Report
PSD       Panel for the Security of the Dam
SANAA     National Water Company (Servicio Aut6nomo de Acueductos y
Alcantarillados)
STENEE    Workers Union of ENEE (Sindicato de Trabajadores de ENEE)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HONDURAS
MORAZAN DAM EMERGENCY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .± i
I.   ENERGY SECTOR .....                                                      I .
Sector  Overview  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
Sector Objectives and Policies .....   1
Electric Power Sector              .. .                                  2
Institutional Profile.        .       . . .  .  .  .   . ... ....   2
Management and Operational Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
Sector Investment Program   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
Sector Finances   ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ....    4
Electricity Pricing .    .    .    .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
Bank/IDA Lending Experience in the Power Sector .  .  .  .  . . . . . .   6
Progress Under the ESAP  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .....  7
II.  THE  PROJECT  .  .   .   .  .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  8
Background   ....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ....8...  .   .    g
Dam Foundation   ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ....    8
Origin and Status of Project Preparation .   .   .   .   . . . . . . . . .   9
Rationale for IDA Involvement  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .    ...... .   .   10
Project Objectives   ....  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  .   .   10
Project Description  ....  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  .   .   10
Performance and Monitoring   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Project   Cost  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  12
Project Financing Plan   .........  ..  ..   .........   13
Organization and Implementation  ......  .  ..    ........ .   13
Procurement  .................  ..........    15
Disbursement   .................   .........    16
Performance Indicators and IDA Supervision Plan  . . . . . . . . . .  16
Reporting and Auditing   .........  ..  ..   .........   17
Environmental Factors  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .  17
Economic Analysis  ..............  .   ..........   17
Benefits  and  Risks  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



HONDURAS
MORAZAN DAM EMERGENCY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents (cont.)
ANNEXES
I.   Estimated Project Cost and Financing Plan ............................ 20
II.  Electrical and Mechanical Equipment and Motor Vehicles .... .......... 21
III.  Implementation Schedule ............................................. 22
IV.  Electric Power Sector - Evolution, SitLation ani Prospects .... ...... 23
V.   Contents of Contract Plan ........................................... 29
VI.  Economic Analysis ...........    ........................................ 34
VII.  Consulting Services and Training Program ............................ 37
VIII. Emergency Preparedness Plan ......................................... 38
IX.  Project File .    ........................................................ 40
MAPS
I.  IBRD  23948
II. IBRD 23947
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal miss.on, consisting of
Messrs. John Stein (Task Manager), Hernan Garcia (Principal Engineer), and
C. F. Mena (Engineering Consultant), which visited Honduras in May 1992.
Ms. Holly Hayer assisted in the word processing. Mr. Ricardo Halperin is the
Division Chief and Mr. Rainer Steckhan, the Department Director responsible
for the operation. The assistance of the Government of Austria, which
financed - through its Consultant Trust Fund - the engagement of a specialized
engineering firm to carry out an independent assessment of the seepage problem
at the Morazdn dam, is gratefully acknowledged.



- i -
HGJDURAS
MORAZAN DAM EMERGENCY PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summarv
Borrower:                  Republic of Honduras
Executing Agency:          Empresa Nacional de Energia Electrica (ENEE)
Amount:                    SDR 8.83 million (US$12.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                     40 years, including 10 years of grace, with a
charge of 0.75% per annum.
Relending Terms:           The Borrower would relend the credit of US$12
million equivalent to ENEE in US dollars wit) a term
of 20 years, including 5 years of grace at an
interest rate of 7.60% per annum. ENEE would bear
the foreign exchange risk between the lempira and US
dollar.
Proi ect
Oblectives:                The proposed project would: (i) maintain the
structural integrity of the Moraz&n dam by
controlling excessive seepage and hydrostatic
pressures under the dam foundation; (ii) increase
the reliability of the power plant's auxiliary
system thereby minimizing the risk of interruption
of the principal source of the country's electricity
supply; and (iii) strengthen ENEE's emergency
preparedness planning and its capacity to monitor
dam performance and manage possible similar future
seepage problems at the Moraz&n dam.
Project Description:       The project comprises: (a) an underground
investigation program with deep rock borings (about
46,000 linear meters) and corresponding
instrumentation, followed by high pressure injection
of sealants (about 14,000 metric tons) into the rock
mass (84% of total project cost); (b)
impermeabilization of the power plant aump,
construction of about 300m of additional drainage
galleries to evacuate filtrations by gravity flow,
and plugging of the diversion tunnel (5.5%); (c)
installation of additional electrical and mechanical
equipment to substantially increase service
reliability of the auxiliary electrical system of
the power plant (4%); (d) supply and installation of
new and complementary instrumentation to monitor
foundation pressures and water filtrations (2.5%);
(e) consulting services (3%) to: (i) supervise the



- ii -
impenneabilization works; (ii) carry out a
structural and electro-mechanical review of the dam;
and (iii) prepare an emergency preparedness and
evacuation plan; and (f) training of ENEE staff in
underground investigations, pressure sealing of
foundations, monitoring of hydrostatic foundation
pressures and wacer leakages in high dams and
electrical system stability (1%).
Project Benefits:         The project would ensure and increase the safetv of
the dam and the reliability of its auxiliaries,
thereby safeguarding its useful operating life. It
would also increase hydroelectric generation by
curtailing water waste through seepage.
Risks and
Safeguards:               There is a remote risk that the present seepage
problem may worsen before project works are
initiated. This could require emergency lowering of
the reservoir and could result in shut-down of the
Morazan plant with adverse economic effects. Speedy
project implementati3n would reduce this risk.
There is also a risk that other seepage sources
could appear after the impermeabilization program
has been completed. The exploratory drilling
component of the project has been designed to reduce
this risk. Finally, the impermeabilization cost
could be greater than estimated. This is not
perceived as a major risk. If it were to occur, ENEE
would be able to provide the additional funds
necessary to complete the program by deferring lower
priority investments and the IDB wouid be prepared
to consider assisting ENEE with complementary
financing.
Estimated
Project Cost:                                       Local   Foreign   Total
------US$ million------
Civil Works             6.27     5.34    11.61
Equipment & Vehicles   0.06       1.51     1.57
Services & Supplies    0.40         -      0.40
Consultant Services    0.01       0.52     0.53
Administration &
Supervision            0.19        -      0.19
Training Program          -       0 06     0.06
Base Cost             6.93     7.43    14.36
Physical Contingencies 0.79       1.46     2.25
Price Contingencies    0.39       0.41     0.80
Total Project Cost   8.11      9.30    17.41



- iii -
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign       Total
------- US$ million -
IDA          4.3       7.7        12.0
IDB           -        1.6         1.6
ENEE        _3.8         -         3.8
Total        8.1       9.3        17.4
Estimated Disbursements: IDA FY:         1993      1994        1995
------- US$ million -----
Annual:       6.0 1/   5.0          1.0
Cumulative:  6.0       11.0        12.0
Economic Rate of Return: About 42%
I/ Includes US$600,000 equivalent in retroactive financing for expenditures
incurred Uince April 1, 1992.



I. ENERGY SECTOR
Sector Overview
1.1       The energy sector in Honduras relies mostly on two ma,or indigenous
energy resources: fuelwood and hydrop3wer.  Hydropower currently accounts for
almost all electricity gei.eration. Horluras does not produce any petroleum
and is totally dependent on imports *-o Beet its hydrocarbon needs.   However,
efforts are underway to explore the country's oil potent'al in Atlantic
offshore areas. Oil consumption is about 16,000 bbl/d and has been growing at
an average of over 7% per year during the last four years. The impact of oil
imports on the balance of payments is significant as the oil import bill in
1991 amounted to US$165 million, equivalent to 17% of export earnings.
1.2       Fuelwood and biomass treet around 67% of the total final Pnergy
demand; petroleum, 29%; and electricity, 4%. Households account for 60% of
total energy use, followed by transportation and agriculture (26%) and by
industry (14%). The low level of industrial usage directly reflect: the
modest degree of industrialization. Food processors are the main industrial
users (50%), followed by the petroleum refinery and chemical companies (13%).
1.3       The degree of electrification in Honduras is very low compared with
other Latin American countries. Only about 38% of Honduras' inhabitants have
access to electricity. While 80-90X of the urban population receive
electricity, less than 20% of rural 'Lihabitants are connected. By the end of
1991 the total numnber of connected consumers was 334,000, of which 305,000
were residential. A description of the evolution, situation and proi-pects of
the electric power subsector is given in Annex IV.
1.4       In the late 1970s, influenced by concerns about rising oil prices
and prospects for potential electricity exports for the region, and in the
expectation of easy access to the worla's financial markets, Honduras
initiated construction of a large hydropower project, El Cai6n (renamed
Francisco Morazan in March 1992), with financing from the Bank rnd IDA, the
Interamerican Development Bank (IDB) and other donors. Although the Morazan
plant served to reduce oil imports, exports of surplus electricity to
neighboring countries after dam completion in 1985 were less than expected
because of the political turmoil in the region which prevailed until recently,
and the project debt service became increasingly onerous due to the
devaluation of the lempira against the dollar and of the dollar against the
basket of currencies in which the debt is denominated.  At the end of 1991,
the external debt of the national power company, Empresa Nacional de Energia
Electr'._^ (ENEE, stood at US$690 million, which represented about 2i% of
Honduras total foreign debt. As a result, ENEE's debt service (amounting to
about US$81 million in 1991) has placed a heavy burden on Honduras' foreign
exchange availability.
Sector Objectives and Policies
1.5       The main objectives of the Government's sector policy are to
establish a reliable energy supply at least cost and to reduce the burden of
the sector on public finances and on the country's balance of payments. To



-2-
achieve these objectives, the mair. elements of the Government's strategy
include: (i) strengthening the sector's legal and regulatory framework; (ii)
restoring the financial soundness and operational efficiency of ENEE; (iii)
establishing pricing policies based on economic costs; (iv) implementing
investment programs within macroeconomic restrictions; and (v) stimulating
competition through participation of the private sector.
1.6       The above policies were embodied in the Government's Energy Sector
Adjustment Program (ESAP) which is supported by: (i) an Energy Sector
Adjustment Credit (ESAC, Cr. 2306-HO) of SDR 37.95 million approved by the
Executive Directors on October 31, 1991 and (ii) a hybrid investment/
adjustment loan from the IDB of US$105 million approved in November 1991. The
ESAC first tranche was supplemented by FY92 IDA reflows of SDR 23.8 million in
January 1992. Progress under the program has been satisfactory overall and
release of the second tranche is expected to take place in November 1992 (see
paras. 1.23-24).  The following summary of issues in the power sector draws on
the President's Report for the ESAC (P-5592-HO dated September 19, 1992).
Electric Power Sector
Institutional Profile
1.7       ENEE is the state monopoly responsible for the public supply of
electricit- within the country, except for a few small isolated systems.
Until the early eighties, ENEE was reasonably well managed and its finances
were sound. The Public Administration Law of 1986 made changes in electricity
tariffs and in ENEE's annual work program and budget subject to approval by
Congress. These actions gradually curtailed ENEE's operating independence,
contributing to inefficiency and poor financial performance. The Governmenc
also decided to provide electricity free of charge to public sector
institutions, which negatively affected ENEE's finances and promoted waste of
energy. Moreover, Government interference in day-to-day operations increased
sharply throughout the late 1980s, involving political appointments for top
management positions, hiring excessive personnel, implementing uneconomical
rural electrification programs, and interfering in ENEE's commercial (billing
and collection) practices, resulting in a large accumulation of accounts
receivable. A strong and militant workers union, STENEE, created a parallel
organizational structure which also hindered effective management.
1.8       Under the ESAC, the Government has initiated a two-step plan to
provide ENEE with sufficient autonomy to function on a commercial basis. As a
first step, the Government established a Public Utilities Regulatory
Commission (PURC) which has the authority to set tariffs for the four largest
public enterprises-'. As a second step, the Government is carrying out a
two-phase institutional reform study, supported under the recent IDA and IDB
operations (para. 1.6), on possible changes to the legal status of ENEE which
1/ In addition to ENEE, these enterprises are the National TelecomrjunicaXions
Company (HONDUTEL), the National Water Company (SANAA) and the National Port
Authority (ENP).



are expected to increase its autonomy. The Government and ENEE have signed a
Contract Plan which clearly establishes mutual responsibilities and a system
of control through performance targets appropriate for a revenue earning
entity. A summary of the Contract Plan is presented in Annex V.
Management and Operational Performance
1.9       Due in part to the intensive institutional development efforts of
the Bank/IDA starting in 1959 (para. 1.22), by the mid-seventies ENEE had
become a well-run power utility and its efficiency indicators were equivalent
to, or better than in most utilities in countries at a similar stage of
development. The subsequent deterioration in the utility's management as a
consequence of increasing Government interference and political considerations
in management selection led to serious administrative deficiencies, among
them: (i) excessively centralized decision-making; (ii) poor planning; (iii)
lack of an integrated Management Information System (MIS) geared to decision
making; (iv) little supervision to ensure compliance with the few existing
norms and procedures for resource administration and for the company's
operations; (v) excessive interference by the Government's Comptroller's
Office (part of the legislative branch) which has created serious obstacles to
efficient day-to-day operations by concentrating its attention on ex-ante
instead of ex post reviews of company transactions; (vi) insufficient
attention to human resource management which has led to thin senior management
cadres (despite the existence of technically well-qualified professionals);
and (vii) significant overstaffing, especially in the form of often
unqualified temporary personnel.
1.10      Concurrent with the deterioration of management, ENEE's collection
practice also deteriorated with its collection period increasing from 108 days
at the end of 1986 to 140 days at the end of 1991. Besides exempting public
sector agencies from payment of electricity bills, the Government often
instructed ENEE not to disconnect electricity service to major customers with
significant arrears, mainly to prevent plant closings and layoffs or because
the Government was a major shareholder or creditor of a customer ini financial
distress. This poor collection record compounded ENEE's financial
difficulties.
1.11      With respect to ENEE's operational performance, overall growth of
electricity sales, excluding international sales, has been 6.6% p.a. during
1980-89, despite low investments made in distr4jution systems and the low real
GDP growth rate of 2.3% p.a. Electricity ger.-ration grew at 9.6% p.a. during
1980-89. Current estimates assume that electricity demand will grow at a more
modest rate of 4.2% p.a. on average during 1990-1995, reflecting, in part, the
impact of previous and programmed rate increases. The growth in electricity
demand during the past few years partially reflects an increase in waste, as
the decision to make electricity a free sergvice to all Government units led to
a rise of 23% p.a. in public sector consumption. Another contributing factor
to higher generation needs has been the sharp increase in electricity losses -
- from 12% in 1985 to 27% in 1991 -- due both to technical factors (i.e.,
neglect of distribution networks and meter maintenance) and to increasing
illicit consumption. A distribution project being financed by the recent 1DB



- 4 -
hybrid investment/adjustment loan includes the investments required to upgrade
distribution networks to reduce technical L1sses over the medium term.
1.12      To help address the above problems ENEE is carrying out, with the
assistance of consultants, a Management and Operational Restructuring Program
(MORP), designed to improve the company's organization and establish adequate
management and operational systems, including a strong policy of personnel
rationalization.  The MORP is a hands-on technical assistance prog am, for all
areas of ENEE, with the objective of improving its efficiency and supporting
the achievement of the targets included under the Contt.;t Plan. Significant
improvements in productivity would be sought under the MORP through adequate
systems and procedures for operation and maintenance of ENEE's installations
and improvement of existing methodologie3 for plarLning its operations,
including optimization of the management of the reservoirs. The MORP U)''l
also provide for training programs and the engagemont of technical staff to
adequateLy handle environmental matters in investment planning and management,
with pare4.cular attention to the management of river basins and water
catchment areas to reduce silting through erosion.
Sector Investment Proaram
1.13      In the context of the ESAP, all of the projects in ENEE's
investment program for 1992-96 -- and the corresponding sequence -- have been
selected under strict economic least-cost principles in agreement with IDA and
IDB. The program includes, in addition to the proposed emergency project: (i)
rehabilitation of several thermal and hydro generating plants by 1993; (ii)
completion of several on-going works, including rural electrification; (iii)
renewal and expansion of municipal distribution grids (the IDB-financed Seven
Cities Project); and (iv) construction of small-scale transmission and
generation facilities. The investment program of ENEE also inzludes a new
generation plant (50 MW gas turbine) to start operations in 1995. The average
annual planned investment for the 1992-96 period is about US$30 million.
Sector Finances
1.14      ENEE's financial situation deteriorated throughout the late 1980s
as a result of various factors, in particular: (i) the maintenance, until
recently, of average tariffs at their 1986 nominal level despite currency
devaluation; (ii) lower-than-expected sales, as growth of the domestic and
export electricity markets was lower than o.iginally projected due to the
economic and political problems that besieged the region in recent years and
inability to collect payments for elect-  !ity exports from the principal
export market (Nicaragua) as a result oi that country's financial problems;
(iii) heavy debt service resulting from the Morazln (El Caj6n) project,
aggravated by the sharp devaluations of the lempira beginning in 1990 and
revaluation of the basket of currencies in which many of the loans were
denominated relative to the US dollar (to which the lempira has been ,egged);
(iv) deterioration in the management of accounts receivable together with
increasing local currency interest rates which raised the cost of short-term
commerc4al bank financing; and (v) free energy which had to be supplied to the



central Government and its agencies since 1983 (equivalent to US$5.0 million
in 1989).
1.15      The return on average revalued fixed assets declined from about 10%
in 1984 to 8.3% in 1985, 4.4Z in 1988, and 2.2Z in 1990. Tha reduction in
profitability on fixed assets also reflects the increase in the tariff base
with the commissioning of new fixed assets, principally the El Caj6n project.
Fixed assets in service tripled from US$348 million equivalent in 1984 to
US$1,047 million in 1985, which in turn resulted in sharply higher financIal
and depreciation charges. During 198i to 1990 financ il charges more than
offset the positive return on operations (not allowing for debt service
payments) and resulted in accumulated losses of about US$74.0 million.
1.16      ENEE's total indebtedness at end-1990, equivalent to uS$758 million
(L 4,097 million), represented 75% of the en.erprise's total debt and equity.
Out of this total, L 3,139 million was long term debt and L 958 million were
arrears on debt service payments. Of the total long-term debt. only about 5%
was in local currency and the remainder relates to long-term foreign currency
loans. About 31% of the foreign exchange debt was denominated in US dollars,
64% in European and Japanese currenc'es, and 5% in other currencies.
1.17      ENEE's financial results showed a marked improvement in 1991,
largely as a result of the tariff increases and the clearance of public sector
payment arrears supported by the ESAP. The return on average revalued fixed
assets almost tripled from 2.2% in 1990 to 6.1%; the cash operating margin
improved to 84.2, exceeding the Contract Plan target of 83; and the collection
period for accounts receivable, while still high, fell from 190 days to 140
days.
1.18      To strengthen ENEE's financial position, the ESAP includes a
Financial Rehabilitation Program the main elements of which are: (i) revision
and increases to ENEE's tariff structure; (ii) a Government equity
contribution equivalent to the IDA and IDB adjustment operations; and (iii)
settlement of central government and public sector electricity payment arrears
to ENEE, including creation of a clearing house for future payments. The
Contract Plan spells out these obligations and the specific financial targets
(Annex V).
1.19      E"U's fin..Lces are expected to continue to improve and its
financial outlook is positive over the medium term. The return on average
revalued fixed assets is expected to reach 7.4% by 1993 and remain
approximately at that level throughout the 1990s as a result of the
operational and financial management improvements being carried out under the
ESAP. ENEE's self-financing ratio is projected to reach 35% by 1993 and
continue at that level. ENEE's debt/equity ratio is also expected to
substantially improve to 60/40 in 1993. The collection period for accounts
receivable is expected to brought down to 60 days by 1994, with the public
sector remaining current in its electricity payments through a payment
clearing house mechanism established under the ESAP.



-6-
Electricity Pricing
1.20      Historically, electricity prices in Honduras were in line with
economic costs.  Late setting procedures also hae heen adequate until 1986
when Congress assumed authority for setting electricity prices. This decision
resulted in a cumbersome, politically-oriented approval process for tariff
changes which lost their link to financial or eccnomic principles.  With about
80% of ENEE's total costs denominated in, or linked to, foreign currency,
exchange rate variations influence significantly ENEE's finances. The lack of
adjustment in rates following d-valuation of the lempira sharply worsened
ENEE's financial situation.
1.21      Electricity prices were increased by an average 60% in nominal
terms in September 1990 a3 part of the Government's stabilization and
adjustment measures. Tariffs were adjusted again by an average 24.3% as of
June 1, 1991. The ESAP includes implementation of a program of monthly
average increases of 3% from July 1991 through December 1992 to offset the
expected erosion of re.l tariffs by inflation and devaluation and also allow
for progressive increases in real terms. The increases would continue to be
applied until the average rate level would be equal to long run marginal costs
(LRMC) with no individual rate category below 90% of LRMC by the end of 1992,
except for residential consumers using 300 kWh or less per month. ENEE and
the Government have also agreed on an automatic mechanism for adjusting
tariffs from time to time should exchange rate movements exceed projected
levels so as to keep real tariffs from eroding. To cushion the blow of the
sharp increases in electricity prices, the Government initiated a temporary
system of directed subsidies to residential consumers which the Government has
estimated would amount to less than US$2 million equivalent from June 1991
through end 1992. These subsidies are to be phased out in early 1993. By end
May 1992 average electricity rates were L 0.40/kWh, which are over 90% of LRMC
and 89% higher in dollar terms than the level prevailing at the end of 1990.
Bank/IDA Lending Experience in the Power Sector
1.22      Between 1959 and 1991, the Bank and IDA have made, respectively,
eight loans and four credits amwunting to US$290.4 million equivalent to the
electric power sector of Honduras, including the recently approved ESAC. The
first four loans and two credits (approved between 1959 and 1968) helped to
finance the Interim Power, Cantaveral Hydroelectric, Rio Lindo Hydroelectric
and Fourth Power (Transmission/Distribution) projects which were completed
successfully despite some delays and cost overruns. The fifth and sixth loans
(in 1972 and 1975, re3pectively) helped finance an interconnection with
Nicaragua and the Rio Lindo 40 MW Extension, respectively, which were
completed successfully at or slightly below estimated cost but also with some
delay in completion. The seventh loan, approved in 1978, assisted in
financing the Nispero Prolect needed to help meet electric power demands while
the El Caj6n Project was under construction and was carried out successfully.
The eighth loan and the third IDA aredit, 1805-HO (US$105.0 million) and 989-
HO (US$20.0 million), approved in 1980, helped finance the construction of
the Moraz&n dam (then named "El Caj6n") and power plant (292 MW) which is



- 7 -
discussed in detail in paras. 2.1-2.4. The main conclusions of the PCR and
the PPAR (SecM89-930, dated July 13, 1989) for the El Caj6n project were that
it had been well-prepared and designed and completed ahead of schedule and
that it had addressed successfully environmental issues.  However, it was too
large for its actual market, as expected demand growth failed to materialize.
As a result, the project strained the capability of ENEE and the economy to
pay for debt service, and this contributed to the country's balance of
payments difficulties.
Progress Under the ESAP
1.23      The ESAC, the fourth IDA credit to the sector, supports the
Government's ESAP, which includes actions to restore ENEE's financial health
and improve its operational performance. Progress in implementing the ESAP
has been satisfactory overall. Second tranche release is expected to take
place in November 1992, several months later than originally anticipated due
to delays in the contracting the institutional reform and the interfuel
substitution studies and in the start of the MORP. Efforts are now underway
to accelerate these activities. ENEE has continued with implementation of the
agreed program of monthly tariff increases which has strengthened its
financial position (para. 1.17) and enabled ENEE to meet the financial targets
under the Contract Plan for 1991 ir. spite of the fact that the financial
results were adversely affected by a strike in late 1991 by STENEE which
seriously interrupted ENEE's commercial operations. The strike resulted in
the dismissal of approximately 160 employees including STENEE leaders. As a
consequence the union's stifling grip on ENEE's operations has been loosened
and ENEE has been able to begin carrying out a series of urgently needed
institutional reforms, including pilot schemes to contract out meter reading
and other services.
1.24      The impact of the strike and shortages of equipment and qualified
personnel delayed implementation of the loss reduction program and ENEE's
electricity losses as a percent of total generation increased temporarily from
23% in 1990 to 27% in 1991. ENEE has named a coordinator for the program and
has proceeded with direct purchase of the most urgently needed equipment. All
contracts for the technical assistance component have been signed and work is
underway. The PURC has performed satisfactorily but progress has been more
limited in the operation of the National Energy Commission (CNA). The
Government is in the process of hiring the members of CNA's technical working
group which should permit it to begin its functions soon. The Petroleum
Liberalization Program (PLP) is on track and its second phase is expected to
be implemented in August 1992.



- 8 -
II. THE PROJECT
Background
2.1       The Morazhn dam and underground power station were built in 1985.
The dam is a double-curvature high (225m) concrete arch (among the ten highest
in the world) and impounds a reservoir of 5.7 million cubic meters. The power
station is located about 200 meters below the ground on the left abutment and
contains four units, each generating 73MW. The station is connected to the
national grid by a double circuit transmission line at 230 kV: the Northern
branch to El Progreso substation (40km) and the Southern branch to Tegucigalpa
(140km) (see Map IBRD 23948). The cost of these works, including transmission
lines and financing charges, was US$785 million. In 1991, the Moraz&n plant
generated 1,487 GWh, equivalent to 70% of Honduras' total electricity
generation.
Dam Foundation
2.2       The dam is located about 3 km downstream of the confluence of the
Humuya and Sulaco rivers in a gorge of limestone formation covered by volcanic
rock. The limestone outcroppings at the site have four main vertical faults
running parallel to the river. Karst in the limestone occurs in the form of
cracks and large cavities of irregular shape, most of them filled with clay.
Rock permeability is related to fractures and karst. To waterproof the dam
foundation a conventional vertical grouting curtain was designed originally.
However, when excavation for the dam was completed, the engineers2/
reexamined geological conditions, adjusted appropriately the axis of the dam,
and concluded that the original sealing curtain would not be appropriate.
Instead, they designed a relatively novel sealing scheme combining shallow
vertical and wide horizontal grouting zones forming a tub-shaped seal (see Map
IBRD 23947), with its downstream edge under the heel of the dam, at an
additional cost of US$6.1 million, or 1.14% of total project cost. The Panel
for the Security of the Dam reviewed the new design and approved it as more
appropriate than the original one, and the height of the dam was maintained.
2.3       In 1986, two years after the initial filling of the reservoir,
hydrostatic pressures at the dam foundation had increased abnormally (by about
20 meters), indicating breaches in the impermeabilized zone. Deep drain holes
were drilled at the base of the dam and downstream of the originally treated
grouting zone which relieved the pressures but resulting seepages were
excessive. Moreover, the seepage water containee clay, indicating that it was
eroding it from the faults. The location of renewed higher pressures and
evidence of clay in the discharges pointed to erosion of zones in Faults I,
II, and III. A grouting program was carried out in 1987-1989 at an estimated
total cost of US$5.5 million to seal the major leaks and control the erosion
they were causing. This program was successful in halting leakage along Fault
2/ Motor Columbus, now COLENCO (Switzerland).



III. Pressures and total seepage were reduced to acceptable levels, but a
side effect, noticed first in late 1989, was the increase in underground water
seepage into the power plant, from new channels formed between or at Faults
III and IV.
2.4       Limited amounts of seepage through the foundation and abutments  of
high dams are considered normal. Such amounts vary depending upon the quality
of the surrounding rock. Higher water losses occur from reservoirs on
cavernous limesto..e, as is the case of the MorazAn dam. This seepage hazard
was known from the outset of geologic investigations which showed an area of
high permeability that extended below the bottom of the power plant cavern.
While the geologic investigations were adequate and the tub-shaped seal was
conceptually sound hydraulically, it proved vulnerable under the very high
pressures resulting from the exceptionally high dam. ENEE attempted to
control the seepage that occurred but the scope of the work undertaken was too
limited as funding was scarce for additional necessary work.
2.5       A more extensive sealing program is now urgently needed to
complement the work already done to control pressure buildups and subsequent
erosive flows in the left abutment, because these could eventually reduce the
strength of the abutments and cause the dam to fail. Water seepage at the dam
has increased dramatically over the last year and has reached a point where,
if left untreated, it could result in serious damages to the dam's structure
or even collapse. The proposed project will assist ENEE to carry out an
emergency impermeabilization program and to improve its monitoring of dam
performance.
Origin and Status of Project Preparation
2.6       Under Loan 1805-HO and Credit 989-HO which partially financed the
Moraz&n dam and power station, ENEE is obligated to send to the Bank/IDA the
report of its Panel for the Security of the Dam (PSD) which periodically
reviews the performance of the dam structure. The PSD's report of October
1991 alerted ENEE and IDA to the potentially dangerous reservoir leakages (850
liters/second) and high hydrostatic pressures at the dam foundation (50
meters). Compounding the problem, the plant's auxiliary electrical system,
which operates the sump pumps of the dam and underground plant, failed once
for about 15 minutes. This event almost caused flooding of the generator
floor which would have shut down the plant for at least six months and would
have caused a disaster for Honduras' economy. On the basis of the PSD's
report, and after consultations with ENEE, IDA contracted the services of ILF
Consulting Engineers of Austria (ILF), a firm specializing in hydraulic
structures, to assess the problem. In January 1992, an IDA mission discussed
the matter with GOH and ENEE staff and IDA agreed to examine the prospect of
financing an emergency project. In April 1992, ILF presented its report to
IDA recommending remedial measures, which were reviewed with ENEE's engineers.
ENEE then instructed COLENCO, its consultants, to design the
impermeabilization project and prepare corresponding bidding documents for the
works. With the assistance of IDA, ENEE prepared a study in May 1992 on the
reliability of the auxiliary electrical system of the Moraz&n power plant and



- 10 -
refined project costs. The project was appraised in May 1992. The main
documents in the project file are listed in Annex VIII.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.7       The country assistance strategy for Honduras provides for IDA
support for the Government's macroeconomic and sectoral adjustment efforts
through fast-disbursing policy-based lending and selected investment projects,
particularly those targeted to poverty alleviation and rehabilitation of
critical infrastructure. The proposed project is consistent with this
strategy as it would assist in preventing a potential economic and
environmental disaster and in ensuring the continued availability of the
country's key source of electricity supply. Specifically, IDA involvement i..
the project is important to: (i) ensure that the engineering design and
execution of the impermeabilization works are sound; (ii) provide for
additional measures to improve dam safety and monitoring; and (iii) help ENEE
establish the capacity to handle similar works if needed in the future. IDA's
financial support would permit ENEE to meet other critical and immediate
investment needs, while not undermining the utility's financial rehabilitation
program. Possible future IDA assistance to the sector would be considered
based on ESAC-supported studies, including for rural energy needs and
expanding the role of the private sector.
Project Objectives
2.8       The proposed project would: (i) maintain the structural integrity
of the Morazan dam by controlling excessive seepage and hydrostatic pressures
under the dam foundation; (ii) increase the reliability of the power plant's
auxiliary system thereby minimizing the risk of interruption of the principal
source of the country's electricity supply; and (iii) strengthen ENEE's
emergency preparedness planning and its capacity to monitor dam performance
and manage possible similar future seepage problems at the Moraz&n dam.
Proiect Description
2.9       The proposed project!' comprises:
(a)  an underground investigation program with deep rock borings (about
46,000 linear meters) and corresponding instrumentation, followed
by high pressure injection of sealants (about 14,000 metric tons)
into the rock mass (84% of total project cost);
(b)  impermeabilization of the power plant sump, construction of
additional drainage galleries (about 300m) to evacuate filtrations
by gravity flow, lining of the inspection gallery, and plugging of
the diversion tunnel (5.5%);
3/ The actual location of all works and instrumentation to be carried out
under the project is provided in the layout attached as IBRD Map 23947.



- 11 -
(c) purchase and installation of additional electrical and mechanical
equipment (see Annex II) to substantially increase service
reliability of the auxilcary electrical system of the power plant
(4%);
(d)  purchase and installation of new and complementary instrumentation
to monitor foundation pressures and water filtrations (2.5%);
(e) about 32 man-months of consulting services (3%) to: (i) supervise
the impermeabilization works; (ii) carry out a structural and
electro-mechanical safety review of the dam; and (iii) assist in
the preparation of an emergency preparedness and evacuation plan
(see Annex VII); and
(f) training of ENEE staff (see Annex VII) in underground
investigations, pressure sealing of foundations, monitoring of
hydrostatic foundation pressures and water leakages in high dams
and electrical system stability, through visits to existing plants
and ongoing foundation sealing programs abroad (1%).
2.10      The impermeabilization program, under the proposed project, has
been extensively investigated by highly specialized consultants with the
participation of ENEE engineers who have gained ample experience during the
construction of the Morazan dam and subsequent impermeabilization works. The
project is directed specifically at sealing zones around Faults III and IV,
identified from analysis of recent water pressure and flows as the remaining
source of major seepage.
Performance and Monitoring
2.11      Prior to initiating civil works, the appropriateness of the
selected engineering solution will be confirmed by: (i) the supervising
engineering consultants and (ii) the contractor, and both will be
contractually responsible for the success of the impermeabilization program.
In order to assess the status of the dam's overall structure and its electro-
mechanical equipment, agreement was reached during negotiations that ENEE,
with the assistance of consultants financed under the project, will carry out
a safety review to be completed by December 31, 1992, submit to IDA by January
31, 1993, and subsequently implement a satisfactory plan of action to correct
any deficiencies identified during the review (para. 3.1 (a)).
2.12      Upon completion of the impermeabilizatlon program, all critical
pressure areas and filtration currents will be monitored with new instruments.
Existing monitoring instruments will be thoroughly examined and calibrated.
Instrument readings at all critical locations, now read individually, will be
relayed electronically to a control board located at the main control center
of the plant. A computer program will be used to integrate and record all
instrument readings and activate alert signals.



- 12 -
2.13      The reliability of the Moraz&n plant's auxiliary electrical system
is not adequate. Such reliability can be measured by the time service is not
available during a year of plant operations. Currently, that loss of service
has been calculated to be 10 hours and 38 minutes, which is far too high. The
installation of additional electrical and mechanical equipment (described in
Annex II) would increase service reliability of the auxiliary system of the
Moraz&n plant to practically 100% with the loss of service dropping to a
negligible one second a year. Agreement was reached during negotiations that
the first phase of the program .o increase system reliability would be
completed by December 31, 1992 and the entire program, by March 31, 1993
(para. 3.1 (b)).
Proiect Cost
2.14      Cost estimates were prepared by ENEE staff with the assistance of
COLENCO and IDA's consultant. Unit prices for boring and pressure sealing
(grouting) were based on final costs of the 1987-89 impermeabilization program
appropriately updated to June 1992. Prices for materials and mechanical and
electrical equipment were obtained locally through informal quotations.
Physical contingencies were estimated assuming the following extraordinary
events:
(a)  longitudinal cracking (tension failure) of a tunnel lining for a
length of about 50 meters requiring immediate repair (US$0.30
million);
(b)  sudden washout of a karstic cavern at the bottom of the dam and at
Faults II and III, with flows of at least 1,000 liters/second
requiring immediate injections of sealants at high pressures
(US$0.20 million);
(c)  sealing of multiple and sudden water leaks under pressure leading
to the underground plant (US$0.05 million); and
(d)  additional rows of borings totalling about 17,000 meters to inject
sealants at high pressure (US$1.7 million);
An allowance for prio-e increases during the disbursement period was calculated
using 2.8% from aprraisal until the end of 1992; 3.9Z for 1993; and 3.9% for
1994.
2.15      A summary of the project cost estimate is shown below.  A detailed
cost estimate with source of financing is shown in Annex I.



- 13 -
Prolect Cost Estimat.
(million USS)
Description                            Local      Foreign    Total
1. Civil Works                          6.3         5.3        11.6
2. Equipment and Vehicles               0.1         1.5         1.6
3. Services and Supplies                0.4          -          0.4
4. Consulting Services                  0.01        0.5        0.5
5. Administration and Supervision       0.2          -          0.2
6. Training                              -          0.1         0.1
Total Base Cost                     7.0          7.4       14.4
Physical Contingencies            0.8          1.4        2.2
Price Contingencies               0.4         0.4         0.8
Total Project Cost                  8.2          9.2       17.4
Project Financing Plan
2.16       In addition to the proposed IDA credit, the IDB would provide
US$1.6 million equivalent in cofinanci- through an amendment to its existing
investment/adjustment hybrid energy sector loan agreement (para. 1.6).
Satisfactory amendment of the loan agreement would be a condition of
effectiveness (para. 3.2 (ii)). Agreement was reached during negotiations
that: (i) the credit proceeds would be onlent to ENEE through a subsidiary
loan agreement, satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.2 (i)); and (ii) local funds
required to finance the balance of the project cost would be provided from
ENEE's own resources (para. 3.1 (A)). Local cost financing of 53% is
justified in view of Honduras' fragile economic situation and the potential
disastrous consequences of downstream flooding in case the project is not
implemented or delayed. The project financing plan would be as follows:
USS million
2 of
Financing Source                 Local       Foreign      Total    Total
IDA                               4.3          7.7         12.0     69.0
IDB                                -           1.6          1.6      9.2
ENEE                              3.8          -            3.8     21.8
Total                        8.1         9.3         17.4    100.0
Organization and Implementation
2.17       ENEE would be the executing agency for the project.  ENEE's
technical capacity in this particular field of civil engineering is sound
based on the experience gained by its engineering staff during the
construction of the Moraz&n dam and subsequent impermeabilization works. Its



- 14 -
financial position has also been significantly strengthened as a result of the
actions supported under the ESAC. The proposed project would be implemented
through a single contract for civil works, awarded through ICB, and multiple
contracts for acquisition of special electrical and mechanical equipment and
motorized vehicles. Bidders for the civil works contract must have proven and
extensive experience in this specialized field. Supervision of the works will
be carried out by experienced ENEE engineers, assisted by a consulting
engineering firm highly qualified in this specialized field of civil
engineering. In addition, ENEE staff will continue to be assisted by the PSD
thrcugh its quarterly visits. The project includes a training component of
US$60,000 to strengthen the skills of ENEE's staff in the areas of foundation
exploration and pressure grouting, dam monitoring and electrical system
stability (see Annex VII). Agreement was reached during negotiations that
ENEE will maintain capable and trained staff on site to monitor dam
performance and the results of the sealing works (para. 3.1 (c)). At
appraisal, it was found that excessive dependence of the administration of the
dam and power plant on ENEE management in Tegucigalpa was detrimental to the
taking of quick action in emergencies. The extent of decentralization of ENEE
to be undertaken will be defined during the MORP.   However, as an
intermediate measure, it was agreed during negotiations that to ensure
effective administration of the dam, the dam and plant operations will be made
the responsibility of a separate operating unit with independent decision-
making authority by September 30, 1992 (para. 3.1 (d)).
2.18      The project is expected to be implemented beginning in October 1992
and would be completed by March 1994. The expected implementation schedule is
shown in Annex III.



- 15 -
Procurement
2.19       The following table summarizes procurement arrangements:
Procurement Met;iodl'
Proiect Element          ICB     OTHER   N.B.F    Total
USS million equivalent
1. Civil works             14.66   -       -      14.66
(11.41)                (11.41)
2. Equipment and vehicles   -       -      .51P'   1.57
3. Services and supplies           0.40    -       0.40
4. Consulting services            0.53'            0.53
(0.53)          (0.53)
5. Administration and supervision  -  0.19  -      0.19
6. Training program         -     0.06"    -       0.06
(0.06)          (0.06)
Total                  14.66   1.18    1.57    17.41
(1!.41)  (0.59)        (12.00)
1/ Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by the proposed IDA credit.
2/ EDB financed. To be procured in accordance with. 1B guidelines.
i/ Contracting of consultants in accordance with IDA guikelinea.
s/ Training courses and individual consultants to be contracted directly with institutions and individuals
acceptable to IDA.
2.20       The main civil works contract under the project is being procured
under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA's
"Guidelines for Procurement". Due to the urgency of the -.rks, ENEE, in
agreement with IDA, has advanced procurement of the civil works contract.
Bidding docu.ments were submitted to IDA for its review and were made available
to interested contractors on June 10, 1992. Bid opening is expected to take
place on July 15, 1992, and contract award is anticipated for September 1992.
2.21       Procurement of consultant services for project management and
supervision, studies, training and technica4 assistance for a total estimated
amount of US$ 0.6 million equivalent would be carried out in accordance with
Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981). The invitation to
submit proposals for the supervising consulting engineering firm is expected
to be issued in July 1992. Contract award should take place in September
1992. All procurement documentation for works and consultant contracts will
be subject to prior review by IDA.
2.22       In order to avoid any delays in solving the water seepage problem
which could cause failure of the dam, and in line with the Borrower's request,



- 16 -
retroactive financing is recommended for an amount of US$600,000 equivalent
(5% of the proposed credit) for expenditures incurred since April 1, 1992 to
cover expenses for individual consultants and training.
2.23      Procurement of instrumentation, auxiliary service mechanical and
electrical equipment, vehicles, and office and communications equipment to be
financed by the IDB would be procured under *,3 procurement guidelines using
limited international bidding for procurement packages of US$250,000
equivalent or less.
Disbursement
2.24      The proposed project is expected to be disbursed over a twenty-two
month period as shown below in US$ million:
FY93         FY94         FY95
Annual                                  6.0           5.0          1.0
Cumulative                              6.0          11.0         12.0
Given the short period for project execzt4in and the project's urgency,
disbursement would occur much faster than indicated by a standard disbursement
profile. Proceeds of the IDA credit would be used to finance (excluding
taxes):
(a) 78% cf total expenditures for civil works;
(b)  100% of expenditures for consulting services; and
(c) 100% of expenditures for the training program.
2.25      Disbursements would be made against full documentation.  There will
be no special account for this project as there are only two major contracts.
The closing date would be September 30, 1994, six months after the expected
completion of civil works.
Performance Indicators and IDA Supervision Plan
2.26      At project completion by end March 1994, water filtrations are
expected to be reduced from 850 liters per second to 250 liters per second and
hydrostatic foundation pressures from 50 meters to 30 meters and reliability
of the auxiliary electrical system is expected to reach nearly 100%. Given
the project's importance and the sophisticated engineering involved, IDA's
project supervision will be intensive, with missions composed mainly of IDA
engineering staff and assisted by outside consultants, visiting the project
site quarterly to meet with ENEE officials, the supervising engineer and the
contractor to discuss project progress and agree on any adjustments that may
be necessary. Total IDA supervision efforts during project implementation
have been planned to reach 30 staffweeks.



_ 17 -
Reporting and Auditinz
2.27      Agreement was reached during negotiations that ENEE will: (i)
contract for quarterly supervision visits by the PSD during project
implementation and annual visits thereafter, and submit to IDA the PSD's
report within 30 days of the PSD's visit (para. 3.1 (e)); (ii) provide the
Government end IDA with quarterly progress reports (para. 3.1 (f)) during the
execution oi the project, which will include the quarterly reports of the PSD
should the timing of their reports coincide with the progress reports;
otherwise, they will be provided separately; and (iii) contract independent
auditors, satisfactory to IDA, and present to IDA the auditors' report no
later than four months after the close of ENEE's fiscal year (para. 3.1 (g)).
The annual audit reports would include separate opinions on: (a) ENEE's
financial statements; (b) the project accounts; and (c) ENEE's compliance with
credit covenants. ENEE has a record of satisfactory compliance with its
obligations to submit audited reports under previous loans and credits.
Environmental Factors
2.28      The proposed project is rated C and does not pose environmental
problems. On the contrary, failure to carry it out promptly and according to
highest technical criteria would pose a major environmental risk, as the
structural integrity of the dam would be placed in jeopardy. If left
untreated, the threat of dam collapse, because of increasing seepage, would
likely require lowering the reservoir resulting in downstream flooding. Such
an event would also lead to an increase in air polluting thermal generation to
at least partially offset the foregone hydroelectric generation. ENEE does
not currently have an emergency preparedness and evacuation plan. The project
will finance consultant services to assist ENEE in its preparation. Agreement
was reached during negotiations that ENEE will complete, and put in place, a
satisfactory emergei.cy preparedness and evacuation plan by December 31, 1992
(para. 3.1 (h)). The purpose and content of the plan is described in Annex
VIII. Actions to strengthen ENEE's environmental assessment capacity and
establish clear safeguards for environmental protection as part of ENEE's
investment planning are being supported under the ESAC.
Economic Analysis
2.29      The principal objective of the project is to maintain the
structural integrity of the dam and, consequently, minimize interruption of
the key source of electricity supply in Honduras. Hence, the economic
evaluation takes into account both the expected reduction in the probabil ty
of failure, and an assessment of the cost of dam failure. Failure can fall
short of catastrophe, since adequate monitoring of seepage flows could allow
taking preventive actions, such as opening the gates to empty the reservoir,
before facing a critical situation. This preventive action would result in
substantial costs due to ensuing electricity shortages and the implementation
of a rationing program (Honduras does not have sufficient excess generation
capacity to offset the reduction in supply that would take place if the
Morazan Dam is out of operation) and to downstream flooding.



- 18 -
2.30      From the above, three economic analysis scenarios may be
considered:
A.   With the project, the soundness of dam is restored and maintained;
B.   Without the pro,ect, preventive actions are taken; and
C.   Without the project, no action is taken and the dam collapses.
This scenario has not been considered since it is not realistic.
2.31      The economi". evaluation compares A against B.  Scenario A results
in well defined costs -- the costs of carrying out the project, concentrated
in a relatively short period of time. Scenario B implies potential costs,
i.e. costs which would be incurred if preventive actions are taken, and then
the dam is repaired. The direct benefits to the economy of carrying out the
project are thus derived from: (i) avoiding the cost to the economy of
electricity rationing until repairs have been completed; (ii) avoiding damages
caused by downstream floodirng (conservatively estimated from loss of
agricultural production as other damages, including potential loss of lives,
are assumed to be pravented through an adequate emergency conti.gency plan);
and (iii) loss of electricity sales due to seepage. Based on these benefits,
the proposed project yields an estimated ERR of about 42Z. Annex VI provides
further details on the economic analysis.
Benefits and Risks
2.32      The main project benefit would be to safeguard the economic merits
of the investment already made for the Morazan Dam and Hydroelectric Power
Plant by increasing the safety of the dam and the reliability of its
auxiliaries, thereby ensuring its useful operating life. In addition, the
reduction of seepage will enable ENEE to increase its hydroelectric
generation, with consequent fuel savings.
2.33      There is a remote risk that the present seepage problem may worsen
before project works are initiated. This could require emergency lowering of
the reservoir water level which could result in shut-down of the Moraz&n plant
with adverse economic effects. Speedy project implementation would reduce
this risk. There is also a risk that other seepage sources could appear after
the impermeabilization program has been completed. The exploratory drilling
component of the project has been designed to reduce this risk. Finally, the
impermeabilization cost could be greater than estimated. This is not
perceived as a major risk. If it were to occur, ENEE would be able to provide
the additional funds necessary to complete the program by deferring lower
priority investments and the IDB would be prepared to consider assisting ENEE
with compleme.tary financing.



- 19 -
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.1       During negotiations, agreements were reached with:  (A) the
Borrower to ensure that sufficient funds are provided through ENEE as
indicated in t-e project financing plan and as needed to complete the project;
and (B) ENEE to:
(a) contract consultants to carry out a safety review of the dam's
structure and electro-mechanical systems to be completed by December 31,
1992, and to submit to IDA by January 31, 1993 and subsequently
implement, a satisfactory plan of action to correct problems and
deficiencies identified during the review (para. 2.11);
(b) complete execution of the first phase of the program to
increase reliability of the auxiliary electrical system by December 31,
1992 and the antire program by March 31, 1993 (para. 2.13);
(c)  mainta-.n trained and capable staff at the dam site to monitor dam
performance and the results of the sealing works (para. 2.17);
(d)   create a decentralized operating unit for the Morazan plant by
September 30, 1992 (para. 2.17);
(e) contract for quarterly supervision visits by the PSD during project
implementation and for annual visits thereafter, and submit to IDA the
PSD's report wiThin 30 days of the PSD's visit (para. 2.27);
(f) provide the Government and IDA quarterly progress reports during
the execution of the project (para. 2.27);
(g) contract independent auditors satisfactory to IDA and present to
IDA the auditors' report of its financial statements, project
accounts, and compliance with credit covenants no later than four months
after the close of ENEE's fiscal year (para. 2.27); and
(h) complete, and put in place, a satisfactory emergency preparedness
and evacuation plan to be submitted to IDA by December 31, 1992 (para.
2.28).
3.2       The conditions for effectiveness would be: (i) signing of a
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and ENEE, satisfactory to
IDA, to onlend the credit proceeds; and (ii) satisfactory amendment of the IDB
energy sector hybrid loan agreement to provide IDB funds for cofinancing the
proposed project.
3.3       With the above agreements, the proposed project would be eligible
for an IDA Credit of SDR 8.83 million (US$12 million equivalent) to the
Republic of Honduras. The Credit would be for a term of 40 years, including a
10 year grace period, at a service charge of 0.75% p.a.



- 20 -
Annex I
HIONDURAS
MORAZAN DAM EMERGENCY PROJECT
Estimated Project Cost and Financing Plan
L                                                                    ::   ::: '   :   -. -   ; .-' ...... -: -.-. ... ':--='::': .. . 1w''-,':'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   . . . . . . .   . .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,,.....                                   .       ......,..-.    ,;.-,:, ,.-.   :.      :1
I.. CIVIL WO1I.                                    67         .54         11614          E E t)W
|  tx   C1VIL . W K -2- -- :-    --    ..-  . ..
1.1  General installations                        41         809        850
1.2  Drainage works                               51          23         74
1.3 Drilling for grouting &
instruments                               2030        3772       5802
1.4  Grouting                                   3703         623       4326
1.5  Cleaning of galleries                       108          28        136
1.6  Sealing of powerhouse
sump bottom                                 50            -         50
1.7  Diversion tunnel plug                       148          42        190
1.8  Lining of inspection
gallery                                    105           15        120
1.9  Vertical shaft and
drainage tunnnel                            25           31         56
1.91 Installation of pumps                        10           -         10
2. EQUTPMENT AND VEHICLi s1                                    1$0:       15$6
2.1  Additional electrical
systemn protection and
independent power supply
equipment                                   31         664         695
2.2  Examination of existing
instruments                                 10           10         20
2.3  Supply of instruments                         -         230        230
2.4  Installation of
instruments                                 20           60         80
2.5  Additional pumps and
accessories                                  -         315         315
2.6  Motor vehicles                                -         126        126
2.7  Communtcation equipment                       -         100        100
3. SERVYCES AND SUPPLiES -- --------
3.1  Electricity supply for
pumping                                    320            -        320
3.2  Lighting                                      3           -          3
3.3  Drilling compressors                         41           -         41
3.4  Grouting pumps                               30           -         30
3.5  Ventilation                                   8           -          8
4. C0NSU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~flN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Rl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. .. 
4.1  Engineering contract                          -         401        401
4.2  Dam safety panel and
grouting consultants                         10         120        130
: :   :                        -:   :-   -    .  :f  ::  .:  .......... ---:.:: a.::: .:; . :- ; .......... -. :-a.  . . .....  .  .  . 
,                                                                  , ,   . . ... . ... . ... ... ..  .,, .. ... ........ ... _ . -ffi.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. . . .
BASS COST BSTTH - :  - 634. i3:--:: :
Physical contingencies                     789         1461       2250
Price contingencies                        394          413        807
TOTAL PFRJECT COST       .      . :1 | i                           42 



- 21 -
ANNEX II
ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
AND MOTOR VEHICLES
Description                                Quantity
- Improved telephone and telefax units for communication between
the Morazan plant, Tegucigalpa and abroad and several local
stations                                                           various
- Pickups (4 cylinders, about 85HP)                                    6
- Dam measuring instruments, including telemetering                  various
- Seepage current meters                                             various
- Auxiliary centrifugal water discharge pumps.(126 HP),
including complete auxiliaries                                        4
- Protection equipment for plant auxiliary system:
- Capacitors (500 kVAr, 480 V, 3O)                               various
- Solid-state motor starters (250 kW, 480 V, 3O)                   6
- Low voltage relays                                            various
- Loss of synchronism relays                                       2
- Reclosers with VHF control                                       3
- Transformer (2 MVA, 13.8/34.5 kV)                                2
- Circuit breaker (34.5 kV)                                        1
- Motor-generator set (275 kW)                                     1
- Transformer (2 MVA, 13.8/0.48 kV)                                1
- Electric office equipment                                         Various



- 22 -
ANNEX III
HONDURAS
Morazan Dam Impermeabilization Project
Implementation Schedule
1992      1      1993       1      1994
l~~~~~~~~~~ 2 3 4 1 2 3-1   1  2 3 4 
1. CIVIL WORKS                                                              I
Preparation of bidding documents
Construction                                              I           - I    il
12. EQUIPMENT AID VEHICLES               |
Auxiliary electrical system
Vehicles
3. SERVICES AND SUPPLIES
4. CONSULTING SERVICES                                 I                     T
5. ADMINISTRATION AND SUPERVISION                I          -                             I
16. TRAINING PROGRAM
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                  1....  L i    1..  1    __ __   I           



-23 -                               ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 6
HONDURAS
MORAZAN DAM EMERGENCY PROJ.ECT
ELECTRIC POWER SECTOR: EVOLUTION. SITUATION. AND PROSPECTS
Sunnary                                          The Sector and the Economy
1.      The electric power sector of Honduras    2.      The sector is affected by, and in turn
has been facing serious financial problems       affects, economic conditions. This relationship is
because of high levels of debt and debt service  illustrated by the close association between the
that resulted from the financing of an ambitious  behavior of economic growth and electricity
investment program  in the early 1980s which     demand.  In Honduras during the last two
included the El Caj6n hydro plant (renamed       decades, electricity sales growth had a pattern
Francisco Morazan in March 1992). This plant     which followed GDP growth at a faster rate:
more than doubled the installed capacity of the  significant increases in the 1970s, a drop in the
country, and it has affected all sector, as well as  early 1980s, and a modest recuperation in the
many country, indicators.  The sector's high     late 1980s (Figure 1). During some years in the
debt service obligations are out of line with the  late 1970s, electricity sales growth was lower
useful life of the assets that they financed. They  than economic growth mainly because of the
became unsustainable after the onset of the debt  sector's inability to serve market demand due to
crisis and the political problems of Central     insufficient facilities, but once El Caj6n was
America, as Honduras' access to external         commissioned, the pattern became more clear.
financial markets was cut.   The financial       Because of the particular conditions of the
problems were compounded by the devaluation      country regarding the degree of economic and
of the US dollar to which the local currency is  sector development, electricity demand has
pegged, by lower than expected growth in         outpaced the GDP growth rate as shown in
electricity demand due to the social and political  Figure 1.
turmoil in the region (which particularly affected
electricity  exports),  as  well as  by  low     Figure 1
operational performance reflected in high
electricity losses, and poor collection practices.                GROWTHPATES
Tariff levels, which had been adequate until          25x-
March  1990 when the local currency was               20 - ___j________________
devalued, fell significantly  below  long-run
marginal costs. In the past, although said tariffs   -S-- -                    - ---- -
provided a positive rate of return, internal         .0x
funding was not sufficient to cover debt service      5X
obligations. In  the recent past, successful
negotiations with creditors have helped to            0x     v           V     t
restructure debt in order to match debt service
obligations with internal funding. At present, a        .971 '973t975tg77t979t9st1993 995 997,989,99,
program is in place under the IDA and IDB                   -REAL GOP +-LeCTRICITY SALES
funded ESAP to restore real tariff levels. If
these actions are fully implemented and
sustained, and operational efficiency is attained,  3.    The contribution of the sector to
the financial prospects of the sector would be   economic and social development can be seen by
satisfactory and it should be able to fund its   the growth of consumption per capita, even
investments without financial assistance from the  under unfavorable country economic conditions.
Government.                                      Electricity consumption per capita in Honduras



-24 -
ANNX IV
Page 2 of 6
is still low compared with other countries in the  7.   Such electric energy available to the
region. However, during the last two decades it  grid was generated by an installed  electric
showed steady growth, as it increased from 93   capacity which was about 50% hydro until the
kWh in 1971 to 359 kWh in 1991.                 commissioning of El Caj6n in 1984 and 76%
afterwards. With all four units of El Caj6n
4.      Another indicator of the positive       (4x73 MW), ENEE's total installed capacity
contribution of the sector to development is the  reached 561 MW, of which 547 MW  (97%)
degree of electrification which, although low,  belong to the interconnected system and the rest
has increased significantly from 12% in 1971 to  to isolated systems.  As the hydroelectric
36%  in 1991. While 80%  to 90% of urban       installations are fully utilized, the sector is
areas receive electricity, only about 19% of rural  expected to have to rely on additional thermal
areas have access to it. The total number of    generation starting in 1995 (Figure 2).
customers increased over five times between
1971 to 1991, from 60,000 to 334,000.           Figure 2
INSTALLED CAPACITY
The Electricity Market: Supply and Demand            0 3
5.      In 1991, total electricity sales were       sW  ______________
1,796 GWh, which is about 7.1 times the level                           t i
of 1971 (253 GWh). It is expected to grow to
2,472 GWh by 1999. This impressive growth           30
is, of course, in part due to the low levels of     2
consumption at the beginning of the period          lol
analyzed, but it also shows the significant efforts   1 ,17 974 1977  0 l     ISM '98   e 1992 1900 19
made to provide increased service to the              *n   ITHES -a71N       15 ,N
economy and the population.  In 1991, the                       "" O
composition of internal sales of electricity was:
34% residential, 20% commercial, 36%
industrial, and the rest other.   The most      Operational Performance
impressive growth is that of residential sales, as
its share in 1971 was only 23%. The sector      8.      The sector's installed capacity, as
made a contribution to the country's current    compared with domestic demnand, resulted in an
account, through exports of electricity to      excessive reserve margin in 1985 (160%).
neighboring countries during the 1984-1991      However, it is continuously being reduced by
period because of the availability of surplus   increasing demand (62% in 1990). The sector
energy from  El Caj6n.  Albeit lower than       investment program includes only small thermal
expected  and  with  serious  problems, of      plants in 1995 and 1998.
collection, these exports have helped Honduras
by providing foreign exchange.  However,        9.      Pmrticmhrty  worrisome  are  the
because of the continuous increase in local     maintenance practices of the sector. Difficulties
demand, such excess of energy is not expected   in meeting market demand in the late 1970s
to be available after 1993, and by 1995 a new   were in part caused by the unavailability of
50 MW  thermal generation plant will be         thermal capacity which since 1976 has been in
required.                                      the vicinity of 40%, a critical level in view of
the rapidly increasing demand. This has, of
6.      To meet electricity demand, since 1982  course, affected the availability of total capacity.
the sector has relied fundamentally on hydro
generation with a small share of thermal        10.     Regarding  operational  efficiency
generation for the isolated systems. After the  indicators related to labor productivity, absolute
commissioning of El Caj6n, almost all electricity  levels  are still low  compared with  similar
is now hydro generated.                         countries, and there is much room for improve-



- 25 -                                  ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 6
ment in spite of an improving trend.  The              Figure 4
number of customers per employee increased
from 42 in 1971 to 114 in 1991, and MWh sales            _
of electricity per employee increased from  178                      LOSSESIENERGY AVAILABLE
to 519 during the same years (Figure 3). The
recent success in dealing with union issues and                - ____________-           ____
subsequent reductions  in  personnel suggest                         - -
favorable prospects for the future.
.~~~~~~ - 
Figure  3--                                                        -   -  -  -   - -I-------
EFFICIENCY  INDICES                                        . . . . . . . . . . .
1971 1967*  1977  10s0  1090  la"  1909  I.9."90   1909Q
1S0                            700.000
140                           -600.000
120 .                          '500.000
100 
'400.000
E'0-        d                  400000           lFigure 5
40                            200.000                            COLLECTION PERIOD
20     100.000
0600
a  . . . . . . . .  -  . . . . . . Z O-. .  ._ _  _ _
1971 1974 1977 19901                                 303 1296 1969 1902 199_  _0_
-CJSTC(IRS/PLOYEE    I ELEC SLES9/E.LOYEEI
11.      Another factor of concern  is the                  s-- - -
increase  in electricity losses.  They reached                                              - 
25% of the gross energy available to the grid in              1971 1074 1977 1000 1903 1096 1909 1990 199931906
1990, with growth of about 8% p.a. during the
1980s. The high level of losses is, in part, due
to deterioration of the distribution grid, as
available resources were allocated to investment       Profitability
in generation in the early 1980s and questionable
rural electrification programs in the late 1980s.      13.      The weakening financial position of the
In 1991, losses temporarily increased to 27%           sector can  be seen  in  its financial return
because  of labor unrest and  shortages  of            indicators. The rate of return on assets has been
equipment and qualified personnel. A series of         positive in all years but has had a steadily
corrective measures in the areas of investment         decreasing trend since the early 1970s, as it
and commercial practices is expected to reduce         moved from about 9.6% in 1972, with an almost
losses to 14% by 1996 (Figure 4).                      flat plateau of about 10% in the late 1970s, to a
low of 4% in 1986. With some exceptional
12.      Collections have also shown a clear          years, the interest coverage ratio followed a
deterioration during the 1980s because of poor         similar pattern to the rate of return with the
collection practices and government interference,      most critical years occurring in the late 1980s.
as often the Government did not allow  the             One of the reasons for this was that the average
disconnection of clients that do not pay their         interest was greater than the rate of return
accounts on time . The collection period moved         (12.0%  vs. 2.2%, in  1990) resulting in a
from  108 billing days in 1986 to 302 days in          negative  leverage  that  led  to  a  further
1990, falling in 1991 to 140 days under ESAP           deterioration of sector finances. This negative
(Figure 5).                                            trend is being reversed  under the financial



- 26 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 6
rehabilitation plan which is being implemented     16.     The composition of operating costs
(Figure 6), with the rate of return incceasing to  reflects the changing supply conditions of the
6.1 % in 1991.                                     sector. Fuel costs as a percentage of operating
revenues increased from 7% in 1971 to around
Figure 6                                           20%  in 1982, at which time electricity imports
complemented local generation until 1985.
PrTUPN SLUARY                     After this, the component which showed the
__Cs)_20_                                    most significant increase was depreciation, as it
moved from 14% in 1985 to 27% in 1986 as a
4-             II             -15%            result of the commissioning  of El Caj6n
3                                             (Figure 7).
2                              5
.,,,,,,,, 0X  . Figure 7
O               .5%                                     CCMPOSITION OF OPEROTJIN3 COSTS
1971 1974 1977 1980 1983 1988 1999 1992 1995 195S
' -TO s Tf o loo ~~~~~~~~~~~1099~
INTEREST cv  +f-JA5E 0F SETLEN                                I    
409
14.     The unit price  of electricity  has              20X
fluctuated between US$80 and US$120/MWh.
After the early 1980s, it started falling because         1931 1934 1973 1980 1983 1909 1989 1992 1992 1998
of inflation, as no nominal adjustments were          *0 0o9NC     @OEPREC     E TAXES
made until 1990. Most of the time, unit costs          EFLEL       U 1I10PAT ELEC   OUATSQaALS
have been between US$40 and US$80/MWh,                 *PFRSONNEL    @OTHER EXPENSES
following a pattern close to that of prices. One
factor negatively affecting sector operating
revenues since 1985 was the free electricity
service to the government and its agencies, a      The Sector and Country Resources
situation which was corrected in 1991. In 1990
the average tariff level was affected by the       17.     The electric power sector of Honduras
devaluation of the Lempira, as the exchange rate   absorbed a significant amount of country and
moved from 2 to 4 Lps/US$ in March and it          government resources, especially during the
reached 5.3 at the end of that year. An increase   1980s with the construction of El Caj6n. Thus,
of about 60%  in nominal terms in September        while sector investments as a percentage of
was not enough to recuperate the level of tariffs  country investments were about 6%  in the
in real terms, and consequently under the ESAP     1970s, they reached about 18%  in the 1980s.
agreement was reached on a program of tariff       Sector expenditures, which were close to 2% of
increases   which  is  being   satisfactorily      GDP during the 1970s, reached 6% in the early
implemented.                                       1980s and dropped to 3% in the late 1980s after
the commissioning of El Caj6n (Figure 14).
15.     The composition of operating revenues      While not requiring any government assistance
has had a stable pattern except for the revenues   during the 1970s, the sector's contribution to the
from exports of electricity during the second half  fiscal deficit became about 0.8% of GDP in the
of the 1980s.  The composition of operating        early 1980s and 0.2% during the late 1980s.
revenues in 1971 compares with that of 1988 as
follows: residential, 38% vs. 33%; commercial,     Sector debt, which was about 20% of country
23%  vs. 20%; industrial, 33%  vs. 27%; and        debt in the early 1970s, reached about 22% in
exports, 0% vs. 8%.                                1991 (Figure 8).



- 27 -
- 27 -                           ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 6
Figure 8                                                 the early  1970s until the mid 1980s, hitting
bottom in 1986, and since then, showing spurts
DEST AND OEBT SERVICE INDICES               of recuperation which reflect the efforts made to
reverse the historical trend (Figure 10).
--X - - - - - - -- - - -_-_
Figure 10
3CS -- -- --~ ~-- -t -,; -t   
CO.MPOSITION OF USES OF FUNOS
20%
1209
10D                      -   -  -  - -
1   973 19735 1977 1379 1981 1993    1995  1997 1989 l . 1991
-4-8                 U0X    %i
409
20X
Funding Requirements and Sources                                                 M-0 0.79 .1990 -.9 1990-941997-t9
U QRK CAP  NCAEASE  I UESTET  IPDE8r SERVI CE
18.      The significant effect of El Caj6n on
the sector's funding requirements deserves to be
highlighted. The sector investment program,
which had been low during the 1970s (average             20.      The composition  of uses of funds
of US$38 million p.a.), moved to a high level            shows a notable change beginning in the late
during the early 1980s (US$188 million p.a.)             1980s.  The share for investment, which had
before dropping substantially in the late 1980s          reached about 80%  in the early  1980s, has
(US$62 million p.a.). It is expected to decrease        decreased since then, and is expected to continue
in the 1990s (US$42 million p.a.) (Figure 9).           so in the future until it reaches 31%  in the late
1990s.   Except for minor working  capital
increases, the main funding requirements arise
Figure 9                                                 from debt service payments which have had, and
will continue to have, an increasing share of the
|   .  INVESTMENT         |         sector's funding requirements (Figure II). The
*U300   1999   _                                   apparently healthy increase in working capital
250 -------- --              -                    registered in the late 1980s reflects, in fact, poor
-- -. - - - -                                   financial management, as the principal factor is
io X - - - -    i    - - - - - - - - A-  I         the increase in the collection period.
1 50                                                               FUNDIl S lil".Jli1.-.AD.YX iFgure 
1931 1939 1977 1990 19s3 1996 1999 1992 Igga                      FUN9I9  St9AARY9
* TAESThEp1                l                ,S se9
509%
2                               .1
19.      The  funding  of  the  sector  was                   1                                .09
significantly  affected  by  such  investment                 0                                -9°9
program  and by the corresponding debt service                                                 .1009
burden resulting from the borrowings that were
contracted.    Thus,  both  the  debt service             |    971 197 19713 900 l93 '9N 19021992 199 logo
coverage ratio and the self-financing ratio show                   - DEST SERVICE tOv  1SELF-FIN PATIO
similar patterns, i.e., steadily decreasing since



- 28 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 6
21.      The pattern in debt service reflects, in     the   investment   requirements  increase
a deferred manner, the share of borrowings in         significantly.
the mix used to fund the investment program.
It moved from a little over 50% in the 1970s to       Capital Structure
almost 61 % in the early 1980s. If actions to
correct prices, restructure debt, and improve         23.      The inability of the sector to generate
efficiency are fully implemented, the financial       enough internal funding to cover debt service
prospects of the sector for the 1990s would be        obligations resulted in accumulated arrears on
strong enough to correct the serious distortions      debt service which at the end of 1990 were close
of the past (Figure 12).  This is especially          to US$177 million, i.e., about 75%  of the
significant regarding the problem of accumulated      country's arrears, reflecting the impact of the
arrears on debt service which has been resolved       sector on fiscal resources and the balance of
to a great intent thanks to an agreement with the     payments of the country. It has also negatively
Paris Club creditors and also by the assumption       affected the capital structure of the sector, as the
of debt service by the government.                    debt/equity ratio increased from 44/56 in 1979
to 75/25 in 1990 (Figure 13). The prospects of
Figure 12                                             the sector's capital structure, however, look
brighter as the arrears problem has been solved,
COMPOSITIONOF SOURCES OF FUNDS   the government makes its significant equity
contributions, and the profitability of the sector
1lol                                             improves.
Figure 13
ox                                                             CAPITAL STRUCTURE
1971-74 1975-79 1980-94 1905-69 1990-94 1993-29
PER.00G                   ~~~~~~~~~~~1205
I INIERN FlUDING    *CUsT TRt
E   3V T CCNTRIB E  EOROV I W                       1O0 '
0IFINANCING GAP  *W0RK CAP OECREASE                  Y       F
605
408 
22.      Under the above conditions the funding             20Y -
prospects of the sector look reasonably sound.
However, unless further tariff actions are taken            1Y971' 1974. 197; 1990 1993 199 1999' 1992 1999 999
or private sector involvement is increased, at the                     EOUITY ,IOET
end of the decade it is expected to deteriorate as



- 29 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 5
HONDuRAS
CONTENTS OF CONTRACT-PLAN
1.        The purpose of the Contract-Plan (CP) is to establish mutual
commitments between the Government of Honduras (GOH) and the Empresa Nacional
de Energia Electrica (ENEE) with respect to ENEE's institutional framework,
finances, operations and maintenance, and expansion planning. To this end, the
CP reflects:
(a)   GOH commitments to: (i) permit ENEE to provide a reliable supply
of electricity at least cost with a price to the consumer
reflecting long-run marginal cost; and (ii) establish the corporate
autonomy of ENEE; and
(b)   ENEE commitments to: (i) improve its efficiency as measured by
specific targets; and (ii) implement such measures as needed to
reach those targets according to corresponding timetables.
A. COMMITMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT
2.        GOH shall take those legal, adminictrative, and institutional
actions which shall permit the timely and efficient execution of the CP; and
commits itself to carry out the following actions:
Institutional Framework
- to advance the processes which shall provide ENEE with a reasonable
degree of corporate autonomy permitting fast administrative
action based on a system of control and monitoring through indicators
of performance.
Management
- to nominate and maintain in the positions of General Manager and Deputy
General Managers qualified professionals with proved experience in the
management of enterprises, preferably in the public sector;
- to assure that ENEE modernizes its organization and management systems
to meet the requirements of its activities. To this end, ENEE will carry
out a Management and Operational Restructuring Program (MORP);
- to assure that ENEE manages efficiently its human resources as part
of a policy of sound corporate activity by applying the corres-
ponding MORP recommendations;
- to supply in a timely manner and in the amounts required such currency
resources as ENEE seeks to purchase with corresponding amounts of
Lempiras, the object of such purchases being the full execution of the
ESAP.



- 30 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 5
Financial
- to support the Financial Rehabilitation Plan (FRP) of ENEE, by:
(i) increasing the internal generation of funds; (ii) strengthening
the capital structure; (iii) setting the future level of debt-service
payments to reflect the internal funding capacity; (iv) establishing
financial discipline for payments and collections;
- to establish principles for establishing electricity tariffs, based
on economic criteria (marginal cost) and financial
adequacy (i.e., to meet the objectives of the FRP) and to guarantee
the application of said principles;
- to assure that electricity tariffs maintain their value in real terms;
- to supply the financial resources required for the full erecution of
the ESAP.  To thLs end, the Government shall provide ENEE with an
equity contribution amounting to the equivalent of the adjustment
portions of the loans and credit being provided by the International
Development Association and the InterAmerican Development Bank (IDB);
- to convert into equity capital the amount owed by ENEE to the GOH for
ENEE debt service paid by GOH;
- to contribute as equity capital the interest differential owed thorough
year end 1990 as a result of relending agreements, unless the respec-
tive loan contracts stipulate otherwise (the loans have been made
initia'lly to the Government with the proceeds reloaned to ENEE on
conditions different from those in the initial loan agreement);
- to carry out all those steps necessary for the restructuring of ENEE's
debt with bilateral and other credit institutions, the object being
to reduce the level of future debt service payments to match the future
financing capacity of ENEE;
- to carry out all legal changes necessary to ensure that the GOH and its
various agencies begin making payments for electric energy consumed.
GOH shall: (i) include in its budget the resources necessary to pay
for this service; (ii) make payment to EiWEE based on established
terms; (iii) ensure that its decentralized agencies make payments for
electricity service; and (iv) establish a system of compensation such
that in the event of non-payment by GOH there is a corresponding re-
duction of debt service or taxes owed the GOH by ENEE;
- to support ENEE in its efforts to discontinue service to customers,
public or private, who do not make timely payments. In the event that
GOH orders ENEE not to discontinue service, GOH shall make payment
directly for such service through operation of system of compensation;
- to help ENEE meet the following financial targets: (i) cash operating
margin: 83% in 1991-2; 82% in 1993; and 80% in 1994; (ii) contribution



- 31 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 5
to expansion: not less than 25% beginning in 1993 and thereafter; (iii)
debt-service coverage. not less th:n 1.0 times in 1991-92, and 1.1
times thereafter; (iv) days outstanding for accounts receivable: not
greater than 120 days for 1992, 90 days for 1993 and 60 days for all
years thereafter; and (v) debt/equity ratio: not greater than 67/33.
Expansion Proaram
- to assure that in the selection of projects, the investment program
of the electric sector is based strictly on economic principles and
financial criteria. Rural electrification projects with a high social
content will be undertaken only if ENEE receives corresponding
financial compensation from the GOH or its agencies;
- to define and implement norms and regulations for protecting
the environment from the adverse impact of power projects. These norms
and regulations will: be defined by those agencies and institutions of
the GOH charged by law with this function; and apply to the prepara-
tion, implementation, and execution of power projects. Also, it would
help if a program were developed to protect watershed areas. This
program should also address the problems of resettlement, environ-
mental protection, erosion, and sedimentation.
B. COMMITMENTS BY ENEE
3.        Set forth below are those actions which ENEE shall take to achieve
the objectives of the ESAP:
Management
- to proceed with MORP;
- to introduce the debt-management program established by the Ministry
of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP) under the auspices of the United
Nations;
- to introduce a plan foe rationalizing the human-resource function,
the object of this exercise being to increase the productivity of
ENEE. The rationalization exercise would include the following:
quantifying personnel requirements by area, defining functions and
responsibilities; establishing qualifications required to carry out
the job, plus a system of performance evaluation; and ranking salar-
ies and responsibilities. Following such rationalization, there will
be reassignment, training, and reduction of staff (through such
means as retirement or termination of temporary contracts). Based on
the recommendations of MORP, goals will be established, together with
the corresponding target dates for implementing those goals.



- 32 -
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 5
Financial
- to implement the FRP, which aims at achieving the financial targets
to which the GOli has committed itself (see above), plus an improving
rate of return on net average operating assets;
- to improve its efficiency by reducing losses, by increasing the
number of consumers per employee, and by meeting the secondary
indicators of performance;
- to define with the different agencies of the GOH the amount of long-
term debt (owed by ENEE to bi-lateral and other institutions) which
shall be restructured. In the event that this is not carried out,
to define with the GOH the amounts and terms of ENEE's long-term
debt which the GOH shall restructure;
- to implement beginning in 1991 a program for reducing accounts
receivable, including a timetable for its execution. This program
would permit days outstanding for accounts receivable to be reduced to
60 days by 1994;
- to prepare on a timely basis those studies necessary to design and
implement a tariff structure based on strict economic principles
with adequatG allowance for financial needs.  To obtain required
approval for the timely implementation of the results of these
studies.
Operation and Maintenance
- to improve operational efficiency and planning in accordance with
an agreed timetable by:
(a) establishing operational and maintenance systems and procedures
controlling all parts of the ENEE system; (b) developing methodologies
for planning the operation of the national electric system; (c) im-
plementing a rehabilitation program to improve the efficiency and
availability of generation plants; and (d) executing a program of
loss reduction for the transmission-distribution system.
The results of implementing (a) through (d) above should be the improve-
ment of the operational efficiency of the electric system as measured by: in-
dices pertaining to the frequency and duration of outages, transmission and
distribution losses, and avaLlability and efficiency of generating plants.
ExRansion Program
- to define an investment program which, based on economic principles,
represents the least-cost solution and which would be financially
viable, within the limitations imposed by the situation of the country
and tha company. To this ea.d, ENEE would carry out studies according



- 33 -
ANNEX V
Page 5 of 5
to an agreed timetable concerning: (a) optimizing the use of the hydro
resources of Lake Yojoa and the reservoir at Morazhn; (b) the feasi-
bility of the more attractive options (hydro and thermal) to be in-
cluded in the long-term generation expansion plan; (c) expanding the
transmission and sub-transmissions systems in the medium- and long-
term;
- to execute generation rehabilitation programs which are economically
justified in order to make the most efficient use of existing installa-
tions;
- to execute efficiently and on schedule the works included in the in-
vestment plan agreed between the Government, ENEE, and the Association
and IDB. Further, to execute, within ENEE's area of responsibility, a
program to protect watershed areas, plus related programs for resettle-
ment, the environment, erosion, and sedimentation.
C.  DURATION OF THE CP
The CP shall have a life of four (4) years. It can be suspended by mutual
agreement among the parties; and depending on circumstances outside the con-
trol of ENEE and GOH, it shall be subject to annual evaluations "and partial
revisions with the approval of the Association and the IDB.
D. VTRTPT(ATTON AND COMPLIANCE WITH THE CP
GOH and ENEE agree to the following mechanisms and procedures for
evaluating compliance with the commitments set forth above and for providing
"follow up" on the actions and agreements set forth in the CP.
(a) GOH designates the PURC as supervisor of the CP, who shall be responsible
for monitoring performance and compliance with the CP.
(b) ENEE shall prepare quarterly progress reports within 15 days after the
end of each quarter to show the progress achieved during the immediately past
quarter with respect to the plans and programs for the different indicators of
performance and the degree of compliance achieved with respect to the various
goals established.
(c) The supervisor shall evaluate the progress report with ENEE and GOH
within 30 days after the end of the quarter. GOH and ENEE shall take
immediate measures to permit correction in the event of instances of non-
compliance. Further, they shall send a copy of the progress report to the
Bank, together with a written copy of the corresponding evaluation and the
measures proposed to permit compliance.



- 34 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 3
HONDURAS
MORAZAN DAM EMERGENCY PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.   The economic evaluation is based on benefits accruing to the economy from taking immediate
preventive actions to restore and maintain the soundness of the dam, rather than postponing the
investments until the situation becomes critical and more costly actions are necessary to prevent a
catastrophic event. The GOH considers that a seepage of 1500 liters/second (1/s) would trigger such
actions. These mainly involve reducing the level of the reservoir under controlled flooding and
rationing electricity for about six months until emergency repair works are completed and the
productive capacity of the dam is restored. Actual seepage in 1992 is 850 I/s which, compared to a
seepage of 250 I/s in 1986, represents an increase of 23% per annum. The proposed investments
would bring the seepage down to the 1986 values, which are considered acceptable for this type of
structure.
2.   On the basis of the above discussion, the following direct benefits have been quantified: (i)
avoiding the cost to the economy of rationing electricity until repairs have been completed; (ii)
avoiding damages caused by downstreaim flooding; and (iii) increasing electricity sales due to water
no longer lost because of seepage. Table I presents the cost and benefit streams for the "with" and
"without" project cases, which yield an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of about 42% for the
proposed project. In both cases, it is assumed that after repairs are carried out, the benefits to the
economy would be the same for the two project cases. Thus, these benefits are not included in the
analysis. The approach followed is very conservative since the alternative of postponing investments
carries with it an increased risk of dam failure with catastrophic consequences.
3.   Based on empirical observations of the evolution of seepage, a straight line was fitted to predict
the period elapsed until preventive measures are adopted. This is an extremely conservative
assumption, since seepage is expected to increase at a faster than linear rate. Nevertheless, if seepage
was to continue to increase in a linear fashion, it would reach the critical value of 1500 I/s in 1995.
The benefits derived from the increase in the generation of electricity due to the reduction in seepage
(G) are estimated at US$1,150 per year per each I/s saved, as follows:
Actual Seepage (Q)     =          850 I/s
Expected Seepage (Q')   =         250 I/s
Reduced Seepage (AQ)   =          600 I/s or 0.60 mls
Power (P)                         AQ * k * H
Power (P)              =          0.60 * 10 * 105   =    1080 kw
where: k is the constant factor 10; and
H is the hydraulic head calculated as (285-105)



-35 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 3
Generation (G)          =           P * T
Generation (G)          =           1080 kw * 8760 hi'
=          9,460,800 kwh
where:      T is the number of hours in a year
Cost (low)              =           CL * C
Cost (low)              =           US$0.06 * 9,460,800 kwh
=          US$ 567,648 per year
Cost (high)             =           CH * G
Cost (high)             =           US$0.08 * 9,460,800 kwh
-          US$ 756,864 per year
where:      CL and CH are based on the values presented in the Staff Appraisal
Report for the Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (Credit 2306-HO,
Report P-5592-HO) and correspond to comrnercial, residential and
industrial costs of providing energy. For the purpose of the
economic analysis a value of US$690,000 was used to calculate
energy saved due to the reduction of seepage by 600 I/s per year;
i.e. US$1,150 per I/s per year).
4.   Damage to agricultural production due to avoidance of flooding was calculated on the basis of
the information provided in the original economic evaluation of the Morazan Darn, and adjusted to
take into account the reduction in damages due to controlled flooding. The original evaluation
estimated that these benefits would amount, in 1992 prices, to US$23 million per year. Due to
controlled flooding, the values used for the economic evaluation of the proposed investments were
estimated at 30% of the original value for the first year that flooding occurs, diminishing to 20% the
second year and 10% the third year. Beyond that date, it is assumed that flooding will not cause any
detrimental effect.
5.   Estimations of outage costs by the effects of outages on the production of various goods and
services range from US$0.30 to US$2.50 per kwh not served, depending on the level of
industrialization and economic activity of the country. v There are no reliable empirical studies of
outage costs in Honduras. Thus, for the purpose of the economic evaluation and taking into
consideration the low level of industrialization of Honduras, this value was estimated, on the
conservative side, at US$0.50 per kwh not served. Based on a supply reduction of 292,000 kwh,
these bei efits amount to US$639,480 per year.
1/   Because of the large regulating capacity of the reservoir it is assumed the additional energy due to the
reduction of seepage can be placed :n the system.
2V    For details on the methods for calculating outage costs see: 'The Economics of Power System Reliability and
Planning, Theory and Case Study'. Moban Munasinghe. The John Hopkins University Press. Baltimore and
London. 1976



- 36 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 3
HONDURAS
MORAZAN DAM EMERGENCY PROtECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Cost and Benefit Streams (US$ million)
With Project Case                           Without Project Case
Year   Investtment    Loss due    Investment    Loss due       Outage     Flooding       Net
Costs (A)    to Seepage    Costs (C)    to Seepage   Costs (E)    Costs(E)    Benefits
(B)                       (D)                                (A-B-C-D-
E-F)
1992         -9.10        -0.57                      -0.91                                 -8.76
1993         -5.00         -033                      -1.10                                 4.23
1994                      -0.30 1                    -1.22                                  0.92
199=                                -18.33 V         .1.36        -0.64       -7.50       27.53
1996                                                 -0.30                   -S.00          S.00
1997                                                                         -3.00          3.00
1998                                                         _ _ _ _ _                 _ _ _ _ _
2020                   __,-           _= __-                            i
a/     It was assumed that in the "without project" case, investinents to repair the dam would be of an emergency
'ature, to be carried out in a shorter period of time at a cost of 30% above those in the 'with-project' case.
This seems conservative since the extent of grouting would be higher, mobilization costs would increase due to
the emergency mature of the works, and bidding processes would need to be expedited.



- 37 -
ANNEX VII
HONDURAS
MORAZAN DAM EMERGENCY PROJECT
CONSULTING SERVICES AND TRAINiNG PROGRAM
Consulting Services
Consulting services equivalent to about 32 man months will be
financed under the project. They include: (i) the services of an engineering
consulting firm to assist in design and supervision of the civil works to be
carried out under the project (about 25 man months); (ii) the services of the
Panel for the Security of the Dam (4 man months); (iii) the experts to carry
out the structural safety and electro-mechanical review (2 man months); and
(iv) the services of a hydraulic engineer to carry out the flow routing
analysis necessary for preparation of the emergency preparedness and
evacuation plan (1 man month).
Training Program
The engineers and other specialized staff working at the MorazAn
Dam and Power Plant are well-qualified and experienced in the types of
problems being addressed under the project. The training program has been
formulated to enhance their qualifications in two particular areas: (i)
grouting (injection of sealants under pressure) and instrumentation; and (ii)
design and operation of auxiliary electrical systems. This would be done
through visits to existing facilities (e.g. in the Dominican Republic for
state-of-the-art monitoring instrumentation and in Argentina for grouting) for
hands on experience with the latest equipment. The staff to be trained would
include: two civil engineers; one geologist; and two electrical engineers.
The training would take place to coincide with the relevant project
implementation activities. Estimates on the time and costs of the training
component are shown below.
Number of
Persons    1992    1993   Total    Cost
-----   days------   US$000
Foundation exploration
and pressure grouting                      2          15      15       30     20.0
(civil engineers and/or geologists)
Dam monitoring (instrumentation)           2          15      15       30      20.0
(civil engineers and/or geologists)
Electric system stability                  2          15      15       30      20.0
(electrical engineers)



- 38 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
MORAZAN DAM EMERGENCY PROJECT
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS PLAN (EPP)
Purpose
1.          The EPP is designed to aid the manager of the dam in determining
what decisions, actions and notifications have to be taken, and by whom, in
case of an emergency situation or unusual occurrence that may result in human
casualties and/or substantial material losses   Those situations and
occurrences would include: earthquake, flooding, or cracking of the dam or
abutments, new seepages and/or rapid increase of solid content in seepage,
abnormal instrumentation readings, severe storm, fires, landslides, failure of
appurtenant structures or operating equipment, demonstration, sabotage or
terrorist attacks, large or sudden releases into the downstream channel, fish
and wildlife losses, and any other major event that may cause damage to the
structure of the dam or to persons and objects in the dam area and downstream.
Under the project, ENEE will put in place emergency plans and systems for
various types of emergencies, including evacuation procedures, with clearly
assigned responsibilities.
Content of the EPP
2.          The EPP should include at a minimum:
(a)   A map of flooding areas in the event of a major failure of
the dam or appurtenant structures which may lead to sudden
water releases, which identifies populated areas and water
levels which would be reached depending on different
flooding patterns.
(b)   An organigram of responsible institutions and organizations
that would be involved in any of the above emergencies, as
well as areas of responsibility;
(c)   A list of available communications, mobilization and public
address facilities;
(d)   Clear procedures to be applied as well as all coordinating
efforts to be deployed in case of an emergency by the
manager of the dam, local, provincial and national
authorities, community leaders, police, fire fighters and
civil defense institutions;
(e)   A directory of all authorities of relevance of the manager
of the dam, the Government and the support institutions;



- 39 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 2
(f)   Procedures for identifying emergency situations and decision
levels to address them during each kind of event; and
(g)   Procedures for preparation of reports and record keeping.
3.          The manager of the dam should be able to recognize an emergency
situation and act immediately to minimize danger to the structure and to all
persons within the immediate area. To this end, the EPP should include the
means for evaluating and making recommendations on the appropriate
capabilities of all entities included in the directory in implementing
emergency plans.



- 40 -
ANNEX IX
HONDURAS
MORAZAN DAM EMERGENCY PROJECT
PROJrECT FILE
1.   Reporte No. 7 - Panel de Seguridad de la Obra "Central Hidroelectrica El Cajdn", 14 de
febrero 1992. (Report No. 7 - Panel for the Security of the Dam "El Cajon Hydroelectric
Power Plant", February 14, 1992)
2.   Morazan Hydroelectric Project - Honduras - Investigation of the Water Leakage and Sealing
Measures, April 1992, ILF Consulting Engineers.
3.   Eximen de Opciones para Garantizar el Servicio Propio de la Central Francisco Morazan.
ENEE, mayo 1992. (Study of Options to Ensure Own Service of Francisco Morazan
Hydroelectric Power Plant, May 1992).



MAP SECTION



66, 3Nnr
la~~~~~~~~~
.....r...... .                             ..\  
5   4  4   r   }                 r /    zv               ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~7 >.   o \ gc-4   7'        0
; r W  P         <  1                               °^ > 1, S b ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~> > °X\>7 
m                      ,       t          )   D'o    '      'm                           02    *
0                                           ..........~~~~~'        '
.4,  0           ---'i                 .A             >
:13
1~~~~~~~~~-1
St~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-S
'o>~~~~~~~~~~~~'
L                       o I                                                0°A
t8               r, s        ,       .                                                         O     9    1~~~~~~~, 
..        w "~~~~~~.....  ......
-o                                                1,                                                               0
-0                                                                                                  .. . .......
3                                                    Cl                     -s,<0 a
(3     J                       D
o **8°*                                                                        0
con~~
.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ...3.. .
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



H  N D U R A S                                     GROWTING 7ONE5 Syt lw-O rGotn olr R5 JC:p
j       l l                 ~~MORAZAN  DAM                                                                      MotFv.  yrmrWe5Fe
g            s 11 GROUTING ZONES AND INSTRUMENTATION LAYOUT                                    PRJCMirfu                                      HdoermrSae'
t \                                                      E  ~~~~~~~~ ~       ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1997-198P  orh:o on  f Gro- C-ur°,-7
I   A¢a$ Tuneel    e l   rL5svERGusw   \                               2  ~~~~~~~~   ~     ~ ~~~~~~~ORIGINsAL   irKrsCQe  _==UnmdG:ly
\ \ FAULT IV  il   |    01  y  \                                      Verbzol Pie:wometer ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Plug ot End oN f Ga Ed   llerl,
rwns s7s (coe.^i 4\< F~~~~~~~~~~~AU$ I                                       orPyroeer> oAPS   PMN
;t--                                                                                                       P >|NWLfofc   e UL 1\_IPMP | X36 IW '2    
fWk~~~~~~~~~~~~ --FLL tS                                                                                              i
I'rUEi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PM    3X'                                     k
Se 5Q           150                                 .10 NF~A,PSOb     R A ;|
MEtEii;SOr/C0nf"                                             .Q SAAO. .....D



