Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
cPiR /&->v-k2?
Report NO. P-3976-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 80.1 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
March 7, 1985
lThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duies. Ets contents may not otherwise be disetosed without World Bank autthorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation
to a basket of reference currencies, with the US dollar serving as
intervention currency. On February 12, 1985 the official exchange rate was
set at Tk 26.22 buy ng and Tk 26.28 selling per US dollar. Unless noted
otherwise, the rates shown below have been used throughout this report:
1 Taka     -  US$0.03
26.2 Taka - US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
SCHOOL YEAR
Grades I - X : January - December
Grades XI and above : July - June
ADMINISI' -.TIVE UNIT"-
Division (4)   -  The largest unit below the national Government.
Zila (64)       -  The largest units within a Division (formerly District).
Upazila (469)  -  The basic local government unit (formerly Thana).
Union (6,500)  -  A grouping of villages with a local Council.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADP     - Annual Development Program
AUEO    - Assistant Upazila Education Officer
DPE     -- Directorate of Primary Education
DPEO    - District Primary Education Officer
EFF     -  Extended Financing Facility
FD      - Facilities Department
IMPACT  -  Instructional Management by Parents, Community and Teachers
MTFPP   - Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan
NAPE    - National Academy for Primary Education
NCTR    -  National Curriculum and Textbook Board
NIEAER  -  National Institute of Educational Administration,
Extension and Research
PTA     - Parent-Teachers Association
PTI     - Primary Teacher Training Institute
SFYP    -  Second Five-Year Plan
SIDA    -  Swedish International Development Authority
SmC     -  School Management Committee
UEC     -  Upazila Education Committee
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF  -  United Nations Childrens Fund
UPE     -  Universal Primary Education



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:         SDR 80.1 million (US$78.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Proiect:        The project would finance the first three years of the
Governmentsa five-year investment program (FY86-90) which
is a part of a longer term strategy to achieve Universal
Primary Education (UPE) by the year 2000. The main objec-
tives of the project would be to: (a) increase enrollments by
improving and expanding primary school facilities and intro-
ducing more liberal promotion policies; (b) imorove the
quality of instruction by reforming the primary teacher
training program, improving curriculum including the student
assessment system, and increasing the supply of instructional
materials and textbooks; and (c) reduce costs by expanding
the low-cost experimental instructional program (Project
IMPACT), increasing teacher utilization patterns, utilizing
lower cost school construction designs and techniques, and
introducing selective cost recovery mechanisms in the text-
book program. The project would also improve the management
and administration of the primary school system by the
strengthening of key institutions, staff training and the
development of management information and project support
communications systems.
Risks:          The major risks which the project faces are that the reformed
teacher training program and the introduction of a liberal-
ized promotion policy are likely to be resisted initially by
the primary school teachers union. However, the phased
introduction of these programs linked to the implementation
of a redesigned career development structure for teachers,
should minimize teacher resistance.  Another risk is the
potential for overlapping functions and responsibilities
between the various levels of administration due to the new
decentralization process. Measures have been taken to mini-
mize this risk including: (a) development of management
information and project support communication systems;
(b) delegation of implementation responsibility;
and (c) provision of special training for implementation
staff.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties- Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost: L/
Local    ForeiRn    Total
…US$ million---
Physical Development                 45.9      16.5       62.4
Teacher Training                      1.2       0.7        1.9
Curriculum Development                1.0       1.1        2.1
rnstructional NMaterials              7.5       6.3       13.8
Management Improvement                1.3       0.5        1.8
Project IMPACT                        0.3       0.1        0.4
Total Base Costs                  57.2      25.2       82.4
ContinDRencies
Physical                           2.8       1.3        4.1
Price                             12.3       4.6       16.9
Total Project Costs              72.3       31.1      103.4
La Includes taxes of US$6.2 million equivalent.
FinancinR Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
IDA                                  50.2      27.8       78.0
UWDP                                  1.1       1.2        2.3
UNICEF                                3.°       1.0        4.9
SIDA                                 1.1        1.1        2.2
Government                           16.0        -        16.0
Total                         72.3       31.1     103.4
Estimated
Disbursement:   IDA FY                    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
Annual                   3.1     11.0    17.3    21.1    25.5
Cumulative               3.1     14.1    31.4    52.5    78.0
Economic Rate
of Return:     Not applicable



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 80.1 mil-
lion (the equivalent of US$78.0 million) on standard IDA terms to help
finance a Second Primary Education Project. Parallel financing in the form
of a grant in each case would be provided by UNDP for about US$2.3 million
equivalent, by UNICEF for about US$4.9 million equivalent, and by Sweden
(SIDA) for about US$2.2 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh: Economic Trends and
Development Administration" (Report No. 4822-BD, dated February 27, 1984)
has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      Bangladash, which became independent in 1972 under very difficult
circumstances, is a country with a very high population density and
widespread poverty (annual income per head is about US$140). The economy,
dominated by agriculture, remains highly vulnerable to disruption by both
natural and external factors. Considerable progress has been made in
increasing flood control protection, and in extending the availability of
irrigation and other inputs, but foodgrain production remains heavily depend-
ent on weather conditions and falls short of domestic requirements. To meet
minimum needs, the Government has to import foodgrains financed by aid or
from its own resources. The uncertainties of foodgrain availability, aLso
makes it necessary to maintain pubLic foodgrain stocks, the financing of
which adds to the problems of fiscal management.
4.      The economy is also characterized by low savings, which reflect the
low level of incomes, and by a large structural external payments gap.
r         Domestic savings account for only a negligible part of investment (which has
averaged around 16% of CDP in recent years). Export earnings cover less than
30X of the import bill, with raw jute and jute goods accounting for about 60%
of merchandise exports. The resource gap of around 15% of CDP is financed by
workers' remittances, which have risen rapidly to more than 5% of CDP in
recent years (although their level has decLined during the last twelve
months), and by foreign assistance equivalent to about 10% of GDP per year.
The capacity to finance imports can be sharply affected by external factors



-2-
that are beyond the control of the Government; the effect of such adverse
factors on the economy is amplified by the heavy dependence of budgetary
revenues on import duties and sales taxes, which together arcount for about
602 of tax revenues.
Recent Economic Developments
5.      In the late 1970s Bangladesh enjoyed a period of political stability
and economic consolidation and was able to plan for longer term development.
GDP growth of close to 6Z per annum from FY75 to FY80 was accompanied by
rising public investment, financed by a substantial real increase in aid
disbursements. A combination of adverse domestic and external events after
FY8O disrupted the momentum of development. Between FY80 and FY82, the
external terms of trade for Bangladesh fell by 30Z due to declining prices
for jute and jute products as well as increases in import prices. External
aid flows which had been rising steadily up to FY80 declined in FY81 and in
FY82 barely recovered to their FY80 level. Foreign exchange reserves
declined to about US$120 million (equivalent to about two weeks' imports) by
end FY82. The deterioration in the terms of trade and stagnation of aid
receipts in real terms had an adverse impact on public finances and forced
the Government to impose severe cuts in domestic public investment in FY81
and FY82. At the same time, the rate of growth in GDP decreased from about
61 in FY81 to 1.4Z in FY82, largely due to a decline in food crop production
following a prolonged drought during FY82.
6.      In response to these adverse developments, the Government took a
series of measures designed to stabilize the economy. In the FY83 Budget the
growth of public expenditure was tightly restrained, new tax measures were
introduced, and a series of pricing adjustments were made to reduce subsidies
and improve the financial performance of public sector enterprises and
utilities. Taken together, the tax, pricing and subsidy reduction measures
amounted to an impressive 2.3% of GDP. In FY83, the Government also
announced its New Industrial Policy (NIP) which was designed to improve the
efficiency of public sector enterprises (PSE) and provide an improved policy
environment for the private sector. Over 100 public sector enterprises were
subsequently denationalized, investment sanctioning procedures were stream-
lined and many industries freed from requiring investment sanctions, while
imports were liberalized by transferring imports into the secondary exchange
market and by eliminating some quantitative restrictions. By the end of FY83
the balance of payments position had improved considerably due to a recovery
in the terms of trade, an upsurge in workers' remittances, higher aid
inflows, as well as increasing exports stimulated by a substantial deprecia-
tion in the exchange rate. However, the reduction in the current .account
deficit, which fell from 14.5% to 10.4% of GDP, was also due to the depressed
level of imports resulting from a continued slow rate of GDP growth which
recovered to only about 2.7% in FY83. While more favorable weather condi-
tions and increased inputs led to a 3-4% growth in agriculture in thac year,
most of the non-agricultural sectors remained depressed; value added in the
manufacturing sector actually declined by 1-2%.



-3-
7.      Economic performance remained mixed in FY84 with GDP growing at only
3Z, marginally above the previous year. Agricultural production was sig-
nificantly affected by late floods in autumn 1983 followed by drought and
early floods in spring 1984, which continued with exceptional severity
through September 1984. The losses caused by the floods will also adversely
affect the crop production in the first half of FY85, although a substantial
part of the loss may be offset by higher yields in areas less affected. On
the other hand, there has been a sharp recovery in the non-agricultural
sectors beginning in FY84 and continuing into FY85 in part stimulated by a
significant expansion in domestic credit, but also supported in respect of
the manufacturing sector by the earlier liberalization of import policies and
the rationalization of investment sanctioning procedures.
8.      FoLlowing the major domestic revenue effort made in FY83, the
Government has sought in its FY84 and FY85 Budgets to consolidate its earlier
revenue effort rather than embark on major new initiatives. Further modest
tax and pricing adjustments were designed to increase recurrent revenues,
although in FY84 total revenues were well short of the budget target as
dutiable imports and aid disbursements fell considerably below expectation.
In FY85, tax revenues received a significant boost from the resurgence of
imports associated with the recovery of the non-industrial sectors. A sub-
stantial budget deficit was avoided in FY84 by a significant shortfall in
development expenditures compared with the budget estimate; a simiLar short-
fall in ADP expenditures may occur during FY85. Such shortfalls in part
arise from overly ambitious development expenditure targets but are also
attributable to lower than expected disbursements of project aid resulting
from implementation constraints.
9.      Although domestic prices have remained relativeLy stable despite the
large increases in domestic liquidity, the rate of inflation is expected to
increase from about 12% in FY84 to around 16% in FY85. However, in January
1985, the Government took a series of measures to limit the growth of
liquidity. The measures included increases in interest rates and quantita-
tive restrictions on the growth of domestic credit. If these restrictive
policies are strengthened and maintained in FY85 and FY86, the acceleration
of inflacion can be limited and the pressures on domestic prices gradually
reduced.
10.     The balance of payments and foreign exchange reserves position
improved during FY84. Export earnings rose by 202 due to higher interna-
tional prices for jute, Jute products, and tea as well as a major boost in
non-traditinnal exports, while imports remained close to the FY83 level since
economic recovery was slower than anticipated and aid financed imports were
depressed by delays in project implementation. Even though workers' remit-
tances began to decline in the second half of the fiscaL year, the current
account deficit as a whole declined to 7.4% of GDP in FY84 from 10.4% in FY83
while gross foreign exchange reserves in March 1984 reached a peak of US$558
million, equivalent to about 3 months' imports. However, during FY85 there



-4-
has been a deterioration in the balance of payments. Part of the growing
pressure on the balance of payments arises from the additional foodgrain
imports necessitated by the severe 1984 floods. Since immediate additional
food aid in response to the crisis was limited, the Government had to pur-
chase about 1.15 million tons of foodgrains, valued at close to US$300
million, from its own resources. Also, non-food imports are projected to
increase significantly as a result of the strong recovery in the manufactur-
ing sector stimulated by the rapid expansion in domestic credit. Workers'
remittances have also declined further and although exports and aid disburse-
ments are expected to increase over FY84 levels, a substantiaL drawdown of
reserves of US$250-300 million is projected for FY85. The decline in reser-
ves would have been even more marked if a substantial portion (around US$180
million) of foodgrain imports had not been purchased on credit. This short-
term borrowing will, however, add to the difficulty of managing the balance
of payments over the next three years when there will also be substantial
obligations for repurchases from the IMF.
External Debt
11.     Since most of Bangladesh's borrowings have been on highly conces-
sional terms, servicing external medium- and long-term (M&LT) debts has not
been a major problem. Nonetheless, the burden of servicing this concessional
debt is rising steadily as debts incurred in the first years after independ-
ence are increasingly falling due for repayment. Total service payments on
external public M&LT debt are expected to rise from about 15% of export
earnings (goods, services, and workers' remittances) in FY84 to 17% in FY85
and a peak of 30% in FY86, gradually declining thereafter. However, when
obligations to the IMF are included, the debt service ratio for FY85 is
estimated at around 25%, rising to about 32% in FY86 and 34% in FY87. The
Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's debt servicing obligations will remain
modest over this period, rising from 8.5% in FY84 to 8.92 in FY86.  The Bank
Group's share of total debt outstanding and disbursed is projected to
increase from about 30% in FY84 to about 35% in FY86.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
12.     Although the Second Five-Year Plan period (FY81-85) is drawing to a
close, the Government's development strategy continues to be largely based on
the priorities outlined in the Plan. The priority development objectives
are: (i) reducing population growth from the present rate 2.6% p.a.;
(ii) achieving foodgrain self-sufficiency, (iii) eliminating mass illiteracy;
and (iv) accelerating domestic energy development.  IDA has assisted the
Government in preparing the Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP)
which aims at increasing foodgrain production. Foodgrain self-sufficiency
could be achieved by the end of the decade with appropriate producer
incentives, resources to provide needed inputs to farmers, and an expanded
role for the private sector in the provision and servicing of modern agricul-
turaL implements and inputs. Given Bangladesh's high illiteracy rate (74%),
the Plan's emphasis on primary education is well founded; under the Plan the



-5-
objective of achieving universal primary education has been adopted.
Prospects for achieving the objectives of educational expansion and improved
foodgrain availability would be improved by success in reducing the popula-
tion growth rate; this will require more determined efforts than have been
made thus far, especially with regard to birth control efforts which have
suffered from poor implementation and have had only limited success. The
Government has recently taken steps to coordinate its birth control
activities and to strengthen training programs for field staff.
4t     13.      The Government correctly gives high priority to developing the
country's energy resources, particularly natural gas, since imported
petroleum at present preempts about three quarters of merchandise export
earnings. Since the required investments are likely to be capital-intensive
and lumpy, they need to be properly planned under a phased priority program.
The Government is now endeavoring (with ADB assistance) to formulate an
appropriate energy sector investment program. The implementation of
appropriate energy conservation measures and the setting of energy prices at
economically efficient levels will also be critical to che success of the
energy development program.
14.     The Government also needs to address the growing problems of rural
poverty and unemployment. Fifty percent of the rural population is function-
ally landless, and the employment situation has deteriorated significantly
since the 1970s with only 70Z of new entrants to the labor force finding
gainful employment. Increased foodgrain production alone will not suffice to
resolve the unemployment and income problems, in view of the Large projected
growth of the work force. Measures must be taken simultaneously, therefore,
to develop other sectors, such as fisheries, livestock, forestry and non-
foodgrain crops, and to strengthen the industrial sector -- especially small-
scale and cottage industries -- so that incomes generated in one subsector
will generate effective demand for the output of others.
15.     As noted in paragraph 6, The Government's New Industrial Policy has
given a greater role to the private sector in industrial development,
increased the incentives for export industries and liberalized the import
regime. However, there remains an urgent need to restructure the development
finance institutions (DFIs) whose financiaL structure has been undermined by
an increasing problem of debt arrears and to rationalize industrial
*       incentives.  The Government is now examining the future role of the DFIs in
the light of recent consultants' studies and an ongoing program of studies
financed by IDA is expected to lead to a program of actions for the
rationalization of a broad range of trade and industrial policies.
16.     The Government is now preparing its Third Five Year Plan (FY86-90).
While the development priorities are not likely to change significantly from
those incorporated into the Second Five Year Plan, the pLanned size of the
future public investment program will need to be set at a level consistent
with a realistic assessment of prospective external and domestic financial
resources. As external assistance will continue to be severely constrained,



-6-
there is an urgent need for a sustained and intensive domestic resource
mobilization effort, to raise tax revenues, increase the level of cost
recovery, reduce subsidies and improve the financial performance of public
enterprises. In the medium term, the tax base will have to be broadened to
reduce its present dependence on import duties, thereby improving the elas-
ticity of the tax system.
17.     Realization of the Gover-nment's development objectives will also
require significant improvements in development administration. There is a
critical need to strengthen project implementation, streamline administrative
procedures, and improve decision making processes. Recognizing that local
government bodies can play an effective role in the deveLopment effort, the
Government has decided to decentralize a number of planning and administra-
tive functions to the up-graded Upazila (Sub-District) level. The implemen-
tation and impact of this policy will need to be closely monitored.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
18.     Cumulative Bank Group commitments to Bangladesh total US$2,977.40
million. This figure includes reactivation of eleven credits (US$154.41
million) made to Pakistan before 1971 and a consolidation loan (US$54.90
million) and a consolidation credit (US$37.45 million) approved in 1974 to
cover liabilities arising from projects completed prior to independence. In
addition, to these, the Bank has approved eighty new credits since Bangladesh
became a member in 1972. In terms of total commitments, approximately 23.6%
of IDA lending has been for agriculture, irrigation and rural development,
11.9% for industry; 10.6% for energy; 7.2Z for transportation and
telecommunications; 7.7% for education and technical assistance; 2.2% for
urban infrastructure; 1.6% for population control; and 35.2% for imports
program support. Apart from increased emphasis on energy deveLopment, the
composition of IDA lending over the next several years is not expected to
change markedly. On June 18, 1976 BangLadesh became a member of IFC and three
investments have been approved to date.
19.     IDA's country assistance strategy is designed to support the
Government's priority development objectives set out in the Second Five-Year
Development Plan (FY81-85) and described in paragraph 12 above. IDA's lend-
ing has emphasized agriculture, with particular importance attached to
increasing food production through augmenting the supply of essential inputs
such as irrigation equipment, fertilizer and improved seeds, the development
of extension services, research programs and rural cooperatives, the provi-
sion of agricultural credit and the promotion of input and output pricing
policies which allow adequate incentives to farmers to increase production.
IDA has also supported the Government's efforts to encourage greater private
sector participation in the supply and distribution of agricuLtural inputs.



-7-
IDA's lending program will place increasing emphasis on agricultural diver-
sification through increased production of fish, livestock and forest
products.
20.     IDA's lending for power and gas investments is designed to expand the
use of natural gas in substitution for imported oil, promote conservation
measures and more efficient energy use and encourage further gas and oil
exploration.  IDA is also financing projects to expand the country's rural
electrification system and power generation and transmission capabilities.
21.     In the education sector, IDA's lending strategy focuses on two areas
-- primary education and skills development. Lending for primary education
supports the national goals of achieving universal primary education and
reducing illiteracy, expanding access to education and upgrading quality.
Projects for vocational and technical education promote the training of
craftsmen, technicians and engineers.
22.     In order to alleviate the severe economic and sociaL pressures
created by the extremely high population density and the continuing popula-
tion increase, IDA, together with other donors, is assisting the Government
in implementing an accelerated family planning program. With Bangladesh's
urban population growth expected to reach about 30 million by the year 2000,
future IDA activities will also help the Government address the problem of
providing low-cost shelter and infrastructure services to the urban poor; IDA
is already financing water and sanitation improvements in Chittagong and
Dhaka.
23.     To achieve a higher and sustained level of growth, provide productive
employment for a rapidly growing work force and improve the country's exter-
nal trade and payments position on a sustained basis, industry will need to
play a more pivotal role in the economy. IDA's lending program seeks to
assist the Government in: (a) increasing efficiency in public sector
enterprises; (b) reforming trade, industrial and financial policies;
(c) strengthening existing financial institutions; (d) establishing export
development programs; and (e) promoting rural and small-scale industries.
In addition to assistance under program credits (see paragraph 25) IDA has
supported projects to increase fertilizer production, rehabilitate the jute
and textile industries, strengthen the development finance institutions, and
promote small-scale industries.
24.     Because of the importance of river transport in this deltaic country,
in the transport sector, IDA has focused on the development of the inland
water transport system. The road network in Bangladesh is extensive, but the
roads are in poor condition and are inadequately maintained. IDA's future
lending program will concentrate primarily on maintaining and upgrading
existing roads.
25.     Because of the urgent need for sustained transfer of substantial
financial resources, the assistance strategy for Bangladesh provides for a



-8-
significant proportion of annual lending to be in the form of program
credits. In addition to providing much-needed foreign exchange and local
counterpart financial support, annual program loans have provided a useful
vehicle for addressing a wide range of sector and macro economic issues.
Because of Bangladesh's savings/investment gap, IDA credits for project
financing continue to cover all foreign exchange costs and a significant
portion of local currency expenditures.  Given the severe limits on external
concessionary assistance, IDA has emphasized the need for Government to
mobilize more domestic financial resources and to utilize these resources
more efficiently.  IDA is also promoting Government policies to set public
utility and procurement prices at economically efficient levels, to generate
increased financial resources, and to improve the efficiency of public sector
institutions.
26.      Project implementation is hampered not only by a shortage of domes-
tic financial resources, but also by weak development institutions, limited
managerial capacity, and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. IDA, in con-
sultation with other donors, is engaged in a continuing dialogue with the
Government on ways to improve project implementation. In support of broader
institutional reform IDA is helDing to: (a) provide technical assistance
for project preparation and implementation; (b) finance projects to train
civil servants and other managerial and technical personnel; and
Cc) encourage the Government to introduce administrative reforms and to
improve staff salaries and incentives. Despite the progress in implementing
reforms, which include administrative reorganization and improvements in
financial planning and budgetary procedures, adequate institutional
capabilities can be achieved only over the long-term. IDA chairs the annual
Bangladesh Aid Group meeting which provides a forum for aid donor consult-
ation and IDA's Resident Representative chairs regularly donor meetings in
Dhaka to exchange views on policy issues, project implementation and aid
coordination.
PART III - PRIMARY EDUCATION IN BANGLADESH
27.     Primary education in Bangladesh lasts for five years, from the age of
six to ten. Of the approximateLy 47,000 primary schools in the country, 78%
are government administered where no fees are charged, textbooks are free and
teachers are government employees. Other types of primary schools include a
small number of Government-recognized private schools in urban areas, non-
recognized private schools which do not meet Government requirements for
teacher and curriculum standards, and the Ibtedai which are part of the
Madrasah religious education system. Ninety-two percent of all primary
schools are in rural areas. Of the approximately 15.6 million children of
primary school age in Bangladesh, about 8.5 million (54%) are enrolled in
schools.



-9-
28.     As part of its objective to achieve univeTsal literacy by 2000, the
Government adopted the goal of Universal Primary Education (UPE) under the
Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP) with a target enrollment of 91Z for children of
primary school age. This target, however, is overly optimistic. A more
realistic target would be an enrollment of about 802 of primary school age
children by 2000. Even this would be ditficult to meet because of the cost
implications. The SFYP includes the following goals: (a) increase the
number of trained teachers; (b) expand the number of facilities;
(c) accelerate the growth of women's education; and td) reduce the rural-
S        urban gap in the provision of educational services.  During the SFYP, primary
education development expenditures increased from about 19% to 46% of total
education sector expenditures, enrollments increased by 4.7% (10.7X for
girls) and the dropout rate fell by about 22. Under the Third Five Year Plan
(1986-90), currently being prepared, the Government's strategy for achieving
UPE will remain essentially the same. An additional objective will be to
ensure that at least 50% of the children who enroll in 1985 complete Grade V
compared with 30% at present.
29.    Management of Primary Education.  The Ministry of Education-s
Directorate of Primary Education (DPE) is responsible for the implementation
of primary education policies and programs and the administration of all
government-owned primary schools, Primary Teacher Training Institutes (PTI),
which provide a one-year preservice training program for primary education
teachers, and the National Academy for Primary Education (NAPE) which deals
with curriculum develcpment and the training of teachers for the PTI.  The
Facilities Department (FD) in the Ministry of Education overseas the primary
school construction program.   The National Institute for Education
Administration Extension and Research (NIEAER) has primary responsibility for
management training and the National Curriculum and Textbook Board (NCTB) is
responsible for primary school curricula, student assessment/examination, and
the production and distribution of textbooks. In keeping with the
Government's d2cision to decentralize administrative fuactions, increased
responsibility for implementing primary education programs has been given to
the zilas (districts) and upazilas (subdistricts). Upazila Education
Committees (UECs), formed in 1983, have become increasingly involved in the
supervision of primary schools including participation in the selection of
teachers, the monitoring of teacher attendance and performance, the distribu-
tion of books and instructional materials, and the management of selected
in-school programs involving community participation. Under guidelines
established by the Ministry of Education, 50% of the teachers selected by the
upazilas must be female. UECs coordinate with School Management Committees
(SMC) and Parent Teacher Associations established for each primary school.
Government regulations on the decentralization of povers and functions relat-
ing to the management of primary education were issued in August 1983.



-10-
Problems and Issues in Primary Education
30.     The objectives of the SFYP notwithstanding, the major problems con-
fronting the primary education system in Bangladesh include low enrollments,
high dropout and repetition rates, poor student achievement due to irrelevant
curriculum and untrained teachers, unequal opportunity for poor and female
students and the lack of Government resources to finance free primary educe-
tion over the long-term.
31.     Low Enrollment.  At present, Zbout 46% of primary school-age children
are not enrolled in schools. Parents iientify the importance of children as
a labor source as reasons for nonenrollment or early withdrawal. It has been
found in other countries that parents are more likely to allow their children
to attend school if the education system is adjusted to the rhythm of
economic activity in the commmunity. Flexible scheduling of school hours and
calendars to reflect the timing of local planting and harvesting would make
education more available to children involved in agricultural work. The
Government plans to introduce flexible scheduling in primary schools during
FY86.
32.     Repetition Rate.  High repetition rates are a major stumbling block
to a more efficient system because class sizes swell and dropout rates
increase. Student failure in primary school, particularly in Grades I and
II, may be due to poor testing or to other socio-economic factors; repetition
in these early grades has not resulted in improvements in student performance
and has had an effect on the student's self-image and enthusiasm for school.
If primary education is to be universalized, repetition in Grades I and II
must be reduced and a more flexible promotion policy initiated. Under the
project, the Government would introduce a liberalized promotion policy in
Grades I and II by January 31, 1986 and would undertake studies to determine
the cost and benefits of this policy for Grades III through V. The studies
would take into account the need for diagnostic and remedial programs which
arise from liberalized promotion programs. The Government would furnish the
findings and recommendations of these studies to IDA (Section 5.01 (a) and
(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
33.     Female Enrollment.  Social and religious traditions affect the
enrollment of girls.  The fact that 93 percent of primary school teachers are
males discourages parents from enrolling their daughters in schools. In
addition, if a poor family can afford to send children to school, preference
is given to the education of sons. Although attitudes are changing, only
about 40Z of eligible girls are currently enrolled in schools compared to
about 60% of eligible boys. This situation is expected to improve with the
new guidelines for recruiting female teachers and the improvements to the
curriculum and school facilities being introduced under the project (see
paragraphs 42 and 46).
34.     Physical Facilities.  Cinly about 30% of the existing primary schools
in Bangladesh are well constructed and have adequate classrooms, facilities
and furniture. The remaining 70% are in need of repairs and frequently lack
latrines, blackboards and a water supply (tubewells). Only about 50% of all



-11-
students can be properly seated. The proposed project would finance improved
physical facilities (see paragraph 42).
35.     Teacher Training and Career Development.  The training of primary
teachers usually consists of one year of preservice training at the PTI and
only limited follow-up in-service training. The preservice training is
costly, outdated, overtheoretical, and largely irrelevant to the skills
required by teachers. In-service recurrent teacher training is unsystematic
and inadequate. Inadequate training limits the career development potential
*     of teachers.  This factor, coupled with inadequate compensation, has a nega-
tive impact on the attitude of teachers, many of whom take part-time jobs
to supplement their incomes, often leading to frequent absence from school.
Under the proposed project, required teacher training programs would be
reassessed and an integrated system of teacher training gradually instituted.
The training program would be based on shorter induction training at the PTI
and a major in-service program over the middle years of teacher's career,
culminating in a B.A. and M.Ed. program at a Teachers Training College.
With assistance provided under the proposed project the Government would
develop an integrated system of teacher recruitment, training and career
mobility whereby teachers would have the opportunity to advance within the
education system as they acquired experience and training (see paragraphs 44
and 45).
36.     Curriculum, Textbooks and Instructional Materials.  The primary
school curriculum is largely irrelevant to the needs of female students in
particular and students in rural areas in general and, in any case, is rarely
adhered to. There is no systematic evaluation of existing curricula or
testing of new curricula (see paragraphs 46 and 47). There is also a general
lack of appropriate instructional materials within the primary education
system. The content of textbooks needs to be improved to reflect the demands
of the curriculum and the learning needs of the children. Publishing exper-
tise in the country is limited, standards of printing are low, raw materials
used are inadequate and textbooks are of poor quality. The lack of planning
and production control and a weak distribution network means that textbooks
are frequently not available when and where they are needed.
37.     The provision of free textbooks that become the property of the
student constitutes a major cost to the Government. As enrollments increase,
continuation of this policy cannot be sustained.  Making available free texts
that would be re-used every year is feasible but would require that the books
be of a more durable quality. The Government has agreed to conduct studies
*      concerning major aspects of current textbook policy (including financing,
publishing and distribution) and by January 1, 1987 to implement a new text-
book policy, satisfactory to IDA (Section 5.07 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
38.     Financing Education.  The Government needs to address the problem of
the longer term cost implications of its primary education development
program. Given the competing claims on its limited revenues, the Government



-12-
will not be able to finance the physical and staff expansion needed to
achieve UPE. The cost burden must be shifted and the "free" aspects of the
present system closely examined. Under the project, cost reduction measures
would be explored. As expenditures in primary education shift from the
development to the recurrent budget, maintenance, cost sharing, cost
recovery, and allocation between activities become more critical. Requiring
upazilas to finance part of primary school maintenance would be one course.
Asking parents to pay even a nominal fee for books and other materials may be
appropriate. Ultimately, the efficient management of the recurrent budget
would depend upon improving the performance of primary teachers whose
salaries constitute more than 90% of the budget. The present pattern of
teacher usage would have to be changed. Multigrade and multisubject teaching
would be introduced as a part of the new program (see paragraphs 35, 44 and
45). One result would be that the average teacher-pupil ratio of 1:55 would
be increased to 1:60. Liberalized promotion, and the construction of four
and five classroom schools would also help impreve teacher-pupil ratios.
With the realization that the provision of free 2rimary education to all
cannot be financially supported and that many people cannot participate in
the formal system because of poverty, the Government must develop approaches
to non-formal schooling which would meet the needs of the poor and out-of-
school population and would encourage community cost sharing (see paragraph
55).
IDA Sector Lending Strategy
39.     IDA has approved eight Credits totaling US$161.9 million to the
education sector in Bangladesh. These have been aimed mainly at increasing
the supply and improving the quality of agriculture and technical manpower.
More recent primary education and vocational training projects have focussed
on basic needs and represent a shift in the emphasis of lending from the
upper to lower levels of the education system. The First Primary Education
Project (Credit 1054-BD) was approved in 1980, provided a credit of US$40.0
million and is scheduled to close on December 31, 1986. The project supports
the UPE and has as its specific objectives increased access, reduced wastage,
improved quality of instruction, and reduced costs. The project covers 4,000
schools in 43 upazilas and finances inputs of facilities, textbooks,
materials, girls uniforms and training of supervisors. The project also
includes assistance to NAPE, pilot experiments with Project IMPACT and recur-
rent in-service teacher training. Performance to date has been encouraging
with good utilization of allocated funds and the achievement of physical and
educational targets. Total enrollments in the project area have increased by
about 7.4Z per annum compared with a 4.7% national average, with girls
enrollments increasing to about 45% of the age group compared with a 40%
national average. OveralL attendance among enrolled students increased from
67% to 72%, while repetition and dropouts showed declines of 4% and 2%
respectively. Studies of the impact of various project interventions under
Credit 1054-BD indicate that the provision of girls uniforms does not neces-
sarily increase female enrollments but does constitute a significant cost for
the Government. The proposed second project would not include a similar



-13-
component. These studies also show that female enrollment is increased by:
(a) the presence of female teachers; (b) private Latrine,; and (c) a more
relevant curriculum.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.     The proposed project was prepared by the Ministry of Education with
*     assistance from UNESCO and UNDP.  It was appraised by an IDA mission that
visited Bangladesh in September 1984. A staff appraisal report is being
distributed separately. A timetable of key events relating to the project
and special conditions of the credit are listed in Annex III. Negotiations
were held in Washingtcn in February 1985. The Government of Bangladesh was
represented by a delegation led by Mr. M. Aminul Islam, Additional Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Goals and Objectives
41.     The project would finance the first three years of the Government's
five-year investment program (FY86-FY90), which is a part of a longer term
strategy to achieve Universal Primary Education (UPE) by the year 2000. The
main objectives of the project would be: (a) to increase enrollments by
improving and expanding primary school facilities and introducing more
liberal promotion 2olicies; (b) to improve the quality of instruction by
reforming the primary teacher training program, improving curriculum includ-
ing the student assessment system and increasing the supply of instructional
materials and textbooks; and tc) to reduce costs by expanding the low-cost
experimental instructional program (Project IMPACT), increasing teacher
utilization patterns, utilizing lower cost school construction designs and
techniques and introducing selective cost-recovery mechanisms in the textbook
program. The project would also improve the management and administration of
the primary school system by strengthening key institutions, staff training
and the development of management information and project support communica-
tions systems.
Detailed Features
42.     Physical DeveLopment.  A school mapping exercise undertaken by the
Government, which shows that classroom capacities and physical conditions are
inadequate to achieve UPE, includes proposals for the following: (a) repairs
to upgrade existing schools to acceptable standards; (b) additions and exten-
sions to classrooms of existing schools to meet enroLlment requirements of
the school's catchment area; and (c) a limited number of new schools to fill
existing gaps due to the uneven geographic distribution of schools. The
project would help implement the recommendations of the school mapping exer-
cise by financing a part of the civil works program, including the provision
of school furniture. The civil works program would be carried out primarily
by the Facilities Department with a small portion undertaken by the upazilas;



-14-
the schools constructed by the upazilas would be selected by the upazilas in
consultation with the Facilities Department. (The schools constructed by the
upazilas would be financed out of a separate development fund for upazilas
administered by the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and
Cooperatives and are not included in the project.) The DPE would prepare and
furnish to IDA for approval not later than three months before the end of
each fiscal year an annual integrated school development program for the next
fiscal year which would determine the upazilas selected for development and
cover: (a) the civil works program; (b) teacher training; (c) supervision,
and (d) logistics of school supplies (Section 5.03 (a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The Covernment would ensure that upazilas,
where primary schools are to be constructed, renovated or expanded under the
annual integrated school development program, would be selected by applying
criteria satisfactory to IDA (Section 5.03 (b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The Government would also ensure that new primary schools
constructed by the upazilas would be on a site selected in accordance with
the school mapping criteria satisfactory to IDA (Section 5.04 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The construction program would utilize alter-
native low-cost building design and construction methods developed under
Credit 1054-BD. During the three-year project period, approximately 11,400
new classrooms and 650 offices for Assistant Upazila Education Officers
(AUEO) would be constructed, 3,300 existing schools would be repaired and
4,000 latrines and 3,600 tubewells installed. In addition, the project would
provide for the reconstruction and repairs to an additional 3,000 existing
schools which were damaged or destroyed during the 1984 floods (Schedule 4,
Annex 2 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
43.     Adequate maintenance of the primary school network is central to the
UPE program. The Facilities Department and the upazila parishad (council)
would be responsible for this activity. Each year each upazila would be
given funding to undertake small repairs and maintenance. All other main-
tenance would be carried out by the Facilities Department. The Government
has agreed that adequate annual budgetary allocations would be made to the
Facilities Department and upazilas for the maintenance of primary schools and
for other recurrent expenditures tor primary education (Section 5.05 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
44.     Teacher Training.  The objective of this component is to develop an
innovative structure for an integrated teacher training system with more
emphasis on in-service training. The component would consist of a phased
introduction of a shortened pre-service training program and the gradual
integration of pre- and in-service teacher training. This would involve the
development of a mix of work-study, correspondence, short PTI courses, and
school-based recurrent training. The development of teacher trainers at the
PTIs, specialists at NAPE and AUEOs as school level teacher trainers would
also be supported. Their training would be skills-based and oriented to
upgrading teacher capabilities to manipuLate the curriculum and pedagogy,
supervise trainees, prepare and utilize innovative training materials, tech-
niques and new methods of student evaluation/assessment.



-15-
45.     The teacher trair' ~ program would be organized and supervised by the
DPE in conjunction with NAI-d and PTI. During the three-year project period,
about 42,000 teachers would receive institutional training, and about 9,000
man-months of training would be given to PTI instructors, NAPE staff and
AUEOs. Recurrent in-service training would be offered to all teachers in the
upazilas selected for the integrated school development program.  The
Government agreed that the reformed teacher training program would be intro-
duced by January 1, 1987 (Schedule 4, paragraph 7 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).  The Government has further agreed to increase the ratio
of AUEOs to teachers to levels, and within a time frame, satisfactory to IDA
(Section 5.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement), and to establish by
December 31, 1985 a suitably staffed Training and Personnel Unit in the DPE
(in place of the existing Training Unit) to be responsible for designing a
career development structure for teachers (Schedule 4, paragraph 3 (a) of the
draft Deveiopment Credit Agreement). The teacher training program would be
supported by financing equipment, vehicles, expert services and fellowships.
46.     Curriculum Development.  Project assistance would strengthen the
capacity of the Curriculum Wing of the NCTB to plan, design, analyze, test
and disseminate curricula. The revision of the curricula would be through
the updating of the subject matter, developing an appropriate balance between
the various subjects, reducing content-overload and deveLoping materials to
supplement textbooks. Particular attention would be given to improving the
relevance of primary school education for girls. Positive female role models
would be written into the curricula for all subjects. Population/family
planning education, which has already been incorporated in textbooks for
Grades III-V and the preservice teacher training curriculum, would be revised
and expanded to include all grades and the recurrent teacher training
program.
47.     More functional student assessment mechanisms to replace the
"'examinations" conducted at the primary level would also be developed. The
new assessments would be incorporated in the teacher's editions of textbooks,
and would be designed to evaluate actuaL student achievement as well as to
identify weaknesses and gaps in student learning. At the end of Grade V, the
student would receive an assessment certificate that would reflect the
student's actual level of achievement rather than a pass/fail record.  The
Government would introduce by January L, 1987, the new student assessment
mechanism (Schedule 4, paragraph 8 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Curriculum development including a new student assessment system
would be supported with equipment, expert services, fellowships and con-
sumable materials.
48.     Instructional Materials.  This component would be designed to improve
the quality and increase the supply of teacher's editions of textbooks,
teaching aids, basic education materials and textbooks. Development and
testing of teacher's editions of textbooks would be undertaken by the
Textbook Wing of NCTB. Production and distribution would be undertaken



-16-
through the DPE. The development and distribution of teacher textbooks would
be assisted through the provision of expert services and consumable
materials. Support would also include institution building activities at the
Textbook Wing of the NCTB as well as the procurement and distribution of
textbooks to schools. Assistance would be provided to streamline the
administrative framework of the NCTB. Staff would be upgraded, especially in
the publishing and editing areas, through specialized training programs.
49.     Management/Administration.  Improvements would be brought about by
strengthening the DPE, improving the flow of management information, and
developing a project support communication system. These objectives would be
achieved through reorganization, staff training and systems development.
50.     The DPE would be reorganized on functional lines.  The
Director-General would be assisted by two Directors, one responsible for
Human Resources Development including career development, training,
supervision, establishment and examinations and testing and the second
responsible for program development, finance and planning, monitoring and
evaluation (including management information) and audit and accounts. The
Government would reorganize and strengthen the DPE in accordance with a
staffing plan and implementation schedule satisfactory to IDA and provide
additional staff. (Section 5.08, Schedule 4, paragraph 6 and Annex 1 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). DPE would also establish by
December 31, 1985 a suitably, staffed and equipped Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit to provide evaluations of program activities, maintain baseline data and
carry out analytical studies (Schedule 4, paragraph 3 (b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
51.     Staff training would concentrate on three areas:   (a) Project-
Related Training which would be designed to assist the integrated school
development process. SMC, PTA, and UEC personnel are expected to be trained
in this program particularly in planning and monitoring capabilities;
(b) Supervisory Training which would be provided for all zila and upazila
level officers. The program would focus on teacher supervision, school
management, and personnel and program assessment; and (c) Management Training
which would be offered to all staff in the DPE, NCTB, NAPE and to principals
of PTI. The training program for management improvement would be the respon-
sibility of NIEAER which wculd also be strengthened as a part of the program.
Staff training would be supported by financing vehicles, expert services,
fellowships and consumable training materials.
52.     A Management Information System would be developed in order to
strengthen DPE's planning capabilities through the provision of more reliable
data. The system would be operated by DPE's Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.
A major part of this activity would be to provide evaluations of program
activities and to maintain essential base-line data. Analytical studies
would be contracted to local specialized educational institutions or local
research consultant firms. A Project Support Communications System would be
designed to increase the participation in and support of project activities



-17-
at the village level. The project would support the development of the
Management Information System and the Project Support Communications System
by financing expert services, fellowships and training materials.
53.     Project Administration.  The Director GeneraL of the DPE would be
Project Director. The implementation capacity of the primary education
subsector assisted under Credit 1054-BD would be reinforced, but modified to:
(a) reflect the Government's decision to decentralize administration to the
zila and upazila levels (see paragraphs 17 and 29); and (b) permanently
institutionalize civil works implementation capacity in the Facilities
Department. At the upazila level, the UEC would coordinate and supervise the
integrated school development program activities. Since the UPE program
covers the entire country with many major and minor civil works at the school
level, the upazilas and SMC wouLd play a major role. To provide for addi-
tional staffing needs for each institution, the Government has agreed to
adopt a schedule of additional staff appointments (Schedule 4, paragraph 6
and Annex I of the draft Development Credit Agreement). To provide for
interagency coordination among DPE, NCTB and NIEAER, the Government would
designate a Project Coordinator who would be entrusted with powers and
authority to coordinate project activities (Schedule 4, paragraph 2 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
54.     Project IMPACT (Instructional Management by Parents, Community and
Teachers) is a radical way of reducing the pressure of teacher salary costs
on primary education recurrent costs. It differs from conventional systems
because it relies on the use of programmed teaching and programmed learning
materials without the direct intervention of teachers. Teachers act as
guides, monitors and managers and coordinate the work of aides and other
community participants. Project IMPACT was introduced in eighteen rural
schools in Bangladesh in 1980 under Credit 1054-BD. Data from pilot govern-
ment schools indicate: (a) better student achievement; (b) higher student
enrollment; (c) higher student-teacher ratios and a lower student-textbook
ratio; (d) the feasibility of replication; and (e) community acceptance of
the system. Project IMPACT would be expanded to 300 additional schools
during the project period. The expansion would be managed by the
Implementation Unit, established under the first project, which would be
strengthened. Support for the program would include equipment, expert
services, fellowships and consumable materials.
55.     Non-formal Education.  Under the project, community participation
would also be encouraged through development of a non-formal education
policy.  The Government would carry out, in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association, a series of studies to review
existing non-formal education programs. Using these as a base, recommenda-
tions would be made for developing techniques to foster community control and
financing of such programs. The Government would implement, not later than
June 30, 1988, a new policy on basic non-formal education, satisfactory to
IDA designed to integrate non-formal education into the formal system,
develop non-governmental sources of financing and determine the degree of



-18-
comunity control over non-formal education.  (Section 5.06 (a) and (b) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
56.     Technical Assistance to be provided under the proposed project would
include approximately 9.25 staff-years of expert services and 11 staff-years
of training fellowships. UNICEF would finance the teacher training and
curriculum development components, UNDP would finance all technical assis-
tance and fellowships and SIDA the Project IMPACT component. The signing of
technical assistance agreements between GOB and UNDP, UNICEF, and SIDA would
be conditions of credit effectiveness (Section 7.01(a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Consultants to be employed for the provision
of Technical Assistance under the project would have qualifications,
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association (Schedule
4, paragraph 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs
57.     Total project costs are estimated at US$103.4 million equivalent
including about US$6.2 million in taxes. The foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$31.1 million, or about 30Z of estimated total project costs.
Estimated project costs include physical contingencies (US$4.1 million)
estimated at 5% of base costs of all project components and price contingen-
cies (US$16.8 million) to cover expected price escalation at the following
rates: for civil works and goods, foreign costs at 5.7Z in FY85, 8.5% in
FY86, 9Z in FY87 and FY88, 8.2% in FY89, and 6.7% in FY90; and local costs at
19.2% in FY85, 15.6% in FY86, and 11% from FY87-FY90. The foreign costs of
salaries and services are calculated at 5.7% in FY85, 8.5% in FY86, 9% in
FY87 and FY88, 8.2% in FY89, and 6.7% in FY90, and local costs at 16% in
FY85, 13% in FY86, and 10% from FY87-FY90.
Project Financing
58.     The proposed IDA credit of US$78.0 million equivalent would cover 80%
of. total project cost net of taxes. UNDP would finance US$2.3 million
equivalent, UNICEF would finance US$4.9 million equivalent, SIDA would
finance US$2.2 million equivalent, and the Government would finance the
remaining net costs of US$9.8 million equivalent (10% of total net costs)
and all taxes.  Total external financing would cover 90% of total project
costs net of taxes. The IDA credit would provide about US$1.0 million for
retroactive financing for coscs incurred by the Facilities Department after
October 1, 1984 for the repair and reconstruction of schools damaged in the
1984 floods (Schedule 1, paragraph 2 and Schedule 4, Annex 2 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
59.     Contracts for the construction of additional classrooms, repairs of
existing schools, and for establishing new schools financed by IDA (US$53.00
million) would be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures which are acceptable



-19-
to the Association. Since the civil works are relatively simple, mostly
scattered and small, they would be unsuitable for international competitive
bidding. Equipment and vehicles contracts (US$1.07 million inclusive of
taxes) would be awarded in accordance with UNDP, UNICEF and SIDA procedures.
Books to be financed by IDA (US$13.65 million) would be purchased directly
Erom the NCTB, distributors or book jobbers on the basis of three competitive
price quotations.  Books to be financed by other donors (US$3.05 million)
would be procured according to their procedures. Contracts for the procure-
ment of furniture to be financed by other donors (US$0.75 million) would be
awarded according to their guidelines while the procurement of the remaining
furniture (US$8.75 million) wouLd be awarded according to LCB procedures
acceptable to the Association. Incremental expenses (excluding staff
salaries and other O&M costs) include US$2.65 million for
educational/learning material and other training material consumables which
would be procured on the basis of three competitive price quotations.
Fellowships and technical assistance financed by UNDP, UNICEF and SIDA would
be in accordance with their guidelines. All furniture and civil works con-
tracts financed by IDA over US$100,000 each would be subject to prior IDA
review which would cover about 20% of the value of works. Other contracts
would be subject to selective post award review.
Procurement Procedures
(US$ Millions)
I  Not   7  Total
_  ICB   I LCB          Other lApplicablel  Cost /a
Civil Works                  1 -    | 62.36   1    l         |   62.36
I _______     I  (53.00)/bl   I          I
Furniture           I        1 12.50   l           l   1.06  1   13.56
I _______1    (8.75)  1 _     I  (0.75))l
Professional Fees    I _                           |   3.05  |    3.05
I   _ __ ___ _        _ ___ __ __ _   I __ __ ___ __   I (2 .6 0 ) I_ _ _ _ _ _ _
Equipment & Vehicles |1.07  I    1.07
l  _____ ___  I  _ _______ _  I  ___ ___ _   I  C(0.51)) I
Books                                   |  13.65  |   3.05  1   16.70
l       l______   I ________   1    (13.65)    1  ((3.05))l
Training &                         - -             I   2.60  1    2.60
Technical Assistancel                  l I          ((2.60))l
Incremental Expenses |       l          l          I   4.02  1    4.02
l_____ ______ _____ __  I  _ _ _   I  __I    I  ((2.51)) l
TOTAL               i _         74.86   |  13.65  |  14.85  |  103.36
IDA                 I          (61.75)  | (13.65) |  (2.60) I  (78.4)
UNDP, UNICEF, SIDA   l       l          l          l   9.42  | (( 9.42))
GOB                  _         1 13.11   l         l   2.83  I   15.94
/a Include duties and taxes where applicable.
7T Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA. Figures
in double parentheses are the respective amounts financed by other
donors.



-20-
Disbursements
60.     The proposed Credit would be disbursed over a period of about four
and a half years, which is much shorter than the average country disbursement
profile of eight years for IDA-assisted projects in Bangladesh. The reduc-
tion is justified because the project would finance only the first three
years of the five-year investment program, and because of the advanced stage
of the school mapping exercise and experience gained by the Government under
the previous project.  The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed against
(a) 85% of total expenditures on civil works; (b) 70% of total expenditures
on furniture; and (c) 1002 of total expenditures on books and learning
materials. In order to facilitate disbursement of the IDA Credit, a SpeciaL
Account would be established in the Bangladesh Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association (Section 2.02 (b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The initial deposit into the SpeciaL Account would be
US$4.0 milLion. Withdrawals from and subsequent replenishments of the
Special Account would be made according to the provisions of Schedule 5 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement.
Accounting and Auditing
61.     The DPE would prepare and maintain project accounts in accordance
with sound accounting practices. Separate project accounts would be prepared
and withdrawal applications would be supported by full documentation. The
Government would prepare accounts and financial statements for each fiscal
year and have them audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. It
would also furrnish to !DA certified copies of the audited accounts and finan-
cial statements for each fiscal year, together with the Auditors report to
IDA as soon as available, but not later than nine months after the end of
each fiscal year (Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits
62.     The projecc is expected to increase enrollments, improve the quality
of instruction and student learning achievements, and reduce costs.
Enrollments are expected to increase by about 740,000 by the end of the
projecr period, of which about 400,000 (55X) would be girls. The current
dropout rate in excess of 50Z between Grades I and II would be expected to
fall to less than 202 due largely to the introduction of more liberal promo-
tions in Grades I and II. Without the project, only about 30% of the stu7-
dents would complete the primary cycle.   With the project this would double,
with gains for girls proportionately greater. The Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit which is being established in DPE, as part of the project, will be
responsible for monitoring the progress in meeting these targets (see
paragraph 50).
63.     The project is expected to slow the trend toward higher recurrent
costs through larger classes and schools, an increase in the pupil-teacher



-21-
ratio, and the introduction of cost recovery in the textbook provision policy
through the reuse of textbooks and consideration of nominal fees for text-
books (see paragraphs 37 and 38). The innovative components (Project IMPACT
and integrated pre- and in-service teacher training) are also expected to
give clearer indications of where cost reductions can be 'lfected. The
expanded level of supervision and administrative improvements would con-
tribute to more effective utilization of staff, facilities and resources.
An assessment of the progress toward meeting these objectives would be under-
taken by the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit at the end of the project.
Project Risks
64.     Indications are that there will be initial resistance to the short-
ened preservice teacher training program and the more liberal promotion
policy from the Primary School Teachers Union. A long (two-year) preservice
program is the objective of the Union, since pay scales are linked to educa-
tionaL background and training and liberalized promotions could limit tutor-
ing opportunities. The phased introduction of these reforms, linked to an
improved training and development program leading to enhanced career
prospects, is expected to minimize teacher resistance. Another risk is the
potential for overlapping functions and responsibilities between the various
levels of administration due to the new decentralization process. Measures
have been taken to minimize this risk, including: (a) development of manage-
ment information and project support communication systems; (b) delegation of
implementation responsibility; and (c) provision of special training for
implementation staff.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
66.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit would be (a) signing
of technical assistance agreements between COB and UNDP, UNICEF and SIDA
(Section 7.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement); and (b) approval
of Project Proforma 1/(Section 7.01(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
1/ The Project Proforma is an internal government document, approval of
which is a prerequisite for the release of funds and the hiring of staff.



-22-
67.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMKENDATION
68.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
March 7, 1985



-23-                                               ANNEX I
?A it La   a                                        Page  1
6ANOI1WUI             - OCAL INDICATO          SKST
mm(HOST hOlE?  USTD InA) 4
197db              WV IAm10            NIi PAIFICOM
1960                 U= n"Lb " i!  ASIA & PAXwC        A$ZA 6 IPACTIP
TOTAL                               144.0     14.O        144.0
AGtlCULTURAL                        9.4        97.0        97.4
Gm  a  cAPETA ()                       40.0       40.0       140.0            278.4               1091.2
u scer amon Qa cm
(KtLOAS WIP OIL WI?A )                ..       20.0        35.0.          272.0                 547.3
rraIAND^ TM   SIISI"lC
POPUIATl0N,NID-?EAR (CTOid)    53491.0   68117.0        92659.0
UNmAN FOPUIATIK (OF TOTAL)           5.2        7.6        11.5            21.7                   5.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULTION Zf TEAR 2000 (KUIL)                           154.7
STATIONART FOPUIATZON (HILL)                            454.1
POPULIATIN HE1                                            1.9
P'OPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. M.                        371.5     473.0       629.6            144.4                2S1.9
PER sq. M. AC1L IJD              565.3      702.5       931.0            345.5               1735.1
POPULATION ACE STUCTURE CZ)
0-14 TRS                           4.3      46J         42.8             35.8                  39.0
15-44 YU                          52.5       51.1        54.9             59.4                 57.6
65 AND ADOY                        3.2        2.7         2.7             4.3                    L3
POPULTIOTN CROQ RATE (Z)
TOTAL                           1.9       2.4         2.6              1.9                   2.2
URNi                               3.7        6.2         6.1             4.1                   4.3
ClUM SIXTH RATE (PE  TM=)            46.8      44.0        46.6             27.7                 30.1
CRUDM  ATH RATE (P  TWOS)           22.4       20.9        1I.9             10.1                  9.5
GROSS EIPRODUCTION RATE               3.4       3.4         3.1              1.S                  2.0
FAWXLY FLAIJI
ACETOS. ANUAL (THDS)                ..      373.0       1607.0
USERS (Z Or HARRXID Mi)              ..        ..        19.011             ..                  52.7
ID1   or FOF D PO. PE CAPITA
(1909-71-100)                       106.0     101.0        94.0            112.8                123.0
PER 'APITA. SUPPLT OF
CALRIES CE OF RCquuRrS)           87.0       8S.0        84.0             97.7                114.4
PROTIS (CANES PE DAY)             ".0        43.0        42.0             56.8                 57.0
o0 UWICN AaNDIA AD PULSE          9.0       9.0         7.0 jd          14.9                  14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DOTH RAE           24.9       23.0        19.4             9.8                   7.2
LIFE  PECT. AT 3R1 (EAS)           43. 5      44.9        46.Z             60.0                 40.4
IWAJT NOT. RATE (PER TWS)          159.0      150.3       J313             83.                   44.3
ACCESS TO SAFE TAiT (XPOP)
TOTAL                                 .      4O          53.0 /a          :2.9                  37.0
nIIAI                               ..       13.0        15.0 We          70.9                 S4.8
RU* R.                                       47.0        55.0             2Z.1                 26.4
ACCESS TO E7CRETA DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        a.0         5.0 /f          16.1                  41.3
uIn                                  ..       ..         40.0 Tf          72.6                 47.4
RL                                   ..        ..          ..              4.5                 33.3
POPMLATIO  PER PHISICIAN              ..    6430.0      10940 0 A         344.2                7749.4
-              POP. Po NURSING Prc                    ..   74610.0      2*450.0          4793.1                2460.4
POP. FP  HOSPTAL IED
TOTAL                               ..    7020.0 lb   4240.0 ft         1066.5               1044.2
URA                                  .       10.0 i     400.0 d          296.0                651.2
RURAL                                ..       ..      23470.0 7         5993.4                25s,.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL ED            ..        ..           ..               ..                 27.0
HOSING
AVERAGE SIE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                         5 9jj       5.6
RBMAN                               ..        6.1         6 6.1
RURAL                               ..        5.9         5.t
AVERAE NO. OF -PERSOSROOI
TOTAL                               ..         ..
URBAN                               ..        ..
RURAL                               ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. C. OF IRELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..        ..          3.5
wiA                                  ..        ...
RUIIAL                               .          ..                           ..



-24-
ANNEX I
T AIS L   A Iage  2
S- OCIAL INDICATC    DTA ST
unuczGRUPS (WEIGHTD AVERAGES) la
MOST            (MOST RECENT USTCM ) lb
i,sotk    1C5k           0T         LOW INCOr             NIDDLC TNCO
9U  1970  CSUTDASLk   ASIA £ FACiFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
SOCATNS
ADJUSSTD CNROLUICNT RATIOS
RIRNARu   TOTAL                     47.0       52.0         62.0             97.4                 102.0
MAU                      66.0       61.0         76.0            110.5                 105.9
PEALE                    26.0       34.0         47.0             83.7                  96.2
SICONDARYUt TOTAL                    8.0       19.0         15.0             35.9                  46.0
HALE                     14.0       29.0         24.0             44.6                  48.7
FfhAI                     1.0        8.0          6.0             26.5                  43.1
VOCATIONUL (Z OF SECONAUY)             1.0        0.8         14.3              2.2                   17.5
PUPIL-TEACNER RATIO
PRDIARY                               ..       45.0         44.0             38.5                  31.8
OCCONDARY                             ..       26.0        21.0              18.7                  23.5
ADULT LERACY RATE (C)                 21.6       23.0 j       26.0 id          53.4                  72.9
PASSENCER CANS/THOUSANMDOP              ..        0.4          0.4              0.9                  10.1
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP            ..         ..          6.0            112.1                 113.6
TV RZCEIVzS/THOUSAMD POP                ..         ..          0.9             15.7                  50.1
EWSPAPUER ("DAILY GCENRAL
INTERST") CItCULATION
PER TOUSAND POPLATON                  ..         ..           .7             16.2                  53.9
CINEIA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         ..         ..           ..              3.6                   3.4
TOTAL IlOR FORCE (TOUS)            19252.0   23611.0       33221.0
PMALE (PERCENT)                     15.2       16.6         17.8             33.3                  33.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               87.0       86.0         74.0             69.6                  52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.0        3.0         11.0             15.8                  17.9
PARTCIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               36.0       34.7         35.8             62.6                  38.7
KAU                                 58.7       55.9         57.1             54.7                  50.9
FPLUI                               11.4       11.9         13.1             29.8                  26.6
ECONOIIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.3        1.4          1.3              1.0                   1.1
INCOZ DtSTEMIOU
PECENT OF PRIVATE INICQm
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 51 So  HOUSEHOLDS           18.3 /k      .. 11        ..               *-                  22.2
RICIIEST 202 OP HOUSEOLDS           44.5 7F    44.1 71       ..               ..                   48.0
LOWEST 20S OF HOUSEtHLDS             6.9        8.77?        ..               ..                    6.4
LOWEsT 40: OP NOUSEHOLDs            17.9 1k    19.6 7i       ..               ..                   15.5
POVER TAW S
ESTIMD ASOLUTE POVErTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URPAM                                 ..         ..        139.0 Id         133.9                 188.6
RURAL                                 ..         ..        11i.o 7          111.6                 152.0
ESTDIMTED REATIVE POVEIrY INCOlE
LZVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URANW                                 ..         ..          ..               ..                  177.9
RURAL                                 ..         ..           ..              ..                  164.6
ESTIMATED POP. tELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERT INCCKE LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                 ..          .        86.0 ld          43.8                   23.4
RURAL                                 ..         ..         86.0 /d          51.7                  37.7
HOT AVAILABLE
mOT APPLICBLE
N OT E S
/a   The group averap for eah indicator are populatlon-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of dtsa sud ti not uniform.
/D   timles otherwise noted. "Date for 196W refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Moat bcent Estimte" between 1950 and 1982.
/c   1983-84 date;  /d 1977;  to 1976; /f 1975; La 1979; lh 1972; /I 1978; Lt  1973;  /k 1963; /I 1967.
JUNE. 1984



-    5554 534 53aWW-    a-0 -    Ad003  53- 'Tdaw P. Wassld  -
i..8. - A  - = . vw-L .33J.
053w  -WPA   *.15-5 53  3           -30   5 39
50 0*050330333435309* ..... 0539W        03    Ad3  ....0   33
-  Dot-5550   5. Waw          Ie-          I .3 'Wa's  M335   05  *03-
Wat aWal`                                                   Pa.  11-sada 135333-n.,-P  *355    -a 5.5     - 3.5-5     -     p33  -05  - -
"Smc-d Pad, weddTaWr -wbaas                                      5uU Pat3 owab. 5   9530 ads-  - - P053-5 4sq-vd A 515  5-
abams, 9- moddlWas, -133                                                   35i03033355  *53  5 5-.                           3355  5555
033-                                                       P~~~~ **39~~~54T 3  --*35-35l5.303w   -530.3-3.0
swel                                355as  mall  3  ..-  - 30'P" t-.                 9550.- d0l3  os -3.o.-?5iY55"1Zih35i1
1.0dW   -M W" 5-53  0) .53                Waaa  A..  53533.         ."m03        .35             tiO  3.5       :4-Of 1 WM33  55.3 .55 -   3      .3         s
p-                         `-IaAP  TO-9o1    i 3aa453-3 555 P=                                        .1 M53. A.5.    -~ 'P-         a,b - . 5-r   --   naadad 35510 g35j
55a3  35~~~3~533-31.Er.p- .1  *ad j   .35-   01023%  J '34533  31j10 P=5.39353p vs
5- '533.5 £550330 a.    -     .a~o.s5W  ~a.            a-a-d                     as'        ~-  v-V   a.s. add    ..           =     _- ~ -..,
I-A M             53*M   '033.."h. A5s.33o.3A -.5 saaaa,.54  J03  A   .3Sss    s.3                                               S. . 1
~3-  5-353    3.333.3       9350                  a  ~33*00           ~        55j4.55.3 -J      5I  3055        l      50**  .530.  3. 5          5.5
M --da -M     -                   _W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~'05-a5 rawfad.o*3 3-                         330  5                                da.t  -   53-.su5
I--&.5.5      153    -   dossbabbad 35303 - 50 3353 -50 5-303.51                           as 055-5-   W- A.    353.5530  (-5   =--3   a3   Wn~3 P-5
Pa     -5-    Oa ft          515 mmaaw.53i       - - 3.   533 .55 -.3 5.4..)   - _3 .30 -)                        -        3 .2.1ba4  3005*35  p05.5350 3A. 430.- 5-  *
5-        All      n.s.'.-  Saa  s -I.  5-A  adva   -                                     IPaa Y  450   -M343   5353    33.fi     p39    3    03.55    -0
*309a 333"al         * l   aWas350  553  00355 A.3959I8                                 *'3) 3d35   39i4 5,"3 Ws553-   05.5  301 55503059
'35- NMI5 5- dual '5393 t5.r33355-                                bad                                  M1:310"0MIN
50 5 053-        i.30Si 303055               It0  J35 3.  3
5n-   535. I-da               0  503-3-3--~                                                        -:WI-5 5--3453   '.5   p-3   5 w de ft3*30055-. 0   3955353453
-  ~    5o3~ a3935i                Vaaa 335033 0   A95 .3.13  53.2l.-
'35w  53-        353*0 ~  13355    (            33443  0  33555  553    aada5
.3339  .  95--   s      5533        5053353  5.59 5.3)5s5.05  530s5533305-`5580A                                        .5509 -53*                ad 3
PI   ."   .0-     3    55 5    55.515  335345  55jm   30ads A359-  533                .033   .550   3               53333533   33554.3.3535
53353- 3 33          Vadal 553     5--ft   35 -1555.5.3  3.53393I-"53                                                                                           '
-00505535 9ll5-5539   '450, -.5f50I3 133     3       A33   35   -53.5i -5aSaa0 3.33 '35 II-"53 005_.z    .MMU.503530553553
035    3            -     3395-53553)033353   530-                                           S033a as004              55 .1 53   53W3 353k3                       5
'50550.l 30 13503 -05  500533339  ATIPIW 31 5.-p .5503S                         i 335343           0  330oj s             03.0-553.5               53
-~     05 350005533 3.3.5-3 5.5555-35 5-3-3-35 3533.1555335                                           'S559 359 P530 '011da33
so 333055-53 5.53.5353310.53503  539550,  1                                        ". '3    . D. P-b3a"I 5355  0033 T-.9-4.050583    33   3
.533 P53900535-S     3  5501_    535"-  V55010  35335   50535                                                         3519    -'3-33  0.(3*3   053
3-350  3335553535 50 5--55~ 55195  p3altso: 3.5390*                            335  3003   351  353   - 5-5  0- (300)05353)355
saald-r55, S.53.530 30315bd W 350 -         3w55 35  35-bAp3 isal*0030553-"  -  ..".a 533.                           '33 10151- 'OOr   'O-ft355                %wil3 -5.;F
__________________________A 148) -,11 P3'0   - -3                                M       UC 15551*5..5 '..3
53 5-1.a    33-P3d   5353Wa  -Vv                   55 -(-   - 33035                                                             -P43134333-       '5059 00t
3.55 P503 3533-  43333   3  35      00553(0.335553330393335O.5S   30  3533050  03   'P3-
'933.53.5A 1533*33bs.3                                  '£550i1-3 -353  .5 30 .335_535        3    %30 553.535  M
330     5353 3039 35335.33 Si 35 53 155033035530vaa                     -5533         d 530350005   Is3m531313     Wb13-53 q.d535  A5-3l.5315330l30.
505    53all.0  395.5050t 50.05  '5333533'.553   3955533Pa                                W433 A      a   00 1035   3355535-5   Pas 133-355    .00lad  .50S.3350033
-a Ws  5abada ft";35  530 M 3535.  45153 05  .33         -033                       5333s3333 as   -         IId 33333-1 A..000 W33'3.1355333
faass-ba3 003    a 53 -a£0a30500305-35033   335053                                         3  I-di           .35 -330035555030053. -II*5A0  533550   35.Om
35'9  at 330:13. 55-505 'tWE0 PaWb3a  Id35-553  .1313                                         5500ad  -03 -o-055005-.53S5.o555    0. n3.
03333-0  30    530=531 -   A.03£005    -5331                  3 333                     ls3  3o105d30.59 059  '3350a03 A           5-a 035 &  a33- . 0839.3035a
01305   - .500'3053533.50              1dWA333331,.III.5 53535 .35                                              -         30303 a.54 - - .-W aWs * J-f3PI*
O 33555 5--          30550.            s         -sJp    ~~L0                                          333)53.553   530.3  5-'353 - 055
530-l  ... a    3                 53  5d15353            J 335  93.335  335533   p 03 003035 .503   dadv-530  (03
'53a3 3.3053                       WIN P53sl 3353)-353 1355353A55            55"03  .05034355ba   '30555s
~~~                                                                              55033s305~~~~~~~~-.-  rg  -1   13301- 35 305  5003153a  -8 43305.l 53.5  .-50533..
3055-.j9 55353033.3- 53 53-3  .5.5          . 5T55-r3 nWimWI; 4W                                                                          '53.9 1wo53 330. 10-5
al pay--5 al -4     '335AI335555   Pay.900l v30  535333 31 535s55                   '003 -o3543 P5351P.h 35033350   J*a3  353  333853t  3535
5- 000333-  0333054.5  55500333  ('45   0553  5 '3553  503*...533350 '0598                                       S. 0355013 *0050l55  '03333  3531 3.... .50.
35o3953 0  5-1  33333135* 13  .3535 135.5.3535        333301 3555-s-,533  53.1l"lI 333-300V           534W333  *3~34.350 
5- 505555- 35033053553 5         p- - 3503.333  3. 83l 53033350 P-st it55535053355 5d.3a-                                 s.s35 .3               I--    0 l P
3-  5555 53      30353Wm050...3 93930. 3-(:53                                       n_ -'33535_. $.I,M
353535W) A  sa0153  .33405  5  l - 53     Atf-ad 9*3  03853b.03335(005                                                                             '00la,   i 5-043
p- War"  -PatIm  --oas"Is I-am   vba            9s. 30. '-.   .35   1   333353  -335    055'3333
393o3s..35 3. ts.   P.  MIMI5-   53035535 .4    - 5 I%338"  0.350555-u5" -II3                                                   W.d.7           I   ('39h) 33055-39
OM533330055053393I03  55553.3..53  005d33383500.3n                                                           *33.  3503P504   5..3 A5.033  334.
5355          5    '3550-.5    035133.330533933  0003333-053045 05355* 010 35333  '5333533533395.3   359-4clot
035 ~15 533 5515503503  13000.30 5- *35033.33300 80                                                  --p35-553.930  35340  -3553  53 0  4033 533550  533.W 35'(" 35353
5055335 .1dd"-33       5305.3005V=         053   50   393355335333-   595~35  50030 *053330533ab 33.3033 1305* 55  5330333l 5003 34.33001
1133 EP.  P.8    33d3a       53-30350533 5w-   5050385000(,                                  -1Ao   533s5355533  500                     0333  .335953530   3
.3395000       A5355 l5   0  3353   3355  930303   333303.555  3   3305005  3003530  9593-3   310353535330300-
5353A.5300-053353              Va3 43  0533 l  93 05     -4-35 % 935-53 '13.15 933 3335553-    03333-3153533                      Add3535   305  55033953  3050330   50050
£   *231-    -Ar                        M"     0.P3 543353-   I     aad-  .-Pdo                     'a0330F 310                  "    -i                 ~ba 3a           fd
I   ZZRIPW1--WRd4-                                          IMo-   1d     3 -              1-vlsP"l-.11dtad   I-                       4    1pd-              4   1    1       A



-26-                         IA
Page 4
Populatio:  95.9 mllielL (Janary 19u3)
GNP Per Capita: D88116 Cz183)
Amaint
(millieLo  3           Average Annal tucreaae (I)                  Share of CD at Market Prices CE)
in current prices)          (in constant ariees)                           (in current uric..)
Iodie-tor                   ny            nO-0  n70-7a    nr75-0                    JimO  3m 0= n70    n7      BoD   2
Croam  domestic product La       106U0             4.0      -0.6       5.5      3.3       100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture La                  5.139            3.1      -1.3       3.3      2.8        59.9   56.9   62.5   53.4   46.7  46.9
Industry /A                     1.468            7.9      -3.2       6.4      2.7         7.7    9.6   11.3   12.7   13. B  13.1
lervices La                     4033             4.9       3.3       8.1      4.2        30.1   30.0   26.2   34.0   39.6  40.0
Conmmuption                      10.438            4.4      -0.7       6.0      2.5        92.4   92.8   99.2   98.0  103.9  98.1
Croes dometic inestmet            1,768            10.9    -10.9       2.0      0.1         6.9   11.3    B.1   16.7   13.3  16.6
Exports of uoods & Ufe              899            0.8    -11.7        3.4    10.6         10.0     L3      3.0    7.8    7.7   8.4
Imports of goods 8 ufe            2.45             8.8    -12.0        6.1    -0.4          9.3   12.5   10.3   22.5   25.3  23.2
Crosa national saings               691           26.5    -17.7       22.1    20.0          0.9    6.1    1.0    4.0   -1.0   6.5
Amnt
(million US8                  Composition of Nerchendise trade CZ)
in current prices)                       (in Currnt Drices)
IUICWIIEOISE TRADE
lerheandise exports                 822                       100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Primary Lk                        263                        40.4    )31.5   29.6    30.9    33.2    32.0
Menufacturee                      559                        59.6    68.5   70.4    69.1    66.8    6LO
Mercbeadise imports               2.353                       100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Food                              39B                        44.1    42.2   30.2    13.9    19.5    16.9
Petrolem                          355                         3.2    11.1   16.2    21.7    19.7    15.1
Macbhery A euipment               608                        13.8    11.5   23.0    26.1    29.5    25.8
Other                             992                        38.9    35.2   32.0    38.2    31.3    42.2
rr74    fT71    rr76    ff77 .    F78      n79    nso    fr51        Yl2      Fns3
PRTiC  AN TO S  oF nJDz IIDICIS (1972/73-100)
GDP Deflator                                   140.6   240.7   183.1   177.2   203.6   216.8   252.7    267.3   295.9   331.4
Excange rate (TiuSS)                              7.9661   8.8759 14.8521  15.4667  15.1215  15.2228  15.4777   16.3447 20.0400 23.7600
Export price index                              104.5   119.D   103.4   108.9   126.5   160.9   19L9          175.7   147.7   154.5
Import price index                             144.9   I87.8   180.2   178.2   168.7   208.9   234.9    263.9   259.9   237.4
Term  of trade index                             72.1    63.4    57.4    61.1    75.0    77.0   8.7           66.6    56.8    65.1
AS I of CDP
Cat current Prices)
n175    n777   Fn8         7n82     nt83
PIBLIC FflNACZ
Current revenue                                    5.4      9.5      10.5      11.6    10.7
Current expenditure                                4.5      7.8       7.7        8.4     8.5
Current srplus C) or deficit (-)                   4.0.9    +1.7    * 2.8     + 3.2    12.2
Capical expenditure                                3.1      9.5      13.3      12.4    11.8
oreign financing                                   2.4      6.0       8.2       6.0    11.4
n60-70      7y70-75      nY75-80    fY2n123
OTSIW TIlDCATORS
GNP growth rate (1)                               4.2         -0.6          6.5        4.0
GNI per capita growth rate (1)                    1.5         -3.0          4.0        1.6
- not available
- not applicable
LI At market prices.
Lk  1a jute. tea, ad fisheries.
ASASA
Feb. 27. 1985



-27-                                                    AMNU 
NAIAUCK Or PAIMIET. IffLAL CAPTTAL AIM DETI
(millio  WS, in currant prices)
4AIA01 OFr PAYNUB
Actual                                            zsti.  Proi et td
auam  Emi  n7 an7e  an E                                       ma n E l 4 a       a
Net  xporta of sooda                               -1,059    -903    -470    -859    -946  -1.650  -1,282   -1,946  -1,623   -1,531   -2,100
llports of goods                                    344      372      405      490      610      722      712      626      686       822       900
7 Iporta ot goods                                -1,403  -1.275    -875  -1.349  -1.556  -2.372  -2.533  -2,572  -2,309   -2.353   -3.000
Net "parts of  aervices                                21      - 7      -29      -32      -28        4       15      -70    -112        -33       -90
Workeru  reittancea                                     35      29       60      113      143      210      379      424      628       552       435
Current account balance                            -].003    n8Z       -12 z4l5 z1214 I1 4z-1                      1592 d  1J107   -1.012   -175 7
Direct private investment
NLT loans (net)                                       498      497      23B      398      420      560      513      508      476       563       575
Grants & grant-like flows                              382     245      265      394      551      592      584      687      709       697       840
Other capital flows (net)                             274        87      17      -39      -16      144      307      255      164       -82        49
Change in reserves C- - incresae)                    -15:        53     -Sl       25    -124       119       24      142    -242       -166       291
International reservea  (end of period)               266      -13      294      269      393      271      249      108      350       516       225
Reservea me months of imports of next year            2.5      2.9      2.6      2.1      2.0      1.3      1.2      0.6      1.8       2.1       1.0
Act1       u_l
FY75      Fn76     Fr77    FY78    FY79    fleO        YOf    n82       FY83
CROSS DISBURSEZMNTS
Total grosa disbursements                        519       563      268      435     477       630      562     548      549
Concessional                                  458        533      244     4D1      456      bOO      541      468      483
Bilateral                                   343       390      144      262      213      273      287      232      213
IDA                                         112       128       86       88      153      152      170      158      190
Other multilateral                            3         15      14       51       91      176       84       78       80
Ron-concessional                                60        30       24       35      20        30      21       81       67
Bilaterial                                   45         16        6        2        3      17        2        7       28
DRD                                           -         -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Other  usltilateral                           -          1        -       -        -        -        1       31       12
Private                                      15         13      18       32       17       13       19       42       26
NET DISBURSEtEITS                                    498       497      238      398      420      580      513      508      476
DENrT OUTSTANDIINC
Total outstanding and disbursed                1,355     1.797   2.053    2,571  2,951   3.216   3,615   3.979   4.470
Official                                    1,233    1.689   1.940    2,436  2.808   3.067   3.491   3.834   4.317
lIERD                                        55        55       55        55      55       55       55       55       55-
IDA                                         255       380      466       554    707       859   1,027   1,181   1.356
Other                                       923    1.254   1.419    1,827  2.047   2.154   2,409   2.599   2,896
Private                                        122       108      113       135    142      149      124      145      153
0ndisbursed debt                               1.019       948   1.016    1,335  1.659   1,719   2,104   2,619   2,773
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service                                31        88       59        69      95       94      91        87     123
Amrtization                                     21        66       30        37     57        50      50       40       74
Interest                                        10        22       28        32     38       43       42       47       49
IBRD debt service                                  0         2        3         3       4                A 4      4        3
IDA debt service                                   1         2        3         4       4       6         7        8       8
Average isterest rate
Official                                       1.8       :.2      1.3       1.2    1.3      1.2      1.6      1.8      1.0
Private                                       2.3        3.9      7.2       6.2    6.1      6.9    10.8       8.6      8.6
Average maturity
Official                                     35.1      42.9    38.6        38.5   36.2    34.2    35.1    35.5    39.5
Private                                      15.3       11.3    11.0        9-5   14.8    192       7.7    117    12.9
BANK CROUP aOSURE t:)
XIZR  DoDcotal DOD                                 4         3        3         2       2        2        2        1       I
IARD disbursements/total disbursements             0         0        0         0       0        0        0        0       0
IISD debt service/total debt service               0         2        6         5      4        4        b        4        3
IDA DOD/toeal DOD                                 19        21       23        22      24      27       28       30       31
IDA diabursements/total disbursements             22        23       32        20      32       24       30      29       35
rDA debt service/total debt service                3         3        5         5       5        6        7       9        6
TERM STRUCTURE                                            At June  1983         IBRD/IDA LENDING (At June 1983)    IBRD    IDA
Maturity structure of debt                                                    Outstanding 4 Disbur.ed                54.9  1,365.8
Maturities due within 5 years                              ;5.1            Ulndisbursed                              -   1,005.0
Maturities due vithin 10 years                             29.4             Outstanding, incl. tndisbursed         54.9  2,370.8
Interest structure of debt
Interest due within 1 year                                  1.4
- not available
ASABA
February 21, 1985



-28-                            ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH La
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30. 1984)
Amounts
Loan or                                                             (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                 US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower                Purpose              Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and 31 credits fully disbursed                        54.90 1,079.15         -
527       1975  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Fertilizer                 -       62.00       1.07
542       1975  Bangladesh  Barisal Irrigation                  -       21.00       3.27
605       1976  Bangladesh  Xarnafuli Irrigation                -       22.37       5.66
631       1976  Bangladesh  Rural Development                   -       16.00       5.54
725       1977  Bangladesh  Muhuri Irrigation                   -       21.00       8.83
735       1977  Bangladesh  Inland Water Transport II           -        5.00       0.60
787       1978 Bangladesh  Foodgrain Storage II                 -       25.00       9.56
825       1978 Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry II              -       7.00        2.29
828       1978 Bangladesh  Agricultural Research                -       6.00        0.45
864       1978 Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control             -      19.00       11.36
890       1979  Bangladesh  Oxbow Lakes Fisheries               -       6.00        2.74
912       1979  Bangladesh  Vocational Training                 -      25.00       13.23
921       1979  Bangladesh  Population & Family Health II    -         32.00       17.12
934       1979  Bangladesh  Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                    -       28.00       9.87
941       1979  Bangladesh  Dacca Water Supply & Sewerage II -         22.00        2.83
955       1979  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Drainage &
Flood Control                   -       25.00      16.80
964       1979  Bangladesh  Highways II                         -      10.00        6.29
990       1980 Bangladesh  Low-Lift Pumps                       -       37.00      20.31
1001       1980 Bangladesh  Chittagong Water Supply II           -      20.00       11.56
1023       1980 Bangladesh  Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                  -       29.00      17.85
1032       1980 Bangladesh  Jute Industry Rehabilitation         -       20.00      12.39
1042       1980  Bangladesh  Mangrove Afforestation              -       11.00       6.25
1054       1980 Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary Education) -           40.00      24.79
1065/c     1980 Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry III             -       35.00      19.20
1091/c     1981  Bangladesh  Bakhrabad Gas Development           -       85.00       9.43
1096/c     1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport                -       25.00      11.83
1117/c     1981  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II           -       50.00      23.82
1124Lc     1981  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance IV             -       16.00       6.09
114OLc     1981  Bangladesh  Hand Tubewells                      -       18.00      10.11
1147/c     1981  Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit                 -      40.00       17.50
1184Lc     1982  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II         -       27.00      21.92
1204/c     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Urea Fertilizer          -       15.00      12.79



-29
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                             (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                 US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower                Purpose              Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
1205/c     1982  Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehabilitation  -          30.00      26.07
1215/c     1982  Bangladesh  Extension & Research II             -       27.00      19.99
1247/c     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Port                     -       60.00      53.37
1254/c     1982  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Thermal Power              -       92.00      79.44
1262/c     1982  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification               -       40.00      30.78
1287/c     1982  Bangladesh  Deep Tubewells II                   -       68.00      51.55
1300/c     1983  Bangladesh  Imports Program XI                  -      110.00       9.78
1301/c     1983  Bangladesh  First Highway Project
(Supplemental)                  -        6.00       4.12
1318/c     1983  Bangladesh  Business Management
Education & Training            -        7.80        6.99
1321/c     1983  Bangladesh  Telecommunications III              -       35.00      32.27
1349/c     1983  Bangladesh  Public Administration
(Training and Personnel
Management)                      -      12.00       10.37
1357/c     1983  Bangladesh  Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation         -       28.50       26.07
1384/c     1983  Bangladesh  Rural Development II                -     100.00       89.00
1396/c     1983  Bangladesh  Agricultural Training II            -        8.10       7.37
1399/c /d  1983  Bangladesh  Sugar Rehabilitation and
Intensification                 -        20.00      18.15
1402/c Le  1983  Bangladesh  Petroleum Exploration Promotion  -           23.00     21.38
1440/c /d  1984  Bangladesh  Fifth Technical Assistance          -        25.00     23.78
1455kc /f  1984  Bangladesh  Second Agricultural Research        -        24.50     24.50
1467/C L&  1984  Bangladesh  Water Development Board             -       41.50      41.50
1471/k /d  1984  Bangladesh  Import Program XII                  -       140.00     88.37
1477/c /R  1984  Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II          -        23.00     23.00
F022/c /z  1984  Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II          -        22.00     22.00
1490/c /e  1984  Bangladesh  Technical Education                 -        36.00     36.00



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                            (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower               Purpose               Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
1504-0/c/f 1984  Bangladesh  SAP - 725 BD                        -       10.00      10.00
1504-1/c/f 1984  Bangladesh  SAP 1023 BD                         -        5.00       5.00
1504-2/c/f 1984  Bangladesh  SAP 1247 BD                         -        7.00       7.00
1504-3/c/f 1984  Bangladesh  SLA  1262 BD                        -        8.00       8.00
Total                                                      54.90  2,908.92  1,119.20
of which repaid                                           -         4.13     -
Total now outstandinR                                      54.90  2.904.62
Amount sold                                               0.00      0.00
Total nov held by Bank and IDA                            54.90  2,904.62
Total undisbursed                                                 1,119.20  1.119.20
La  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated tvice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b  The original principal of credits under replenishments 1 to 3 has been increased
by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the devaluation of
the United States dollar in 1972 and 1973.
Lc  Credits funded out of IDA's 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs.  Amounts
of principal are calculated at the rate of exchange in effect at the time of
negotiations; amounts undisbursed are calculated at the rate of exchange in
effect on September 30, 1984, and the US$ equivalent for fully disbursed credits
funded out of IDA's 6th Replenisbment is calculated at the rate of exchange
in effect on the dates of disbursement.
Id  Became effective on June 19, 1984.
Le  Effective December 20, 1984.
/f  Effective October 25, 1984.
L&  Not yet effective.



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1984) /a
Fiscal                                                               Amounts in US$ Million
Year           ObliRor                 Type of Business             Loan   Equity    Total
1969    Karnaphuli Paper Mills Ltd.   Pulp & Paper Products          5.60    0.63      6.23
1979    Highspeed Shipbuilding &
Heavy Engineering Co., Ltd.   Shipbuilding                   1.20     0.36      1.56
1980    Industrial Promotion and
Development Company of         Development
Bangladesh, Ltd.               Finance Company                -        1.05     105
Total Rross commitments                                              6.80      2.04     8.84
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales             5.60      0.63     6.23
Total now held by IFC                                                1.20      1.41     2.61
Total undisbursed                                                    0.65       -       0.65
Lat  The folloving IFC investment has been approved but not yet signed:
1982    Bata Shoe Co.                   Shoe Manufacturing
(Bangladesh) Ltd.              and Tannery                  2.7        .5       3.2



-32-
ANNEX III
Page I
BANGLADESH
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
SuRPlementarl Proiect Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Kev Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
2 Years.
Cb) Agencies preparing the project:
UNESCO/UNDP.
(c) Date of first preparation mission by IDA and date of
first mission to consider the project:
September 1983.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
September 1984.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
February 19, 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days after signature
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action:
None



-33-
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III: Special Condition of effectiveness would be:
(a) signing of technical assistance agreements between GOB
and UNDP, and UNICEF, and SIDA (paragraph 56); and
(b) approval of Project Proforma (paragraph 66).
OTHER
CONDITIONS:  The Government would:
(a) introduce a liberalized promotion policy in Grades I and II
by January 31, 1986 (paragraph 32);
(b) institute a new textbook policy by January 1, 1987
(paragraph 37);
(c) introduce the new teacher training program by
January 1, 1987 (paragraph 45);
(d) introduce the new student assessment system by January 1,
1987 (paragraph 47); and
(e) institute a policy on non-formal basic education by
June 30, 1988 (paragraph 55).
( 



'i. 2-ft
.:4 A,                                                                                                            _U;7TRI   RVA,  UC
7i
:-M
k""OCX 7
A 11
M,                                                               A
DA
4AON
A
NISANN L                                   tiw                                AA                                               z:-!. Q
AGA
v'
J
-j
zh6
RAIIIJ,N
llu
OA. NAT.               P U
muK
:6
Ai
3
-:'JIPAAAAAAPA i,
_47            xit       CL.
V
14IN 0
eq                       GG
At                    (AL
PORSA     P.47.LA                   0
'AQP    0 tjA21G .1  r-                                                                                                                                                       N J
, -         0                                                           .1                                                c ai    cr,
&VATPUP(-
e MADA                                                                                                                        %,                                      L.
M-LU)                                                                              Z.-Ir
It                  r::z                                                                                                                                           .4
Ill                                                                                                                                     i     Ct.
'B  Of G    R.    om%o
KI%WA
OAT                                                                                                           11    "          -    A
-314A  RGAJ                     4A
HA;UMo    N
%ANC.L                                                            ma^,Lrl
R A
IOURGAPURt,
o                                                                                                     IAR                                                      A
w.Lu.  t                                                           I
I           L
JL       0
AN
-NIT 01iC'
t. T. T/,.
Atz I P, 11    A
I N   D  .1 A                                                                                                                             J#
k4



-Meltpolitrl Bondarl     |                                                                                                                                xr s,w^c X    JE 
CM'  I N D I A   s   G\.                                                                                                                                 ,r    \           .      : \ s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 
I   S   I     >           >wr~~~~~VB - 'abrfrr                                                                                                                     i      Y~I pu
\      ZiADES  A                    bWFr                                         ,   10   0   O   J   5                                                                       ' iSB URMAk
Z ~ ~ ~ ~            ~~~                S |   e    o  -ne  R.s"r,e                       0        2        *0        a        0        SU£FOINENIDblStT N                            Ab                    . .i        _
I  §                      d  VB-rhsr'   '-   '                                         '         '        '           ,lb  nd  iricrnecub,vsIre  'A4S!ire  gsh  ^,\\,roX
>   .2@hvrCr.tlswte                                                                                                                                    t-   yC r;                  ;\^    
<   \    .tS         *t  1   0 r kP tffirb                                                                             .                                                '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
_ \_/} xe>tClUHltA rrararr4bonrd UpUth a<~~~~~~~~.3lr 52,18b\  
iJ@l   )  ....   _  aaS1S8               9,0                                             9t1                                             9$r            \4g          '  ''  $~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N






