Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5362-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
February 25, 1985
South Asia Projects Department
Education and Human Resources Division
T'his document hias a restricted disteibution and mayv be used kw recipients onls- in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mayv not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY      ETS
1 Taka          US$0.03
26.2 Taka   -   US$1.00
FISCAL YEAT
July 1 - June 30
SCHOOL YEAT
Grades I - X : January - December
Grades XI and above : July - June
ADMINISTRATIVE UNITS
Division (4)   -  The largest unit below the national Government.
Zila (64)      -  The largest units within a Division (formerly District).
Upazila (460)  -  The basic local goverrnent unit (formerly Thana).
Union (6,500)  -  A grouping of villages with a local Council.
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AIND ACROYMS USED
AUEO    -    Assistant Upazila Education Officer
CLC     -    Community Learning Center
DPE     -    Directorate of Primary Education
DPEO    -    District Primary Education Officer
FD      -    Facilities Department
IMPACT  -    instructional Management by Parents, Community and Teachers
COB     -    Government of Bangladesh
uSC     -    Higher School Certificate
MDE     -    Ministry of Education
NAPE    -    National Academy for Primary Education
NCTB    -    National Curriculum and Textbook Board
NIEAER  -    National Institute of Educational Administration,
Extension and Research
PP      -    Project Proforma
PTA     -    Parent-Teachers Association
PTI     -    Primary Teachers Training Institute
SFYP    -    Second Five Year Plan
SIDA    -    Swedish International Develorment Authority
SMC     -    School Management Committee
SSC     -    Secondary School Certificate
TFYP    -    Third Five Year Plan
lUEC    -    Upazila Education Committee
'UEO    -    Upazila Education Officer
UNDP    -    United Nations Development Program
UNICEF  -    United Nations Cbildrens Fund
UPE     -    Universal Primary Education



BANGLADESH             FOR OFMICAUL USE ONLY
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents                 Page No.
BASIC DATA
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I. PRIMARY EDUCATION IN BANGLADESH ..... .... * * *...*........ .....    1
A. Introduction .1....................................... 
B.  The System ......................a. .....*..........      1
C. Problems and Issues .................................    2
D.  Goverment Plans and Programs ..        ......................    5
E. External Financing of Primary Education  ....     ........   6
F.  Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy ....     ...........   7
II.  THE PROJECT .............................................    8
A. Goals and Objectives ........................,             8
B.  Policy Reform/Dialogue ...................                9
C.  Physical Development . .................... .. ........ .  12
D.  Teacher Training ................. ...................  13
E.  Curriculum Development ...........................  13
F.  Instructional Materials  ................ .........    14
G.  Management/Administration Improvement ..     .............  14
H.  Project IMPACT ....................... ............... .   16
I.  Technical Assistance Summary ........................  16
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND
DISBURSEMENTS .........................................   17
A. Project Costs .......................................  17
B. Financial Plan ..................................1. ,     19
C.  Recurrent Expenditure .................... ...........    20
D. Implementation    ................................   21
E.  Accounting and Auditing .............................   22
F.  Procurenent .......... a......................   22
G.  Disbursements     ................................   23
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ................................   24
A.  Benefits ......................................   24
B.  Risks         ................................   25
V.  AGREEMENITS RE&CHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...................  26
This Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Bangladesh in
September/October 1984. Mission members were Messrs. R. Cambridge (Mission
Leader), A. Andonyadis (Architect), T. Scbmidt (Management Training Specialist),
Mo. L. Dove (General Educator,Consultant), and Ms. A. Titus (Instructional
Materials Specialist, Consultant). Ms. E. Schaengold (Loan Officer) and Ms. I.
Zalitis (SIDA) also participated in the mission. Ms. Pak assisted in preparing
the Report.
This document ha a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its nents nay not otherwise be disled without World Bank authorization.



- ii 
ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators.
2. Performance Indicators - Credit 1054-BD.
3.  Projections of Primary School Requirements.
4. Policy and Project Component Monitoring Benchmarks.
5.  Annual Civil Works Progran 1985-1990.
6. Phasing of shortened Pre-service Teacher Training Program.
7. Technical Assistance and Fellowship Program.
8. Schedule of Appointment of Additional Staff.
9. Project Costs:
Table 1: Summary Account by Project Component.
Table 2: Sunuma-y Account by Year.
Table 3: Summary Costs by Component and Category of Expenditure.
10.  Projections of Education Expenditures.
11. Implemetation Schedule.
12. Forecast of Expenditures and Disbursements.
13. Selected Documents in Project File.
CERTS
1. Educational Structure of Bangladesh.
2. Organization of the Directorate of Primary Education.
3. Organization of the Project Implementation System.
MAP
Map of Bangladesh Showing Project Upazilas.



BANGLADESE
SBCOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Population (1983)                                  95.9 million
Rate of Growth                                     2.5%
GNP Per Capita (1983)                              us$ 116
Literacy Rate                                      26Z
Male                                            33Z
Female                                          13%
Primary School Enrollments (1984) iJ
Age Group                                       6 - 10 years
Population                                      15.6 million
Enrollment                                      8.45 million
Enrollment Ratio Sf                             54%
Z Girls                                         40Z
_ Boys                                          59%
Number of Schools                                  47,000
Government                                      36,700
Non-Government                                  7,300
Madrasah (Ibtedai)                              2,950
Z Rural                                         92%
Number of Teachers                                 188,284
Male                                            173,371 (92Z)
Female                                          14,913 (8Z)
Z Trained                                       70Z
Number of Teacher Traininm Institutes              47
Average Number of Teachers per School            4
Education Expenditures (1983)
Education Expenditures as a % of GDP                                   1.2%
Development Expenditures (Primary) as % of Total Education
Development Expenditures (SFYP)                                      46%
Recurrent Expenditures (Primary) as Z of Total Education
Recurrent Expenditures                                               51%
Recurrent Cost per Primary Student (Tk 164)                            US$6.30
LI  See Annex I for Comparative Education Indicators.
.f  Gross enrollment ratios, including overage and underage students.



-iv-.
BANGLADESH
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:       People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:          SDR 80.1 million (US$ 78.0 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard
Proiect:        The project would finance the first three-years of the Govern-
ment's five-year investment program (FY1986-90) which is a part
of the longer term strategy to achieve Universal Primary Educa-
tion (UPE) by the year 2000. The main objectives of the project
would be to (a) increase enrollments through improving and
expanding primary school facilities, and the introduction of
more liberal promotion policies; (b) improve the quality of
instruction through the reform of the primary teacher training
program, curriculum improvements including the student assess-
meut system, and increased supply of instructional materials and
textbooks; and (c) reduce costs through expanding the low-cost
experimental instructional program Project IMPACT, increasing
teacher utilization patterns, utilizing lower cost school con-
struction designs and techniques, and introducing selective cost
recovery mechanism in the school textbook provision program.
The project would also improve the management and the
administration of the primary school system by strengthening
key institutions, training staff, and the development of manage-
ment information snd project support communications systems.
Risks:          The major risks which the project faces are the reformed teacher
training program and liberalized promotion policy which are
likely to be resisted initially by the primary school teachers
union. Hovever, the phased introduction of these programs which
are linked to the implementation of a redesigned career develop-
ment structure for teachers should minimize teacher resistance.
Another risk is the potential for overlapping functions and
responsibilities between the various levels of administration
due to the new decentralized process. Measures have been taken
to minimize this risk including: (a) development of management
information and project support communication systems;
(b) delegation of implementation responsibility; (c) provision
of special training for implementation staff; and (d) provision
of training, evaluation, and administrative re-organization.



-V-
Estimated Cost: /                                    local    Forehin    Total
~~US$ miillion-
Physical Development           45.85    16.54        62.39
Teacher Training                 1.20     0.68        1.88
Curriculum Development           1.00     1.14        2.14
Instructional Materials         7.56      6.25       13.81
Nanagement Improvement           1.25     0.53        1.78
Project IMPACT                   0.29     0.11        0.40
Total Base Costs           57.15    25.25       82.40
Contingencies
Physical                    2.86      1.26        4.12
Price                      12.28      4.56       16.84
Total Project Costs        72.29    31.07       103.36
/a  Includes taxes of US$ 6.24 million equivalent.
Financing Plan:                                      Local    ForeiRn    Total
IDA                            50.23    27.77        78.00
UNDP                             1.13     1.17        2.30
UNICEF                           3.88     1.06        4.94
SIDA                            1.11      1.07        2.18
Govertment                     15.94       -         15.94
Total                      72.29    31.07      103.36
Estimated
Disbursement:        IDA FY              FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
Annual              3.14   10.97   17.25   21.17   25.47
Cumulative          3.14   14.11   31.36   52.53   78.00
Economic
Rate of Return:      Not applicable



-1-
I. PRIMARY EDUCATION IN BANGLADESH
A. Introduction
1.01    Bangladesh, with an area of 56,000 square miles, is one of the most
densely populated countries in the world. The population of 96 million is
growing at an annual rate of 2.5X, and by the year 2000, is expected to
increase to 140 million with the school-age population having doubled.
Ninety percent of the people live in rural areas, and of these 80% are
dependent on agriculture at the subsistence level. Unemployment and under-
employment are rampant in both rural and urban areas and the average per.
capita income is only US$ 116. About four-fifths of the population are below
the poverty line in terms of minimum daily caloric intake and the national
illiteracy rate is around 74%. Poverty, malnutrition, unemployment and
illiteracy are all problems vhich affect Bangladesh's development efforts.
These have been further compounded by the scarcity of domestic resources.
While education and training are not the only solutions to these problems,
there is considerable evidence to support the proposition that investments in
human capital development, particularly at the lowest level, can have an
imediate and dramatic impact on agriculture output, fertility rates and
labor productivity. 1/ Universal Primary Education (UPE) in Bangladesh is
therefore not just a necessary social requirement but an integral part of its
development strategy.
B. The System
1.02    The education system comprises about 50,000 institutions, 250,000
teachers and over 10 million students. At the base of the system is the
primary school which lasts for five years and is intended for 6-10 year old
students. Of the approximately 47,000 primary schools in the country, 782
are government schools where no fees are charged and the teachers ase govern-
ment employees. Other types of primary schools include a small number of
government-recognized private fee-paying schools in urban areas,
non-recognized private primary schools which do not meet government require-
ments for teacher and curriculum standards, and the Ibtedai which is a part
of the parallel Madrasah religious education system. Above the primary level
there are Junior High Schools which offer only Grades VI-VIII, High Schools
for Grades VI-I, and Intermediate Colleges for Grades XI and XII. The first
national level examination, the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) is taken
at the end of Grade X and the Higher School Certificate (uSC) examination at
the end of Grade XII. With HSC passes, students can go on to either Degree
Colleges whicb offer a BA (two-year) or BA Honors (three-year) course; or one
of six universities. Post graduate studies are available at all univer-
sities. Chart 1 shows the educational structure and pyramid in Bangladesh.
1.03    Xanaxement of Primary Education.  The Directorate of Primary Educa-
tion (DPE) is responsible for the implementation of primary education
policies and programs and the administration of all government owned primary
schools, Primary Teachers Training Institutes (PTI) and the National Academy
for Primary Education (NAPE). The DPE works in conjunction with other
1J World Development Report, 1980.



-2-
attached departments and autonomous institutions of the Ministry of Education
(MDE) to implement its programs. The Facilities Department (FD) is given
major responsibility for the primary scboo' construction program.   The
National Institute for Education Administration Extension and Research
(NIEAER) plays a significant role in training of management staff and the
National Curriculum and Textbook Board (NCTB) is responsible for the produc-
tion and distribution of textbooks, and primary school curriculum and student
assessment/examination development. In keeping with the Government's deci-
sion to decentralize administrative functions, increased responsibility for
implementing primary education programs has been give:n to the zila and
upazilas. Upazila Education Committees (NECs) have been formed and are nov
involved in the supervision of primary schools, and the selection of teachers
under guidelines established by the MOE whereby 50% of teachers must be
female. UECs also are involved in monitoring the attendance and performance
of teachers, distribution of books and instructional materials, and the
management of selected in-school programs involving community participation.
The Committee coordinates its efforts with the School Management Committees
(SMC) and Parent-Teachers Associations (PTA) which are established for each
primary school.
C. Problems and Issues
1.04    The major problems of primary education in Bangladesh are lov enroll-
ments, high dropout and repetition rates, inadequate curriculum and weak
teaching reflected in poor student achievement, unequal opportunity for poor
and female students, and the Government's long term ability to finance free
primary education. While these problems persist, a redefinition and refocus-
ing on their causes have dictated alternative and additional solutions to
those previously attempted. Under the first primary education project
(Credit 1054-BD), a number of studies were undertaken to further determine
answers to the three major questions which characterize the primary education
sub-sector in Bangladesh. These are (a) why are parent reluctant to enroll
their children, especially girls in primary schools? (b) why do most
children dropout between Grades I and III? and (c) what are the i fitations
to rapidly expanding the primary education system? The focus of these
studies was the parents and society, the child and the school environment,
and Government and its financial resources. j/ Two factors emerge as being
central to the reason why parents do not enroll their children and/or
withdraw them from school prematurely.
1.05    Low Enrollment/Opportunity Cost of Labor.  About 70% of parents
identified reasons that related to their economic status and the fact that
the child is an important source of labor as reasons for non-enrollment of
children. By age 8, boys are expected to be as active as an adult in
agriculture work and by age 6, girls are already active in the household and
helping their mothers in rice processing activities. Primary school age
children are thus integrated from their earliest years in the subsistence
activities of the family. A marginal farmer or landless peasant cannot
therefore afford to hire adult labor or forego the income from the labor of
his children. Further, the benefits of primary education are also not
1/ See list of studies in Annex 13.



-3-
readily apparent to parents vho are illiterate as vell as poor. To this
parent, a child who can read, write and count is likely to aspire to
activities which vill take him away from the iumediate labor requirements of
the parent. The home of the illiterate does not foster an environment of
books and learning. The tendency therefore is for poor and illiterate
parents to never enroll their children and if they do, are more likely to
vithdraw them after two years when the necessity for the child's labor can no
longer be foregone. It has been found in other countries that parents are
more likely to allow their children to attend school if the education system
is adjusted to the rhythm of economic activity in the community. Flexible
scheduling of school hours and calenders to reflect local timing of local
planting and harvesting would make education more available to children
involved in agricultural work. The Government plans to introduce flexible
scheduling in primary scbools in 1986.
1.06    Female Enrollment/Socio-Relizious Traditions.  Social and religious
traditions affect the enrollment of girls. When girls reach puberty, par-
ticularly if they are from the lover strata in society, they are not allowed
to move around freely. Further, if a poor family can afford to send a child
to school, it would most likely be a son for it is generally believed that
girls will eventually leave the family to be married. Ninety-three percent
of primary school teachers are male and this further discourages parents from
enrolling their daughters in school. Although attitudes are changing, only
about 40% of the girls cohort ever enroll in schools, and retention to Grade
V is less than one-third of the initial enrollment. Bovever, this situation
is expected to improve with the nev guidelines for recruiting female teachers
(para 1.03) and other project interveutions (paras 2.10 and 2.14).
1.07    While the principal actor in determining enrollment is the parent,
the school and the activities which take place there determine the child's
attitude to school and his/her desire to continue once enrolled. The ade-
quacy of physical facilities, training and attitudes of teachers, relevance
of curriculum and student assessment systems, and the availability of text-
books and instructional materials, all influence this attitude.
1.08    Phvsical Facilities.  Only about 30% of the schools are generally
well constructed (brick walls, cement roofs and floors) and have the required
classrooms and furniture. The majority are constructed with bamboo walls, CI
sheet roofs and earth floors, and are usually in need of constant repair in
order to withstand the rigors of the tropical climate. The majority of these
do not have separate classrooms, and the bamboo screens which are used as
partitions are usually insufficient to keep out the noise and facilitate an
atmosphere conducive to educational activity. About 70% of these schools
have no latrines, 25% have no blackboards and a further 10% have no water
supply (tubevell). The lack of benches and desks is also critical, and only
half of all students can be properly seated. Crowded, uncomfortable and
unsanitary facilities not only deter the child, make it difficult to teach
and learn, but also persuade parents that the child would be better off at
home or in the field.
1.09    Teacher Trainink.  The training of primary teachers consists
primarily of one year of pre-service training at the PTI with only limited
follow-up in-service training. The pre-service training is costly, outdated,



-4-
overtheoretical, and largely irrelevant to the skills required by teachers.
In-service recurrent teacher training is also unsystematic and inadequate,
focusing on the primary curriculum through short PTI-based courses and
neglecting other needs such as induction trainiog of new teachers, develop-
ment of classroom teaching and management skills, and preparation of teacher.
for advancement into head teacher and AVUO positions. Under Credit 1054-BD,
a successful low-cost system of recurrent in-service school level training
through mobile supervisers/trainers (AUE0) was establibhed. The progrsm was
however limited to the 43 Upazila project area, so that nationally, AUEOs
remained largely underutilized. Improper training force many teachers to
resort to the memorization/rote learning technique of teaching supplemented
by large doses of corporal punishment. These techniques are also vays of
maintaining some semblance of order in overcrowded classrooms where
teacher:student ratios range from as high as 1:100 in Grade I to 1.12 in
Grade V. Inadequate training also limits the career development potential of
teachers. This factor, coupled vith inadequate compensation, has a negative
impact on the attitude of teachers, many of whom take part-time jobs to
supplement their incomes, often leading to frequent absences from scbool.
1.10    Curriculum.  The relevence of the school curriculum is one of the
major factors which determines school enrollment. The curriculum for Grades
I-V covers Bengali, English, Arithmetic, Environmental Sciences, Physical
Education, Arts and Crafts, Music and Religion. The fact is, this curriculum
has no practical training and is hardly ever taught. Instead, it prepares
students for examinations, possible advancement to the secondary school level
and social mobility. This lack of relevance is complicated by the absence of
a tradition in Bangladesh of systematic evaluation and testing of existing
and new curricula to establish their feasibility. Teachers are given little
support and advice on vsys of reducing content overload and zaking the cur-
riculum more attractive and relevant to students.
1.11    Student Assessment.  In November of each year, primary school stu-
dents are tested. However, these tests are not designed to evaluate the
student's progress but rather as an instrument to determine grade promotion.
This encourages rote-memorization and stunts creativity at an early age. For
those who 'fail', it has a devastating effect on self-image and enthusiasm
for school. Because of the inherent weakness of the tests/examination and
the low proficiencies of the teachers, failure is high and repeaters and
dropout increase.
1.12    Textbooks and Instructional Materials.  Instructional materials
provide the bridge between the theory and guidelines of the curriculum and
the ectual lesrning activities concucted in the classrooms. Instructional
materials are also essential in supporting teachers. The lack of these
materials in primary school classrooms severely hampers the educational
process. Lov-cost instructional materials (manuals), teaching aids (maps,
charts, globes, etc.), consumable materials (pencils, writing books, slates,
etc.) and textbooks are either unavailable or limited in supply. The quality
of materials supplied also requires improvement. The most important of these
is the textbook. By 1990, it is estimated that about 20 million textbooks
would be required annually. The basic problem, however, is not the volume of
production, but the content of the textbook. It has to be improved to
reflect the demands of the curriculum and the learning needs of the children.
They would alsc have to be durable if govermsent expenditure is to be kept



-5-
within reasonable limits. Publishing experti3e in the country is limited,
standards of printing are low, the raw materials used are inadequate for the
purpose, and tbe distribution network weak. The lack of a proper planning
and production control system has meant that textbooks are frequently
unavailable in the appropriate quantities at the start of the school year.
1.13    The Textbook Wing of the NCTB is central to the textbook production
and distribution process. Its approval is required for all textbooks used in
schools, and it is the publisher of all books at the primary level. The
Board is financially and administratively weak. A government decision that
books should only be sold at the cost of production has meant losses. The
staff of the Board are mainly deputed from schools and colleges, and none
have commercial or publishing expertise. There are weaknesses in the report-
ing and decision making counand and little responsibility is delegated. The
editorial department provides little input to the books it handles, and too
little time is given to essential activities like testing, evaluation and
production control. Finally, the near monopoly of the NCTB has provided
little opportunity for private publishers to develop the capacity to put
additional texts on the market.
1.14    Government.  The role of government, the impact of its subsectoral
policies and programs, and the attitude of the community to these interven-
tions affect school enrollment. In 1974. the Government nationalized all
primary scbools and it used the control of schools as one way of spreading
its influence in each village, as well as a method of demonstrating its
concern vith issues of equity and justice. The primary school, hovever, had
always been the domain of the parents and community. While goverrment invol-
vement resulted in additional facilities, to a certain extent its increased
activity diminished community participation. Enrollment increased in the
Hadrasahs and unregistered schools. Nationalization also meant that teachers
became government employees and bad to be qualified. This emphasis on
-qualifications' substantially reduced the number of women who were pre-
viously employed by the villages as teachers and ayahs of the small children.
1.15    The Government's use of its financial reoources and the focus of its
investments are most critical at the primary level. The majority of primary
education development expenditures have been concentrated on 'vil works,
while 96% of all recurrent expenditures has gone to teacher an administra-
tive staff salaries. Although books and instructional materials have been
financed under the development budget, not much is allocated to institutional
strengthening, training and software development. As these development
programs conclude, a dramatic shift in the sharing of the recurrent budget
would be required to continue financing inputs other than teacher salaries.
D. Government Plans and ProRrams
1.16    Under Bangladesh's three previous development plans: First Five-Year
Plan (FFYP) (1973-78), Two-Year Plan (TYP) (1978-80) and Second Five-Year
Plan (SFYP) (1980-85) education spending was aimed at (a) improving the
quality of education by increasing the number of trained teachers at the
primary and secondary (mainly science) levels; and (b) the expansion of
facilities to increase enrollments at the primary, vocational and technical
levels. Under the first two plans, implementation was generally unsatisfac-
tory because of financial, political and social constraints. Under the FFYP



-6-
And TYP only 18.8Z and 15.3% respectively of the education budget was allo-
cated to primary education, but less than one-half of these amounts were
actually utilized. Funds were diverted to the higher levels, a partial
reflection ,f the limited absorptive capacity of the primary sub-sector.
Physical targets were not achieved. Only 50% (10,000) of the primary schools
to be constructed vere c.upleted by the end of the TYP period; dropout rates
were not reduced, and the PTI output of new, especially female teachers,
never approached Plan targets.
1.17    The SFYP marked the beginning of the Perspective Plan (1980-2000).
Universal Primary Edu-ation CUPE) with a goal of enrolling 91X of the primary
age group (6-in) by 2000 without compulsion is a central objective of this
long term plan. The target of UPE by 2000 would require that about 75Z of
the primary school age population be enrolled by 1990, increasing to 91% by
2000. These targets imply tlat, by 1990, an additional 49,000 teachers would
have to be hired, 128,000 classrooms constructed and about 45 million text-
books produced and distributed. The estimated annual cost of this size of
investment would be about Tk2,845 million or about US$190 million in current
prices. This vould represent about twice the total development outlays for
pri-mary education under the Second Five Year Plan and is clearly not
feasible. The Government has, therefore, scaled down this ambitious program
to fit more closely with resource availability and absorptive capacity. By
the end of the TFYP in FY90, about 60% of the age group would be enrolled and
by the year 2000 close to 78% of the age group would be in primary schools
(Annex 3).
1.18    Under the SFYP, the trend of diverting resources from the primary
subsector to the higher levels was reversed. Primary education development
expenditures reached 46% of the education sector and reflected the Govern-
ment's commitment and priority.  The strategy was built around school cou-
struction, decentralization of administration, improved teacher training and
supervision, and the increased supply of free textbooks, and uniforms for
girls. Achievements have been better under this Plan although a decision
vas taken to discontinue the supply of free uniforms for girls because of
wealnesses in production and distribution. Utilization of financial alloca-
tions and physical progress reflect improved implementation and absorptive
capacities. Indications are that enrollments have increased by 4.7% (10.7%
for girls) and the dropout rate reduced by about 2%.
1.19    The Third Five Year Plan CTFYP) (1985-90) is the second five-year
investment program of the Perspective Plan period. The Government's strategy
for achieving UPE remains essentially the same as under the SFYP. One addi-
tional objective would be to ensure that at least 50% of the children who
enzoll in 1985 complete Grade V. Emphasis will, however, be given to
strengthening institutional capacities, increased community participation,
and finding lover cost solutions to providing education opportunities.
E. External Financinz of Primary Education
1.20    The Government has received assistance for primary education from
a number of multilateral and bilateral sources. With the exception of IDA,
UNICEF has been by far the largest donor to the subsector. During the
1970-82 period, it committed over US$ 30.0 million to Bangladesh. Its major
programs have been to assist primary teacher training, textbook production



-7-
and distribution, the supply of school materials, support for experimental
programs, and the construction and rehabilitation of primary schools.  Assis-
tance for primary teacher training included the in-service training of
teachers in the new curriculum introduced in 1978. Resources have also been
provided for the construction of four new PTIs and women's hostels at 39
PTIs, in addition to the upgrading of other facilities and providing teaching
materials and aids. UNICEF is also providing 400,000 sets of Grade I and II
textbooks for girls and over 1,000 tots of paper per year for the printing of
these books. A third program involves the distribution of 10,000 primary
school kits which include basic educational materials. Lastly, UNICEF is
supporting the development of innovations in the sub-sector. The first of
these is the Comrnnity Learning Center (CLCs). Pilot programs are planned
for 50 CLCs with the Curriculum Wing of the NTCB as the focal point for
development. Support was also provided for the Village Education Resource
Center (VEIC) which has pioneered the development of rsany materials and aids
for primary education, such as clay alphabet letters, bamboo educational
toys, silk screen printings on jute, etc.
1.21    Both the UNDP/UNESCO and Ford Foundation have provided assistance
for educationzl planning and administration. A major part of this has been
devoted to the development of the primary education. A UNESCO team assisted
the Government in preparing the Universal Primary Education Program which was
launched under the SFYP. OXFAM, the USA and Canada have assisted the
Bangladesh Rural Advancement Council (BRAC) in undertaking non-formal
programs in which primary education and literacy programs were a major part.
DAJIDA has also supported primary education under its mass education program
in Noakhali. The Swiss, Dutch, Norwegian and Danish governments have also
supported the Underprivileged Children's Education Program (UCEP) which is a
non-formal program aimed at imparting primary education to older disadvan-
taged children in the urban areas.
F. Bank Role and Sector Lendiug Strategy
1.22    IDA has approved eight Credits totalling US$ 161.9 million to the
education sector in Bangladesh. These have been aimed mainly at increasing
the supply and improving the quality of agriculture and technical manpower.
This strategy has been dictated by Bangladesh requirements in the
post-independence period. Support for primary education and vocational
training projects in the more recent years focus on basic needs and represent
a shift in the emphasis of lending from the upper to lower levels of the
education system. More important, this strategy is identical with the
priorities of the Government as outlined in its development plans (paras
1.16-1.19). Two projects, Credit 407-BD (Agriculture University and
Polytechnics) and Credit 621-BD (Agriculture and Rural Training) were closed
in 1980 and 1983 respectively. Project Completion Reports for both were
issued in June 1984. Audit reports have not yet been issued. Both projects
were extended beyond their original closing dates largely because of weak
implementation caused by the Governmzc cs failure to provide adequate local
funds and a reluctance to appoint expatriate consultants. A number of les-
sons were, however, learned from these projects. Under Credit 407-BD, it was
demonstrated that an important prerequisite to project design and implementa-
tion for training projects in the agriculture sector, is close cooperation
between the Ministries of Education and Agriculture. When these linkages
were ultimately forged, the University's program of extension tr2iaing vs



-8-
integrated with efforts of the Ministry of Agriculture and it not only
enhanced the quality of extension, but also increased the relevance of the
university's research program. Under Credit 621-BD, an experiment with
grouping the houses of extension agents to facilitate interaction of ideas
did not work. This was an expensive lesson because the new system of exten-
sion adapted by the Government and supported by IDA (Credit 729-BD, Extension
and Research) made obsolete this component as well as the in-service training
planned under the project. It also pointed out the need for closer in-house
collaboration during project design. Improved coordination both in IDA and
Bangladesh has diminished these problems and the most recent agriculture
training project (Credit 1396-BD, Agriculture Training II) attest to this.
1.23    The only Credit for primary education is Credit 1054-BD, US$ 40.0
million of 1980. The project supports the UPE goal outlined by the Govern-
ment under the Perspective Plan and the SFYP. It has as its specific objec-
tives: increased access; reduced wastage; improved quality of instruction;
and reduced costs. The project covers 4,000 schools in 43 Upazilas and
finances the inputs of facilities, textbooks, materials (including girls
uniforms) and training of supervisors (AUEOs), all of which are also sup-
ported by a Government finance6 program in the remaining Upazilas. The
project also includes assistance to NAPE, pilot experiments with project
DMPACT and recurrent in-service teacher training. Studies on strengthening
key institutions (NCTB, NIEAER) and the impact of various project interven-
tions on parental, teacher and children's attitudes, enrollments, student
achievements and community support have also been supported. Performance to
date has been encouraging with good utilization of allocated funds and the
achievenent of physical and educational targets (Annex 2). On the educa-
tional side, total enrollments in the project area have increased by about
7.4% per annum compared with a 4.7Z national average, with girls enrollments
increasing to about 45% of the age group compared with a 40X national
average. Overall attendance increased from 67X to 72Z, while repetition and
dropouts show declines of 4% and 2% respectively. The completed studies have
shown which of the interventions have had an impact on overall enrollments
and dropouts. More specifically, these studies confirmed that the provision
of girls' uniforms do not necessarily increase female enrollments. The
Government's decision to discontinue the supply of free uniforms to girls
(para 1.18) is therefore not expected to negatively influence girls enroll-
ment. The studies did show hovever that the regular attendance of teachers
and more female teachers did influence enrollments in general, and female
participation more particularly. The provision of school materials, includ-
ing well constructed and sanitary facilities had a positive influence on
community, teacher, and student attitudes to schooling.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Goals and Obiectives
2.01    The project would finance the first three years of the Government
five-year (FY1986-90) investment program which supports its strategy to
achieve Universal Primary Education. The project would also build on the
experience gained under Credit 1054-BD and pursue three similar objectives
*para 1.23). These would be to: (a) increase enrollments through



-9-
(i) improving and expanding primary school facilities; and (ii) the introduc-
tion of more liberal promotion V3licies; (b) imProve the quality of instruc-
tion through (i) the reform of the primary teacher training program,
(ii) curriculum improvements including the student assessment system, and
(iii) increased supply of instructional materials and textbooks; and
(c) reduce costs through (i) expanding the low-cost experimental instruc-
tional program - Project IMPACT; Cii) increasing teacher utilization patterns
(Culti-gradelmulti-subject teaching); (iii) utilizing lower cost school
construction designs and techniques; and (iv) introducing selective cost
recovery mechanisms in the school textbook program. The project would also
improve the management and the administration of the primary school system
through the strengthening of institutions, training of staff, and development
of management information and project support coumiunications system.
B. Policy Reform/Dialo_ue
Community Control and Pinancinr: The Non-Formal Option
2.02    At present about 46% of the primary school age children are not
enrolled in schools. Girls and the children of the landless in particular
make up the majority of these non-enrollees. It is projected that by 2000,
if all of the proposed policies are instituted, only about 78Z instead of the
91X of the age group would be enrolled in primary schools. Even this scaled
down program is optimistic and can easily be overtaken by population growth
pressures, as well as by the sheer cost of the program. With the realization
that (a) providing "free" and full access to all cannot be financially sup-
ported; and (b) many children cannot participate because of economic con-
straints (even if GOB were to provide everything), the Government must
develop alternatives. Movement toward coherent policies which embrace
non-formal schooling and meet the needs of the poor and out-of-school popula-
tion is required. Attempting to universalize formal primary education, if
only by keeping it as a national goal, is a step in the right direction of
equality. However, without actively supporting other efforts other than the
formal system, the risk is increased that primary education would not be
universalized. The Government, therefore, has two options. It can provide
general education for children and/or reach a larger percentage of the
population through a variety of non-formal programs aimed at children,
out-of-school youth and adults.
2.03    Bangladesh has had a heritage of non-formal village supported educa-
tion. Many communities, although economically poor, could continue to offer
support to basic education. The challenge is for the Government to discover
and develop the means for reviving this earlier tradition. The first step in
this direction is to accept the premise of community control and support and
to give more emphasis to non-formal activities. However, support of
non-formal activities requires national articulation and must contain more
realistic goals and objectives. Different kinds of support to attract com-
munities are available. The Government could provide block grants or match-
ing funds for local non-formal education activities. Support in the form of
consumables could also be considered. In such programs, the Government
should stress forcefully that its inputs are complementary and not a sub-
stitute for local support. By establishing a basic learning continuum for
each grade of the primary cycle, the Government can also facilitate children
of all ages from the non-formal system being given the opportunity to enter



-10-
the formal school system, when and if they so choose. Again, the Government
must be cautious of not formalizing non-formal programs. Recognition of a
range of approaches, teaching styles, roles of personuel and communities is
basic. The key to the non-formal system is the critical role of the com-
munity and the utilization of local people as teachers. The Government faces
an even more eifficult situation in recognizing non-formal systems. When
non-formal programs are brought into the fold of the formal system, they
often lose their momentum and community support. However, if the Government
fails to support these non-formal programs as one strategy for achieving UPE,
non-formal activities would continue to remain small and ineffective.  The
implication is that a policy which allows co-existence and support would
assist the country to reach UPE.
2.04    The major point of emphasis is that in the long term the government
cannot finance all of the required physcial and staff expansion for UPE. The
cost burden must be shifted and the "free" aspect of the present system
closely examined. Communities must be required to participate and share the
costs. The non-formal system must also be recognized as part of the thrust
to achieve UPE. In IDA's on-going dialogue with the Government, a program of
activities leading to the development of coherent policies has been dis-
cussed.  These monitoring bencbmarks (Annex 4) provide a timetable of events
which would lead to policy formulation and enunciation. During negotiations,
the Government agreed that it would undertake and complete a series of
studies, to review the efficacy of existing non-formal programs and develop
techniques for fostering community control and financing of basic education
programs. The Government also provided an assurance that by June 30, 1988,
the findings of these studies would be incorporated into a policy which would
be implemented.
2.05    Liberal Promotion.  Repetition is a major stumbling block to a more
efficient system. Repeaters swell class size, do not necessarily improve
performance, and often become dropouts. If primary education is to be
universalized, repetition in Grades I and II must be abolished, and a liberal
promotion policy instituted. During negotiations, the Government agreed that
by January 31, 1986, promotion from Grades I and II would be liberalized to
cut down on repetition. The Government also agreed to undertake studies to
determine the cost and benefits of liberalized promotion to Grade V, and to
focus on the diagnostic and remedial programs which would be a part of such a
policy.
2.06    Teacher Training. Utilization and Career Development.  With the
proposed changee in the primary school system, teacher requirements and
training programs would have to be reassessed. The existing program of
one-year Dre-service PTI training mixed with infrequent doses of in-service
training, would have to be revised and an integrated system of teacher train-
ing gradually instituted. The present requirement for PTI entrance is the
HSC. While this formal educational background is appropriate for Grades
III-V, it is not necessary for the first two years of the primary cycle. The
development of an integrated system of teacher recruitment, training and
career mobility whereby a SSC graduate can start in primary teaching (Grade
I), progress to being a qualified teacher (Grades II-V), a head teacher,
AXEO, UEO, and utlinately a DPEO would be developed.  The training program
would be based on induction training at the PTI, a major in-service program
over the middle years of teacher's career and culminating with a BA and X.Ed.



-11-
program at a Teachers Training College. Recruitment rules which reflect this
nev direction would be drawn up as part  f' the program. Before the new
program can be fully planned, a survey of existing teacher training needs is
required, and the Government initiated this survey prior to credit nego-
tiations. During negotiation, the Government agreed that (a) the ratio of
supervisors (AUEOs) to schools (teachers) would be increased to an average of
1:16 (64 teachers); and (b) that a suitably staffed Training and Personnel
Unit would be established by December 31, 1985 in the DPE (in place of the
existing Training Unit) to be responsible for developing a career development
structure for teachers.
2.07    As expenditures in the primary sector shift from the development to
the recurrent budget, maintenance, cost sharing, cost recovery, and alloca-
tion between activities becomes more critical. Requiring upazilas to partly
fintnce primary school maintenance would be necessary.  Asking parents to ;rY
even a nominal fee for books and other materials may be appropriate.
Ultimately, the major factor in the efficient management of the recurrent
budget would be to increase the performance of primary teachers whose
salaries constitute over 90Z of the budget. The present pattern of teacher
usage would have to be changed. Multi-grade and multi-subject teaching would
be introduced as a part of the new program. One outcome of this is the
average teacher:pupil ratio of 1:55 would be increased to 1:60. Research
'has shown that these levels have little effect on diminishing student learn-
ing outcomes. Liberalized promotion, and the construction of 4 and 5 class-
room schools would also facilitate the process of better teacher:pupil
ratios.
2.08    Textbook Policy.  Another major cost to the Government is the provi-
sion of free textbooks. The evidence is overwhelming that as enrollments
increase, continuation of the present policy of free books for all students,
in all grades each year cannot be sustained. It is estimated that costs
would increase tenfold in the next four years. Three options are available
to the Government: (a) free textbooks for all students in selected Grades;
(b) free texts to selected (poor) students in all grades; and (c) free texts
to be made available to all students, but to have these texts reused every
year. This reuse policy means that the books would have to be kept in school
and made with a higher quality of paper. A reconsideration only of which
students to give free textbooks does not lead to an appropriate textbook
policy. The financing, pricing, piblishing and distribution aspects also
need to be studied and incorporated in a new policy. During negotiationu,
the Government agreed to conduct a set of studies which relate to the major
aspects of textbook policy and then institute the new policy by January 1987
(Annex 4).
2.09    Maintenance. The maintenance of the primary school network is
central to the UPE program. The Facilities Department and the Upazila
Parishad would be responsible for this activity according to Government
procedures and guidelines. In the past, the allocations for maintenance,
when made, were inadequate and based (on inappropriate criteria. As part of
project development, criteria acceptabie to IDA were discussed with GOB, and
the Government completed prior to credit negotiations a plan for the
implementation, monitoring and sharing of maintenance responsibilities
between the Upazila and the Facilities Department. During negotiations, the
Government agreed that adequate annual budgetary allocations based on agreed



-12-
criteria would be made to Facilities Department and Upazilas for the main-
tenance of the primary schools, and that adequate allocations for other
recurrent expenditures in primary education would also be made to the DPE.
C. Physical Development (Proposed outlay US$ 62.39 million) jJ
2.10    Improvement in the pbysical conditions of primary schools is an
important factor in encouraging student enrollments and creating a suitable
teaching/learning environment. The school mapping exercise undertaken by the
Government showed that while there were sufficient schools in the country,
their classroom capacities and physical conditions were inadequate given the
size, location and projected growth of the school age population. As part of
UPE, a rationalization program has been undertaken. This includes:
(a) repairs to upgrade existing schools to acceptable standards;
(b) additions and extensions to classrooms of existing schools to meet
enrollment requirements of the school-s catchment arezs and (c) new schools
to fill existing gaps in access which result from the uneven distribution of
schools between villages. The project would support this national
rationalization effort by financing a part of the civil works program,
including the provision of school furniture. The central fer.ure of the
physical development effort would be the annual program which would be
developed. The program would be designed to concentrate the full capacity of
the Facilities Department on the specific Upazilas which have been targeted
for the Integrated School Development Program for that year. This approach
would differ from the previous practice where efforts were dissipated by the
Government undertaking construction work in all Upazilas at the same time.
School designs, furniture lists, and the criteria for school locations and
classroom calculations were reviewed during appraisal and found acceptable to
the Association. School construction would follow the methods developed
under Credit 1054-BD where alternative low-cost building designs were
developed.
2.11    The annual program would be the aggregation of the micro-level
integrated school development plans of the selected Upazilas. During nego-
tiations, the Goverument provided assurances that these upazilas would be
selected each year on the basis of criteria acceptable to IDA and would
include: (a) school mapping priorities; (b) educational indicators (low
enrollments, girls); (c) flood damage; and (d) other relevant factors to be
mutually agreed. Once the selection is made, the Facilities Department would
consult with the appropriate Upazila Education Co mittee so that a determina-
tion can be made of which schools or activities are to be taken up by the two
organizations during the year. This is a critical step in the process since
under the decentralized administration, each Upazila also undertakes an
Annual Development Plan. Within established guidelines, a proportion of
funds are to be spent on socio-economic infrastructure of which primary
school development is a part. During negotiations, the Government agreed
that no new school construction by the Upazilas would be undertaken unless it
conforms to the criteria established under the school mapping exercise.
During the tbree-year project period, approximately 11,400 new classrooms and
jJ This and subsequent statements of proposed outlays are baseline costs
including taxes.



-13-
650 AUEO offices would be constructed, 3,300 existing schools would be
repaired and 4,000 latrines and 3,600 tubewells installed. In addition, the
project would provide for the repair and reconstruction of 1,500 existing
schools which were damaged or destroyed during recent flooding (Annex 5).
The plan for the first year's (FY86) integrated school development program
was completed prior to credit negotiations. The annual preparation of these
plans and their review by IDA could be a part of the semi-annual conault-
ations which would be a part of the project.
D. Teacher TraininR (Proposed outlay US$ 1.88 million)
2.12    The objective of this component is the development of an innovative
structure for an integrated teacher training system. Support would
facilitate a phased introduction of a shortened pre-service training program
(Annex 6) and the gradual integration of pre-and-in-service teacher training.
This would involve the development of a mix of work-study, correspondence,
short PTI courses, and school-based recurrent training. The development of
teacher trainers at the PTIs, specialists at NAPE and AUEOs as school level
teacher trainers would also be supported. Their training would be
skills-based and oriented to upgrading their capabilities to manipulate the
curriculum and pedagogy, supervise trainees, prepare and utilize innovative
training materials, techniques and new methods of student evalua-
tion/assessment.
2.13    The teacher training program would be organized and supervised from
the DPE in conjunction with NAPE and the PTIs. During negotiations, the
Government agreed to establish by December 31, 1985, a Training and Personnel
Unit in the DPE to manage this program (para 2.06). During appraisal, a
timetable of monitorable benchmarks was established for the implementation of
the teacher training program (Annex 4). During the three year project period
it is expected that about 42,000 teachers would receive institutional train-
ing, and about 9,000 man-months of trainiug would be given to PTI instruc-
tors, NAPE staff and the AUEOs. Recurrent in-service training would be
offered to all teachers in the Upazilas selected for the Integrated School
Development program. During negotiations, the Government agreed that the
reformed teacher training program would be introduced by January 1, 1987.
The teacher training program would be supported by financing equipment,
vehicles, expert services, and fellowships.
E.  Curriculum Development (Proposed outla  7:S$ 2.14 million)
2.14    Making curricula relevant to local conditions, the learning require-
ments of students and the teaching capabilities of teachers would be the
objective of this component. Project assistance would strengthen the
capacity of the Curriculum Wing of the NCTB to plan, design, analyze, test
and disseminate curricula. The major activity would be the recurring process
of updating the subject matter in the school curriculum, developing an
appropriate balance and mix of time between the various subjects, reducing
content overload, and developing materials to supplement the textbooks.
Particular attention would be given to curriculum revision which would
improve the relevance of primary schools for girls. Positive female role
models would be written into the content of all subjects. Population educa-
tion which has already been incorporated in textbooks for Grades III-V and



-14-
the pre-service teacher training curriculum would also be revised and
expanded to include all Grades and the recurrent teacher training program.
2.15    The development of a more functional student assessment mechanism to
replace the "examinations" which are conducted at the primary level, is also
a central aspect of curriculum development. The new assessments would be
incorporated in Teacher's Editions of textbooks. They would be designed to
evaluate actual student achievement as well as to identify weaknesses and
gaps in student learning. It is expected that at the end of Grade V, the
student would have an assessment certificate which would no longer be based
on a pass/fail record but designed to reflect the actual level of achievement
at the end of five years of schooling. During negotiations, the Government
agreed to introduce by January 1, 1987, the new system of student assessment.
Curriculum development including a nev student assessment system would be
supported with equipment, expert services, fellowships, and training
materials.
F. Instructional Materials (Proposed outlay US$ 13.81 million)
2.16    To overcome the problem of a lack of materials in schools, assistance
would be designed to improve the quality and increase the supply of four
types of instructional materials.
(a) Teacher's Editions of Textbooks. The development, production
and distribution of teachet's manuals would be supported. These editions
would be integral to and be prepared in conjunction with the curriculum and
student assessment development programs. Development and testing would be
undertaken by the Textbook Wing of NCTB. Production and distribution would
be undertaken through the DPE. The development and distribution of teacher
textbooks would be assisted through the provision of expert services and
consumable materials.
(b) Teachin2 Aids and Basic Education Materials. Standard lists of
teaching aids and basic education materials have been developed. These have
been reviewed, and both the types and amounts to be procured were found
acceptable. The procurement of these learning materials from local sources
would be supported as part of the project.
(c) Textbooks. Support would include institution building activities
at the Textbook Wing of the ICTB as well as the procurement and distribution
of textbooks to schools. Assistance would be provided to streamline the
administrative framework of the NCTB. Its internal organizational structure
would be clarified, and the linkages with curriculum design and teaching
strengthened. Staff would be upgraded especially in the publishing and
editing areas through specialized training programs.
G.  ManaRement/Administration Improvement (Proposed outlay US$ 1.78 million)
2.17    Improvement of the management and administration of the primary
education subsector is indispensable to the efficient utilization of
resources, the implementation of programs, and the achievement of the UPE



-15-
objective. These improvements would be brought about by strengthening the
Directorate of Primary Education (DPE), improving the flow of management
information, and developing a project support comuunication system. These
objectives would be achieved through reorganization, staff training and
systems development.
2.18    The DPE would be reorganized on functional lines.  The Direc-
tor-General would be assisted by two Directors. One Director would be
responsible for Human Resources Development including career development,
training, supervision, establisbment and examinations and testing. The
second Director would be in charge of Program Development and his respon-
sibilities allocated for Finance and Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
(including Management Information) and Audit and Accounts (Chart 2). During
negotiations, the Government agreed that the DPE would be reorganized and
staffed in a manner and on a schedule acceptable to IDA.
2.19    The staff training program would be in three areas:
(a) Project-Related TraininR would be designed to assist the integrated
school development process. The training program vould include
orientation to project goals and activities, and the precise defini-
tion of the roles and responsibilities for implementation at each
level of the decentralized administration. School Management Commit-
tees (SHC), Parent-Teachers Association (PIAs) and Upazila Education
Committee personnel are expected to be trained in this program par-
ticularly in upgrading and institutionalizing micro-level planning
and monitoring capabilities.
(b) Supervisory Training would be provided for all zila and upazila level
officers. Because supervision of the primary school, and the perfor-
mance of teachers iS the main function of the officers at this
administrative level, the program would focus on: teacher supervi-
sion, school management, and personnel and program assessment.
(c) Xana2ement Traininz programs would be offered to all staff in the
DPE, NCTB, NAPE and Principals of PTIs. Program content would focus
mainly on planning, organization, and program analysis. The entire
training program for management improvement is a complex undertaking
and would be the responsibility of NIEAER which would also be
strengthened as a part of the program. The development of a training
plan including all elements of the program, would be developed and
reviewed by IDA prior to its implementation. Staff training would be
supported by financing vehicles, expert services, fellowships, and
training materials.
2.20    Management Information System.  Planning would be more effective when
based on reliable data. The MIS developed as part of the strengthening of
the DPE would achieve this objective. It would be operated by the Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit of the DPE, and provide both management control and
planning information. It would provide project-specific monitoring and
evaluative analyzes as well as serve the overall needs of the DPE. A major
part of this activity would be to provide formative and sum-ative evaluations
of program activities, maintain essential base-line data such as enrollments
(especially girls), teacher requirements and vacancies, attendance records,



-16-
civil works progress, and expenditure and disbursement records. Analytical
studies which demand a fuller appreciation of the recurrent costs of develop-
ment activities, the impact of experimental and regular programs, and
implications of alternative policies would be contracted to local specialized
educational institutions or local research consultant firms.
2.21    Proiect Support Communication System would be designed to increase
the participation and support of project actirities at the village level by:
(a) strengthening the effectiveness of field worker (UEO, AUEO, Sub-Assistant
Engineer) to provide technical services, supplies and education/information;
and (b) designing effective communication programs to encourage villagers to
draw on these services. Since the implementation of several components would
depend on the active participation of SMCs and PTAs, the PSC would ensure
that their inputs to the decision making process would be systematized, as
well as facilitating the speed and access of local personnel to the DPE. The
project would support the development of MIS and PSC by financing expert
services, fellowships, and training materials.
H. Proiect IMPACT (Proposed Outlay US$ 0.40 million)
2.22    Project IMPACT (Instructional Management by Parents, Community and
Teachers) is an economical and effective delivery system for primary educa-
tion that was introduced in 18 rural schools in Bangladesh in 1980. Pre-test
data from pilot schools indicated: (a) better student achievement; (b)
higher student enrollment; (c) higher student:teacher ratios, and a lower
student:textbook ratio; (d) the feasibility of replication; and Ce)
social/community acceptance of the system. The system utilizes programmed
teaching and learning materials where the instruction is organized into
modules. Teachers act as guides and monitors, while students work in peer
groups and follow group learning practices. Continuous evaluation is a part
of the system. Under the Credit 1054-BD, instructional modules were
developed, and a system established to continuously revise these modules.
2.23    The pilot program would be expanded to 300 schools.  One hundred
schools for the first year of the expansion program have already been
selected. The expansion would be managed by the Implementation Unit estab-
lished under the first project. It would be strengthened and vould work
closely with NAPE, NCTB, SMCs and PTAs. Support for the program would
include civil works and furniture, equipment, expert services, fellowships,
and consumable training materials.
I. Teachnical Assistance Summary (Proposed Outlay US$ 2.13 million)
2.24    The technical assistance to be provided under the proposed project
would comprise 9.25 staff-years of expert services, and 11 staff-years of
fellowship training and would be allocated as outlined in Annex 7.
2.25    The UNDP, UNICEF and SIDA would cofinance the project.  UNDP would
finance all technical assistance except for the Project IMPACT component.
UNICEF would finance all vehicle, equipment and learning materials costs
associated with the teacher training and curriculum development components.
SIDA would finance all costs associated with the Project IMPACT component.
The signing of technical assistance agreements between GOB, and UNDP, and
UNICEF, and SIDA would be a condition of credit effectiveness.



-17-
2.26    Project Proforma.  To ensure that sufficient funds are allocated for
all project components, the Government would prepare three Project Proforma
(PP) (one each for the DPE, NCTB and NIEAER). The PP would include a
detailed staffing program for each institution, and a schedule of appoint-
ments for additional staff. During negotiations the Government agreed that
it would maintain the schedules of additional staff appointments (Annex 8).
The approval of PP by the Goveroment would be a condition of credit effec-
tiveness.
III. PROJECT COST. FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMNTS
A. Project Costs
3.01    Sumuaries of cost.  The total cost of the five year investment
(1985-90) program including duties and taxes on imported goods is estimated
at about Tk 5,708.3 million or US$ 198.7 million equivalent.  The total cost
of the project [three years (FY86-88)] including duties and taxes on imported
goods is estimated at about Tk 2,919.0 million or US$ 103.4 million.
Detailed project costs by component and time are given in Annex 9. Breakdown
of local and foreign costs for each project component is summarized in Table
3.1.
Table 3.1  : Proiect Cost by CAouolet lJ
I                       b i  of
Taka t(iIlion)    I      US$ (million)    Ba Bse
Component     Local I Poreigul Total  I tocal I Porei il Total I Costs
I       I        I      I       I       I
Physical     1,201.32 1 433.34 1 1,634.66 1 45.85 I 16.54 1 62.39 1 75.7
Development         I       I         I              I      I
1       I        I      1       I       I
Teacher         31.37 1 17.94 1   49.31 1 1.20 1  0.68 1 1.88 1  2.3
Training
Curriculum     26.43 1 29.75 i   56.18 1 1.00 1  1.14 1 2.14 1  2.6
Developsent         I       I         I      I
Instructional   198.00 1 163.80 1  361.80 1 7.56 1  6.25 1 13.81 1 16.7
Materials
Nanagmeut       32.71 1 13.85 1   46.56 1 1.25 1  0.53 1 1.78 1  2.2
Improvesent         I       I         I      I       1      I
I       I        I      I       I       I
Project         7.56 1  2.79 1   10.35 1 0.29 1  0.11 1 0.40 1  0.5
Iact                I       I         I      I       t 
lase Costs   1,497.37 1 661.49 1 2,158.86 1 57.15 1 25.25 1 82.40 1 100
Contingencies        I       I         I      I       I      I
Physical       74.87 1 33.07 1  107.94 1 2.86 1  1.26 1 4.12 1  5.0
Price         470.49 1181.75 1  652.24 1 12.28 1  4.56 1 16.84 1 20.4
I      I         I      j    .         I
Subtotal      545.36 1 214.85 1  760.18 1 15.14 1  5.82 1 20.96 1 25.4
I       I        I      I       I      I
TOTAL PROJZCT 2,042.73 1 876.31 1 2,919.04 1 72.29 1 31.07 1 103.361 125.4
COSTS              I       I         I      I       I      I
Aj Includes taxes and duties.
NOTE: Subtotals may not add to totals due to rounding.



-18-
3.02      The estimated costs by categories of expenditure are suumzarized in
Table 3.2.
Table 3.2   :  Proiect Costs by Catestorl of Exuenditure   1/
S Tak  (Million)                       I            USS (MillioZ)              I S of
Category                            I |   g Taxes                            I I Taxes  I          la"
of Zxoe]diture I           Ical 111  ForIigulf Dutiol   I Zocal 1/1 ForsigiJ putiel  Total I Cost
I         I         I        I          I          I        I         I         I
Professional    I  48.37 I 12.13 I  4.51 I  64.50 I   1.85  I  0.61 I  0.17 1  2.46 1  3.0
Fees
furoiture       1 199.14 I 81.10 1 19.63 1 280.24 1  7.60  I  3.10 1   0.75 I  10.70 1 13.0
squipmat        I   2.33 I  2.14 I  2.19 I   4.47 I  0.09  I  0.08 1   0.08 I  0.17 I  0.2
Vehicles        1   9.39 1  8.33 I  9.39 1   17.72 1   0.36  I  0.32 1  0.36 1  0.68 I   0.8
I         I         I        I          I          I        I         I         I
Books           I 185.60 I 176.06 I   0   1 361.66 I   7.08  I  6.73 1    0   1 13.81 1 16.7
Zxpert Serviceul                    I              I               1         I        I         I
Local          I   2.73 1   0   1   0   1   2.73 1   0.10  I   0   I   0   1  0.10 I  0.1
Foreign        I   4.60 I 24.72 I   0   1   29.32 I   0.18  1  0.94 1   0   1   1.12 I   1.3
Fellowvbip      I          I        I         I         I          1         I        I         I
Local          1  20.06 !    0   I   0   1  20.06 1  0.?7 1    0   I    0  1   0.77 1   0.9
Regional       I   0.14 I  2.51 1   0   1   2.65 1  0.01  1  0.09 1   0   1  0.10 I  0.1
International 1   0.06 I  1.05 I   0   1    1.11 I  0.00  1  0.04 1   0   1  0.04 1  0.5
Salarie  of    I           I        I         I         I          I         I
Additional      1  23.84 1    0   I   0   1   23.84 I  0.91  1   0   1   0   1  0.91 1   1.1
Staff           I f                 I         I         I          I         I        I         I
Educationall   I           I        I         I         I          I         I        I
Learning        1   16.06 I  6.54 1  1.56 1  22.60 1   0.61  1  0.25 1   0.06 1   0.86 1   1.1
Naterials       I          I        I         I          I         I                  I         I
Other Training I  26.56 I  6.30 I  1.64 I  32.86 I   1.01  1  0.24 I  0.06 1  1.25 I  1.5
Materials       I          I        I         I          I         I                  I         I
I         I         I        I          I          I        !I                 I
Operation       I   4.69 I  0.49 I  0    1    5.18 I   0.18  1  0.02 1    0   1  0.20 1  0.2
Is         I         I       - I         I          1        1         I        I   
Base costs      11,497.37 I 661.49 I 129.23 12,158.86 I  57.15  I 25.25 1  4.93 I 82.40 1 100.0
I         I         I        I          I          I        I         I         I
Contingencies  I           I        I         f         I          I         1        I         I
Physical       I  74.87 I 33.07 I  6.46 I 107.94 I   2.86  I  1.26 I  0.25 I  4.12 1   5.0
Price          1 470.49 1 181.75 I 41.16 1 652.24 I 12.28  I  4.56 1  1.06 I 16.84 I 20.4
I         I         I        I          I          I        I         I         I
Subtotal        I 545.36 I 214.85 I 47.62 1 760.18 I 15.14  1  5.82 1  1.31 1 20.96 I 25.4
I         I         I        I          I          1        1         I        I
TOTAL PROJECT  12,042.73 I 876.31 I 176.85 12,919.04 I 72.29  I 31.07 1  6.24 I 103.36 1 125.4
COSTS         I         I         I         I         I          I         I        I         I
iJ Includes taxes and duties where applicable.
NOTE: Subtotals may not add to totals due to rounding.



-19-
3.03    Basis of Cost Estimates.  Estinated costs for civil works are based
on (a) current unit cost for new construction and for rehabilitation of
existing schools, and (b) inclusion of site development, latrines and
tubevell costs. Unit costs of new construction vary from about US$ 10.5 per
square foot for schools in urban areas to about US$ 5.5 for schools in rural
areas. The average cost for rehabilitation is about US$ 800 per school or
about USS 1.0 per sq. ft. of building area. These costs are reasonable and
below the median for comparable Bank-assisted school construction in other
countries of the region. Costs for professional architectural services
reflect the cost of operation of the Facilities Department and are slightly
below the scale of fees established for similar services provided by local
architectural firms. Estimated equipment and vehicle costs are products of
lists reviewed during appraisal. Furniture and consumable material costs
reflect current prices at the time of appraisal. Estimated costs for addi-
tional staff salaries are based on Government pay scales and standard
allowances for social and other benefits.
3.04    Customs Duties and Taxes.  All imported goods are subject to customs
duties and taxes. The cost of the project includes import duties and taxes
estimated at about US$ 6.24 million.
3.05    Continaencies Allowances.  Estimated project costs include physical
contingencies (US$ 4.12 million) estimated at 5Z of base costs of all project
components and price contingencies (US$ 16.84 million) to cover expected
price escalation at the following rates. For civil works and goods; foreign
costs at 5.7% in FY85, 8.5% in FY86, 9% in FY87 and FY88, 8.2Z in FY89 and
6.7% in FY90; and local costs at 19.2% in FY85, 15.6Z in FY86 and 11% from
FY87-FY90. The foreign costs of salaries and services are calculated at 5.7%
in FY85, 8.5Z in FY86, 9% in FY87 and FY88, 8.2% in FY89 and 6.7% in FY90;
and local costs at 16% in FY85, 13% in FY86, and 10% from FY87-FY90.
3.06    Foreian Exchan2e ComDonent.  The estimated foreign exchange component
of USS 31.07 million representing 30.0% of estimated total project costs,
has been calculated on the basis of estimated foreign exchange proportions as
follows: (a) civil works (new construction and rehabilitation) 27%; (b)
furniture 30%; (c) equipment 48%; (d) vehLcles 47%; (e) books 50Z; (f)
international and regional fellowships 95%; (g) foreign experts 85%; (h)
consumable material 20%; (i) educational, learning material 30%; tj) opera-
tion and maintenance 10%; and (k) professional architectural services 25%.
B. Financial Plan
3.07    The total project cost of US$ 103.36 million equivalent would be
financed as follows: (a) a proposed IDA credit of US$ 78.00 million equiv-
alent would cover 80% of total project cost net of taxes; Cb) UNDP would
finance US$ 2.30 aillion equivalent; (c) UNICEF would finance US$ 4.94 mil-
lion equivalent; (d) SIDA would finance US$ 2.18 million equivalent; and
(e) the Government would finance the remaining net costs of US$ 9.70 million
(lO.OZ of total net costs) and all taxes. Total external financing would
cover 90.0% of total project costs net of taxes. The proposed financing plan
is outlined in Table 3.3.



-20-
Table 3.3: Financing Plan (US$ Million)
ICategory of    I         GOB          I       I      1      I      I       I
I ExDenditure    I Taxes|  Net  I Total | IDA  I UNDF I UNICEF  SIDA I TOTAL   NET  |
ICivil Works    1 4.58 1 5.23 I 9.81 1 55.60 1  0  1  0   1 0   1 65.41 1 60.83 1
I& Prof. fees    I     I       I       I       I      I
I               I      I       I       f       I      E      I      I       I       I
IFurniture      1 0.95 1 3.11 1 4.06 1 8.75 1  0  f0 o     0.75 1 13.56 1 12.61 1
I           E~~ ~ I        I       iI             I      I      I       I       I
lEquipment      1 0.56 1   0  1 0.56 1  0   1  0  E 0.47 1 0.04 1 1.07 1 0.51 1
1& Vehicles     I      I       1       1       1      1      1      1       I       1
I          ~~~I    I       I       I       I     E       I      I       I       I
IBooks             0   1   0I 1   0   1 13.65 1  0  1 2.05 11.00 1 16.70 1 16.70 1
ITechnical      10   1   0  1  0   1  0   1 2.30 1  0   10.30 1 2.60 1 2.60 1
lAssistance     I      I       I       I       I      1      I      I       I       I
)(Experts servicel     1       I       1       I      I      I          1       1
land fellowships)l     I       I       I       I      I      I      I       I       I
I               I      I       I       I       I      I      I      I       I       I
iSalaries of    I 0   1 1.11 1 1.11 I  0   1 0   1  0   I o   I 1.11 1 1.11 I
lAdditional Staffl             I       I       I      I      I              I       I
i               I      I       I       I       I      I      I      I       I
lEducational    I      I       I       I          I       I      I          I       I
llearning and    1 0.15 1   0  1 0.15 1  0   1 0.00 | 2.42 1 0.08 1 2.65 1 2.50 1
lother training  I     I       I       I       I      I      I      I       I       I
Iaterials      I      I       I       I       I      I       I     I
I                      I       I       I       I      I      I      I
1Operation      1      1 0.25 1 0.25 1  0   1 0.00 1   0   10.01 1 0.26 1 0.261
f          ~   ~~I  I      I       I       I      I      I      I       I       I
ITOTAL          I 6.24 I 9.70 1 15.94 1 78.00 I 2.30 1 4.94 1 2.18 1103.36 1 97.12 1
I  _            I      I           I       I      I     1    1      1              .
3.08   Retroactive FinancinR.  The repair and rehabilitation of flood
damaged schools began in October 1984. and the estimated expenditure for the
civil works to be incurred during the period prior to Credit signing is US$
1.0 million.  The Goverment requested, and IDA agreed to retroactively
finance these costs.
C. Recurrent Expenditures
3.09   In FY85, recurrent expenditures on primary education will be about
Tk 2,100 million or about 45Z of total education recurrent expenditures. By
1988, the end of the project period, projected recurrent expenditures on
primary education would be about Tk 3,320 million or 49% of projected educa-
tion recurrent expeuditures (Annex 10). This 42 increase in primary educa-
tion's share of education recurrent expenditures would be due to the salary
requirements for about 10,000 additional teachers and maintenance for school
buildings.  By 1990, the end of the 5 year program, projected primary educa-
tion recurrent expenditures would reach 52Z of the total education recurrent
budget. The growth and level of these expenditures are higb, but are



-21-
expected to stabilize at this level because of the policy, administrative and
management reforms to be instituted during the five year plan period (paras
2.06-10). The 52% share of recurrent e"penditures devoted to primary educa-
tion would put Bangladesh in the upper quartile for developing countries
(Annex 1).
3.10    Special Account (Revolvinu  Fund).  To ensure that project activities
are started and carried out promptly, the Government would open a Special
Account in U.S. dollars in a commercial bank with an initial deposit of US$
4.0 million representing the estimated average amount of a four-month expen-
diture of IDA financed items. The opening and operation of the Special
Account by GOB would be made in accordance with Section 2.02 (b) of the
Development Credit Agreement.
D. Implementation
3.1i    The project would be implemented over a period of about 4 years
(Annex 11).
3.12    The Director General of the DPE would be the Project Director.  The
implementation capacity of the DPE which was strengthened under Credit
_054-BD would be reinforced, but modified to (a) reflect the Goverament's
decision to decentralize administration to the zila and upazila levels; and
(b) permanently institutionalize civil works implementation capacity in the
Facilities Department. For these reasons, emphasis has been placed on the
other operational aspects of implementation particularly monitoring and
evaluation, procurement and disbursement, and the audit and accounting func-
tions of the DPE. Interagency coordination would be also strengthened
because the DPE would turn over much of the implementation to attached
departments (FD, NAPE) and autonomous institutions (NCrB, NIEAER). Coordina-
tion between these agencies would be further facilitated by a Project Coor-
dinator. During negotiations, the Government agreed that the Coordinator
would be designated in the Ministry of Education and be entrusted w:Lth povers
and authority to coordinate all project activities. At the zila level, the
primary education offices would act as the extension of the DPE anti coor-
dinate all zila level activities. At the upazila level, the Upazila Educa-
tion Committee would coordinate and supervise the integrated school develop-
ment activities. The management aud project support communications systems
would provide the necessary information feedback to DPE.
3.13    The physical aspects of the project (civil works and furniture) would
be implemented by the Facilities Department tbrough its zonal, zila and
upazila organization. The headquarters would be responsible for planning,
establishing standards of development, and preparing standardized designs and
procurement documents for civil works and furniture manufacture. The eight
zonal executive engineer's offices would eventually call for tenders and
administer the contracts. However, for an initial period of about three
years the headquarters would call tenders while the zonal offices, would
administer these contracts. The 64 zila offices would monitor and assist the
upazila sub-assistant engineers in the day-to-day supervision of vorks. On
the award of contract, the FD would open Letters of Credit in local banks for
payment to the contractors.  Contractors claims for paymen's would be
reviewed and endorsed by the upazila sub-assistant enginerr and zila assis-
tant engineer for submission to the zonal executive engineer who would



-22-
authorize payments. At the upazila, the sub-assistant engineer would be
under the authority of the Upazila Education Committee aud would coordinate
the civil works and furniture supply with SKCs. The organization of the
project implementation system is shown in Chart 3.
School Location Planning and Site Selection
3.14    Criteria for selection of school sites for the entire country were
developed following the nationwide school mapping/location planning exercise
undertaken by the F.D. Initial refinements aimed at determining classroom
distribution on the basis of population density have been carried out.
Almost all of the schools exist and the sites for these are considered
generally suitable.
E. Accounting and Auditing
3.15    The DPE would prepare and maintain prjcjct accounts in accordance
with sound accounting practices. Separate project accounts would be prepared
and withdrawal applications would be supported by full documentation. Expen-
ditures on IDA financed items of contracts for the equivalent of US$ 50,000
or less would be reimbursed against statements of expenditures certified by
the Project Director. Expenditures on other items would be reimbursed in
accordance with the respective cofinanciers procedures. During negotiations,
the Government agreed that: (a) accounts and financial statements for each
fiscal year would be prepared and audited by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA; and (b) certified copies of the audited accounts and financial state-
ments for each fiscal year, together with the Auditors report would be fur-
nished to IDA as soon as available, but not later than nine months after the
end of each fiscal year. Audit Reports for Credit 1054-BD for all years
including FY83 have been submitted on time.
F. Procurement
3.16    Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.4.  Contracts for
construction of additional classroom, repairs of existing schools, and for
establishing new schools would be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures
which are acceptable to the Association. Existing and new schools would be
grouped under one contract, the value of which, inclusive of materials, would
vary from about US$ 0.07 million (5 new and 5 existing) to about 0.15 million
(10 new and 10 existing). Based on experience gained during the implementa-
tion of Credit 1054-BD it is estimated that 500 to 600 such contracts would
be awarded for the civil works program. Equipment and vehicles contracts
(US$ 1.07 million inclusive of taxes) would be awarded in accordance with
UNDP, UNICEF and SIDA procedures. Books to be financed by IDA (US$ 13.65
million) would be purchased directly from the NCTB, distributors or book
jobbers on the basis of three competitive price quotations when feasible.
Books to be financed by other donors (US$ 3.05 million) vould be procured
according to their procedures. Contracts for the procurement of furniture to
be financed by other donors (US$ 1.06 million) would be awarded according to
their guidelines while the procurement of the remaining furniture (US$ 12.50
million) would be awarded according to ICB procedures which are acceptable to
the Association. Contracts for furniture would be awarded by upazila.
Depending on the annual construction program in each upazila, the number of
individual furniture contracts would vary from around 300 to 600 with values



-23-
ranging from US$ 15,000 to 30,000 each. Incremental expenses include
US$ 2.65 million for educational/learning material and other training
material which would be procured through normal commercial channels. Fellow-
ships and technical assistance financed by UNDP, UNICEF and SIDA would be in
accordance with their guidelines. All furniture and civil works contracts
over US$ 100,000 each would be subject to prior IDA review which would cover
about 20% of value of works. Other contracts would be subject to selective
post-award review.
Table 3.4   Procurement Method (US$ Million)
l                l        l                      l         I Total    I
I   _            | ICB  j  LCB          Other       IR    |Cost1/ 1
[Civil Works     X  _    1 62.36   I            1          1  62.36  1
l                l        1(53.00)                                  J l  I  l
lFurniture       I        1 12.50   |           1  1.06  1  13.56  1
1                I        I  (8.75)  1           1 [0.75] I           I
[Professional    I        I                     1  3.05  1   3.05  1
[ Fees           I        I          l          I (2.60)1        --   I
[Equipment &     I        I          I          1  1.07  1   1.07  1
I Vehicles       I        I    _                I [0.511 1            1
IBooks           l        I          |  13.65  1  3.05  1  16.70  1
I                    I               I (13.65) ! [3.051             J 1
ITraining &      |        I          I          I  2.60  |   2.60  1
I Technical      I        I          |          1 [2.601 1            1
1 Assistance                                               I l  .  l  l
lIncremental     I        I          l          I  4.02  1   4.02  I
I-Expenses                           I          1 [2.5111             1
ITOTAL           I  O         74.86  1  13.65  | 14.85  | 103.36  I
IIDA             I        I (61.75) I (13.65) 1 (2.60) 1 (78.0)  1
IURDP,UNNICEF,SIDAI       I          I          I [9.42] |  [9.42] 1
IGOB             I        1  13.11  1           1 2.83   |  16.62  1
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
Figures in bracket are the respective amounts financed by other
donors.
iJ Include duties and taxes where applicable.
G. Disbursements
3.17    The proposed Credit would be disbursed over a period of about four
and a half years which iv much shorter than the average country disbursement
profile of eight years for IDA-assisted projects in Bangladesh. The reduc-
tion is justified because the project would finance contracts awarded in a
three-year project period, the advanced stage of the school mapping exercise,
and the experience gained by the Borrower under the previous project. The
Borrower has already submitted a draft development program for the first year
of project implementation. A forecast of disbursements based on four and a
half years is shown in Annex 12. 'The Credit would cover 80% of total project
costs net of taxes and would finance 85% of total expenditures for civil



-24-
works, and professional fees; 70% of total expenditures for furniture and
1002 of total expenditures for books and training material. Disbursements in
respect of contracts for the equivalent of US$ 50,000 or less for IDA
financed items, would be made against statements of expenditure, certified by
the Project Director and the Chief Accountant. The relevant documentation
would be retained by DPE and made available to IDA representatives for review
on request.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.01    The proposed project is expected to lead to increased enrollments,
improvements in the quality of instruction and student learning achievements,
and cost reductions. Enrolbments are expected to increase by about 740,000
of which about 400,000 (55%) would be girls. As a result of policy reforms,
the current dropout rate of over 50% between Grades I and II would be
expected to fall to less than 20% and an additional 200,000 students would
complete Grade II. Without the project, only about 30% of the students would
have completed the full 5 Grades (achieve literacy). With the project, this
figure would double with gains for girls proportionately greater in keeping
with the intent of the project and government policy. The project is
expected to lead to qualitative gains in pupil achievement. Curricular
improvements would not only increase literacy and numeracy, but also lead
to a greater understanding of population education and social studies which
are relevant to village life.
4.02    The project is expected to retard the trend toward higher recurrent
cost caused by population and enrollment growth and reduced dropouts. This
would be accomplished by the use of larger class and school sizes, an
increase in the pupil:teacher ratio, and the introduction of cost recovery
in the textbook provision policy. The innovative components (project IMPACT
and integrated pre- and in-service teacher training) are also expected to
give clearer indications of where cost reductions can be effected. The
expanded level of supervision and management and administrative improvements
would contribute to more effective utilization of staff, facilities and
resources and improve the system as a whole.
4.03    The above benefits would be realized nationally as part of the
national UPE program. Project assistance in the form of institution building
to the DPE, NAPE, NCTB, and NIEAER as well as assistance to the Upazila
Education Comittees, School Management Committees and PTAs would ensure a
more efficient coordination, program planning, development and implementation
process for the primary subsector.
4.04    Ultimately, the success of the project must be measured by the
benefits of primary education to the individual and to society. Studies have
revealed the benefits of a more literate and numerate populace on higher
agricultural productivity, greater acceptance of family planning, lower
fertility rates and better understanding of nutrition and health practices.
The attempts in the program to increase female enrollments, i.e., more female
teachers, and curriculum/textbook revision to include more positive female



-25-
roles, are all likely to reinforce gains in lower fertility and family plan-
ning measures.
D. Risks
4.05    The project faces implementation risks.  The proposed program is
comprehensive but complex. Two policy recommendations, i.e., a revised and
shortened pre-service teacher training program and liberalized promotion
directly affect primary teachers. Indications are that there vill be initial
resistance to both of these proposals from the Primary Teachers Union. A
long (two-year) pre-service program is the objective of the Union, since pay
scales are linked to educational background and training. Liberalized promo-
tion in Grades I and II is not likely to receive much opposition. However,
if it is introduced at the higher Grades (III-V) teacher opposition is likely
because (a) it is a departure from well entrenched traditions and gives the
appearance of rudermining the authority of the teacher, i.e., to pass or fail
a student; and (b) teachers make substantial additional income by tutoring
students after school. If liberalized promotion is perceived as diminishing
the potential for tutoring, teacher opposition can be expected. Progress in
these two policies is likely to be slower than in other areas where
changelreform is being promoted. The Government is fully supportive of these
two policy changes. They intend to implement the policies with the active
assistance of the teachers and the phased introduction is expected to over-
come the initial difficulties.
4.06    Operations would be difficult because of poor communications in rural
areas, and the potential for overlapping functions and responsibilities
between the various levels of administration. Neasures have been taken to
minimize these risks including: (a) development of management information
and project support communication systems in the DPE, to facilitate informa-
tion flows and decision making between the center and zila aud the upazilas;
(b) delegation of responsibility for the implementation of certain
activities in schools to PTA, SKCs, and Upazila Education Committees;
(c) provision of special training for implementation staff; and (d) provision
of technical assistance for training, evaluation, and administrative
re-organization.
4.07    Timlely completion of the physical aspects of the project (civil
works and furniture) could also be difficult due to the constraints of acces-
sibility to certain sites, seasonal shortages of basic construction material
and prolonged flooding periods.  To mininize the risk of reduced construction
activity, the Government would prepare annual construction programs, and
should a difficulty arise, in consultation with the Association could adjust
the program so as to achieve the maximum benefit of the IDA Credit. The
experience gained under the on-going IDA supported primary education project
(Credit 1054-BD), the strengthening of key institutions in the primary educa-
tion subsector, plus the high priority which the Government places on its UPE
policy, should lessen other implementation problems.



-26-
V. AGREENETS REACIED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01    During negotiations, the Govermnent agreed that it would:
(a) undertake a series of policy related studies for non-formal education
(para 2.04), liberal promotion (Para 2.05), and textbook provision (para
2.08). The Goverment also agreed to institute new policies for liberal
promotion in Grades I aud II by January 1, 1986 (para 2.05); by January 1,
1987 for textbook provision (pars 2.08), teacher training (pars 2.13); and
student assessment (para 2.15); and by June 30, 1988 for non-formal education
(para 2.04).
5.02    In order to facilitate implementation of these policies and programs,
the Govermment agreed to (a) reorganize and staff the DPE in a manner accept-
able to IDA (pars 2.18); (b) designate a Project Coordinator in the Ministry
of Education (para 3.12); (c) make adequate allocations for maintenance and
other primary education recurrent expenditures (para 2.09); (d) select
upazilas and scbools for the integrated school development program according
to criteria acceptable to IDA (para 2.11); (e) appoint additional staff
according to a schedule acceptable to IDA (para 2.26); and (f) have project
accounts annually audited by independent auditors (para 3.15).
5.03    The signing of technical assistance agreements between GOB and UNDP,
and UNICEF, and SIDA (para 2.25) and the approval of Project Proforma (para
2.26) are conditions of credit effectiveness.
5.04    With the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$ 78.0 million to the Government of
People's Republic of Bangladesh for a term of 50 years including a 10 year
grace period.



-27-
LAErw I
nuLADCeH SUoND ssuiY EDUCATION PROJECT rr   a
Cc.ara tl. Educatic  IndIcate .
hbruary 22. 1985
COYERNST
EXPENIDITURE   EUCDATIN                          CoLErTourL             RECURRENT
ON EDUCATION  CRORe rT    ADULT                   RATE FOR             lU1tT COST  PR(RESSIC1
CUP PER               AS PCENT    EXPERITCRES  LIW.RACY PRIMAY PRIMARY    PRIMARY  P1t R5F1 MR PatH   SECONDARY SEONDAR  HIGHER
RAs   70?.  CAPITA  PERCENW  COP TOTAL CENTRAL ALLOATED TOt RATC            ENMOLL. SCNOnL       STUDEhTS EDCATION  PRMARY TO  DROLL.  STUDENTS  ENROLL.
YEAR HILLS. (USS)   DrVOTED To  COVENNRENT    PRI  SeC  NI    (I)    RATIO   CYCLE               PrR       AS PERCENT SrONUARY   RATIO          PER        RATIO
(13579) (1979)   zDUCATTON  EEPexpDIIUr           (1)         (1976)   (s)         (t)      ?tACHER  CWP/CAPITA       (T.)       (2i      TEACRitR    (2)
(L)     (2)         (3)           (4            (5)           (A)      (7)       ()          (9)        (3)          (1)         (32)       (33)    (34)
DEVELPED COUNYRI ES
mSTAuIA            80o    14.6b  8,870       6.3'         14sw       -    -    -       - to03K             to           21 I                                73        1        20.90
CANADA             NI    23.7b  CS650b    7.7-           1:.5-'      30a? 14'? 23a? Z    gb      3068      300         21        19.9a?        ion          92x       iR       22 AOx
CG c16   F.R.      79    61.2  12,200        4.6b          9.t       -     -     -      ggb       R9E      Ina.        -         -             Inn          94        -        12.30'
CNWEURLAJU         79    14.0  In.*90        79           5.3        20   35   25       9qb?      96        95          is        15.1          99          r2        11       12.4n
Ni.'! ZEaLAND      80      3.2b. b o56       5*K          33,4       37   31   28       9qb      3oO       Ina         24         33.6         300          52        l5       Zs.n0-
79     P.3  12.250       0.0         IR.2         31   1o   go      9g9       99K      too          Ina       i.c          ion          7q"       3Do7    36.5n04
EASTER AFRICA
rOTSWA             62      3.Ob    750b    -             --          49   8R  13        h2b       85        89         32        23.1           26          --        21        --
BURUNDI            oi      4.2      21S      2.R8"       l3.(        43   2F   27       25        29'       35          37       20.2           12           3X       p7        1.00
CeenRS             so    nf4b    260         6.5"        21.4        40   2Hb  14       --         WX       65         45         16.0          58         ZX        in        1.4n
OJsrDUTl           54      0.4      480      3.n         11.9        71   24   ...    If          42        66         40        67.0           40          In        36        n.60
CTHIOPIA           al    32.rb      40b    2.9P         IN.7        45   25   Zn       53        42        IRS        63         19.3          913         34        44        0.45
KeYA               132    17.4.b   4206    5.7V          54.3b       65   3h   -        4ss      113        SR          36       14.4           35          In        26        -
LcSoThO            82      134b    435b    5.5           16.0        3R   32   26       53b      116K       41         48         *.6           46          21        23        3.10
*-- as             77      8.5      330      4.3w        24.0         53   2F   19      50        94bx      33         55b        N n           38          34        21        3.3n0y
nAAI               RI      6.1h    230b    3.            11.4        IR   14   25       25b       62        23         65          5.8          12           4        23        0.40
AURITITUS          83       3.o0 1. 70b    4.3            4.0        46   16    7       NOb       93        72         23         31.0         IOD          sn        22        30on
jg3g1             53      5.Sh    240b    2.7           2.          72   3I   12       37b h      6       62          4n        21.0          In           7        34        0.40
SEYOIELLES         79      n.b   1.770       5.9         22.4'       34  1332  1          - _      _                   25        ---            __ 
SPIALIA            Al      4.5      230      1.5         10.5        50b  441   6b    50b         22b      R80b        zqe        q.nb          pb           21h      22        3.n0
SNDAZ              NO    19.21      380b    1.0          --          6b   39   ...    32          51-X      fA         34          1 4          44          16        14       ...
SlIAZILAND         N13     0.7b    4n0h    350b          20.4        St   14   35       65b       93        50    ;     .3       11.0           98          29        3l        .0n
TAZANIA             0    113.5      260      5.9         17.7        47   10  136       7Qb       956       A7         43        I3.n           ig9          3        20'       n.30
OCGNA              so     12.6b,  3yob    -              36N.3       23b  37b  20h    48           4x       631        34        --             17           5        21        0.60
ZAIRE              at    ZQ4I9    210b    7.7            26.4        --   -    30       54&       76        25         30        21.0           60          in        2a        2.0o
ZAMIIA             an      5.7h    54b6    4.SP          11.1        4h   23   22       44b       95        8n         4a        12.9           1Q          16        22        3.1n
Z7.hCW             Al      7.7h    741h      5.1         19.5        62   32    6       44b       90        S5         19        2n.0           5          IS        23        0.50
EDRSTR  AntICA
lEIN               79      3.4b    320b    6.5"          35.0        43   21    5    lih          42        30         46        34.n           30          It        43        3 Oft
RURKIIIA           53      6.5      230b    2.3"         21.7        43   29   28       9         16        25         57        24.1           16           3        24        o.03
CAM t              711     R.2      5eo      2.97        36.07       33'  43'  2n'   -            74'       45a        50y       3I.1'          20'         14Y!      26        I.30Y
C.A.R.             79      2.2      2R0      3.Rar       20.6"       -_   _   __   __               _        _         65'?      -               _          __        __        0.70"'
031                76      4.4      120      2.4-b       23.7b       -    -i -          s         25T       -          77        -              -            3"       21       n03nY
CONG0              7R       3.5     670      9.nl"'      27.7-       -      _   __      _          _         -         s6        -              30--                  43b6      4.n00
CASN               77      n.6   3.420       1.7h'        5.4-                         -          --        -           46b!     --            -            --        391W      2J0a0
CAyIA              77      0.6      220      3.3w         gj.5h      46   25'   6'   I            406by     90a        277.      64.7'          40          12hxY    17         -
GMANA              76    11.3       400      4.0!        i1.        _--  --  -         --         71b-K     -          271.?     --             -           363"      21        -
GUINEA             79      5.3      29'D    4.6 P        --          25-  2a-  2R    2n           1S4       36          3A       2_n.n'         Ns         136        29        7.00*
IVORY COAST        lI      8.2b  1j070g    In.0          45.0        33   46   13    3nb         fin4       e          41        26.0          47           3sa5"     26        I.aom0
LIREIItA           o0    1.0        520      4.6         39.6        43   23   24    1'           52        32         35        2n.0           76          22        2n        2.90
ALI                al      7.03     190      4.2'        21.7'       3R   21   If    In           20        60         44        35.7           46           3        11        n.90 v'
KAUPITANIA         7R      I*3b    320b    5.5           16.0        33   43   25    17h          12        60         44        52.n           30n                   25        0.37
NICER              78      5.2      300      4.3a       36.43?      2t A1'   5o    N            17        56'        43l       15.7'         41n           2        26b       n.207
tr3crtIA           77    52.6        30      4.12!        9.6        -     --  -       --         --        __          _        _               _          Inxr      21        0.37Y
53EGAL            77      5.5      450      5.0         21.0        46   34   20    10           34b                  43b       -             2C           10        21        2.20&'
SIMERA LPNE        77      3.4      250      4.nb         16.nb      --  -    --    ljb           37X        _         35        25.0b          M4         15         22        0.60b7
1010               78      2.4      411o     6.58"       26.5'       3 3  2R'  213   3N           74        40         544b7     3a.0           52          123"'    zob        1.60bV
LaIs AMEIRIrA AID TRE CAR1sqEAN
AITINA              78    27.3   2.210       2.7         in.9        43'  31-  35'   931          59        52         17        -              x7          31         a       21.00
*4WW               70      0.2   2.770       5.7         19.1        3h   36   it    93h          0g        97         24        -             97           75        34      -
RARRADOS           78      n.2   2,6A0       I.5-97      22.1a       438  31'  164   ggb         lonr       99m        27!       39 9K         99'          7'v       20v     --
ROLVXA             s0      5.4      550      4.3'?       30.5'       -    -    -       63         74T       --         20?       --            -            35"       --       Mflay
SAZIL              79   116.5   1.770        3.3          4.2        51   -    14    76           73! -y               23KY       4.5b         41'          257       134T    12.621.
CHILE              76    10.9   1.890        3.2by       13.nb             -    -      -- _       i_lby    __          34b6      --            -            55bn      poby     11.901b
CaL7RIA            80    26.7b  1.180b    1.3            25.0        1S   20   20 2n     1h       78        34         32         6.h          -            47        20       fn.n2'v
COSTA  IrIA        50      2.2h  l,Rjoh    R.4           31.1         9)  27   33    90'          93        77         33         S.1           77          40        Z7       14.00
CUBA               78      Q.R      -        8.0        I3.0         --   --  - _      9         112bxK   9s           jb'       -                          71  736K?    IS    39.02b1
DMIlNICAN REP.    AO       5.3   1.030       2.9         33.0        39   21   22   fin           anr       31         59         3.2          94           30        33       16.00
ECUADOR            5o      R.4b  1.110       6.OP        36.7        45   31   16    5l          105        --         3%        3?.6           86          47        16      29.00
EL SALADO          77      4.4      640      3.4"'       21.1b      64    a   27    62           82b,V    32          19        -             41           20hy    27b6        79(0h.
GCAIU4ALA          78      6.t   1.010       1.7E7       12.66        _   --  -        -          6Kbx1    -           35by      -             6q           15jx6    396'       S.5D'
CUIANA             76      O.R      630      g.1h6       133.b6      --   -    -       -          qghxy    --          32b!      --            -            5qhxv    -          3.noby
RAITr              ao      S.oh    230       3,4w         7.9a4      55    9    6    23b          sn        20         41        19.0           42'          4'       27       0.8n
NWCIRAS            78      3.6      520      3,567      13436'       62'  15'  19'   60           *qbx      30'        431.      123.1         6a.          21x      139       9.00y
JIAHIFCA           5n      2.1   1.110       6.5         13.7        37   43   20    9Q           91        98         40         2.1          a5           al        22        R.0O
IIDII0             go    65.5   1.880        4.7         17.0'       46   39   15    92           98        53         4.         9.1          86           56        17       in.30
NICARAUA           78      2.6h   406b    i.o0b          14.0b       --  --  -          01h       RO6N      24         37b       -             -            2Whx      3nb     -
PANAA              75      I.3b  1.55ob    5.5bvr        21.b7       42'  134  13    a2h          95b!      -          25b6      31.6    I      55         5(31.      27'     20.4r1hv
PARACA             79      3.0   3,140       3.w"        14.2        A2   17   20    84           83        32         24         1.1r         76          22         12       0.70
PM                 80    16.6   1.000        3.6         14.3        53   15   ;9    8n           83        56         39         q.8          89           39        22       14.40'
TRII3AD a  Ton.   77       1.1   3.410       4.gb87       5.8by      45   32   20    95           98        I         30        30.5?         49           62        24      -
UWIUAT -           78      2.'   2.500       2.5          9.41       --   -    -       94        3f5bx        _        24b       -             -           44bx       --       17.40^y
VENZZLA            78    14.4   3,440        5.1!        18.9b       --   --  -        82        3046b      __         28        --            -            3ehx      17      21.10Y



-21-
*XPSDURR    EDUCATIOR                           CONPIOH               REOIW3UT
011    CIUCATION  RIOJRRE2T   ADUT              RATE POR               UNT CUT paoRssioU
Cr                   AN PER CUT       XPENDTIURS  LIRACY PRIMAY PRIMA             PRIMAtY  PrIMARY    RATE PM    SECONARY SEWNDAIT  ICGHER
USAE  POP. CAPITA  PCINr COP  oTAL CENTRAL AIUJ1ATUI TD: RATE             ENROLL. SCHOOL       STIWl SUCATInN  PRIMAY 70  EROLL.   STNUI     EXUNDOLL.
TEAR HILLS. CUSS)   DEVITD TO r     OVEUOE        Paz  BSC  HI   (C)    RATIO   CYCLE          PCR       AS tPECT   SECUIA3m   RATIO         PER        RATIO
(1979) (3979)   EPUCATION  EtPWDITURE            (X)        (14176)   cz)        cx)    rTACHER  CNPICAPrrA         (2)         CZ)    TEACHER      CZ)
_ CI1)    )(2      (3)           (4)           (5)          (6)       (7)       (a)        (9)        (in)         (LI)        C1l)      (13)    (14)
EAST ASA AND THE PACIFIC
0414               6~3 3,n,5.ob    310h    3.1           7.1        38   40   22       77b      77        62         25         8.0          65          35        17       4.30
IN1NUIA           an   150.5b    520        2.1          q.3        70   24    6      3ib       98        61         37        11.0          74          27       26        1.70
KOKEA              82    39.3b  136b    7.7w           20.R        34   34   31      94        99        98         43        39.0          98          34        33      21.30
MALAYSIA           84    15.2b  1 i70b    5.6           22.7        39q  44w  17W    70b        97P       47         26        13.3w         90          72        22       4.00
PAPUA N..          A3      3.04    320      5.4         29.0        40   17   22      -         60        738        313      15.0           35         133       27P       1.00
PHIIPPINES        79    48,3b  ,90b    Z.8,            16.0        64   36    -        ob    *4          65         31         7.1         89           55       36       21.00
SIllAPCC           s0      2.4   4.420      2.7          6.7        39   40   16      83        42        32         31         IJ           96          55       22        8.00
SoLemD  IS..       32      1.2b    640      6.6W        14.0b       41   34   20       IS       78        8n         27        10.5         40           20       IS        2.50
THAILAND           30    47.3b    723b    3.4           20.'        54   15   13      t6b       96        -          17         9.3          54          29        22       4.0o
SObT ASIA
SMUIH              79    92.3b      40      l.lP        IO.I-Y      51   17   20      22b       63        --         53         5.6         --           14       23        1.43
INWAN              o0    1.2        no      3.6         33.n        -l o                        12        ---
INDIA              77   659.6      210      2.97         94.9"Y y      -_  _          36        79        _          41       _-            -            2s'      -         8 3t
NIp.AL             82    15.0,    s50b    1.4          __            _   ___  _        19       70                   38        -             -           21       23        3.70'
PAKIISTAN          R2    8731h    380b    2.0            7.t        3R   20   24      22        50        41         30         5.e          56          21       Is        3.O0
EUR0PC. NIIOLE EAST AltL HORTa APR!CA
*AFGSANISTAN         77    15.5      -        1.7          3.7       47   J9   15       12        33bY     69         37b       -             62           A        22bJ      1.107
ALARRlA            79    18.3   1.770       1.3'        12.3        34&  26f  21'    35         ply       458        37         7.07         5i'         24'      26        3.707
EGrYT              82    43.13    6501    4.6"           7.9        318  35'  264    64         75'       SD'        34-        9.11         r3          438       19      173.0
GR-C               76      9.3   6.140      2.6'        1O.hb       37   26   21             _  97bJ                 296        6.2?         7- 7         4Ls     Z7ly     17.3
IRAN               79    36.9      --       5.78Y       14 Ia       -    --     --    50       3n0l'      -          32-                    -           44a5      268       *.9050
IRA                7q    12.6  2i710    453"             I.9D y          _ -  --    --         100y       --         28       -             --          4587    272         9.30
ERlAND            oil      3.4k   .6480     6.1-Y       11.3"-       _         __     98        93        94         29       -             98          33        3a       11.00
J1O"                31     2.2b  1,620b    4.9v         10.2        19   44   IR       70h     lp         as5        12         7.2          91    '      2'      25       19.00
LERAINO            79      2.1     --       -           18.g6ay    -    -- -          --        96'       -          19        --           -            46'      --       27.8r
C8DOO             30    34.3      740       ,30w`      17.5        36   44   2n      28        5687      35         39        19.7         40           25'      21       4*0
oMrN               82      n.9b  59420b    2,jS         12.7'       --  -_  -_   30b?           712       65         25        __            36         13       1a        ...
pOTUCAL            '9     q lb  2.060       1.6         22.2        50   23   11      78        97        20         l0.       12.8         3R3         45         7        A3.3Dk
RKNlA              78    22.1   2 100       3.gw         6.27       -    __   -       98       106n       - _3b               -             93a         3&bx      22b      10.40
SPAIN              76    37.0   4.920       2.1J        16.83       -              --b-                              296      -             -           67by               261o
SYRlA              78      8.6   1.170      4.4P        20.1        39   25   26      58        bWy       on         35b       -             68          41by    2.h       32.60
TUJNISIA           79     -6  13130         7 OP       21.          42   39   J5      62b       0n1x      80         39b       12.          30          30'       30        6.00
TUYECC            S       4.7b  1.46ob    3.1          26.         -    -_  -         73b     33Rx       9gn        2R         7.4          51          38       20        6.70
TEiA ^.R.          80    6AJ       420      50Vv        12.0        94    7    7      21b       37        12         357       67.0         35            3       20        1.10
TRECK P.D.R.       32      z.nb    420b    7.6           9.7       645   I4S   8&    53         61        34         25        22.08         46          17       2n        2.50
SUIIAN? FOR DEVCIOPlINC CCoUrRlES:
N_ber of Couetries:                      8U              93       70   69   67      RI        02        6'        45        65            75          93        83       a5
Range:                                   (1.4-          (3.7-  f39-  (7-  (S-    ch-        (12-      (32-        (17-     (1.4-         (20-         V_-      (B-      (0.03-
10.0)          54.3)  944    46)  33)    99)       119)     99)         77)       67.0)         lOn)        84)       48)     24.0)
OuArtiles: Upper:                         5.6           21.7      51   36   22      o1        98        Mo         43        2n           87           47       26       33.0
Median:                       4.0           16.1      43   23   19      53        R3        61         35        13           65          26        22        3.7
Lever:                        3.n           12.n      18   21   13      25        60        35         28         9           40          14        19        1.0
Quartile Devlation:                       2.1            5.4    6.5  7.1  6.5   28.0        19.n      22.S        7.5       5.6         23.S-        136.1     3.S        5.0
pebs:                                     4.5           17.1      46   23   17      53        76        54         36        24           61          31        23        6.4
Standard Deastjion:                       1.3             .7      13   10    7      29        27        21         32        13           23          23         7        7.6
Hledin:                                   s.0           14.1      43   2S   19      53        33        61         35        13           65          26        22        3.7
SYMROLS:                                                       P00711TC5:
-    DATUM UNAVAILA8LE                                           A- DATUM PRIOR TO RASE YEAP                           S * MIlISTRY BP EDUCATION fCrE) ONLY
.  MCNITUDE NIL OR NECLICIRLE                                 V - DATUM  MVRE RECONT Th    RA5F YEA                 T - MF  AND STATE CGOERMN     ONLY
D DATIII QUESTIMOARZLE                                        N - CURRlENT PRICES                                   W - PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ONLY
-  INCLUDES PART-TIRE STUDEMNS                                 P - cUr                                               Z - INCL S DOER-ACrE STUDWETS
I - URESUD SOURCES
SOURCCS:
Columnn I and 2:  Loarld Bank Atlas or 13RD3 nlslons.
Colut,s 3 to 14:  IBRD missions, Gvoverment  ourees aistor Unesco StatistieAl Yearbook.
Cowaratie rEduction Data are useful in the evalua1tlo  of various  ducation syste- sod analysis of relative sgtaes of edueational developsent hetpes variousv
countries.  However, o  the basin of the present datA, cros-national conpsriaon should he sopronched with great cautlon. Data presnted in the above table have
hes: collected largely b7 Rsnk elsalons from goveronent  ources; the rmaiToder are staff estiste  or data from Unesco.  Efforts ha-e been made to stead.rdize
definitions  nd. within limits, to check the accuracy of the data.  4evsotheles  s uch data  re mstill Iperfect In sewerl respects and the Rank is working tO
improwe  hem progressively en the occasion of its operational work.  In the ase of these data, the following qualificatIons should br kept In mind:
(J)   Education' as defined In the tabl  includes a11 education and training. both forI and non-for%al.
(2) Prisary' education refers to ducation at the first lewel and -secondsry education refers to all education at the secondary level regardless of type
(C.R. general. technical, agricultural).
(3) 'Literacy rstes' (col. 6) are often ohtained from country censuses. 1. nany countries they are Only sporolstison and It is doubtful that any uniform
defnittion of literate" has been followed consistently.
(4)   Public expenditure Is education' (cols. 4 and 5) refers to s11 capital and recrrent expendIture  devoged to educatIon by poblic and quasl-publlt
agenc/es.
(5)  'Enrollmnt ratios  (cols.  . 12 and 2   refer to school year and am the percentage of elIgthle children enrolled foll-tins  In the appropriate school.
public and private by level.  They are often  ubject to a wide marXin of error in the developinX countries otinX to variations In the accuracy of basic
data (i.e.. age-specific population and enrolments).  Enrollent figure  frequently are hlgher than the n-sber of students actually in school.  Over-ad
students whose tnclusion is Indicated by footnote. also can inflate the ratio.



-29-
a  L
err le a 7r_ e D v~~~~ile 
a.         2n      m      SICT
camwNFFx 7z    *  fetests I. INS         CSIEr.MTDt Decestw 1950
AnSIEVUNS AS
A.  IGAL PSS                                          ARhISJ                                                    ..
a  eir a  resewatis  of abeasl                       1291                                                     Su 80
b  ceatr   [one of -  clsesm                         51k                       346                             712
c Aitis o    1   esr_ee                             1291                      1291                         L10Z
4. Coetrnctloe of  strias                            1291                      1291                          1002
*Siei   of tebewella                                 1291                       5                             391
. C ity  lariS    Csters                               Is                        17                           94S
givoks                                                         AAb iitratief as,posl cot given by N0          -
h.  WiT Off I                                                                     1
i. AM  Offies                                         250                        94                            S
J. viz gamte                                            8                         a                          i0on
t. r  Library                                                                     7                             1
1M  Clas1_eese                                         24                       i210
a. Clamerom                                             7                         _
a. leproemt of A*n betel                                I                         1                          100
a.     's lbetel (CAi)                                  I                         -                           is
p  nsts for Art                                        24                        14                           67
q. Direto Quter. CAIN)                                 I                  Yok Order Plce 
r. Deputy  irectere Qarter  AM)                         1                  Work Order Plead                    -
e. lest leas  CM)                                       I                        I                           1002
a. Seat leaches                                    120.000                      75.082                        632
b. SOt"AealeAlirtte                                  4.033                       1.726                        431
C. m.s                                             S mite          t           S sits                       l00
d  Office  raitere                               10u nit                     100 suits                       1o0
.A                                               10 s                             "ts  75 s its               7S1
3.      a                                       23.47 labb  set             20.05 lab set                     78.82
A.  RifE!                                           674.000                     a00.0oo                        Sn2
5.INU    4021    900210                           47.00ens                     405 eat                        100
i   UNM4ll    4I       X     1                   ,DU note                   4.01U Note                      Ion2
6. 0men
a. Bicycles                                           250                         Z25                         91M
b. motorcycles                                          7                           7                        Lo0z
c Car                                                   1
d. Microbe                                             I-
*. wiaub.                                               I                           -                          -
Jep                                                    8                           7                         DU
7. awemc Rmp
a. -._hebra                                         10.500                      16.700                    Oe target
*.   e                                                 250                         167                         67%
. ONCe                                                  44                           -                          -
*. vii Isecroctore                                     128                         125                    Or target
_. TX1 Superintendente                                   a                           a                     s taret
lbks-seethe                   tol-bARths
S. ComLiDr  Smm                                      r>um                           eitlio"
a. weig,                                               159                         173                   0 target
. oca                                                  343                         487                    Os targt
9. STUD  TOMB AiD        UIDUlIP                        220                          82                         372
*. nummL  _OTA                                                    a
[AN                IADIP              Ins                IADF               IADP               I
Ilocaten Ame  I llocstiss  Ast lAllocetion Ausn  tAllocatioe Asoet Alescatlume Atiet I
1.                    j          m190-91 t 1I9U1-E2 d_et  119p2 ta                                                    *2 I93-I  11 9S 
I-. PAT OP STA"       I  1.09        .65  1  6.11     2.19  1  6.01       5.52  1  4.00      5.40  1  7.50      140  I
I               ~         ~~~I      I                  I                  III
I1. CtIVL VW          I 3 0."    28.93  1 64.90   II.90  1 00.20    80.16  I 1 0040   140.50  I 1L2.47            -
1. 1110N             1  2.35      1.29  1 10.90    10.16  1 10.80    10.49  I 20.50    20.50  1 20.00          1.50I
14. 73rmT0o0           1  2.40     2.32  1  5.00       6.85  1  7.39      7.39  1 11.10    51.10  1 17.50         -
1 5.     ~     ~    ~               I                  IO I.s  3   S   1P8  a ;          -   I    -         - 
IS. uNnmm              1 5.05      5.03 1   6.30      3.51 112.00    10.99 1    E
16. LZ402100L102A15 I   .69          .36  t  1.20       .99  1  5.00      5.0  I  3.50       3.35  1  3.00        -   I
17. 75*0Z5T            I     s       .37  1  2.90       -   I  2.70       2.491       -        -       7.00       -
Is. TCIICAL. AUSIST.  1 20.75    20.75  I 17.34    12.02  1 11 .40    11.40  I 113.0    13.49  I  7.30           .06  1
I  anhu 7I                                I I
I  TAMs & i tI         I    .47     .12  1  1.10        .901  2 .00       1.96  1  4.50    4.08  I  5.20         .05  I
I   I          I                  I                  I                  1   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2t  1
I                      I 64.25    59.82  1 115.75    47.52  1 156.50   135.62  I 220.00   210.42  I 191.47      3.S   I
1950-U    -  91S C-    3 A0 0 Nilliom
Ig       -   IZ 9mu neI                     m   i    -    U5IZ .7 Willion
19W-3   -  99S                    jjj..fl  -    USS24.69 Willis.
1983-S4   -  991                 ACr   uxs                    -
A/    o of SepteWber 196.
Dirscotis_A by Col. 19U.
2/   el has reusted 30.921.800 tabs.



-30-                                          3466  2
C.                   nLu                                                       .1St.
1. IME.                                      7K.G26
a. Male                                            33 .33                     452.461
b.   ale                                           29.529                     311,543
C. Per       Lears.                                                             ?.a
4. Percrt fnale aclhol as rewlation Gaelled         372                        43.2
a. se. ierm.
Male                                              -                         59.6
2eal.                                                                      II 1036
a.  ratd. 1                                         22.5                        21.0                         16.7
b. Grde 11                                           17.3                       25.4                         12.7
. Cr.  11                                           15.5                       15.0                         12.0
4. ted. TV                                           13.0                       14.3                         12.1
G. C,.X V                                            13.5                      2LJ                          -14
*. Grd  9                                                                                                _L ZL  ..
AVXMEC                                            17.02                      13.01                        13.02
3. 7ADPIS                                             1931                       11218
A. CGrde I                                           36.3                       36.0                         34.2
b. CGrde  1                                          13A.                       13.7                         10.4
c. Crd. III                                          12.0                       10.7                         10.2
d. Crae IV                                           11.3                       11.3                         11.2
a. Gad.                                              11.0                        0L                         ....L. 1*
AVRKfbG                                           17.63                      16.52                        13.01
4. A                                                  UL                         a8                           a
a. Total                                              72S                        71                           71
b. Hal*                                               77:                        75                           7Y1
c. *eale                                              671                        7n                          71.0A
S. Z           LL  S
A. ebic.inar te  tea admjjct.ead to a 1p  of dtadeert   1in 2 aa will be adelaatarad agte ina 193.
In 195. tha etudes. were abla to carectly am._ the fallewlat parent oe the qseCtiawa:
a. Aaag                    3
b. Ha.            .         15
c.  ealne         :        53
'. KmS                                   .9.1                     a8         1            a                    na
a. la-aewice                             10.14?                13592                   15.6l                 14*70
*. tlie                                  14A.71                14.226                  13.9U                 12.303
C. P-ea                 l.670                                   1.716                   1,675                 1.364
d. Scweultetachar  atie                   1:40                  1:46                    1:50                  1:57
7. CQP1Tr  IPTEMII                                                           AC    EM                    I or '
a. School "am st c eattrae                           4033                      4033                          1002
b. M-tiag. par yprt                                   _                         4                            _
*. 1210Win
a. Aweaa       r of at iataat Upaille
022icorn  visits tD Sela                      1.5 pwr   a t0cWa    seth                                   70M
b. Ratie dceoVlflf                                   2011                      3011                           30
a. UicnioeedIillad peat                              2XI                        15'                          b2
d. Average   ber af V0 wviits to seheela              -                  hree te  as7lly
9. "42ILSD 711Sm
a. Clonaaae, ImnettLal Natorlalal/rriculm,             -                       meoa
6. Ireta4g lWateria                              ZeadaAther l_uIoL
S    us-al (2
Aaatcumt Perale teche    _el
Tahe r arservices Pphlete (28)
Poeaatle - me N amC
Ci-tt.e Booklet



-31-
ANNEX 3
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
PnOJECTIONS OF PRIMA   SCHOOL ROUIRNETS (000'e)
1985        1986       1987     1988        1989       1990        1995        2000
Total Population _/               100,791     103.315    105,839  108,363    110.887    113,409        126,712    141,031
Scbool age population j/           16,021       16,208     16,395   16,582      16,768     16,995       17,718     18,823
(6-10 Year.)
Gross Enrollments  3/               8,791       8,967       9.191    9,531       9,922     10.359       12,844     14,655
Gross Enrollment as a percent      (54.82)      (55.3Z)    (56.12)  (57.42)    (59.12)    (61.02)       (72.52)    (77.92)
of school age population
Teacher Requirements 41               150          152        155       160        166         173         214        244
Classroom Requirements 5f              88           90         92        95         99         104         128        147
Textbook Requirements 6/           30,026      32.636      14,942   16,094      18,837     19,774       24,403     27,845
j/  Source: "Bangladesh Economic Trends & Development Administration". Vol. I 6 1I, World Bank, 1984.
.   Ibid.
Al Based upon 1981 Ministry of Education Survey. Incremental growtb 1985-1986 based upon assumptions
that Primary I project schools (10Z of schools) would expand their rate of growth from 3.52 1985-86 to 4.62 1989-90;
that schools of Primary II (702 of schools) would expand their rate of growth from 22 1985-86 to 52 1989-90; and
remainder from 12 to 22 p.a. over the life of the project.
A   Stock 147,595 in 1984, "Annexure E, Martial Law Committee on Organizational Set-up of Ministries/Divisions
and Departments," (1984). Teacher wastage at 52 per annum. Teacher-pupil ratio 58.4 (actual) 1984,
58.7(1985), 59(1986), 59.3(1987), 59.5(1988), 59.8(1989), 60(1990-2000).
3/ Fifty students per classroom for two sessions per day. Assumes morning session for Class I-II and
afternoon session for III-V until more even class distribution achieved.
/ Assumes a change in policy in 1987 which would require 50X reuse and a ratio of one text
for two students in Class I & I1.



-32-
ANNEX 4
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
MONITORING BENCHMARKS
A. NON-FORMAL EDUCATION
Fiscal Year                                  Activities
FY 1986
July 1985                   . Draft Terms of Reference for conducting a survey of
non-formal education activities outlined. This
would cover all non-formal education activities
and describe who, what, where, financing (kind,
amount, source), materials utilized, enrollment
figures, achievement, and community involvement and
control.
August-December 1985        . Terms of Reference finalized, consultants selected
and survey of non-formal education begins.
January-June 1986           . Consultant submits Interim Report which includes
categorization of non-formal activities by type of
financing, degree of community control and local
participation.
FY 1987
September 1986              . Consultant submits second report which assesses the
effectiveness of the various non-formal activities
in terms student achievement, and meeting the needs
of the poor, community, and out of school children.
December 1986               . Consultant submits Final Report which includes: (a)
survey of all non-formal activities; (b) class-
ification of non-formal activities; and (c) assess-
ment of non-formal activities in meeting local
needs.
February 1987               . Review of the Conclusions and Recommendations of
the Report by MOE and IDA.
April-June 1987             . GOB/MOE determines which activities would be sup-
ported through policy changes and cost sharing
plans and outlines strategies for integrating
students from the non-formal sector into the formal
sector.



-33-                             ANNEX 4
Page 2
FY 1988
July-September 1987         . MDE develops a Plan-of-Action for supporting the
non-formal sector through: (a) policy development;
(b) institution building; and (c) development of
basic competencies corresponding to grade levels
which would allov children in the non-formal sector
to enter into the formal sector based on their
competencies.
October-November 1987       . Basic literacy and numeracy competeucies are out-
lined by the NCDC as a basis for integrating
non-formal and formal schooling.
December-February 1988      . Survey data of non-formal education activities
updated, and MOE Plan-of-Action developed and
reviewed with IDA.
March-June 1988             . Plan-of-Action adouted by GOB/MOE. and institu-
tion-buildinR and Policv development activities
started.
F! 1989
July - December 1988        . Survey data of non-formal education activities
updated.
B. LIBERAL PROMOTION PROGRAM
7Y 1986
July-December 1985          . Directorate of Primary Education (DPE) draws up
a plan for the supervision and monitoring of a
liberal promotion program, and teachers/teachers
unions, DPEOs and AUEOs briefed on the meaning and
implications of liberal promotion policies.
.Community mobilization campai--i started by Upazilla
Education Committees, and workshops organized for
DPEO, AUEO, UEO, SNC, PTAs on the implementation
and monitoring of liberal promotion program.
January 1986                . Liberal Rromotion Policy for Cy,ades I and II
announced.
January 1986-June 1986      . All schools start collection of relevant data
(enrollment, attendance, etc.).
.Pilot program designed for selected upazillas to
introduce liberal promotion in all grades, and to



-34-
ANNEX 4
Page 3
conduct studies on attendance, enrollment, achieve-
meut, parental attitudes, community and teacher
attitudes.
. Pilot program on kindergartens in selected upazil-
las started.
. Review by IDA and revisions included.
Fy 1987
September-October 1986      . Upazillas selected for pilot program and contracts
avarded for studies.
October-December 1986       . Base-line data collection started in pilot areas.
. Data from all schools (Grades I and II) collected,
and analysis started.
January-March 1987          . Interim Report on Year I of liberal promotion
completed, and submitted to IDA for review and
comment.
April-June 1987             . Final Report on Year I of liberal promotion issued,
and national workshop/upazilla workshops organized
to review status, findings and recommendations.
FT 1988
July-August 1987            . Base-line survey of pilot schools completed.
. Preliminary results of Grade II liberal promotion
completed.
September-December 1987    . Draft results of pilot studies compiled, and
results reviewed with IDA and GOB.
June 1988                   . Review of status of liberal promotion Grades I-II
with IDA.
FY 1989
September-November 1988    . Student assessment/diagnosis instruments tested
and completed by NCTB.
December 1986-June 1989    . Student assessment/diagnosis introduced in all
schools.
FY 1990
July-October 1989           . Draft results of National School Assessment and
Diagnostic testing of school children compiled and
discussion with IDA.



-35-                             DE 
ARME 4
Page 4
January 1990               . Decision on whether to introduce liberal promotion
program to Grades III and V.
C. TEACHER TRAINING
1. MINISTRY OF EDUCATION/DIRECTORATE OF PRIMARY EDUCATION
PT 1986
July-December 1985         . Survey of teacher trainuig requirements completed.
Policy statement issued on reform of primary
teacher training, and Committee established to plan
reformed pre and in-service teacher training.
January-March 1986         . Outline completed of 5-year Plan of Action
(1986-90) for reformed pre and in-service teacher
training programs and decentralized training
management system.
April-June 1986            . DPE annual plan 1987-88 for teacher training
completed.
PY 1987
July 1986-March 1987       . Iimlementation of annual Plan (1986-87) for
teacher trainin2 underway.
April 1987-June 1987       . DPE monitoring report completed.
. DPE Annual Plan 1987-88 completed.
PT 1988
July 1987-March 1988       . Monitoring by DPE of Annual Plan (1987-88) begins.
April-June 1988            . DPE monitoring report and Annual Plan 1988-89
completed.
PT 1989
July 1988-June 1989        . Monitoring by DPE begins of 1988-90 plan.
. DPE monitoring Report and Annual Plan 1989-90
completed.
FT 1990
July 1989-June 1990        . Monitoring by DPE beginning of implementation of
annual plan (1989-90) for teacher training.



-36-
ANNEX 4
Page 5
DPE monitoring Report and recommendations for
1991-95 completed.
2. NATIONAL ACADERY FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
FY 1986
July-September 1985         . School-level research on teaching-learning process
begins.
October-December 1985       . PTI staff (100mm) trained, and reports on teaching
learning research completed.
January-March 1986          . Guidelines completed for pre and in-service teacher
training curriculum and assessment.
.PT1 staff (100mm) trained.
April-June 186              . Detailed teacher training curriculum and examina-
tions completed with guidelines for design of pre
and in-service teacher training materials.
.PTI staff (100mm) trained.
, (300 man-months or PTI trainin2 completed)
FT 1987
July-September 1986         . Phased piloting begins of pre- and in-service
training materials for Grades I - V.
.Piloting of Bengali and Maths curriculum begins.
October-December 1986       . Piloting of Environmental Studies (Science &
Social) curriculum and training materials begin.
. PTI staff (100mm) trained.
January-March 1987          . Piloting of Population Education, Art & Craft
curriculum and training materials begin.
. PTI staff (100mm) trained.
April-June 1987             . Piloting of Teaching & Classroom Management Skills
of begins.
. PTI staff (100mm) trained.
. (600mm PTI staff training completed).
. Design completed for continuous Evaluation Study of
pre and in-service teacher training programs.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
FY 1988
July-September 1987         . Phased revision and field testing of training
materials package begins.
. Bengali & Maths curriculum and materials revision
begins.
. Evaluation study of implementation of pre and
in-service teacher training begins.
October-December 1987       . Environmental Studies (Science & Social) revision
begins.
. PTI staff (100m=) trained.
January-March 1988          . Population Education, Art & Craft curriculum revi-
sion begins.
. PTI staff (100mm) trained.
April-June 1988             . Teaching & Classroom Management Skills revision
begins.
. Field test report completed.
. PTI staff (100 m) trained.
. (900mm PTI staff traininx completed).
FY 1989
July-September 1988         . Phased Final Revision and reproduction of training
materials packages begins.
. Bengali & Maths final revision begins.
October-December 1988       . Enviromental Studies (Science & Social) final
revision begins.
. PTI staff (100mm) trained.
. Interim Report on Evaluation Studies of pre and
in-service teacher training.
January-March 1989          . Population Education, Art & Craft final revision
begins.
PTI staff (100mm) trained.
April-June 1989             . Teaching & Classroom Management Skills final revi-
sion begins.



-38-                          ANNEX 4
Page 7
. PTI staff (100mm) trained.
. (1200mm PTI staff training completed).
FY 1990
July-December 1989         . Revised package of 7 sets of training materials
completed (Bengali, Maths, Environmental Studies
(Science & Social), Population Education, Art &
Craft, Teaching & Management Skills).
. PTI staff (100mm) trained.
. Final Report of Evaluation Studies of pre-service
and in-service teacher training.
January-June 1990          . PTI staff (200mm) trained.
. (1500mm PTI staff training completed.)
3. PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING INSTITUTE/ASS ISTANT UPAZILIA EDUCATION OFFICER
F! 1986
July-December 1985         . PTI training of 2500 AIEOs (3 months per AUIEO) for
in-service teacher training begins.
, 16,000 teachers trained x 4 days (2133mm).
January-June 1986          . AUEOs trained (750mm), and 20,000 teachers trained
x 4 days (2666mm).
, (1500mm AUEO traininRc completed)
. (2666mm of teacher training completed)
1Y 1987
July-December 1986         . AIJEOs trained (750mm), and 24,000 teachers trained
(3200mm)
January-June 1987          . AUEOs trained (750mm), and 28,000 teachers trained
x 4 days (3733mm)
. (3000mm of AUJEO training completed)
. (3733_m of teacher traininu completed)



-39-                           AMX 4
Page 8
F! 1988
July-December 1987         . Pilot training (Jul-Dec) (600 teachers - 3 PTIs)
(3600mm)
.AUOs trained (750mm), and 32,000 teachers trained
x 4 days (4266mm).
January-June 1988          . Phased Introduction of 6 month program begins at 10
PTIs (2,000 teachers) (12000mm).
. AJEOs trained (750mm), and 36,000 teachers trained
x 4 days (4800mm).
. (4800mm of teacher training completed)
F! 1989
July-December 1988         . 4,000 teachers - 20 PTIs (24,000mm).
, AUOs trained 750mm, and 42,000 teachers trained x
4 days (5600m).
January-June 1989          . 6,000 teachers - 30 PTIs (36,000mm).
= AUEOs trained (750 m), and 46,000 teachers trained
x 4 days (6133mm).
(6000mm of AUEO traininR completed)
(6133mm of teacher trainin2 comyleted)
F! 1990
July-December 1989         . 8,000 teachers - 40 PTIs (48,000mm).
. AUXOs trained (750mm), and 50,000 teachers trained
x 4 days (6666mm).
January-June 1990          . (7500m- AUEO training completed)
(54.000mm of teacher trainin2 completed)
D. TEXTBOOK POLICY
FY 1986
July-August 1985           . Draft terms of reference prepared to conduct four
studies by the NCTB on: (a) Financing; (b) Pub-
lish/purchase options; (c) Book ownership; and
(d) Standards of provision.



-40-                                ANNEX 4
Page 9
September 1985-April 1986  . Four studies completed, reviewed by NCTB and
policy recommendations and summary of report
findings submitted to MOE.
FT 1987
July 1986-January 1987      . MOE reviews NCTB recommendations and findings
and issues textbook policy.
Fr 1988
July 1987                   . NCTB reviews textbook policy implementation from the
monitoring reports prepared by the Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit of the DPE.
September-October 1988      . NCTB prepares draft terms of reference for evalua-
tion of textbook policy examining the issues of:
financing, publish/purchase, standards of provi-
sion, and book ownership and monitoring data from
the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of the DPE.
November-December 1988      . Evaluation study of policy started by NCTB.
January-April 1989          . Draft evaluation report completed by NCTB.
May-June 1989               . Recommendations and findings of evaluation sent to
NOE and IDA for review and discussion.
E. NATERIALS DEVELOPMENT
1. DEmELOPENNT OF NATERIAIS: National Curriculum and Textbook Board (NCT)
TY 1986
July-December 1985          . Data regarding educational quality of textbooks
collected.
January-February 1986       . Terms of reference for consultant in textbook
revisions, and for teams of authors to revise the
Grades I and II textbooks and teachers editions
prepared.
March-June 1986             . Data regarding quality of teachers guides of text-
books collected.
FY 1987
July-December 1986          . Guidelines established on revisions procedures and
short on-the-job training of Textbook Wing Editors
and teams of authors completed.
January-February 1987       . Work begins on revising Grades I and II textbooks
and teachers editions.



-41-                             ANNE  4
Page 10
Short courses for NCTB editors and authors on
procedures for revising textbooks and teachers
editions underway.
March-June 1987             . Guidelines for field testing Grades I and II text-
books prepared.
FT 1988
July-October 1987           . Field testing for Grades 1 and 11 textbooks and
teachers editions of textbooks started.
November 1987 -             . Terms of reference for revision of Grade III and
February 1988               IV textbooks and teachers editions prepared and
team of authors identified.
March 1988-June 1988        . Field testing completed of Grades 1 and 11
materials and final revision begin.
Consultant back on-site for second phase of assign-
ment: (a) review field testing data and advise on
final revisions procedures; (b) assist to Textbook
Wing editors to manage teams of author in making
final revisions; and (c) train team of authors on
Grades III and IV textbooks on proce- dures for
revising textbooks and teacher's editions.
. Grades III and IV textbooks and teacher's editions
revisions begin and guidelines for field testing
prepared.
FY 1989
July-September 1988         . Grades III and IV textbook and teacher's editions
field testing started.
October 1988-February 1989 . Terms of reference prepared for revision of Grade V
textbooks and teacher's editions.
. Field testing of Grades III and IV materials com-
pleted, data evaluated and revisions begin.
Narch-June 1989             . Teams of authors for Grade V textbooks revision
trained in procedures for revising textbooks and
teacher's editions and revision begins. Field
testing also started.
FY 1990
July-March 1990             . Grade V textbook and teacher's editions field
testing completed.



-42-                            ANNEX 4
Page 11
April-June 1990             . Field test data evaluated and final revisions of
Grade V textbook completed.
F. MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT
1. DIRECTORATE OF PRIMARY EDUCATION
Management Objective: To provide program leadership, coordination vith other
government bodies to achieve program goals.
FY 1986
July - December 1985        . Finalization of the draft program for the first
year (FY86) Integrated School Development Program,
including training requirements, civil works and
learning materials provision in an Administrative
Plan. Will have instituted a regular schedule of
Program Management Committee meetings.
Begin planning the technical assistance program for
the Directorate.
i Initiation of the process of filling posts for
additional staff.
S Start to list the data requirements for the Manage-
ment Information System.
January - June 1986         . Completion of the technical assistance plan and
obtained administrative clearance for consultants
to arrive the Dhaka.
. Data needs of the Directorate refined.
FY 1987                     . Outline proposals for changes in career paths of
teachers submitted to the Ministry of Education.
FY 1988                     . General management responsibilities improved and
pursued on a continuous basis.
2. ADMINISTRATION AND SUPERVISION UNIT
Management Objective: To provide an effective administration for all super-
visory field activities.
FY 1986
July - December 1985             . Process of reorganizing the supervision serv-
ices of the DPE started. These include
clarification of roles (of DPEO, UEOs, AUBOs
and UNOS) and reporting responsibilities for



-43-                           ANNEX 4
Page 12
day-to-day operations and role for Integrated
School Development program.
.Process of defining data needs of the supervi-
sion system begins.
January - June 1986              . Staffing of Unit completed.
. MIS needs refined.
. Short in-country training starts for staff of
Administration and Supervision Unit.
FY 1988
July - December 1986             . Staffing of field offices completed ...  (addi-
tional AUEOs recruited and in-service.
January - June 1987              . Unit fully operational.
3. TRAINING AND PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT UNIT
Manaxement Objective:  To design and implement a career development program for
teachers and other field staff. To schedule teacher and management training in
a manner that provides effective support for Integrated School Development
Programs. To improve quality of personnel records.
FY 1986
July - December 1985             . Staff training plans with NAPE, NIEAER and
PTIs for first year training completed.
. Data requirements of the Unit being iden-
tified.
January - June 1986              . Personnel specialist in conjunction with Unit
Staff begin to design a new personnel system
for teachers and other field staff.
. Newly recruited staff begin short in-country
training courses.
FY 1987
July - December 1986             . Review and update of training schedules with
training institutions.
. Draft recommendations for new career develop-
ment personnel system sent to Director
General.
January - June 1987              . Redesign of examination system for teachers
started.



-44-                            ANNEX 4
Page 13
FY 1988
July - December 1987              . Proposed changes of the examination system
sent to Director General for action and
implementation.
4. PLANNING AND FINANCE UNIT
Management Obiective: To prepare budgets and p;ans which accurately schedule
activities and reflect operational needs.
FY 1986
July - December 1985             . The draft program for the first year is final-
ized in the form of the Administrative Plan.
. Manual on micro-planning for upazillas com-
pleted.
* Data needs of Unit being identified for the
MIS.
January - July 1986              . Staff has begun short course in-country train-
ing.
FY 1987                          . Unit fully operational.
5. MONITORING AND EVALUATION UNIT
Management Objectives: To measure program activities against program objectives
and schedules; to provide management information to users in timely and effec-
tive manner; and to provide Project Support Communication material to staff and
to school communities.
FY 1986
July - December 1985             . Staffing of monitoring and evaluation Unit
completed.
. Unit requested to begin process of deciding
their MIS needs.
. TA assistance is provided.
January - June 1986              . Unit assisted in finalizing MIS needs.
. Equipment specifications developed for com-
puter.
. Monitoring and evaluation plans drafted.



-45-                             ANNEX 4
Page 14
FY 1987
July - December 1986              . Training materials and plan for Project Sup-
port Cocmnunicatious finalized.
. MIS goes on-line maintaining enrollment,
attendance records for students and teachers,
training and education records for staff and
for teachers, benchmark data for evaluation
and monitoring, and civil works records.
. Monitoring study done on quality of data
collected in field. Plans for mid-term
evaluation of effectiveness of program are
developed, contracts for special studies let.
January - June 1987               . Special studies completed to review effective-
ness of policy changes and achievement of
operational objectives. These studies to
include: (a) Community cost sharing practices;
(b) Options in couiunity control and financ-
ing; (c) Analysis of alternate policies in
textbooks; (d) School facilities utilization;
Ce) Integrated School Development effective-
ness; (f) Effectiveness of supervisory train-
ing; of teacher training; asd
(g) Effectiveness of liberal promotion policy.
6. AUDITS AND ACCOUNTS UNIT
Management Obiective: To provide accurate and timely accounting of financial
transactions and financial audits as required.
FY 1986
July - December 1985              . Unit should be fully operational.
7. NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION EXTENSION AND RESEARCH
Management Obiectives: To plan and implement a program of supervisory, manage-
ment, and project-related training for staff and personnel of the Primary Educa-
tion system to cover the training needs of the Integrated School Development
Program.
FT 1986
July - December 1985              . Technical assistance scheduled for staff.
. Staff recruitment begun.



-46-
ANNEX 4
Page 15
. Training plan for primary education officials
completed and first courses held.
January - June 1986              . Staffing completed.
. Trainer of Trainers work completed.
. Training Plan for primary education officials
completed fo next fiscal year.
. Program fully operational.
8. THE NATIONAL CURRICULUM AND TEXTBOOK BOARD
ManaRement Obiective:   To increase staff training and experience in publishing,
especially editing, production control and coordination with curriculum design
activities, and to improve distribution, and cost containment procedures.
FY 1986
July - December 1985       . Schedule technical assistance for NCTB completed.
January - June 1986        . Technical experts arrive and start work.
Textbook policy alternatives in preparation.
- Board schedules regional study tour.
FY 1987
July - December 1986       . Textbook policy alternatives sent to Ministry.
. Board develops cost containment recommendations.
. Board develops distribution recommendations.
January - June 1987        . Staff training and development plan completed.
. Board approves improved reporting and decision-
making procedures.
G. PROJECT IMPACT
1.      The monitoring of Project IMPACT would include examining the physical
(production and distribution of materials, fellowships, training and community
orientation and participation) financial (cost reductions) and educational
(enrollment, achievement, attendance, dropout, repetition and student/teacher
ratios) indicators on an annual basis. Established benchmarks would provide
baseline measures. Feedback would allow for adjustments or growth of the
proposed expanded system.



-47-                                                        ANNEX 4
Page 16
2.            The physical bencbmarkslindicators are outlined in Table 1.  The educa-
tional indicators, Table 2, are based on experience from the first project and
the outcomes Project IMPACT is designed to achieve. The financial indicators,
Table 3, are represented by the unit cost of materials utilized and the stu-
dent:teacher ratio; a higher student:teacher ratio representing lowered recur-
rent costs. Community participation is a critical aspect of Project IMPACT.
There should be evidence of comunity involvement in the areas of
(a) supe rvision of and visits to the schools (at least six times monthly), and
(b) demonstrations of comminity support to the schools (i.e. donations,
repairs, landscaping, etc.).
.tA! 1:  USnICAL wIUD?CATOI
1)  Tancbm                -         400 2S3,1            500 SIS1           -                     *00 ISA            -
100 VT              200 IT                                   200 r
2) Stmdnt                 -         in 100 scbool        -                 in 2   am  scbol.       -                 in 200 am  *chool.
3)  Poject starff
4)) &=a                   -         *0                    40               40                     40
3) gt                     -         20                    20                -                     20
83  wI  last.             -         60                    80               80                      -
7) Ps Spr..               -          9                  -                   9                      -
O)  1au r rr.r            -          -                   500            1.200                  1.200             2..'00
of toneber
.)  Da,l.wa t of          -         Dv" lop_ant         -                  -                       -
module. & Ws
2) 1Piel   tsti   *      -         -                 Field testing        Oeoilu              Osgins            Dmgoiug
rewision                                                               reisio              revision          revsion
3)   risti ng           5.100                        15.90                 - 04*700
4I Developent of XS    -            Drnlop.at           -
scripts (20)
5) D.w.l.past of          -         -                Dvelep.m               -__
e)  Prodection of a       -         -                 Preodctioc            -                      -
(is naaday )
e; D@ACT specinlises    100           100               150               300                     250              100
2) UU/W3                   20          25                So                 50                    100              ISO
1)  HaisI..               5.100        -                   -
23  TC.                   3.000        1.000               -             3.000                                   5.000
33 )                        -          -                 2r.000            -                   5em oe
4) Ks mcbin.                -          -                   -               300                                     200
egional Sak Force           -           I                  -                                       -
smmagut                     -          12                   12              12                     12               12
T.AIL 2 :      " DCTOn. zICnuoas
.~~~~ .
20OCAS                  195      1    ltS           1    1U7           1    198           I   1909        1   1910
Coot of *tut    I 1 tetk  I student tazt-  I  *tt t.rt-   I a tt      *I sltti_d  I   .4 ta.              I   .4 tak.
iatrectiasl        I per *     t I book ratio of  I  _r rt  of   I _el r .4 take I Pr  t t   I pr *t _
_teriln I/         I mnit c-t   I 5:1 _itt          I 5:1 uit ca          a I r   3stuet  II
I31.41 tos  I 3.= r,    VI" 1 3.38c tab pi"  I                         I1
I unit :cot of   t uit cost of    I
I             I uodul  .2       I softs .2 tlal                        I               I
I             I Total:3.4       I Te l: 3.48       I                   I               I
I             I mait cost       I _it O    t       I coI
Cos tofT aen er.   I   5g:I    I        45:1        I       70:1 I                        I                                .
.   I         I                 I                  I      S0:1         1      .90:1    1    100:1 2/
JDoo"  Mc taclinths cost of develpment
s sume a lIfe of to yeant_s.
If astmtad studsnt:GtoA     ratio.



48-                           AANNEX 4
Page 17
H. CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT : NCTIB (CURRICULUM WING)
FY 1986
July-September 1985      . Curriculum revision process begins with cooperation
of IMPACT component & Textbook Wing.
October-December 1985   . Guidelines produced for revision of all
grades/subjects.
Guidelines produced for development of assessment
instruments in parallel with curriculum revision and
materials development.
January - March 1986    . Revision by grade and/or all subjects begins.  Ben-
gali/Math revision begins.
* Decisions made with Textbook Wing & NAPE on illustra-
tion of prototype materials for adaptation as sup-
plementary instructional materials for teachers and
students and for incorporation in Teacher's Editions
of Textbooks.
- Development of assessment instruments begin to be
devised in parallel with curriculum & materials
development for Bengali and Maths.
April - June 1986        . Environmental Studies (Science & Social Studies)
curriculum revision includinr Population Education
begins.
* Prototype materials for Bengalilmaths drafted and
printed.
* Development of assessment instruments for Environmen-
tal Studies begins.
FY 1987
July-September 1986      . Art & Craft Curriculum Revision begins.
* Prototype matL:ials for Environmental Studies
[Science & Social Studies] drafted & printed.
. Art & Craft assessment instrument development begins.
October-December 1986   . Revision of other subjects begirs.
Arts and Crafts draft revisions completed.
Prototype materials for Art & Craft drafted &
printed.



-49-                              ANNEX 4
Page 18
January-November 1987   . Review of all draft revisions for relevance to girls
and population education content completed.
* Review of piloted materials completed.
. Review of assessment instruments completed.
April - June 1987        . Continuous evaluation process of curriculum begins.
* Field testing of all prototype materials begins.
. Field testing of all assessment instruments begins.
FY 1988
July - September 1987   . Field testing of prototype materials continues.
. Field testing of student assessment continues.
April - June 1988        . Field testing of prototype materials completed.
. Field testing of student assessment completed.
FT 1989
July - September 1988 . Decisions made with Textbook Wing & NAPE on develop-
ment and utilization of revised materials.
Final revisions made.
. Discussions made with TB Wing & NAPE on development
and utilization of revised materials.
Final revisions made.
October-December 1988   . Evaluation plans set up for zontinuous development of
materials.
. Evaluation plans set up for continuous development of
assessment instruments.
January - March 1989    . Evaluation Report completed with recommendations for
1991-95.
Evaluation Report completed with recommendations for
1991-95.
On-going evaluation begins.



-50-                               ANll 5
BANGLADESH
SECOND PRINARY EDUCATION PROJET
CIVIL WO}RKS PROGRAMI: 1985 - 1990
I             I      *I     I      l       1                     
C&TECORY         FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88 I Y89 I F90 ITOTLI TOALI
I     I      il     I      I      i       I      i      I
ll. Repair to schools  I  -  I  8001 1,0001 1,5001 1,5001 1,2001 6,000110,4901
I                      I              I      I      I      I      I       I      I
12. Construction of    I  -  I 3,0001 3,3601 5,0401 5,0401 4,620121,060138,0281
I  nev classrooms      I       I      I      I      I      I       i
13. Construction of    I  -  1  1501   2001   3001   4001   2501 1,3001 2,2151
1  MEO Offices         1       1      1      1      1
14. Latrines to        I  -  I  8001 1,2001 2,0001 2,0001 2,0001 8,000115,0001
I  existing schools               1      1      1       1      1      1
15. Tubevells          I  -  I 1,0001 1,2001 1,4001 1,4001 1,0001 6,000111,1371
I                      I       I      1      1      1      I              I
16. Repair and Reconst-I 1,5001 1,5001   -  I  -  I  -  I  -  1 3,0001   -  I
I  ruction of schools I        I      I      I      I      I      I       I      I
I  damaged by floods           1      1      1      1      1      1       1      1
I~~~~ I                                              I              I      I   



-51-                             ADNES 6
BANGRLESH
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
PULSING OF NEW 6-MONTE INDUCTION PROGRAM AT PTIs
FOR PRU-SERVICE TRAINING
i Calender  1       6-month TraininR t              12-month TraininR         ITotal TraineesI
IYear       I                                I                                I Per Ann       I
I       ~    ~I   I          I            I         I           i          I               I
I           I PTI  | TrPiner_u    |  Total   | PTI   I Trainees I Total  I                    |
11986       1  _           - _        - _47    I    200   19,0001                    9,000
1987      1        1
IJan-Jun       I       -        I -          I _                   1          1               I
t 47    I    200   19,0001             9,600   I
-Jul-Dec   1  3   1   200   I    600    E              I           I          I               I
11988       I        1          I            1         1           I          I               I
Jan-Jun   110   I   200   I  2,000
30    1    200   16,0001            12,000   I
!Jul-Dec   I 20   1   200   1  4,000   1               1           1          I               1
11989      1       1           I           1         1            I         I
IJan-Jun    1301    200   1  6,0001                    I           1          1               1
I           I        I          I            1 10    1    200   12,0001             16,000
IJul-Dec   140   1   200   1   8,000   1               I           I          1               I
I l l~                     IL 1,I_
11990       1        1          1            I         I           I
IJan-Jun   150   1   200   110,000   1                 1           1          1               1
I       I           I           I  - _           - _         -I _  |   20,0001
IJul-Dec   I 50   I   200   1 10,000   I               1           I          I               1
ITOTAL      I        I          I 40,600   I           I           126,000  I    66,000   I
I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I    _ _ _ _ _ I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I    _ _ _ _ _ _ I  _ _ _ _ _ _ I  _ _ _ _ _ _ I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  



-52-
ANNEX 7
Page 1
BANGLADESE
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE BY INSTITUTION. AREA OF SPECIALIZATION
AND PHASING BY YEAR
A. EXPERT SEVICES
TOTAL             MAN-MONTES
INSTITUTION          AREA OF SPECIALIZATION    MAN-
MONTHS   FY86  FY87 FY88  FY89  FY90
Directorate of Primary  Program Management (ISD/
Education (DPE)           Monitoring and Evaluation 24       12    12
Personnel Hanagement         6       3     3
Project Support
Communications             6       6
Finance and Budgeting       12       6     6
Planning/Teacher Programs   12       6     6
National Academy for    Teacher Training             12      6      6
Primary Education
(NAPE)
National Curriculum     Textbook Publishing and
and Textbook Board        Distribution               12      6      6
(NCTB)                  Curriculum Revision          18      6    12
National Institute
of Education Adminis-   Training of Trainers         12      6      6
tration Extension and
Research (NIEAER)
TOTAL                114      57    57



-53-                          ANNEX 7
Page 2
B.  STUDIES
TOTAL      MN-WONTHS
INSTITUTION     AREA OF SPECIALIZATION   MAN-
MOUTHS FY86 FY87 FY88
Directorate of     Non-Formal Education Policy
Primarv Education    and Program Review       90      20    40    30
(DPE)              Integrated Teacher Trg.   50       20    30
National Curri-    Textbook Policy Studies   70       40    30
culum and Text-
book Board
(NC'E)
TOTAL               270     140   100    30



-54-                         ANNEX 7
Page 3
BANGLADESH
SECOND PRIDMRY EDUCATION PROJECT
FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM BY INSTITUTION  AREA OF SPECIALIZATION
AND PHASING BY YEAR
A. INTEMRATIONAL AND REGIONAL FELLOWSHIPS
TOTAL             NAN-MONTHS
INSTITUTION      AREA OF SPECIALIZATION    MAN-
NONTHS   FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90
Directorate of     Teacher Training              6              6     1      1
Pri arv Education  Personnel Management         3               1
(DPI)              School Inspectionl
Supervision               4               4
(Study Tour)
Mansgement Infor=ation       8              8
System (Study Tour)
Support Communications       6              6
(Study Tour)
Training (Study Tour)       12              4     4      4
Project Impact              51             17    17    17
National Academy   Teacher Training            12               6     6
of Primary         Nodular Material
Education (NAPE)    Development                36              12    12    12
National Curri-    Primary Curriculum
culum and Text-      Development               12               6     6
book Board (NCTB) Textbook Management
(Study  Tour)             6               6
Primary Curriculum
Development               12              6     6
TOTAL                  168       -     82    52    34



-55-                         ANNEX 7
Page 4
B. LOCAL FELLOWSRIPS/IN-COUNTRY TRAINIUG
TOTAL              AN-MONTHS
INSTITUTION          AREA OF SPECIALIZATION    MAN-
MONTHS  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90
Directorate of Primarv  Nanagement/Information        20       5    10      5     5
Education (DPE)         Computer Applications          4             2      2     2
Personnel Management          4                    4     4
AVEO Training             7,500   1,500 1,500 1,500 1,500 1,500
PTI Staff Training          600            300   300   300
Ipact                     1,203      240   240   241   241   241
National Academy for    PTI Staff Training         1,500     300   300   300   300   300
Primary Education       Teacher Training              60            15    15    15    15
(NAPE)
National Curriculum     Curriculum Development/       60            12    12
aud Textbook Board        Student Assessment
(MCTM)
National Institute of  Project Staff Training    2,132       426   426   426   427   427
Education Atministra-   Supervisory Training       3,228     645   645   646   646   646
tion Extension and      Management Training           42            21           21
Research (NIEAER)
TOTAL                16,317   3,116 3,171 3,451 3,450 3,129



ANNEX 8
-56-                               Page  1
BANIGADESH
SECCiD PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ADDITIONAL STAFF SALARIES
A. SCHEDULE OF APPOINTMENT OF ADDITIONAL STAFF
TOTAL TO
INSTITUTION                 BE APPOINTED   FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89   FY90
Directorate of Primary
Education (DPE)               10,318  J    2,118   2,100   2,100  2,000  2,000
National Curriculum and
Textbook Board (NCTB)           5             5       -       -       -      -
National Institute of
Education, Administration.      7             7
Extension and Research
(NIEAER)
j/ Includes 10,000 watcbmen; and 300 Assistant Upazilla Education Officers,
and 13 staff for Project Impact Office.



ANMEX 8
57                               Page  2
B. ADDITIONAL STAFF TO BE APPOINTED
Taka           Total
Numbers to     Annual Salary     Staff
TITLE                         be appointed  including benefits  Years
A. Directorate of Primary Education
1.  Assistant Directors                  4            43,200              20
2. Education Officers                    3            30,000             15
3.  Accountants                          2            20,000             10
4.  Specialists                          4            30,000              20
5.  Research Officers                    4            30,000             Z0
6.  Assistant Upazilla Education
Officers                       300             11,400          1,500
National Curriclum and
Textbook Board
1.  Senior Specialist                    1            35,640              5
2.  Specialists                          2            23,760             10
3.  Research Officers                    2            27,720             10
C. National Institute of Education,
Administration. Extension &
Research
1.  Member, Directing Staff              1            57,000              5
2.  Training Specialist                 6             48,000             30



Table 1
BANCLADESH
SECOND PRIMARY EDICATION PROJECT
SUIOA! OF CST BNY PROJECT COQPONINT
Base Costs                Total
86/87    87/88    88,89        AA    (USS '000)
A. PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT
REPAIR AND CONSTRUCTION                     386,158 465,316    672,001   1,523,475    58,148
FLOOD RABILITATION                           37,347   39,438    34,402    111,187      4,244
Sub-Total PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT                 423,505  504,755   706,402  1,634,662    62,392
B. PIE - SEIRVICE TUCKE  TRAINING
PTI PRE - SZRVICE TEACER TRAINING               372   5,882      6.221      12,476       476
RAPE PRE - SERVlICE TEACKER TRAINING          1,638   1,638      2,453       5,729       219
DYE PRE - SERVICE TEACHER TRAINING                -   2,376      2,376       4,753       181
Sub-Total PEE - SERVICE TEACHER TRAINING         2,010   9,897    11,050      22,957        876
C. IN - SERVICE TEUCER TRAINING
NAPE IN - SERVICE TRACKER TRAINING            2,464   2,996      2,043       7,503       286
P1I IN - SERVICE TEACHEIR TRAINING            1,638   1,638      1,638       4,914       188
DPE IN - SERVICE TEACKER TRAINING             3,490   5,995      4,449      13,934       532
Sub-Total IN - SERVICE TEACKER TRALNING          7,592   10,629     8,130     26,351      1,006
D. CURRICULUM DEVELOPMNT
NCTB TEXTBOOK WING                           47,970        -         -      47,970     1,831
NCUB CURRICULUM WING                          1,930   4,029      2,252       8,210       313
Sub-Total CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT                49,900   4,029      2,252     56,181      2,144
E. INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS
DIRECTORATE OF PRIMARY EDUCATION             14,721  14,721    15,167       44,609     1,703
NCTE TEXTBOOK WING                          157,507  76,844    82,840    317,191      12,107
Sub-Total INSrRUCTIONAL MATERIALS              172,228  91,565    98,007    361,799    13,809
F. MANGEMENT IMOVEMET
ADMINISTRATION AND SUPERVISION                6,370   7,770      7,662      21,803       832
PROJECr SUPPORT COMMUNICATION , DPE           1,718      574        88       2,380        91
PROJECT STAFF TRAINING * NIRAM                  478      304       308       1,090        42
MAGEMENT TRAINING , NCTB                      1,086    1,248     1,086       3,420       131
MAAEMENT TRAININ  , NIRARI                      377   1,234        377       1,988        76
SUPERMSORY TRAINING , NIEE                    2,006   3,626      1,997       7,630       291
MANAGEMNT INFORMATION SYSTEM , DPE              276   1,321        224       1,821        70
PLANING FNACE DEVELOPET , DYE                 2,009   2,036        380       4,426       169
TltAINING AND PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT , DPE        98      940       962       2,000        76
Sub-Total MANAZGMENT IMOVEMENT                  14,418  19,054    13,084      46,556      1,777
G. PROJECT IMPACT
IPACT , DPI                                   2,309   2,911      2,290       7,510       287
IMPACT TAIGA1L OFFICE                         1,069      878       894       2,842       108
Sub-Total PROJECT IMPACT                         3,378   3,789      3,184     10,352        395
Total BASELINE COSTS                             673,031 643,718   842,110   2,158,859    82,399
Physical Contingencies                         33,652  32,186    42,105    107,943       4,120
Price Contingencies                            99,439  187,525   365,276    652,240    16,841
Total PROJECT COSTS                              806,122 863,429  1,249,492   2,919,042    103,360
Taxes                                          37,379  56,729    82,745    176,854       6,243
Foreign Exchange                              266,666  256,562   353,085    876,313    31,073



-59-                              AMNE  9
Table 2
SECOND PRINARY EDUCATION PROJECT
SUIMDAY OF COSTS BY CATEGORIES OF EMPaNDITURE AND TINE
Base Costs                Foreign Exchange
86187    87/88    88/89      Total        Z    Amount
INVESTMENT COSTS
CIVIL WORKS                           338,565  394,971    556,392  1,289,928    26.1  336,122
F1uRNITERE                             72,040   83,985    124,211    280,237    28.9   81,096
PROFESSIONAL FEES                      12,899   25,799    25,799    64,496    25.0   16,124
FOREIGN EXPERTS                        11,947   12,490     4,887     29,325   84.3   24,725
INTERs NTIOAL FLLOWSRIPS                   27     513        567      1,107    94.7    1,049
REGIONAL FELLOWSHIPS                        -    1,647       999      2,647    94.7    2,508
LOCAL FELLOWSHIPS                       4,792    7,803     7,465     20,060     0.0         0
LOCAL EIERTS                              950      966       819      2,735     0.0         0
zQUIPMENT                                 550    2,425     1,493      4,468    47.8    2,138
VEHICLES                                  323    8,888     8,511     17,722   47.0    8,329
BOOKS                                 204,711   75,382    81,564   361,656    48.7  176,061
_-1 INVESTMENT COSTS                   646,804 614,870    812,707  2,074,382    31.2  648,152
RECURRMIT COSTS
EDUCATIONAL / LEARNIRG MATERIAL        7,457    7,457     7,683     22,598    28.9    6,540
SALARIES                               7,945    7,945     7,945     23,836     0.0        0
CONSUMABLE TRAIING MATERIALS          10,824  10,853     11,181     32,857    19.2    6,302
OPERATION AND XAINTENANCE                  -   2,593      2,593      5,185     9.5      494
_al RECURRENT COSTS                     26,226   28,848    29,402      84,477    15.8   13,336
1 BASELINE COSTS                      673,031  643,718   842,110  2,158,859    30.6  661,489
Physical Contingencies                  33,652   32,186    42,105    107,943    30.6   33,074
Price Contingencies                     99,439  187,525    365,276    652,240    27.9  181,750
_1 PROJECT COSTS                       806,122  863,429  1,249,492  2,919,042    30.0  876,313
Taxes                                   37,379   56,729    82,745    176,854    0.0          0
Foreign Exchange                       266,666  256,562   353,085    876,313     0.0         0
---_ _ _  _ _ _ -  -- - - - -   -            _ _ _ _ _  -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



-60-
susan A, cOF  n1  cua 
nE - SERICE TIMEURE T136121    11 - JRIVQCE T3C8R TlRAINIGC
CURRICULU  DVnELeORUT 1Z8TRUCTERAL P&-_..
UT8ICA. DEUVELOHT        rl nc - WCl PRE - DME RE -  Kc IN -  rrl 11 - WE IN -D
-       SUyCz  LSERVICE    El1ln nVL     m STICS   SnwIcI uzwci          KM         gm      DIRECTOAUT  OJ  Cm
REPAIR AID     FLOOD        TRAC1Uo    TEACU     TEACEER    TRACKER  TcER  TEACKER    TEZSOOW  CDRICULUIN    MINOT    Tu nJ
CONSTRUCTION    MII1T4TI0O   ELININC   I7ECUINIC TRA1121    T341111   TRAINING TRAINING       win        WING      ERUCATiON      32110
1. 3928281310881
CrIVL                                   1.191.866         93.062          -          -         -          -         -        -           -           -              -        -
103312011                                 272.015          8.222
neNsEouL Fos                               59.593          4,9D3                                     -        -           -          -           -               -
103a10    rT                                    - -            -          -         15         -       3,258        -   3.258                    6.517              -    1.35
DITUMNT11L nI LosIIPS                           -      -            -               -         -         378         -      243                     486              -        -
NCIOKAL 101L8JS-I_S                                                                                     48          -      216           -         324              -        -
LCAL FEL7WJUIPS                                 -              -        25       6.914         -        166    4916          -           -         131              -        -
lOCAL CEpla                                     -              -          -          -         -          -         -        _           _                          -    2.457
WuIlU                                           -              -      2.078          -        -         190         -        -           -         297              -        -
YEIfL                                           --                    8.942                             323         -   4.579            -           -              -        -
80o8                                            --                             -          -              32         -        -      47.970--  313.376
Total I3lESlIUuT  Deu                      1.523,75         111,107     11,348      5.729         -      *.832     4.914    8.29f      47,970 71755                    _  317.192
11.~~~~~~~~~~~.2.7 r  xm-175
II. 81083133  C o.
ZUCTIOKAL I 71UI8 HATUIRAL                     -              -      1.128          -         -          -          -   5,638           -           -          15,833
s.uas                                          -              _          _          _         -          -         _        -           -         455              -
COmUt*LE 1UC13  NATERrALS                     -              -                     -         -       2.448        -        -           -           -          28.776       -
OlMIOs MM miiAIMTNCE                          -              -          -          -    4.753          224        -        -           -           -              -        -
Total ENCOtNSEr COSTs                              -              -      1.120          -    4.753        2,672        -    5.638           -         455          44.6         -
Totel B433LIDC 0085                         1.523.475        311.187     12.476      5.729    4,753        7.503    4.914   13.934      47.970       8,210          44.609 317.191
11yricaI Conti-S.. ci                       76.174          5.559        624        286       236        375       24       697       2.399         411           2.230  15.860
Price Coutiugouid.                         487.081         32.136      4.264      1.632     ..765      2.050     1.301    4.061       6.904       2.279         13.262   80.458
Total 11WZCT COST$                          2.086,729        148.882     17,363      7.647    6.755        9.928    6.461   18.692      57.273      10,.00          60.082  413.508
Tam                                        146.071         10,4*2      8.138          -         -        545         -   3.925            -          83           3.430       -
Fre.in Earbage                             544.913         38.445      7.681      1.0W2      632       5.620              9.204      27.67;       5.524          13.368  197,913



-60-~~~~~~~-
Table 3
MI=n  n    NU W ueTIoN PRiOJIT
-T CnINr AM4 CILTW)nte Olr U OT
- ~ ~ ~       ~       ~       ~      ~ ~          CID 51DHN1I *WI!3013 1muia
elL S~~~~~mimi ns lrn.
SEIAL NOMTLALALS                                   F-- - -C T-n -= 503e2l
-~~~~~~~ 01  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    vairPLAMNIm   ISIEnO  MD                                                                                                 physical
TR oremm                         rmwr sum5rr  ITAFT T4MMEMM  MANG -1 wr3 7    KIUMZIT                           FINNCn      FP J lin                I                    CItMlloumcI..
Y     TtIoo   ADWIUI2m4TlO  COMMUICATION   TRAINING .3*19 22;             31610 .AIUZ          N131N3U210 .C.ELNIUM           1..W    *           * T2.94.
-0 aon     n     MDA lE 312z10          uPs         3133         mm        wi=           AIR    S1m   Wu           DWC          DWC          Don    0FCF         Tt.1      2  _      t
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                           -    -                  - .Mt  .Dl:2
=-   -.358                -                -.*29      -           -,z5s      -           -.2se        -              -.zZ      -.b           -F      _   1.29.928   3.1   0  4.49
_                _                _                     _    -            -            -            -                     -         -       -     280.127   S.D    4.012
-  -             -e               -          -          - 2         -           -            -6             -             4         -l      -      06.40   3.0 43.25
- 1.335                             1.029           -      3.238                  3.235                       3.258          1.629     1.050       -      29.325   3.0    1.400
-  -             -               -         i91          -          12       4.371           22            109            22    4.07         -      20.100   S.D e    .0
-    2.03?                -                -          -           -          -           -           L97             -             -        02       -         .735   5.0      1'7
*  -                -                -        175                                             784                                            94        4.4G8   3.0       223
-        -            2.506              323          -           -        a             -            -              -             -         -     323       12.712   5.0      am
-  313.27b                -                -          -           -        119           -            -              -             -       119       -      201,60    5.0 1O.O
3 217.191             2.114            2.114      1.090       2.420       827        7.030         1.218         3.307         1.705  *.323   1.217   2.07.3032  3.0  103.719
13.33         -                 -- -                                   -          -           -             -             -             -         -       -       22.3S    5.0    1.130
-        -           19.109              265          -           -      1.130           -           334         1.05            29        *5        -       23.53    5.0        1.192
28.776                                        -             - --                              -                           -             -         -   1.571       32 .57   3.0    1,03
-             _             _ -  -  -  -  -  11  -  -  - i  .15   3.0   239
".GbO         -            1.101             285           -          -      1.131           -           e00         1.0o8           23      1.15e7   1.71       54.477   3.0    4.224
04.04  317.191             21.103           2.380      1.00        3. 420    L1.u         7.110         1.521         4.421         2.000    7.310   2. 42   2.138.859   3.0  107.543
2,230   13.860             1.00              ji9         54         171         n9         381            91           221           lo0       370     142      107.943   0.0        0
13.242   5.438              3.951             416        203         928        539       2.022           69            971           662    2.000      78B    632.200   4.8   31.13
6D.0f2  413.300            28.874           2.914       1.409      1.529      2.05       10.03D         2.&07         5.617         2.70Z    9.856   3.772   2.919.062   4.8  139.MD02
3.430        -            1.911              Z28        101           -        40            -           ss              -             -         -     929      176.854   4.8   8.422
13.268  19.923              1.531           2.022         95       3.534        481       3.444           781         3,66          1.987     2.415   1.155      876.313   4.5    1.729



= ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~M    1 :  
AeKJ
Pt         or ay n
I            i~~sum  rmi-mm Pr.Az                       I                 iUmin plry-ima PA"
I                                                  TOZnL    'r
I 1931      192     1i3        194      ills      l11045    I 196       197      1io8      1939     1990      1936-90
_ _ _ _ _ _  _r_          .1                                                           ..
I                                                            IT Lt.                   Hl oe
S.    usa_in Product I/             I 162.556  205.510  136.315   276.945  318.491   1.220.323   1 382.189  447.161   523.179   596.423  679.923  2.628.875
,vinmmr laugma. 21                  1 28.430   28.549   25.538   27.1W7   33.965    130.592   1 49.685   62.603   78.477    39.463  101.9,    38.216
I                                                            I
It0l 8.cmbat Eludit-. 31              14.616   28,450   21,467   24.135   26.54        105.416   1 31.858   38a229   4S075   55.050   ! .060    237.072
.1R1 Racurrt D_me.  2      1pazar  41  1  2.096    2.346    2.530    3.652    4.702     15.626   1  4.715    S.6S       6.790    8.147    9.777      35.037
a. e.nraxt PrZmay Ed. eapma4ituraaI       930    I.OZ9    1.454    1.661    2.101        7.Z25   1  2.169    2.715    3.327    4.073    5.054   16.366
cb. Sarrtut Secondary ld. Ibp.uiduraal    735       931       931    1. 500    2.10       6.225   1  1.86      2.263    2.716    3.259    3.911        14.035
c. SRooxnrr T.chnLca1 W. Expenditures       75       59        8s      100       100        450         141      170       204      2i.       293      1.052
d. Nerrt Duirsaity Zd.9xpauditurest    256          296       360      389       392      1.693         519      622       747      396    1.073       3.559
otal D1l-pmear Zxp.uditur.a V      1 23.690   17.153    31.262   34.839   38.322    155.266   1 54.339   53.013   74.952   77.194   79.9A2    339.440
Sual  I    b U..as  7ht U. ZApaudhmr  41  I  75.7    7n.9     90.2    15.5    121.26      617.361     168.45   164.34   232.35   239.43   247.32    1.052.39
_. Prifay 2hvlspea    Sa_dinara      I      32.2     26        47       64        56.07     225.271      30.9     82.17    Il1.5    126.9    136.3       54.77
D- SJcnadary fwabptZzIpaiturma  1          20        27        28.6     36.6      31.1      143.3 1      49.5     A8.3      60.3     704       72.8      309.3
e. Tckalcal Daelap..nE zzpamiLturem  1      10.4     11.15     6.5       8.7      15.4       52.151      18.5     13U1      25.1     26.3      27.3      115.8
d. liv.raiy  awelapmaut DIpeatirows 1       12        5.6       6.2     12.7      11.        61.3 1      19.6     15.8      20       15A       11.4       62.6
,tal flacarit d Dw        _ lapt                                                                 1
tpo,diw.a                            1 38.506   A5.603   52.729   35.974   64.870    260.682   I 86.197   91.242   120.8J   132,224  146,002    576.492
ital Eucariam  acurraut and         I
-ff,w1apmamt zgpafdtura              I  2,171    Z.419    2.920    3.776    4.823        16.111   I4,5383    5.822    7.022    8.386   10.023         36.113
U4M0                       I 1931      1982     1353      19"6     1935      190-5    1936        1957    13        1969     1990      1986-90
I                                                          I.
.aaut Rasae aS I of CDP (211)       1 12.93S    13.89S   10.7C2    9.791   10.67Z    11.365    13.05    14.032    13.032    15.0G:   15.0GZ   14.547
il Saeurreat UspandicurmIG/P (3/1)    1  S.12    S.98     9.06      8.71     6.34       1.14   I  5.34      6.55      8.77     9.23     9.72      9.02
.t D    _avaopat S_psudLuaDr C (5/I)  I 12.9    13.21    13.20    12.58    12.03       12.72   1 14.20    1.90    14.30    12.90    11.30    12.90
1 Imp_digurIC    (711)             1 21.09    22.19    22.2       21.29    20.37      21.361       22.55    20.40  3.09    22.17    21.47    21.93
RI U.rpauditur.lGar t411J           1  1.15      1.14     1.20      1.32      1.48      1.28   1  1.23      I.2       1.30     1.37      1.       1.33
RI Primary 1d.EZap.udtsrJcI  (6...1) I  0.54     0.50     0.61      0.60     044        0.59   I  0.57      0.58      0.60     0.63     9.66      0.61
- -eatiomecurrent  speuiirur.e (43)    1 14.11    12.72    13.18    15.13    17.71        14.82   1 14480      14O      14.30     1480    14J.0    14.90
I                                                          I
mary/E. bproditar, (4.814)          1 46.76    43.86    51.38    45.48    4.63         46.24   I 46.00    48.00   4*9.0       50.00    52.00    46.60
I                                                          I
macy/M.curry.t Epediurie. C4.4'3)    1  8.60     5.38     6.77      6.d3     7.91       6.55   I  6.80      6.80      6.60     6.0      6.80      6.80
c.sciou/..1opaursp.udirr (C/0)  1  0.32          0.27     0.29      0.36     0.32       0.31   1  0.31      0.31      0.31     0.31     0.31      0.31
maxryldUeatiou Dav.Expditure (6../6)1  42.54    35.13    52.11     50.59    46.24      46.20   1 468.00     0.00    53.00    53.00    55.00    52.77
I                                                          I
mary/Dm.Xzp&mditmrw (6.a/5)         1  0.14      0.10     0.15      0.18      0.15      0.15   I  0.15      0.15      0.16     0.16     0.17      0.16
-:ciou1aec.  id Dan. (817)          1  5.64      5.30      5.54     6.41      7.43      6.1    I  5.66     6.33      5.81      6.34     647      6_28
I                                                          I
"ry (m)/ud. CK.D) (4.a.6.a/3)       I 46.62    43.61    51.40    45.66   - 4.72        46.24       46.03    41.12    46.16    46.21    46.22    46.11
mary (1.U)IEac.. Dan. Isp.  (4.a6.4.a/7)   2.63  2.31     2.35      2.93      3.33      2.86   1  2.61      2.94      2.65     2.93      3.17     2.89
_ _ _  _  _     _     _     _  _     _      _  _     _     _.       _     _     _      I   _ _   _     _     _     _     _     _     _     _     
-Stox aud Proeection Aaau,mcaa
11  DBaaglad..b Ecomic Trods au Dvlenpeu  Administraor.' VeXl_  I and 1X. Vrld Bak. 1934.
CDP Crowith at 4* La real tacm  (A1ual i*1atieU at 132 in 196-87. and 102 in 1938-90).
Ibid.
Raio, zov h at seat rate as during 196045 peried.
51Ibd.
Eacuerrat  expenditure growtb at 15 for all scoer. and 201 is acial secoras.
A. 'Er Life lI Uuation.t  Kiniocny of Education. Obaka. Aeut 194.
Inludamia mlriaa of 50.000 addir=tl teabrsa md umimtansa   far primry weboals.
SI Ibid.
Incl ia  SEare  Primay Eucation Frojet. otbar foreign assisted projects.
D.  EliL



>  1-*  1                                                  --- I- _.-
ZTi----III    I  I  1                                     i3 ~   t 
;T| - -   --    I  I  I -                            - -----------  I  if
-A b-@0----| M --- L-L- 1---- ---- ----------------- ------------- I -L- i
~~1I  III ~~LI              --------               ------ 
: - - - - - --------------------.--------@----------- ---------  -- -- -- -- - -- -
- - - - - - - - - -                   f                                
T_ --- I II   I  I  I                                       U     U    I   
GII 1     1  1              I      N   o 8I  II a        8        LI
d~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ----------  ----------------
----- __gl-_---------              ---------------------------g------- -      -l l 
t: ~  ~    I _.iio           1    1 8               _ __ __ _                  
14~~~~~~~~~~                                                       .
ew ^|"  gge    |  2  |                    00              0!".'A li 
I : "7R  oOsi s  s            :P _t                                               i 8   o 8  _  i_  '  8   V
_  _  __3______3___3______s________________________________ X Ii



-63-
ANNEX 12
BAN&LADESH
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
FORECAST OF EXPENDITURE AND DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
Expenditures            Disbursements
IDA FY & Semester           Semester  Cumulative      Semester  Cumulative
1986
1st (Jul. 85-Dec. 85)         0.15       0.15           0.10       0.10
2nd (Jan. 86-Jun. 86)         7.60       7.75           3.04       3.14
1987
1st (Jul. 86-Dee. 86)        10.36      18.11           4.70       7.84
2ud (Jan. 87-Juu. 87)        18.15      36.26           6.27      14.11
1q88
1st (Jul. 87-Dec. 87)        12.25      48.51           7.84      21.95
2nd (Jan. 88-Jun. 88)        20.70      69.21           9.41      31.36
1989
1st (Jul. 88-Dec. 88)        13.10      82.31           9.41      40.77
2nd (Jan. 89-Jun. 89)        12.00      94.31          11.76      52.53
1990
Ist (Jul. 89-Dec. 89)         9.05     103.36          10.19      62.72
2nd (Jan. 90-Jun. 90)          -          -            15.28      78.00
TOTAL                         103.36                     78.00
Closing Date: June 30, 1990



-64-                              ANNEX 13
Page   I
BANGL&DESR
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN TEE PROJECT FILE
A. Reports and Studies Related to the Sector/Subsector
A-1. Thoughts on the Third Five-Year Plan 1985-90, Planning Commission,
Ministry of Finance and Planning, Dhaka, September 1983.
A-2. Education Innovation in the Phillipine, A Case Study of Project
IMPACT, Pedro Flores, IDRC, Ottawa, 1981.
A-3. Universal Primary Education in Bangladesh, Ellen Sattar, University
Press Limited, Dhaka, 1982.
A-4. Report on the Development of Primary Education Project (PDP 1976-81),
Ministry of Education, May 1984.
A-5. Enrollment and Attendance of Primary School Children by Socio-
Economic Grouping, K. S. Ahmed and Y. Hassan, Foudatio  for Research
on Educational Planning and Development (UNESCO), Dhaka, May 1984.
A-6. Important Issues and Cricical Problems in the Management of UPE in
Bangladesh, Linda A. Dove and A. Islam, Dhaka, November 1980.
A-7. Decentralization of Powers and Functions Relating to the Management
of Primary Education, Ministry of Education, August 1983.
A-8. Report and Findings of a National Convention on Policy and Plans for
Universalization of Primary Education, Dhaka, April 1984.
A-9. The Situation of Children in Bangladesh, UNICEF, 1980.
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Proiect
B-1. UPE (IDA) Phase II Project - Preparation Report, Volumes I and II,
Ministry of Education, Dhaka, June 1984.
B-2. Introduction of UPE (IDA) Project, Phase II - Preliminary Project
Proforma, Ministry of Education, Dhaka, May 1984.
B-3. Introduction of UPE (National) Project - Project Proforma, Ministry
of Education, Dhaka, May 1983.
B-4. Mid-Term Evaluation of UPE (IDA) Project 1980-1985, July 1984.
B-5. Mid-Term Evaluation of UPE (National) Project 1980-1985, May 1984.



-65-                                ANNEX 13
Page 2
B-6. Project Related Studies: Volumes I - V, British Council, Feb. 1983;
Volume I - Education Administration and Management, A. Mckellan;
Volume II - Curriculum Development, A. Green;
Volume III - Textbook Development, B. Green;
Volume IV & V - Education Costs and Finance,
Dr. C. Cnumings and M. Blaug.
B-7. Teacher Training for UPE in Bangladesh 1981-1986, Dr. Linda Dove,
Dhaka, 1983.
Illustrative Studies
B-8. Study of Use of School Uniforms, Dr. S. Haque, Dhaka, 1983.
B-9. Study on Supply, Distribution and Utilization of School Furniture
for IDA Project Primary Schools, Foundation for Research on Educa-
tional Planning and Development, May 1984.
B-10. Study of the Relationship of High Attendance of Students of Class
I - V with Variables like Teachers, Schools, aud Families in UPE
(IDA) Project Area, Institute of.Educatioral Research, Dhaka, May
1984.
B-11. Study of the Role of Assistant Upazilla Education Officers (AUEOs)
in Academic Supervision of Primary Schools in IDA Project Areas,
Institute of Education Research, May 1984.
B-12. Tracer Study of 100 Assistant Female Teachers Appointed under
UPE (IDA) Project, UNESCO and BANBEIS, June 1984.
B-13. Study on High Attendance of Students of Grades I-V with Variables
like Teachers, Schools and Families of one UPE (IDA) Project Area
in Bangladesh, Institute of Education and Research, Dhaka University,
Dhaka, May 1984.
B-14. Enrollment and Attendance of Primary School Children by Socio-
Economic Grouping, K.S. Abmed and Y. Easan, Foundation for
Research in Educational Planning and Development, May 1984.
B-15. The Role of Assistant Upazilla Education Officers in Academic
Supervision of the Primary Schiol under the UPE (IDA) Project,
I.E.R., Dhaka, May 1984.
B-16. An Enquiry into the Issues of Enrollment, Dropout and Repetition,
S.A. Quadir, Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies, Dhaka,
September 1984.
B-17. Training of ATEOs as Primary School Supervisors, NIEAER, Dhaka,
May 1984.



-66-                                ANNEX 13
Page   3
B-18. Study on the Supply and Utilization of Textbooks under the UPE (IDA)
Project, K. Ballaghat, BIDS, Dhaka, August 1984.
B-19. Project IMPACT, Performance Reports, April 1981-April 1984, Dhaka,
June 1984.
B-20. Teacher Training Manual for IMPACT System Schools, Dhaka, July 1982.
B-21. National Academy for Primary Education, Academy Code, 1983.
B-22. National Institute of Education Administration Extension and Research
(NIEAER), Code of Practice, Dhaka, 1983.
B-23. Facilities Depatment, Code of Practice, Ninistry of Education, Jun. 1984.
B-24. Directorate of Primary Education, Code of Practice, Ministry of
Education, June 1984.
C. Selected Working Papers
C-1. Complete Set of Working Papers - February 1985.



-67-
CH6RT 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND PRIMARY EDIJCATION PROJECT
Educatilonal SlTucture of Bangladesh
18
UNIERSII |P  DEGRE COLLEGE                        17
XI -16
INBEREDWAE COLLEGES
X -                                                                        _15
Ix -                                                                         14
VIP                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13
ECHNlALAND
SENIOR HIGH              AGRICtIURE   12
VD                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SCHOOLS  1
g U- JUNIOR HIGH11
V                                                                            910
PRiMAWYSCHOOLS
Educaional Pyramid of Bangladesh
18
XII -17
)a -                                                                         16
X -                                                                        -15
DC -                                                                         14
Ull -                                                                       -13
g  VU                                                                            12  Q
\A -                                                    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11
V -                                                                          10
IN                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~8
I                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
1..6
100            5450                 0             d0 50                100
PERCENTAGE
VWoad Bonk-26854



-68-
CHART 2
BANGLADESH
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Organizoafon of the Directorate of Pd=r iy Education
DIRECTOR GENBW         l
DQECTOR                             ~~~~~~~~DIREC1OR                                  ClRECFOR
DIx-CrOR                          ~~AdrSriNtran.                                   Pioming. Rnonc &
.  N_AP_E                                     Trcirdrng & SLVendsh                                 Dwevlont
7 tro*&      AcIJtninthwbn    Conbrol otf        PIanI*Ig &    .MoniloiVng &      ALJJt &
& Supervisicn   Exm nations        firnnce        Evaluation      Accounts
! eW                                                                                oI
Wald Bornk-26855



-69-
CHART 3
BANGLADESH
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Organization of the Project Implementation System
i      MINSIRY OF EDUCATION
Pdlcy Formulation
NAlONAL LEVEL
DIRECTORATE OF
PRIMARY EDUCATION
drninisiwtron & Planning
NIEAER                      NAlIONALCURRICULUM
NAPE. F5s                      TEXTBOOK BOARD                  FACIUTIES DEPMRTMENT
Managernent/'upervisy               Ouiculurn Tex.2books              Phvsil Devebpment
& TeacherTraining                & Learnhg Moterlais
UPAZJUA LEVEL_L
UPAZLLA
EDUCATKON COMMITEE
Micanning
COMMUNITY LEVEL            SCHCOL MANAGEMEWT       PARENT 7EACHERS
COMMffES            ASSOCIATION
World Bank-26856



TE
LIACAN                                                                                                                                                                                .4."A '0
0
JAL
'31
$14h     91
01                                                                                                                                                                 "M
SIPOL                                                                                                                                                                                                  N:.
ATIFU KINIUPU
AN                                                                    7.                                              71                             V-1
q..
Z il'I'O' 11
ALMA 9
FAI
C PWLPU
4,OL                                                                                 AKLA
olwktl
of                              LPUR
ITA                                                                                     NATHPJ
0                                                                                                                        NAZA
NAOVAE                                                    C'Nf (3,                                  Tkii&44A
&W
0
mif                                                                     INARGANJ             0
%                                                                                             .9lUKJA
TANOR                          'Al                                                                                                                                                                                                    v-
0           IA'I                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t' ;
'ImikIA) No   0OT
?'I - '..         , ,                   1.  At
f.4'A.                   --
CMAGAR.,           1WROAPU0,                                   TARAAr
I 0
PASA                   NA'Off4
MI
AU                         11 LK
Nj T                 0
#ArU(*4Am
Wz    R                                                                      AT
24%
PA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                m
244                                                                                     IIABt A
L                                                                                 P,
IIA
Al
A-....A                                                                                                                                                XASIA
11H,
%r                                                                   -A
O
J
0
Ko                                                                                                                                                       77
SA



IU
W.NM
gp r                                                                                                          XALI
.L,
54-
,j   r                                                                                         IIPA                                                                                                    J
A
c
41,
u   14A
Al
I                , ,
AT                           0
T
AR"AAM
E
r
X.L1.
.4
6,  A.                 ti
JA
ou
a.h.                                                                                     MM.
ef.
FM
'7                                                               PA   0,A
A )pC, ;E    CIN                         f
DHA                                                                                                                             X
EMRA
K
8 a                        o                              n g
DHAKA METROPOLITAN AREA
- Metropolitati Boundary
1 N 0 1 A
URMA
ADES
Awrof Ws of rw W&V orilk                       0       10     20      30      40      so                                                               A F
b'd NW ftwmkw rtlorift                                                 ,  -    .      i
c"mmn ftdwwnnalwo                                                                             SOURCES FOR INTERNAI ADUNIMAYM  BOUNDA                                             CO
L.W WW 0 oftows"All                            0                                                 Z'Ho CWW oiiuw  110AW&I"M hom 'Adm;ni'strative U05.
ay    0                                                                                      Kilo                                            rp%ow4., B.NicidwJi.
z                                                         W Ifhomb  8.*Ndrw                                                  Mateff                           I"A'. bv 0
h~ 60 Fifw" CmiWakIN                                                                             Upoligo SwrWqe*j fcom tORD 15122. IM.
rd ko dika
of WY ANOMY a
Al LANOA                               lloravepw"of                                                                                                                        9.24
axn ba-MWW--






